Norwich Union's parent group Aviva this week splashed out &#163;1.1bn to buy breakdown assistance firm RAC, promising a better deal for customers - paid for in part by 1,700 job losses.But the RAC has a long way to go before it can catch some of its rivals, especially on price. Anyone looking for a cheap source of car breakdown cover should look beyond the big two, and even the five or six next biggest players - Green Flag, MoreTh>n, Britannia and Mondial - to the little-known Cox Insurance and its offshoots Auto Aid and Auto National.For just &#163;29, Auto Aid will provide a comprehensive annual breakdown service, which includes support when your car is parked outside your home, roadside assistance anywhere in the country, and accommodation if the breakdown is serious. It also provides an onward transfer to your destination or home, whichever you prefer.Ask the AA and RAC for   the same level of cover and you will almost certainly be charged in excess of &#163;100.But there are some drawbacks to the Auto Aid deal. In some ways it is from a bygone age, untouched by the new century and modern ways of doing things.Like many breakdown firms, Auto Aid uses a network of local garages. But its customers must pay the garage up front and claim the expenses back from Auto Aid, unlike its rivals.That means drivers must have a credit card at the ready and be prepared to carry a hefty chunk of debt on it for a few days. If it is nearing the end of your 54-day free period, the interest might hurt a little.There are also quite severe limits on the amount that can be claimed back. For instance, a home start bill cannot exceed &#163;45.Other aspects of the cover also seem antiquated. For instance, only the policyholder and their "legal partner" can make a claim. Few insurers stipulate these days that partners must be married to qualify for joint cover.However, none of this is   hidden, at least no more than the product as a whole.Cox Insurance says the operation is cheap to run because it has not been touched for 20 years or more. Hence the antiquated clauses. There is no budget for advertisements or marketing and there are no plans to introduce them.A spokeswoman says: "Auto Aid has a dedicated following and operates extremely well. Response times average 35 minutes and we get good feedback from customers. But we don't advertise it any more because most people don't like the idea of paying up-front to the garage and claiming back from us. There is not much demand for this type of product."The Auto National service from Cox Insurance is more mainstream. It is one of the few firms to heavily promote its no-claims bonus, which can cut bills dramatically."We are not cutting our service to achieve these low prices. It's because we only provide breakdown cover, while most of our rivals are busy doing other things as   well, like car finance and car inspections," she says.The AA and RAC also cover individuals, but are heavy spenders on advertising and marketing. All the other major players limit their cover to named vehicles and many of the prices they give in our table are, as Jeremy Paxman would say, a starter for 10.If your car is old or you appear young and irresponsible, More Th>n will charge you more. Green Flag want to know your postcode before even starting to calculate a   price. Unfortunately, as breakdown cover has become a commodity product, with firms using the same garage networks and the same call centre technology, new firms entering the market, like Tesco Personal Finance, Direct Line (which also owns Green Flag), and Churchill, tend to differentiate themselves through obscure pricing structures.It means tables like ours opposite are only a starting point for negotiation. But if it's the very cheapest cover you want, Auto Aid stands out.
If there was a flag bearer for the internet boom it was AOL and when the upstart bought media corporation Time Warner in the early days of 2000, for an eye-watering &#163;107bn, the pundits proclaimed the birth of a new era. In fact the deal was more of a harbinger of doom.Three months later the tech-laden Nasdaq stock market tumbled and so began a long, hard winter. Gone were the sky-high stock prices as investors pulled their money out and, as start-up funding dried up, the layoffs began. The hubris that characterised executives of the dotcom generation eventually landed several of them in court.Jon Miller joined AOL from outside the business two years after the crash to clean up the mess. Sitting in the lobby of a west London hotel, he recalls that during his first full year in the job AOL Time Warner garnered more mentions in the US media than any other company."That's not necessarily all good," he says with a wry smile, "seeing as number two and number three on the list were Enron and WorldCom".In keeping with its global status, when AOL Time Warner fell, it fell hard."We were both subject to the market and subject to the particular frenzy around the merger and it not living up to initial expectations," explains 48-year-old Miller. "There is always a bellwether and it was clearly this company for that time."By the end of 2002 AOL Time Warner's shares had lost 70% of their value. Investors had been further spooked by news that AOL was being investigated by the federal authorities over the way it accounted for advertising deals and subscriber numbers from 1999 to 2002.Investors wanted a new broom to deal with the internet division and not one that had been lurking in one of AOL Time Warner's cupboards.Miller had spent the dotcom boom working at USA Interactive - now InterActivCorp - for Hollywood mogul Barry Diller. Having joined in 1997 as the company's first media executive, he helped turn the owner of the Home Shopping Network into the world's biggest online commerce player with assets from Ticketmaster and travel site Expedia to dating service Match.com.Despite this dotcom pedigree the affable Miller does not speak the unintelligible management mumbo jumbo that marks out so many American tech executives. His 6ft 4in frame may make him stand out in Britain, but he is a self-confessed Anglophile.His parents were lecturers and took a sabbatical in London when Miller was a teenager. He spent that year at the William Ellis School near Hampstead Heath, north London, playing basketball for the school and for a polytechnic.Those hoop dreams never left him and when he returned to the US and had finished at Harvard he joined a TV production firm where he produced a series of sports videos that brought him to the attention of the National Basketball Association.He became the NBA's head of programming at a time when basketball was becoming a lifestyle and fashion statement as well as a sport.Wild ride"In fact, the week after I left the NBA to work for Viacom and came back over to London, Michael Jordan announced his retirement and I thought 'that's the end of that era'."Viacom, the American media powerhouse, hired Miller to take its television channels - especially Nickelodeon - into the UK and Europe alongside partner BSkyB. At that time in the early 1990s "it was the equivalent of the wild west of TV, the birth of true multichannel TV in Britain," remembers Miller.He would gladly have stayed in Britain, where his son was born, but was foiled."Both my wife and my company wanted me back in the US, so I was clearly outvoted. At one point my wife came in with a calendar and said she had marked 44 straight days without seeing the sun."He returned to Viacom in the US but soon afterwards the call came from USA Interactive and the internet boom beckoned."It was probably what I signed up for, meaning it was a wild ride during which time a lot of shareholder value was created," he remembers of the boom days at USA Interactive. He ended up as president and chief executive officer of the company's information services - the commerce area of the business which was larger than eBay or Amazon.He left in June 2002 amid talk that he wanted to be his own boss. "I thought I was going to leave to become an entrepreneur," he remembers. "I had several venture capital funds behind me and I thought I was ready to do that both mentally and for my career."But the headhunter's call came through and he was asked if he wanted to go for the AOL job. "I discounted the overture because I assumed it was 'big company, big problem, big name'."While it was a big name and did have big problems, AOL Time Warner wanted someone who, as Miller recollects, would "dive in and deal with a host of issues" rather than just buy them some time by being a high-profile hire.Miller and his team set about dealing with the dubious accounting practices that had dogged AOL and last year set   aside more than $500m (&#163;260m), to deal with investigations by the department of justice and the securities and exchange commission.At its main board level, AOL Time Warner also had to deal with the fall-out from the merger and in two consecutive quarters in 2002, the company wrote down the value of its assets by almost $100bn."It was a company that was locked into an old model of operating," explains Miller. "The world had moved on and so the company had to right itself and play catch-up." Then in 2003 AOL was dropped from the corporate name, something which many in the media saw as the symbolic ending of the dotcom era. Not so, says Miller."In the heyday of &#91;the internet&#93; there were many promises bandied around, how the internet was going to change the world ... making everything obsolete. Despite them all sounding crazy they are true except for two things - they do not happen overnight ... and the new does not dispense with the old. Things become absorbed. Just like TV did not make movies go away, in fact TV is a terrific source of revenues for movies."It goes through this cycle: you get the boom, an initial flush and rush of exuberance; then reality sets in, that's the bust; and then real companies emerge that build real businesses; that's what takes time."We can all argue about Google and Yahoo! and eBay and whether they are worth the specific valuations they get from the market at any point, but they are great companies and they are very real and they will be around a very long time."As for AOL there was a time when   analysts were suggesting it should be scaled back or sold off, but last month its parent Time Warner revealed better than expected fourth-quarter figures while AOL saw operating profits rise 9% and revenues top $2.2bn. For the year as a whole, AOL's advertising revenues beat $1bn.The challenge now is to raise the company's advertising revenues while managing the transition in its core US internet access business, which accounts for 85% of revenues, from narrowband dial-up internet access to broadband. It is something of a balancing act: while the switch to broadband will depress margins, AOL's advertising business is significantly more profitable."The hard thing from a management point of view is how you smooth out what is by nature a jagged-edged transition," Miller admits. "But what I hope we are building is the world's largest interactive content services company."To increase its attractiveness to advertisers AOL is making its US website free to access and concentrating on creating content "channels" on the portal instead of just hiring out space to anyone who wants it. Hitting the $1bn worth of advertising revenues last year is important as it marks a crucial milestone in the drive to give scale to that side of the business.Meanwhile AOL is linking up with cable companies in the US, starting with Time Warner's own cable division, to offer broadband internet access. Surely this was the whole point of the Time Warner/AOL deal in the first place?Big name"I've heard that comment before," admits Miller. "I think there are different things that could have happened at different points. Even in my time we have had lots of discussions and trials and tests and it took quite a while for everyone to understand how to meet each other's needs."AOL is now scouting around for other potential cable partners and Time Warner's stated interest in Adelphia, the country's fifth-largest cable operator that has been operating under bankruptcy protection since June 2002, could give it a stepping stone towards national coverage.If he can pull off the transition, Miller will have earned himself that "big name" moniker. Amusingly, while he may earn himself a place among the "net nobility" through AOL, he already has a place among the European aristocracy. His family can trace their lineage back to the dukes of Schleswig-Holstein."Bismarck saw things differently at the end of the 19th century and thought it was better if that line, among others, removed themselves from the scene so my family emigrated to the US."Coincidentally when he was working for Nickelodeon the company needed to get licences from all the German L&#228;nder in order to launch on German television."We got the support of every state except one and that was Schleswig-Holstein. So it is clear to me that whatever my family once represented is long gone."
Oddworld: Stranger's WrathXBOXElectronic Arts, £40Stranger's Wrath is a wild west bounty hunter Oddworld-style, which means none of the characters are human and, rather than using a gun, the hero totes a double-barrel crossbow that fires an assortment of amusing living ammunition. A complete departure from previous platform-style antics, this has far more in common with Halo, serving up drawn-out tactical    exchanges with large groups of enemies as you lure outlaws from the periphery of their pack before incapacitating and capturing them. With an engagingly twisty plot, a gentle but dark sense of humour replacing Halo 2's pomposity and a perfectly weighted learning curve, this is may be the single player experience of the year so far.Nintendo DSSince the release of Game &amp; Watch in the 1980s, Nintendo has presided over the handheld gaming market without serious challenge. Now that its home console sells fewer units than either PS2 or Xbox, Nintendo could be forgiven for playing it safe with their new portable machine - instead they've produced the DS. With two screens, one of which is touch sensitive, and its slightly bulbous looks, the DS is almost aggressively peculiar, allowing you to control games using a special stylus that comes with the machine as well as with the more traditional cross-pad and buttons approach. At &#163;99 it's not expensive, but it remains to be seen how it will fare against Sony's more traditional but infinitely more beautiful PSP when that finally gets a UK release date.Super Mario 64 DS(Nintendo, &#163;30)The game that defined 3D platform gaming is back in all its refulgent glory with new mini-games, a wireless multi-player mode and all-new stars to collect. Mildly hampered by lack of analogue control (unless you're brave/foolhardy enough to use the touch screen), this is still a spectacularly wonderful game.Zoo Keeper(Ignition, &#163;25)Using your stylus to drag the faces of zoo animals into groups of three or more sounds childishly simple, and it is. It's also grotesquely addictive and benefits from a rare cross-gender appeal that will see it being wrenched from male hands everywhere. Fun, elegant and almost impossible to put down, Zoo Keeper is an agonisingly perfect handheld toy.Project Rub(Sega, &#163;30)Touch screen-destroying mini-games in the style of Wario Ware that require frenzied use of the stylus as well as talking to and blowing air at your console - use this game on public transport and prepare to be sectioned. Its unfortunate lack of flair and erratic difficulty level make Project Rub a mildly inventive yet utterly dry game.
The Happy Slap craze - where violent pranksters film random attacks against strangers on their phones - has hit the news recently. Here's some more uplifting cameraphone action:revgtv.comis a guerrilla TV network where people send their wobble video films;www.thecameraphone.comis a short film about how one man's life was changed by taking photos of himself;www.hp.com/eur/mobilemomentsis an online exhibition of mobile snaps taken by celebrities andfantesstic.endemoluk.comis a soap opera sent that's direct to your mobile.A number of very busy blogs exist to document this evolving technology, includingwww.wirelessmoment.comandpicturephoning.com. Of course, camera phones are also very good at taking pictures of your feet.
The DS launched and Eidos lurched. It's been another busy week...MondayWar of the Worlds &amp; Int KarateHalo to the KingLosing PlayTuesdayMore movies on PSPRappers then new super heroes?Katamari Damacy crab!DS in the UKDear Friendsin San FranciscoWednesdayGaming = LearningPeople WILL play mobile gamesThursdayNext-gen XboxReviewsFridayEidosWhere is game violence going?
This week's Economist has a leader which takes a strong line on technology in the developing world:mobile phones are more important than computers.Why?Plenty of evidence suggests that the mobile phone is the technology with the greatest impact on development. A new paper finds that mobile phones raise long-term growth rates, that their impact is twice as big in developing nations as in developed ones, and that an extra ten phones per 100 people in a typical developing country increases GDP growth by 0.6 percentage points.And when it comes to mobile phones, there is no need for intervention or funding from the UN: even the world's poorest people are already rushing to embrace mobile phones, because their economic benefits are so apparent. Mobile phones do not rely on a permanent electricity supply and can be used by people who cannot read or write.The digital divide that really matters, then, is between those with access to a mobile network and those without.It's a powerful argument, and hard to argue with (not that I'm arguing). But does it mean that developments such as the$100 computerare pointless?
Slamming a man's head in a car door. Shoving him through a wood chipper. Plunging his face into a tank of hungry piranhas. THQ's controversy-baiting conversion ofThe Punisheris set to prod videogame violence into subtly new territory when it's released later this month. Based around the extremely dark Marvel comic book and movie, the game puts you in control of unhinged vigilante, Frank Castle, as he wastes criminal scumbags by the dozen. In key areas of each map you can also interrogate suspects via a torture mini-game, carefully manipulating your victim's stress level via the twin analogue sticks. Get them just scared enough and they'll sing like a canary, go too far and they die a gruesome death...This feature may only be a calculated attempt to draw attention to a standard Max Payne clone, but it raises a few intriguing questions. In most instances, game violence is a transitory act – you pull the trigger a couple of times and your enemy is down. In Punisher, the interactivity of the violent act lingers, inflicting pain becomes a gameplay challenge, arguably more psychologically involving than merely aiming and firing. The element of sadism is an extension of what we saw in Manhunt last year, where the lead character is ordered to kill gang members in a variety of lurid ways, purely to satiate the bloodlust of a psychotic spectator. Literally, senseless violence.Some will argue that these games usher in a new era of sickening gratuity but in many ways they're actually more truthful. Game violence, whatever the narrative context, is about taking pleasure in dishing out death – if it wasn't fun we wouldn't do it. Manhunt and Punisher are simply revelling in this fact, removing - or at least backgrounding - the usual plot justifications in favour of pure and sustained violent interaction. In this context, the director in Manhunt is really just a surrogate gamer, voicing the thoughts that flash through all our heads when we bludgeon a scientist to death in Half-Life, just for the hell of it.So where is all this going? What do the violent games of the future have in store for us? If we can stomach the anarchic gore of The Punisher and Manhunt, what will be served up in their wake? Certainly, as technology develops, so do the raw materials available for spectacularly graphic bloodshed. Human characters are gradually transmuting from the iconic to the naturalistic – where once you were shooting stick men, you're now up against complex 3D models. The people we are killing are beginning to look just like… people.I asked Paul McLaughlin Head of Art atLionhead Studios, just how detailed human models are these days. He told me, "currently the polygon count is in the hundreds or low thousands. It really depends on the particular platform, number of characters displayed on screen at once, and on the positioning of the camera relative to the characters; closer requires more polys. However at Lionhead we are contemplating characters in the order of 10,000 – 20,000. This is a significant increase and we're primarily making that leap to allow us to explore facial expression and character empathy to a greater degree…. I think we'll see a lot more realistic looking characters this year. In two or three years you'll have to look very hard to tell the difference between a screenshot from a game and a still from a movie."The realism won't just be skin deep. Slowly, a new age of anatomical authenticity is dawning. Endorphin a complex real-time human animation system created byNaturalMotionwill produce characters that emulate movement from the inside out. As CEO Torsten Reil explains, "we have created genuine virtual humans, modelling not just their skeletal structures, but their nervous systems and muscles as well. When an endorphin character moves, the nerves are activating muscle fibres that in turn move the skeleton, making for extremely realistic movement".So if human characters are to have real, functioning insides, the natural progression in terms of game violence, is toward graphically realistic injury. Real wounds. I asked both Paul and Torsten if we'll get to the point where human models contain authentic viscera, so that they spill bodily organs all over the place when they're shot. Both said the industry was already very close to making this happen. However, they offered a key proviso. As Reil puts it, "We have to ask ourselves, of course, how far we want to take this kind of realism. If it is just about creating gory scenes for the sake of it, people will rightly be concerned. On the other hand, realism can also be used to evoke feelings previously unknown in games, such as pity. This adds a completely new layer of depth which has so far been unique to films."Is there going to be a tipping point for games? A moment where graphical realism makes experiences like those represented in Manhunt and Punisher unpalatable to a mass audience? Because certainly, it will be the boundaries of mainstream taste, not the technology itself, that will dictate content. If you look at cinema, despite the incredible special effects technology available to today's horror film makers, multiplex movies like Bogeyman and Wes Craven's latest, Cursed, are no more gory than their forbearers thirty years ago. Will we really want to bash innocent passers-by to death, if we can see the fear in their eyes, blood streaming from fresh wounds, guts spilling, steaming onto the sidewalk. Will that be cool?Or will the depiction of game violence fracture into different strands to avoid that scenario? Already we're seeing a number of games that attempt to place violence within a moral framework. Fable and Deus Ex both show that there are consequences to random acts of thuggery and ask players to make moral choices. Meanwhile, in Full Spectrum Warrior – the urban battle simulator originally designed for the US army - the 'don't shoot the civilians' feature found in shooters like Virtua Cop (where it existed purely to challenge the reflexes of the player) is extended and muddied, so that your actions must sometimes be entirely structured around minimising civilian casualties, even if those civilians shout abuse, and even attack you. Games are beginning to learn that violence is more complicated than good guys and bad guys.On the other hand, the depiction of violence may become more self-conscious and stylised. The 'bullet time' shooting sequences introduced by Max Payne are an example, but we could also see games that use particle editors and/or real-time physics to create outrageous Kill Bill-style blood spurts and limb amputations that couldn't possibly be construed as realistic. I was talking to Aaron Loeb at Planet moon about the OTT gore effects in their forthcoming PSP horror shooter, Infected. "We have a system called "Meaty Chunks," he explains. "When you blow up an Infected, it will break into its component parts of viscera, limbs, and other meaty chunks, which will then fly around and bounce off of others using a correct physical model. On top of that, the blood is dangerous to other Infected, so if they get caught in the spray of chunks, they may also explode into parts." Could this be the future - comic book hyper violence to separate us from any sense of 'reality'?Doubtless, we'll see all of these approaches and more as game design evolves to cope with impending photorealism. Importantly, the introduction of characters who convey fear and happiness, who roll into a ball when threatened, and who look real, could bring about a quantum shift in underlying game design, changing the whole focus to emotional rather than violent interaction. No, I don't mean Quake Hugmatch, or multiplayer Capture the Love. I mean games where players must read the expressions and body language of NPCs rather than just twat them with crow bars. The Sims, but photorealistic, first-person, immersive."I don't believe there is more of an inclination towards gore in video games than any other media," says McLaughlin. "It's primarily that combative and competitive gameplay, which has been the traditional mainstay of video games, lends itself to this sort of presentation. As the market matures more you'll see a whole host of new genres all produced to the highest standards of realism and quality. In the area you're talking about it'll mean internal organs, broken limbs or whatever, just as it would in an E.R. game or Animal Hospital."Personally I have no idea if people would want to 'play' in that sort of environment but it's certainly possible to create. I'm far more excited by the potential for conveying emotion and developing empathy with CG characters. I do feel that this'll be the big shift in virtual entertainment. When you have believable virtual friends, lovers, perhaps even a family, you're not going to want to garrote them… Although…."
When digital service Freeview launched in October 2002 after the spectacular collapse of ITV Digital, many predicted that the shareholders behind it - the BBC, BSkyB and transmission business Crown Castle - would make uneasy bedfellows.However, 28 months on, the gamble has proved a huge success and the consortium yesterday revealed that it is in talks with other broadcasters to come on board, thereby boosting the amount of money available.ITV and Channel 4 are believed to be two of those interested in joining the consortium, which would give them a say in how it is marketed and developed in the run-up to digital switchover."The company will welcome new broadcasters if they wish to join," said Peter Abery, the Crown Castle chief executive who took over as Freeview chairman when Andy Duncan left the BBC for Channel 4 last year.Given Mr Duncan's pivotal role in the genesis of Freeview, it would be unsurprising if C4 joined. He is already planning to launch a new, free to air digital channel.ITV's involvement would represent the broadcasting equivalent of a road to Damascus conversion. Having refused to become involved after ITV Digital's collapse, it missed out on the chance to commandeer more space on the service.The two broadcasters are now bidding against each other for one of only two remaining channel slots on Freeview, with the winner expected to pay about &#163;5m a year to Crown Castle, which owns the spare capacity.Mr Abery said yesterday that there was likely to be a decision "within the next couple of months". Both have come to the view that free to air add-on channels, funded by advertising, make more sense in the long term than subscription ones.It is no surprise that both broadcasters are keen to expand their services on Freeview. According to the most recent Barb figures, the service - which offers 32 channels for a one-off payment of as little as &#163;40 - is now in 4.6 million households.Industry estimates predict that the number of Freeview households will top 8 million by the end of the year, overtaking the number that have Sky Digital.While the Freeview brand has become common currency, the not-for-profit organisation set up to run it remains a curious beast.Its main role is to liaise with all those who have an interest in the success of the platform - broadcasters, retailers and manufacturers - and provide them with marketing support and a common purpose.Between them, the BBC, Sky and Crown Castle put in about &#163;4m a year to support Freeview - peanuts for three firms of their size - which covers point of sale and online marketing. Of course, the biggest marketing channel for Freeview - the familiar trails in between BBC programmes exhorting you to go digital - is free.The prospect of extra channels lures customers to Freeview - with BBC3, BBC4, ITV2 and UK History as the prime incentives, research released by the group showed yesterday.For all its success in rescuing the digital switchover project, Freeview is at a crossroads. That digital coverage will remain stalled at 75% of the country until after switchover is significant, with the focus likely to turn to a new free satellite offering to fill the gaps.Ilse Howling, the BBC digital marketing and communications director, yesterday confirmed that the corporation remained keen to back a satellite version of Freeview.With the number of channels almost full to capacity, at least until after 2012, it remains to be seen at what point the number of Freeview households begins to level off as early converts upgrade to pay-TV.BSkyB, which remains a member of the consortium, hopes to benefit. As it steps   up its efforts to persuade existing Freeview customers to upgrade to pay-TV - with innovations such as Sky+ and, from next year, high definition TV - the pay-TV group is likely to take even more of a back seat.As such, it may be C4, ITV and even Five that belatedly take a more proactive role in pushing the service, as they come to recognise that they are more likely to hold on to their viewing share in Freeview households than in satellite and cable homes.
So, Microsoft has bought Groove Networks andhired Ray Ozzie, the founder of Groove and creator of Lotus Notes, to be their chief technical officer.David Teather writes in the Guardian that it is part of MS plan to boost its office applications:The acquisition is part of Microsoft's ambition to expand its Office franchise beyond Word and Excel. It has introduced online conferencing software and is entering the market for corporate instant messaging. Groove's software aims to make the virtual office a reality, with users at different locations anywhere in the world.TheFinancial Timespoints out that Ozzie has long been a proponent of peer-to-peer style technologies, something which Gates has recognised.[Ozzie] maintained that by letting a network of people share data directly with each other, rather than through centrally managed servers, peer-to-peer systems were better suited to connecting laptop computers, mobile devices and other gadgets...Bill Gates... said yesterday that the next version of Windows, codenamed Longhorn, had already been meant to employ peer-to-peer technology. Buying Groove and bringing Mr Ozzie and the company's 200 employees to Microsoft would push that vision further, he said.No word yet on hisblog, which hasn't been updated for a year.
Microsoft yesterday announced a deal to buy a company run by the creator of IBM's Lotus Notes, Ray Ozzie, at the same time hiring him to be one of the software firm's most senior technical executives.Mr Ozzie will join Microsoft in the role of chief technical officer and will report directly to chairman and chief software architect Bill Gates. He will be one of three chief technical officers at Microsoft, with Craig Mundie and David Vaskevitch, and work with Mr Gates to develop the firm's strategy.Microsoft is buying his privately held firm, Groove Networks, for an undisclosed sum. The company makes office collaboration software which allows people to work on computer files simultaneously.Mr Gates said: "Ray and his team are true innovators. Microsoft and its customers will greatly benefit from their experience." Groove was founded in 1997, and has worked closely with Microsoft over the past five years.The acquisition is part of Microsoft's ambition to expand its Office franchise beyond Word and Excel. It has introduced online conferencing software and is entering the market for corporate instant messaging. Groove's software aims to make the virtual office a reality, with users at different locations anywhere in the world.The company's 200 workers will join Microsoft's information worker division, which is behind its Office suit of desktop products.Microsoft paid $200m (&#163;100m) in 2003 for PlaceWare, a provider of web conferencing services which allows businesses to conduct real-time presentations and meetings online. It renamed it Office Live Meeting.Microsoft owned a minority stake in Groove following a $50m investment in 2001. Groove has raised more than $155m in start-up financing.Mr Ozzie founded Iris Associates in 1984, where he developed Lotus Notes for Lotus Development Corporation. IBM bought Lotus in 1995 and produces it in competition with Microsoft's Outlook.Microsoft wants to launch its long-awaited Longhorn operating system next year. Mr Gates said he hoped Groove technology would play a part in that system.Mr Ozzie said businesses were becoming a "mesh environment" with teams working together from far flung offices or home. "We created a decentralised profit for that changing nature of business."
Chelsea will buy the Premier League, trains will always hit a bumpy bit of track whilst playing "monocycle" on Project Rub. Such things will always be. You can add "turmoil at Eidos" to this list. The companyposted huge lossesyesterday and is subject to a takeover bid. From a gaming point of view it's not a massive surprise. Angel of Darkness was a disaster, the Champ Manager team were transferred and TimeSplitters, er, split. Latest release Project Snowblind is semi-decent, though is unlikely to bother the higher reaches of the chart. The highly promisingLego Star Warsis the only real gem on the horizon. The simple fact is that Eidos haven't released a great game for years.
Sore thumbs have long been a problem suffered by those spending long sessions playing video games.But pressing buttons and wiggling joysticks could become a thing of the past if a new console - which lets you stroke, poke, rub and even talk to it - takes off.The Japanese games giant, Nintendo, launches the hand-held DS (dual-screen) console in Europe today.Stores around Britain opened at midnight to cater for hordes of video-game fans eager to get their hands on the new machine.The DS retails at &#163;99 and has a flip-top design with a microphone and a pair of displays, one of which is touch-sensitive.The unit also contains wireless technology that allows up to 16 players in close proximity to compete against each other, as well as letting them send text and picture messages to each other.With this innovative approach, the company hopes to woo customers looking for something different."This is the biggest push we've ever put behind any of our handheld variants," said James Honeywell, the Nintendo product manager for handheld consoles. "Pre-orders are really, really good, about 50,000 in the UK."That means we'll easily sell 80 to 100,000 units over the first weekend."He continued: "Obviously we'd done extensive consumer research before releasing the DS."Once you actually get your hands on it, you realise what it means."When you tell people there are games where you have to blow on the screen, they don't believe you."The DS is the latest successor to Nintendo's phenomenally successful Game Boy range, which has sold more than 170 million units worldwide since its launch in 1989.The touch-screen console has already racked up good sales in Japan and the United States, shifting more than 2m units in the first three weeks of release.The company is expecting high levels of interest in Europe, with 650,000 consoles available for distribution across the continent.Nintendo will be hoping it can replicate the Game Boy's achievements, particularly as it is glancing over its shoulder ahead of the scheduled launch next month of its biggest rival, Sony's PlayStation Portable, or PSP.Sony has dominated the multi-billion-pound video-game industry over the past decade with its groundbreaking PlayStation console, and is now targeting the handheld business - traditionally Nintendo's strongest area.The sleek, single-screen PSP, which will cost about twice as much as the DS, also allows wireless play, but includes the ability to download movies and music.Some observers say it could crush Nintendo's hold on the portable market, particularly in Europe.In response to the threat, Nintendo is planning to deliver a double whammy to its rival, with DS being followed up with the Game Boy Advance 2 later in the year."This is really make-or-break time for Nintendo," said Marcus Dyson, the publisher of the games website spong.com."They've got to play it right or they could be in trouble. When the DS was revealed, it was an interesting piece of kit - there's not much innovation in hardware."It's potentially great for Nintendo, but now there are mixed messages."But if they can put it out there at a low enough price, they could sell it to children and it would still do well."Nintendo bosses say they are happy for rivals to join in, since it could increase the size of the market."It's actually nice to have competition for a change," said Mr Honeywell."In Japan, handheld is seen as just another form of entertainment."In the UK, it's still not as big. But that can only change as more people have a go - and this is the best year for handhelds we've ever seen."Many of the DS games are clearly aimed at a youth market, with colourful cartoon characters and the kind of fun   tasks that will appeal to children. Nintendo will be aiming to capitalise on its longstanding popularity with youngsters to help boost the company's fortunes.With games dedicated to simplicity and fun, the brand has long been a favourite among video-gamers, and it has branched out into other forms of entertainment, albeit with limited success.The Pokemon game franchise is immensely popular with young children and spawned a spin-off TV series and movie, while the superstar plumber Mario hit Hollywood in 1993 with the film of Super Mario Brothers, starring Bob Hoskins and Dennis Hopper.The puzzle game Tetris even left its mark on the music charts, with a dance version of its theme tune that reached number six in 1992, backed by Andrew Lloyd Webber.
Greek shipping companies have often struggled to get the business world to take them seriously but go to Wall Street right now and you will find investors cannot wait to get on board.Huge enthusiasm for a hitherto shunned and volatile maritime sector is just one example of a new stock market enthusiasm that exhibits at least some characteristics of a dotcom boom that went so horribly bust five years ago.Typical is Athens-based George Economou; he has weathered a few squalls in the not-so distant past but his DryShips business has just listed on the Nasdaq with so much ease there is already talk of him coming back for more money. The Greek firm wanted to raise $120m (&#163;62m) through the issue of 7m shares but there was such a high level of demand that 13m shares were put up for grabs and $270m was raised in February.Yet barely six years ago Mr Economou hit some financial rocks when a $175m US bond issue for his Alpha Shipping vehicle defaulted within 12 months of its launch by blue-chip managers such as Citicorp.Chris Thomas, DryShips' English-born finance director, said yesterday there was a "tremendous appetite" for shipping issues.DryShips is just one of a handful of new maritime ventures which have already listed or drawn up plans for an initial public offering. The company - as its name suggests - operates dry bulk vessels of the kind that move iron ore or coal, and this type of company has almost never dared go to market before.But the boom in commodity prices and the "China story" have sent dry bulk freight rates soaring and profits have followed. Investors are keen to find new ways of investing in China and ships are seen as an interesting vehicle.The wet shipping front - tankers carrying oil - has been relatively well-established for some years with companies owned by easyJet founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou and Norway's John Fredrik sen (today's Onassis) using the New York stock exchange some while back.Apart from a disastrous flurry of junk bond offerings in the late-90s, many people have assumed that the heavily cyclical shipping industry, with its often poor corporate governance commitment, did not really mix with capital markets.In 2001 there were three shipowners listed in New York and their companies had a combined stock market valuation of $2.5bn. Now there are around 17 firms worth almost 10 times that amount. Peter Shaerf, a Briton who works for financial consultants American Marine Advisers, believes that there is a bubble in shipping investment but points out that comparisons with the tech-stock boom are not totally accurate."One big difference is that shipowners really do have hardware that can be seen and touched but there is also huge demand for vessels now which &#91;building&#93; yards cannot really satisfy till 2008."That should underpin strong shipping rates for some time yet, while Martin Stopford, a director of the world's biggest shipbroking firm, Clarkson, points out that owners made hard profits of $80bn in 2004. "That's real," he says.IgnoranceBut still Mr Shaerf says that a quick glance at internet chatroom gossip will show an enormous ignorance about the shipping industry."I saw one where someone was raving about an LNG &#91;liquefied natural gas&#93; operator when actually the owner used LPG &#91;liquid petroleum gas&#93; which are two completely different markets with hugely different characteristics," he explains.Interestingly both Mr Haji-Ioannou and Mr Fredriksen - who spent &#163;25m on a house in London not so long ago - have pulled quite a lot of their cash out of their stock-listed tanker firms.But it is not just shipping where an irrational exuberance appears to have gripped investors. The oil market itself is being buried in a stampede to float by companies eager to take advantage of the new hunger for IPOs.Hardly a week goes by without an offering but veteran oil analyst Tony Alves - now with KBC Peel Hunt - says some of them are "so absurd they are not worth writing about".In the laughable category must surely be White Nile, whose share price rose 13-fold days after its launch on the back of exploration rights it expected to win from a provisional government in southern Sudan. It now turns out that French oil major Total believes it has rights to the same acreage from a different authority.There have been other highly speculative companies which have come to market with extravagant promises, such as Circle Oil and its Namib desert rights and Petrel Resources which believed it had a head start in Iraq. As in shipping, there are some genuinely fundamental drivers for the interest in oil stocks - not least the $50-plus price for a barrel of crude.This has driven traditional oil majors such as BP and ExxonMobil into new areas (the former has started to drill in the Black Sea off Georgia and the latter off Colombia) and encouraged speculative exploration.The Falkland Islands has long been seen by some as a possible new oil source but one that has never delivered on its promises. Desire Petroleum - an old hand in the region - has just raised new money to explore there.Borders &amp; Southern and Rock Hopper are two new firms planning to visit the stock market on the back of a fresh interest in the Falklands.So is this enormous enthusiasm for energy IPOs not a bubble? "Very much so," argues Mr Alves. "Some of these companies coming to the market are very high risk. Some are raising large amounts of money to fund exploration wells that have a 90% chance of failure," he adds.It is not just oil which has spiralled up in price. Everything from iron ore to coal and copper have put on enormous increases in value, encouraging a host of new issues in that sector too.James Montier, global equity strategist at investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, agrees that commodities and mining stocks are displaying bubble-like valuations. "It never ceases to amaze me that investors buy into the hope of growth," he says. "Commodities and mining stocks are a play on China and the reality is that nobody has the foggiest idea of what is going on in China."Not that the original technology bubble has disappeared. Indeed, there is evidence that it is reinflating. Last November Mr Montier was so incensed by a Wall Street Journal report of the views of Morgan Stanley's Mary Meeker that he highlighted the absurdly high valuations commanded once again by the likes of Yahoo! and eBay.Ms Meeker, who became a household name in the US with her bullish forecasts during the dotcom years, was using those share prices to argue that "the enthusiasm was well placed, it just got ahead of itself in many respects".ValuationsMr Montier reckoned "this has to be the kindest description possible of the biggest bubble in financial history". Just look at some of the current valuations in terms of price to sales, he argues: Google is currently worth 16 times its 2004 sales; eBay is valued at about 17 times, and Yahoo! is worth almost 13 times.That cannot make sense, he thinks. Listen to what Scott McNealy, chief executive of Sun Microsystems, said about the time in 2000 when his company was valued at 10 times its sales."At 10 times revenues, to give you a 10-year payback, I have to pay you 100% of revenues for 10 straight years in dividends," he said in 2002. "That assumes I can get that by my shareholders. That assumes I have zero cost of goods sold, which is very hard for a computer company. That assumes zero expenses, which is really hard with 39,000 employees. That assumes I pay no taxes, which is very hard. And that assumes you pay no taxes on your dividends, which is kind of illegal. And that assumes with zero R&amp;D for the next 10 years I can maintain the current revenue run rate."So, five years on from the dotcom crash, maybe the truth is simple but ugly: investors have learned nothing.British neterati who survivedLastminute.comDespite all the doomsayers, the standard bearer for UK dotcoms is still around, and after several acquisitions and some extremely painful cost-cutting, the firm set up by Brent Hoberman and Martha Lane-Fox made &#163;4.6m last year. But that figure comes after stripping out financial and accounting charges, and in fact it has lost about &#163;250m since it was founded.By comparison,Cheapflights.co.uk, the online travel search and price comparison site established in 1996, makes money, and last year accounted for 15% of all travel internet advertising.Alongside the "start-ups", many of the UK's leading retailers have launched on the internet since the boom.Tesco.com, for instance, is now the UK's largest online food retailer.On the technology side of the internet goldrush,ARM Holdings, whose chips power a range of devices including Apple's iPod, has seen its share price suffer in the dotcom fallout but generated enough cash to pay its first dividend last year.Among the software firms,Autonomy, which made much of the fact when it was floated that its information retrieval technology was based on the theories of a medieval cleric, said last month annual pre-tax profits had increased 12% to &#163;4.4m.Some of the UK's neterati are also still to be found at the head of UK firms. Ian Livingston, who was finance director of Dixons when it set up Freeserve, is now head of BT's retail business. John Swingewood, who bought Sports Internet when he worked at BSkyB, recently returned as chairman of Pannal, a cash shell seeking technology investments.
On first glance, Nintendo's DS looks more like something from a Christmas cracker than a serious piece of video games equipment.It is bulky and made from the kind of shiny silver plastic that will disappoint buyers barely getting change from &#163;100.But underneath its clunky exterior, this ugly duckling is a beautiful swan.Child-sized buttons make life difficult for adults, and the detachable stylus is likely to go missing, but the touchscreen is a revelation, and peculiarly addictive.Playing with the DS is undeniably fun, and many of the games will have kids - and open-minded adults - in fits of giggles.One game includes a section where the player has to catch a dribble of snot falling from a woman's nose, while another round requires the player to blow on to the screen to simulate inflating a balloon.Not everything is quite so innocent. Project Rub involves wooing a virtual girlfriend, who can be undressed by vigorously rubbing the screen.It has more than just games, and the built-in Pictochat software, a kind of nursery-level text messaging, is perfect for the playground, but how much rough and tumble this unit can withstand is still up for debate.Ultimately, this is one for the kids: it is hard to imagine the fashion-conscious adult market opting for a gadget so physically unattractive, especially when the ultra-stylish Sony PSP hits the high street.
Fed up with using USB and FireWire cables to connect peripherals? If all goes well, you could be saying goodbye to them next year. There's a new wireless technology that promises to go fast enough to hook up all the devices on your desktop, and your home entertainment gear, without any wires at all.Intel is backing ultra-wide band (UWB) and predicts we will have UWB dongles to plug into - and replace - our USB ports next year. Motorola's Freescale subsidiary has already delivered the technology in prototype products, including a Samsung mobile phone shown at the 3GSM conference in Cannes.The aim is to make things simpler - many consumer devices that get returned to the shop have proven too complex for the user. Cutting out wires would make things easier.UWB is such a departure from existing radio technology, it has faced serious questions. Can it fit in with other systems? Can the regulators accept it? At last, it looks like the answers could be "Yes".Like all "new" technologies, UWB has been around for a while. More than 40 years ago, Hedy Lamarr, who later became a Hollywood star, came up with the concept of "spread spectrum" communications, which change frequency to avoid detection. UWB takes the concept a step further, using a pulse across a broad spectrum to send a signal at a very high data rate. But it only uses a small amount of power, so does not interfere with other technologies.The military backed UWB, and saw it as a way to send undetectable messages, because the signals resemble noise. They also wanted to produce radar that could penetrate walls and the ground. But in 1994, the information was   declassified and companies leapt in to commercialise it.The claims for UWB are striking. The wireless versions of USB and FireWire promise to deliver 480Mbps over a couple of metres, and 100Mbps up to 10m. This is much faster than Bluetooth, the current standard for replacing cables.UWB has two big problems, however: regulations and standards. A technology won't be viable unless vendors are allowed to sell it widely, and products can work together. UWB is a new problem for regulators. The main networking standards body, the IEEE, set up a task group (802.15.3a) to define a "personal area network" using UWB. For more than 18 months, however, the group has been stuck in an ugly deadlock between rival factions backed by Intel and Motorola.Intel and Texas Instruments back a UWB version called multi-band OFDM, which is being promoted by the WiMedia Alliance. Motorola's Freescale proposal is supported by a group called the UWB Forum. The IEEE will vote again on the proposals next week at its plenary session in Atlanta, from March 13 to 18.No one expects a winner to achieve the necessary 75% of the votes cast. The only way forward is to deliver products and see which wins. "Standards apparently will take care of themselves in the market," said Jim Lansford, chief technology officer of Alereon, a WiMedia member.WiMedia has published its proposals as an optional standard, and the two camps are racing for the market. There is also a third potential rival. Pulse-Link has a proposal that, it claims, is faster than either of them. It has set up the CWave alliance programme, whose members will get demonstration chips. However, it is further from final product than WiMedia, and so far, CWave is an alliance of one.But these systems can't get to the market without permission from regulators - the UK's Ofcom and the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC).Regulators are accustomed to licensing most of the radio spectrum for exclusive use - for instance, by broadcasters, mobile phone companies or the military. A technology like UWB walks on tiptoe, but it steps across a whole swath of licensed spectrum, potentially threatening commercial services.The FCC came up with an elegant answer in 2002. Any device, such as a PC or a CD player, leaks some radiation at every frequency, so the FCC protects licensed spectrum by limiting the amount of noise these   devices are allowed to leak. UWB is so efficient, these noise levels are enough to carry high-speed communications.So the FCC simply stated that UWB is legal in the US, as long as it operates under this threshold, and the industry got the go-ahead to create a fast wireless system whose effects on other equipment will be indistinguishable from background noise.UWB systems that send data at more than 100Mbps and meet the FCC regulations have been designed. Their working distance is limited by the power restriction, but with 10m range, they are more than good enough for cable replacement: both the FireWire and USB standards groups have opted for an eventual wireless version based on UWB.Ofcom hopes to set up similar regulations in the UK: it has issued a consultation document and wants comments this month. "Concern over interference between UWB and mobile networks won't prevent UWB being legalised in Britain, but it will probably mean more stringent safety controls," said an Ofcom source.The ITU (the International Telecommunications Union) has a group meeting in May to look at global guidelines. Despite this, things aren't going smoothly. Intel's opponents have lodged objections with the FCC, claiming that the WiMedia proposal breaks the FCC regulations, if power is measured in a certain way. The FCC's agenda calls for a decision on this issue today.If the FCC issues a waiver, WiMedia systems can carry on as planned. If not, says a spokesman, it is not the end of the world. It simply means rewriting the specifications to reduce power, which will cut the range of wireless USB to 7m.However, a vote of confidence from the FCC would be a big boost for WiMedia. A vote against it could be seen as a sign that the FCC is having second thoughts, and make it more likely that objections are upheld. Some input to May's ITU meeting is already causing concern among UWB vendors, who fear UWB may be limited by the "mask" of frequencies within which it must operate."Some people are asking the ITU for power limits at some frequencies that are less than the power emitted by the human body," said Steven Moore, director of intellectual property at Pulse-Link. "Some suggestions are less than thermal noise, and you can't do that without using a cryo-pump to cool down the surface of the Earth."Vendors hope that kind of demand can be reined in. It would defeat the object of making our lives simpler.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Press releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
Even as guitar-led rock music garners more sales, and live gigs pack out with indie fans, the cynics cannot deny that the dying art of dance music has been saved by Myles "Mylo" MacInnes.His aptly named debut album, Destroy Rock &amp; Roll, has sold more than 100,000 copies in the UK on the Breastfed label since May, and is to be re-released by Sony BMG. Except for a few live guitar riffs, each song was made over two years on Mylo's Mac G4 desktop computer.Music-making technology such as Reason, a virtual studio program, and Pro Tools, an audio sequencer, have been around for a while, but as they become more advanced, they are increasingly being used by artists and DJs to enhance sound and style."Everyone uses a computer these days, with the possible exception of the White Stripes," says Mylo, 25, from the Isle of Skye in Scotland. "The way most people work is to record live instruments into a computer."Artists can also recreate live sounds from scratch and use these "fake" ones instead of the real thing. "Basically, you make the sounds in Reason and then arrange all the bits you've created into a finished track using Pro Tools," says Mylo.Reason lets you create, edit and mix music without external hardware or software, other than a keyboard. It contains the sounds for everything from synths, loop players, drum machines, pattern sequencers, samplers, a mixing desk and effects units all in one window. This user interface resembles a studio rack into which you place the components needed to build a song - it looks like   a real studio set-up, including simulated audio jacks, cables and shift-dragging knobs.Some artists, such as 2ManyDJs and Optimo, are also using music programs to DJ. As well as two Technics SL1210 turntables, Twitch from Optimo uses a 1.5GHz Apple G4 Powerbook laptop for live processing, live music and MP3s. After starting with massive amounts of software, he has cut down to a few programs he can master.Twitch uses Reason; synthesizer software Absynth and Reactor; Pluggo, to add special sound effects through VST plug-ins; Peak, an audio editor that lets you cut audio to the right length; and the sequencer software Ableton Live. Occasionally, he also deploys Roland, a "groovesam pler, sequencer and moody girl with a life of her own, all rolled into one".After DJing with turntables for years, Twitch decided he needed to be more technologically advanced to bridge the dichotomy of his love for old rock songs as well as modern, electronic dance music. He used cheap samplers such as Roland to mix the sounds together, but this was too time consuming. About five years ago, he bought a laptop and specialist software, which, he says, "opened up untold creative possibilities"."This technology has helped bring dance music and rock music together," says Twitch, who displays his computerised craft at the weekly Optimo night at the Sub Club, Glasgow.Some DJs see it as cheating, but Twitch says it is a ridiculous argument: "It's like when Bob Dylan first played on an electric guitar and people were like 'Judas, Judas!'"Software such as Ableton Live allows Twitch to mess with audio once it is loaded on to his computer. On rock records, for example, the drummer often doesn't keep perfect beat, so Ableton lets you manipulate it, making it easier to beat mix with other tracks. Twitch can also detach well-known loops from a song and add them elsewhere.At the club, the software lets Twitch get through up to 50 tunes in a half-hour DJ spot. "It's not just about hitting play on my laptop" Twitch says. "It's totally live ... you're jamming with a dozen records at the same time."Dan Whitford, from Australian in die electro band Cut Copy, also argues the merits of computer-recorded music. "The main advantage ... is being able to do so much at home. You can wake up at three in the morning and write something. It's cheaper - no studio, no engineer, no assistant."Whitford used the sequencer software Cubase in place of a big studio mixer, and Peak as his audio editor, to make his album Bright Like Neon Love. A good soundcard plugged into his Mac G5 desktop means he can record at a higher frequency of 24 bits, which "makes it sound better".Whitford also employs his computer as a rehearsal tool. He uses it to replicate the drums, guitars and bass he wants, adding his own vocals. He then takes it to the rest of the band, who work off it in a live setting.The technology has advanced to such a degree that the musical possibilities are endless. Computers have also broken down the cost of making music. You no longer need top studio equipment, a famous producer or expensive copyrighted samples.Budding electronic artists and DJs should, therefore, find it quite easy and cheap to set up a studio in their bedroom. While some software can be expensive, free demo versions are often available and online stores such as eBay sell discounted used versions.Music college Point Blank, in Hoxton, London, also offers courses in Reason and digital music software.And as Mylo advises to people starting out: "Don't worry about not having bought the right gear. Spend a lot of time pissing about ... and make sure you're enjoying it, because if you're not, nobody else is going to enjoy listening to it."Linkswww.ableton.com/index.php?main=downloadswww.propellerheads.sewww.pointblanklondon.comwww.breastfed.tvwww.optimo.co.ukwww.cutcopy.net&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The DS and an indie PC game dominate thereviewsthis week. My review of the new Nintendo handheld - complete with wrong piccie - ishere. Ignore the exterior, the DS is a lovely little machine, although I think it will face a tough sales struggle once the initial launch hype dissipates. The older gamers are likely to go PSP, the very young will stick with their Game Boy's and the DS will be somewhere in the middle. Nintendo's hope must be that enough people actually get to try the thing, as looks can be deceiving. On to the reviews..Two DS games dominate thereviews- Super Mario 64 DS and WarioWare Touched. The latter receives a five-star award, with Steve Boxer a huge fan. "Supremely addictive, hilarious and both hi- and low-tech at the same time, WarioWare Touched is a classic."Mario is equally as good, although the DS controls let it down. Taking the original N64 game and adding in some cracking mini-games make this is a seductive package. For the three DS owners out there who don't have a copy it comes recommended.Last up isDarwinia, the low-fi independent PC title that proves that great games can come from small teams. I've not tried it yet but Rhianna Pratchett was impressed, giving it four stars. "The best in indie development", she said. Hurrah for the little guy.
This week'sWhat's newcovers much of the goings on at the CeBIT show in Hanover, Germany - one of the biggest computer industry shows of the year.Products unveiled include the Siemens SXG75, which Ashley Norris says includes "a two megapixel camera, an MP3 player and a full GPS satellite navigation system ". Not only that, but it's got video calling, colour screen, Bluetooth, instant messaging, email, push-to-talk, and a built-in translator. Fantastico.Elsewhere we have theKiss Technologyhard disk recorder that can be set over the web or your phone. Handy if you're in the pub and forgot about recording that important Channel Five, erm, "documentary". And it has an integrated DVD recorder, TV tuner, up to 200GB hard disk and timeshift function.There's more from CeBIThereandhereif you want to see what's doing the rounds.
Australian recording industry investigators today raided an internet service provider suspected of using high-speed file-swapping technology to allow the pirating of hundreds of thousands of songs and video clips, an industry official said.The raid was believed to be the first on an Australian internet company involving the increasingly popular BitTorrent file-sharing software.BitTorrent software allows computer users to download large files quickly by breaking the files down into smaller pieces. Users download sections of the file from each other, while at the same time sending out those sections to other users.This makes BitTorrent transfers faster than classic peer-to-peer applications, such as Kazaa, which allow users to download entire files from each other. Because BitTorrent users connect directly to each other, while a central server coordinates the transfers, that server has no knowledge of the file contents.The investigators raided the headquarters of Swiftel Communications in Perth, the capital of Western Australia, Music Industry Piracy Investigations (MIPI) said. MIPI is part of the Australian Record Industry Association.The raids were conducted with rarely used search warrants known as Anton Piller orders which are used exclusively in civil proceedings. No police were involved, and the record industry sent its own investigators to carry out the search and seize evidence."These raids are a new and important development in our fight against internet music piracy," MIPI General Manager Michael Speck said.Mr Speck accused Swiftel of using BitTorrent "to link infringers to music clips and sound recordings. We believe hundreds of thousands of downloads have been conducted during the last year in breach of copyright laws."He said his investigators seized "digital evidence relating to web pages and internet transactions consisting of both illegal sound recordings and illegal video clips".Swiftel Communications could not immediately be reached for comment, Associated Press said.Copyright owners have been targeting BitTorrent file-sharing sites as the software has grown in popularity as a quick way to swap large files such as music, television shows, games and movies. In December, police in Finland raided a popular BitTorrent file-sharing site suspected of facilitating piracy. The Motion Picture Association of America has also launched a worldwide campaign against the operators of BitTorrent networks.Last year, Speck's organisation used Anton Piller orders to raid offices and homes in Sydney linked to the Kazaa file-sharing network. The recording industry is involved in an ongoing civil trial against Kazaa that is expected to wind up later this month.Lawyers for the recording industry say Kazaa's owners are allowing the network's millions of users to illegally exchange billions of copyrighted music files each month. Kazaa's owners say they are not responsible for the actions of people using their software.Mr Speck said today that among music videos found traded on Swiftel were Kids by Robbie Williams and Kylie Minogue and Sometime by Britney Spears."The record industry will continue to take legal action to protect its copyright whether it's on the internet or elsewhere," Mr Speck said. "We will continue to act against ISPs who we believe are set up as vehicles for piracy."
The irrational exuberance of the dotcom boom was no more eloquently summed up than during the US Super Bowl in late January 2000 when more than a dozen internet firms spent millions of dollars buying 30-second advertising slots.In the US, the internet was everywhere. News magazines from the stalwart Time through to the internet cheerleaders Wired, Red Herring and the Industry Standard proclaimed the birth of the new economy. Wall Street analysts Henry Blodget, at Merrill Lynch, and Mary Meeker, from Morgan Stanley, were feted as royalty. The denizens of the internet worked in "spaces" instead of offices, where football tables and free soft drinks abounded. Everyone was going to be a millionaire by Christmas.It seemed so believable. Investors who had bought shares in the first wave of American IPOs, including Yahoo! in 1996, Network Solutions a year later and the online ad company Doubleclick in 1998, were sitting on massive stock market gains. Using their sky-high valuations, the companies pulled off enormous deals. At the top of the market Yahoo! was valued at $93bn (£48bn).Europe got the internet bug late but soon became feverish with web excitement. In Britain, when Freeserve floated in July 1999, three-quarters of the shares changed hands on the first day, as the stock gained in value by more than one-third. The trading turned the internet service provider into the UK's first billion pound internet venture. Bankers scrambled to get the next "moon-shot" flotation away while entrepreneurs cobbled together business plans and went hunting for venture capitalists at networking events such as First Tuesday.The founders of the health site Clickmango.com boasted they had raised £3m within just eight days of starting to approach backers. Even before it had launched, the company was claiming to be valued at £8m. An internet "investment boutique", Durlacher Corporation, pumped millions into net start-ups, and the hopes that the next killer application was among its charges pushed the value of the firm over £2bn.Britain started to produce its own "neterati". Having come up with the idea behind Freeserve, Peter Wilkinson set up Sports Internet and, 14 months later, sold it to BSkyB for £301m. But the brightest stars in the UK's net firmament were the founders of Lastminute.com, Martha Lane Fox and Brent Hoberman. When Lastminute.com came to market on March 14 2000, the shares gained 28%, eventually valuing the profit-free  business at £800m.Three days later, when the ISP World Online floated, in Amsterdam, the rot set in. A week after the flotation, it emerged that Nina Brink, the company's founder, had sold 1.2m shares in the company well below the offer price just one day after the £7.2bn flotation.Already reeling from the massive volatility on the Nasdaq and Europe's clutch of me-too tech indices, such as Germany's NeuerMarkt, European investors fled and World Online shares plummeted 40% below their debut price. In September, its Italian rival Tiscali bought the company for less than half the float price.The value of Lastminute.com plunged as 2000 progressed. Britain's answer to eBay, QXL.com, became the founder member of the 99% club - dot.com shares that lost 99% of their value - and Freeserve was bought for a song by France Telecom.As venture capital dried up, numerous start-ups went bust. The mood of euphoria created by the dotcom boom on this side of the Atlantic was probably best summed up by Karl Watkin, who was then the chief executive of the Newcastle-based Just2Clicks.com. In front of a London audience consisting of the great and the good from the dotcom world, he proclaimed himself to be having an e-orgasm. Unfortunately for everyone involved, it turned out to be about as long-lasting as the traditional kind.
Microsoftrevealed detailsof their next-gen system yesterday - but what does it mean for your average gamer? Apparently we are entering the "high-definition" era in videogames, with gamers connected online across Live. Central to this is the concept of the "guide" - an, "entertainment gateway that instantly connects players to their games, their friends and their digital media". Players will be able to download - and pay for - episodic content, new levels etc. And that's before you get to the ability to create custom playlists whilst gaming. Hmm. But what about the games then? Well, they'll be "high def" too, although that obviously depends on take-up of HDTV. The key for Microsoft appears to be online though, with a vastly more streamlined offering than Xbox Live, which is itself pretty decent already. So there we go then - Xbox 2 will be a connected online entertainment system that will pump out graphics that are, "nearly indiscernible from real life". Lets just hope they employ a decent case designer this time round.
Thursday means only one thing in Online Towers... another edition of our spankyprint supplement.Today's issue takes some time to cast its eyes back to the height of the dotcom boom. It's exactly five years ago since the Nasdaq peaked, a high water mark that soon turned into a muddy puddle of broken dreams and failed companies.Chris Aldentalks to some of the biggest and finds out how they feel five years on.Elsewhere we take a look atmusicians who make music in their bedroomswith the aid of nifty computer technology, howsheltered housing schemescan produce a new generation of silver surfers, and talk to one of Comic Relief's founders,Emma Freud, about how the charity uses the web.In terms ofgames, we're previewing the newNintendo DSahead of its launch tomorrow, as well as games includingWarioWare Touched and Super Mario 64 DS.Going furtherInside IT, we're watching the rise oftext messaging for businesses, fasterwireless networking, and the latest globale-government rankings.We've also gotcommentfrom Glyn Moody onEU software patents row, Jack Schofield ondual core chipsand Michael Cross ontechnology for truckers.Phew!Of course,there's always more, including Ask Jack, your letters, IT news and Web watch.
As celebrations go, it will  be a muted one. But at  9pm this evening, anyone  who tried and failed  to make a fortune in the  dotcom boom can be forgiven for sitting  back, pouring themselves a glass  of millennium bubbly, and thinking  about what might have been.It will mark exactly five years since  the Nasdaq, the US technology index,  closed at a dizzying peak of 5048.62  - more than double its value just  14 months before. That Friday night,  the young investors who had won  millions in funding at networking  events such as First Tuesday - and  who were pumping much of that  cash into marketing their patches  of dotcom turf - probably felt little  reason to worry. The net was the  future, and they were part of it.It was all downhill from there. In  the next day of trading, the Nasdaq  lost 2.8% of its value. The day after -  asLastminute.comfloated on the  London stock exchange, briefly  achieving a market capitalisation of  £800m - it fell 4%. By October 2002,  it had plunged to 1114.11, a total loss  of 78% against its peak.Along the way, companies such  as Boo.com, Clickmango.com,  Ready2Shop.com, Pets.com, Toysmart.com and many more went from  being leaders of a revolution to tombstones  in dotcom graveyards chronicled  by the likes of Fucked Company  - and the business pages of a delighted  tabloid press.Survivors, of which Lastminute  was one, were left battling to turn a  profit in a market where business to consumer websites were as unfashionable  as a fur coat in summer.Rob Hersov, then boss of Sportal - now vice-chairman of executive  plane company NetJets - says the collapse was precipitated by nothing  less than "mass market hysteria"."Those were incredibly heady  days," he says. "Fun - absolutely. We  thought we were making a difference.  We thought we were getting out  there, shaking things up, doing something  no one had done before. We  really were pioneers - buccaneers."Fellow South African Brent Hoberman,  who co-founded Lastminute.com with Martha Lane Fox, and who  remains chief executive, describes  the atmosphere as frenetic. "There  was a community of young people  starting businesses, everybody looking  for deals - a frenetic amount of  deal-making and deal activity."It was a time when outsiders from  an industry were often more effective  than insiders. Not knowing everything  about an industry made you  able to challenge the rules. New  players see the effects of a disruptive  technology more easily than a player  who is already in the market."Toby Rowland was another  20-something caught in the rush.  With partner Richard Norton, he  raised £3m in his first funding  round for alternative health website  Clickmango - which launched in  2000 with ads fronted by Joanna  Lumley - but had to close in the  wake of the crash.Even the name of the company -  because "older women love mangos",  says Rowland, with a grin - was a  measure of the exuberance of  the times."When 1999 came along it was a  wonderful time when everything  seemed possible - and you couldn't  not do something," he says."The intoxicating smell in the air  was that of dotcom money being  made left and right," agrees Tristan  Louis, a developer who worked at Boo.com's London office. "Those of  us that had been in the business for a  while were worried about it being a  bubble. But we worried for so long -  in internet time - that by 1999, the  worry turned to concern that maybe  we were among the ones who didn't  "get it", who didn't really understand  the power of the net."It felt a little like our wildest  expectations about the transformational  power of the net were being  exceeded at a faster rate than  we thought."As spring 2000 came, many had a  sense of impending trouble. Sportal's  Hersov said he knew by then that the  boom was too good to be true - but  he had already become involved in a  costly race to make a profit before the  market fell away.His site owned potentially valuable  wireless and broadband rights, in  perpetuity, to a list of major European  football clubs - Real Madrid,  AC Milan, Juventus, Bayern Munich  and Paris St Germain - and he believes that if he had sat on them  and done nothing, Sportal would  now be a billion-dollar company. In  the end, he ended up selling the  websites for £1 in November 2001."Everyone felt like they could get  in and out in time," he says. "And I  reckon most rational people knew  the market would come off. People  were saying: 'it's going to come off  10%, 15%' - that was the rational  thing to think, not 50%. No one  expected the complete meltdown;  they expected the market to start  dropping, but not to melt."Julie Meyer, co-founder of First  Tuesday, puts it this way: "It's not  that I didn't think it was coming. It  was that you never see the shape of  things until it happens."The first crack was the collapse of  Boo.com. The e-clothing company,  founded by Swedes Kajsa Leander  and Ernst Malmsten, had launched  in the summer of 1999 with more  than £70m of startup capital, the  most ever raised by a dotcom.Employing more than 400 people in  London, New York and four European  cities, it tried to sell designer  clothes in 18 countries across the  world - with the help of Ms Boo, an  irritating avatar who needed the  Macromedia Flash plug-in to work.As a measure of just how hubristic  that was, Freeserve - then Britain's  top ISP, now owned by Wanadoo -  had only just started offering unmetered  dial-up access, which meant  that few customers who looked at the  site could get as far as buying clothes.And it didn't work on an Apple Mac.  Throw in the tales of Concorde  flights and high living in five-star  hotels, and you had the archetypal  dotbomb. By the time it went bust in  May 2000, Boo.com had run up more  than £10m in debt.The trouble was that Boo led to  comparisons that were harmful to  other businesses - particularly  Lastminute.com."It was a bad thing for us," says  Hoberman. "The parallels were very frustrating, and  they were all the more easy to make  because it was a man and a woman  who were young, and both women  were very attractive. What I said to  everyone at the time was that that  was about the only parallel."But Boo's demise did focus attention  on real problems that affected  dotcoms: the high cost of technology,  the high cost of marketing, and the  fact that customers were not yet  online in big enough numbers to  drive e-commerce."The correction had to happen,"  says Hersov. "There was too much  money chasing too many ideas, no  viable revenue stream in most cases,  technology that just wasn't ready for  what everyone wanted it to do - the  whole thing got ahead of itself."Mike Antliff of Digital Animation  Group - in those days makers of  virtual newsreader Ananova, now  purveyors of animated characters  known as WeeMes to mobile phones  - agrees. "The market wasn't mature  enough. We were technology-driven.  We're much more market-driven  now."Those who got their timing right,  of course, made cash. Hersov may  have lost out with Sportal, but the  internet incubator Antfactory, which  he co-founded, was sold in 2002  for £77m. Peter Wilkinson, who  reputedly sketched out the idea for  Freeserve on a napkin, sold his  Sports Internet business to BSkyB for  more than £300m. Lastminute.com  turned its first quarterly profit in  2002, although it went back into the  red after making a series of acquisitions  in a bid to increase its scale.And in what now seems an extraordinary  piece of deal-making, the centrepiece  of the boom - First Tuesday  - was sold in late 2000 to an Israeli  internet company, Yazam, for £26m.Meyer, who now works as a venture  capitalist for Ariadne Capital in London,  says: "The art is to find a buyer  that really wants what you have."According to Hersov, though, Europeans  were at a disadvantage. "You  needed to be at the epicentre to make  money," he says. "You needed to be  based in Seattle or Silicon Valley, and  you needed to have launched something  in 1997. For anyone else, and  that applies to most Europeans,  who launched two years after that,  it was very difficult to get a technical  platform, team in place, revenue  stream, path to profitability, go  public, cash out - the time just got  shorter and shorter the further you  got from the epicentre."Some, of course, are still looking  forward. Lastminute.com, like many  companies, has bold plans to exploit  mobile devices by using location based  maps, offering theatre and  restaurant deals.Rowland is philosophical about the  failure of Clickmango, but now runsMidasplayer.com, a skill gaming  website he describes as "to gambling  as Country Life girls in pearls are to  pornography". Last month, he says,  the company turned its first profit.He misses the sense of community  of the early dotcom days - now, he  says, there are "a lot of lone wolves  out there, doing their thing"."We need a First Tuesday," he adds.  "Someone's going to have a First  Tuesday and there's going to be like  500 people there. It can happen -  I believe it."I wish Julie (Meyer) would do it.  Just for fun."
Apple v bloggersThe legal landscape is taking shape for the nascent blog community, and it isn't looking pretty. Round one in a fight over the leak of Apple's new products, released by three Apple news and rumour sites, has gone in favour of the computer company. A preliminary ruling from a California court last Thursday said the sites do   not have the same legal right to protect their sources as journalists. Civil liberties group Electronic Frontier Foundation argues that non-mainstream media writers have as much right as journalists to keep their sources anonymous. Grassroots journalism expert Dan Gillmor has condemned Apple for what he calls a "disgusting attack" on the sites, and, inevitably, there has been a backlash from the blogging community.www.eff.org/Censorship/Apple_v_Doeshttp://tinyurl.com/3ryhrhttp://tinyurl.com/3wh2lMink Media growsMink Media - one of a small clutch of British-based outfits creating blogs written by paid bloggers - has added two new blogs to its trio.   Bleepblog, a technology blog, is the work of William Anderson, who "believes that all the really cool things go *bleep*". Meanwhile, Closet Spy is trying to corner the market for UK fashion and shopping, by getting Maddy Pickard to choose bargains and must-haves.www.bleepblog.comwww.closetspy.comwww.minkmedia.comFunny moneyAcross the pond, niche blog publisher Weblogs Inc continues to clock up new blogs in a bid to reach the 200 mark. Latest additions include BBHub, for addicts of the BlackBerry mobile device, and the poker blog pPlayer. As the niche blogging industry grows, opportunities are springing up for people to earn a crust from   their blogging. Perhaps the most intriguing blog-related job is the one for vice president of the US Country Music Television's "Dukes of Hazzard Institute". It's hard to believe this ad for a blogger to write about the cult US TV show is genuine, mainly because of the $100,000 salary offer and the job title. But, as Will Femia of MSNBC's Clicked put it, "If this isn't a hoax, these are tulip days indeed."www.bbhub.comwww.pplayer.comwww.cmt.com/interact/sweepstakes/dukes_instituteTricks of the tradeTechnology was meant to make life easier. Why, then, are we collapsing under the weight of spam and viruses, and bewildered by the sheer amount of information? Lifehacker,   part of Nick Denton's Gawker media blogging empire, tries to clear the virtual decks by telling readers about some of the best ways to save time and solve problems. This blog's boon is the quality and frequency of editor Gina Trapani's posts. Other sites to check out include 43 Folders, Tricks of the Trade, and Online's Ask Jack.www.lifehacker.comwww.43folders.comwww.tradetricks.orgwww.guardian.co.uk/online/askjackSix of the best:  Travel blogsTim Leffel's Cheapest Destinationshttp://blogs.booklocker.com/travelBootsnAll Travelblogshttp://blogs.bootsnall.comWorld Humhttp://worldhum.comThe Long Trip Homewww.thelongtriphome.com/travelblogGridskipperwww.gridskipper.comVagabondinghttp://vagablogging.net&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
What would get your attention - a printed letter telling you when the installer is coming to connect your broadband, or a text message the day before, reminding you not to go out? Since it started sending reminders by SMS, NTL is finding a third fewer people aren't in when the engineer calls. This has lowered costs as well as made customers happy; some of them even reply with a thank you.One in five of the 30bn text messages we're going to send this year will be about business. The vast majority of those are typed in by hand on the phone keypad, but more and more are being sent from a PC keyboard or an automatic system.Business text provider Esendex is sending 2m messages a month to its customers, up from about 100,000 a year ago, and that's just one of many similar services. These typically cost 5-10p per message, and let you send text from an email system, a web interface or directly from an application.Orange and Vodafone both have services that plug into email software such as Outlook and Lotus Notes. All of these options let you receive   incoming texts in your email inbox so you can easily use them for customer feedback or employee suggestions.On a smaller scale, you can use a Sim card reader like MySIMEditor from Gemplus to write messages on your PC and send them when you put the Sim back in the phone. And if you want to send texts from your PC, you can do it free with Skype while its SMS service is in beta testing.Text messaging is generally reliable - you're more likely to get a message twice than not receive it at all. And as you can tell when a message has been received, you can automatically resend if it hasn't arrived within an acceptable time. Also, some mobile operators are investing in new technology to manage the ever-growing numbers of texts we send, which will speed up delivery and make it easier to integrate text with voicemail.As it stands, SMS is reliable enough for both Britannia Airways and Gatwick Airport to use it for contacting their crisis response teams. But beware of cut-rate services that send texts from overseas networks - the per-text charge may be lower, but more of the messages may get lost between networks or blocked as spam.Sending texts from a central system leaves an audit trail. Three of   the largest legal practices in the UK use business texting systems from Avanquest, not just to reach colleagues quickly but to make sure messages are stored for evidence. As compliance regulations force companies to document who knew what when, tracking texts could be a non-intrusive way of doing it.Text messages are ideal for getting information to employees who are rarely at their desks. The charter airline First Choice texts information to staff about problems with planes, such as the disruptions after last year's hurricanes in Florida. Philip Smallwood, head of flight operations, says: "Text messaging takes pressure off the operations team. It saves them having to ring lots of people individually or have people constantly ringing in to find out what's happening."It's also cheaper to send texts than have someone phone out messages (and indulge in a quick chat).Text messages can also connect you to the office diary when you're on the train, or extend an existing job scheduling system. RAC Auto Windscreens sends text messages telling fitters where their next job is. The fitters text back when they arrive and when they're ready to leave, keeping the scheduling system up to date.Incoming messages are also discreet. Interrupting the customer you're dealing with to take a call makes them feel less important than your next appointment.In fact, texts are very like BlackBerry email messages, but with the advantage that you don't need to outfit your staff with a new smartphone or PDA to receive them.Many people prefer SMS text messages to email. According to research by Cable and Wireless, we read 85% of the texts we receive compared with a paltry 20% for email. That might be because individually we don't get   many text messages, and most of them are relevant. However, people get as infuriated about texts advertising unwanted services as they do about spam, and the idea of business-related SMS messages is sometimes tarred with the same brush.Andrew Scott, of Cable &amp; Wireless, says: "Timing is everything. Unsolicited text messages are twice as likely to irritate recipients as a phone call, especially after 5pm."Adam Bird, of Esendex, agrees: "Texting is very direct and it can be very intrusive."If you have a production or shipping department that runs 24 hours, outgoing messages should be scheduled to arrive during what other employees consider to be working hours.Text messages don't replace real conversations, and are not always appropriate. But used properly, they can be a valuable business tool.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
"Motorola has indefinitely postponed the planned launch of its iTunes phone following a last-minute message from a wireless carrier or carriers late last night. Motorola spokeswoman Monica Rohleder told the Chicago Tribune that the company decided not to unveil product after discussions late Wednesday night with 'our operators'," reportsMacworld UK"According to a report inThe Times, Motorola admitted that the launch had been cancelled because of "uncertainty" over which operators would sign up to it. Analysts speculate that there had been a lack of interest from Vodafone, the biggest operator."
"Touch Me" screams the advertising, but outwardly, at least, the Nintendo DS doesn't inspire feelings of desire. Launching in the UK tomorrow, the new handheld games machine doesn't get near its main competitor - Sony's PSP (PlayStation Portable) - in terms of looks, but offers innovations elsewhere. This is most obvious in the design.The DS - which stands for dual screen - uses a pair of displays, one of which is touch-sensitive. This setup lets developers use more imagination when it comes to the design of games.The first thing that strikes you about the DS is its appearance. A plasticky, toy-like feel compares poorly with the sleek lines of the PSP, and there's no doubt it will lose sales as a result. However, open the case   and the setup is striking. The top screen displays most of the action, while the bottom screen is touch-sensitive. Both are bright and far better quality than you may expect from the underwhelming case.When powered up, the DS displays a clock and calendar on the top screen, while you can choose between playing a game and using Pictochat on the touch screen. Pictochat is Nintendo's proprietary software that lets DS users communicate wirelessly, up to about 30m.Simply use the stylus to draw or type and then press send - easy, and pretty good fun, especially in the playground. But the games are the main attraction. Owners of Game Boy Advance/SP will be pleased to know their titles will run on the DS, but the real progression is in the DS-only software that takes full advantage of the dual screen. Launch titles include WarioWare Touched, an anarchic series of mini-games,   Super Mario 64 DS and Project Rub. The games are innovative, make full use of the touch screen and certainly won't appear on the PSP. Another launch day attraction includes Mr Driller: Drill Spirits. The mini-games also point to the games we can expect on DS. Offering innovative use of the sensitive screen, they offer a simplistic, yet enjoyable distraction, ideal for playing on the move.DS comes at an important time for Nintendo. Its stranglehold on the handheld market with the Game Boy brand is under serious fire for the first time thanks to the PSP, which is due in the UK later this year. But while it won't win any style awards, the DS does offer something different. Aesthetically unattractive it may be, but if gaming innovation is your motivation, then the DS is worth a look.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Neil McDonald says the internet has changed his life. In 1999, Neil was looking forward to an active retirement, but then he suffered a major stroke. "I was flat on my back for about nine weeks, and everyone thought I had had it, but luckily I proved them wrong," he says. Neil and his wife, Val, sold their home, and in 2003 moved into Thalia House, a sheltered housing scheme in Bexhill-on-Sea. Neil was initially completely disabled on his right side, and his confidence took a serious knock. "We had to downsize our business and take early retirement," he says, "but I really didn't want to stagnate, and that's where the internet came in."Neil and Val are both members of the Thalia Silver Surfers club, set up when scheme managers installed two computers in partnership with internet trainers Hairnet. "Being online has really enabled me to get back my life," Neil says. "Just the learning curve of getting to grips with surfing and email has helped me regain my confidence." In fact, Neil says it gave him the confidence to stand in the scheme's elections for Tenant Director - he now sits on the board of the management company, representing the views of tenants.There are more than 25,200 sheltered housing schemes in the UK, and almost all are offline. While the internet has become as everyday and essential as hot water if you are at school or work, Britons over 65 are the digitally excluded - the majority don't have access to a computer, let alone an internet connection, and the idea of learning how to use one can be intimidating.Peter De La Garde moved to Thalia House six months ago, bringing a computer with him. "My sister gave me her old computer, but I haven't a clue how to get it going," he admits. "When I moved here, I didn't expect to see computers in the common room, but it's been brilliant because now that I've been trained on them, I use them all the time."The government is keen to get the retired online - the potential savings in administering services online are huge - but Martin Calvert, scheme manager at Thalia House, thinks the internet has a much more significant role to play. "Most of us spend our lives building local associations and friendships that help us keep track of who and where we are, and often when you come into sheltered housing a lot of that familiarity is wiped away," he says. "Getting online gives people an opportunity to hold on to their identity."So although they have learnt how to safely surf, bank and shop online, Thalia's surfers also point out that it is the social impact of the internet that has really made a difference. Val started coming to the club just to make up the numbers, but got hooked once she discovered Friends Reunited and Genes Reunited."I've got in touch with a school friend I last saw in 1954, and I've found a cousin I never knew I had," she says. "Now we are working together online to do all our ancestors going way back."She also points out that her computer skills impress the younger generation, and encourage them to visit. "We've got grandchildren, and we want to be able to keep up with the   generations," Val says. "We don't want to lag behind."At the heart of all their activity is the Digital Unite website, which hosts Thalia House's own microsite, as well as the microsites of the other sheltered housing schemes on the Hairnet programme.Residents can create content for their website's homepage, post updates to the noticeboard, and use the site to contact their landlords, Rother Homes.Brian and Ann Collins are among the youngest residents at Thalia   House, and when the scheme manager is unavailable, they often get asked by older residents to find out when their TV will be repaired, or why the heating isn't working."We had some issues with them last week, and we sent an email, instead of trying to call," Brian says. "We got a reply straightaway, so we were able to tell people what was going on, and they didn't have to worry."Brian has also been able to contact other sheltered homes. "The biggest plus for us is that we can contact other schemes and find out what's going on - it gives us the ear of Rother Homes when they know the same issue is being raised by all the schemes."With an Age Concern study published this month highlighting loneliness as a major issue for older people, Ann says they would be lost without the internet. "At Thalia, there are a few married couples, but mostly it's single people," she says. "Having the computers brings us together to learn, even before we start emailing!"&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
"Maui X-Stream, a Hawaii-based software company that sells streaming video products, re-released the $50 CherryOS on Tuesday. The software emulates a G4 processor, allowing Windows XP machines to run Apple Computer's OS X operating system," reportsWired News."The company became embroiled in controversy last October when it offered a preview release, which experts said was simply a repackaging of a free, open-source emulator calledPearPC."Nothing prevents CherryOS from using PearPC's code, since the open-source project is licensed under the Free Software Foundation's GNU General Public License, which allows anyone to use, modify, share or sell the code. However, the GNU General Public License has a clear stipulation: Anyone using or modifying the code must also license their product in the same way -- for free -- and provide the source code."According toSmash, "A CherryOS trial version was released today (at cherryos.com), and the software is still absolute crap. ... Essentially, this software is a crappy Visual Basic application written on-top-of a separate PearPC modification."Comment:Bear in mind that it's considered a victory if you can get PearPC to load. It's not a practical way of running software.
The historic sale of IBM's personal computer business to Chinese firm Lenovo was approved by American security officials yesterday, despite the misgivings of some Washington politicians.IBM announced the $1.75bn (&#163;900m) sale in December, marking the end of an era for one of the best- known symbols of corporate America. IBM brought the PC to the mass market when it launched its first desktop computer in 1981.Some on Capitol Hill were concerned that the impact of the sale might be more than sentimental, handing important technology to the Chinese. Fears were also expressed that a Chinese firm would be awarded sensitive government contracts and that workers based in America could be industrial spies.A Chinese government agency will hold a stake of just under 30% in Lenovo after the deal is completed.Lenovo, now based in Beijing, will open headquarters close to IBM in Armonk, New York. IBM expects the deal to be completed in the second quarter, when Lenovo will become the third largest maker of PCs in the world.Stephen Ward, the IBM executive who will become the new boss of Lenovo, said the sale had won "unanimous agreement" from the members of the committee on foreign investment in the US.
It was five years ago today that the party finally staggered to an end. With one last sip of the heady brew that had sent stocks ever higher over the past five years, the US Nasdaq index peaked at 5,048.62.By March 2000, the Nasdaq had eclipsed the traditional measure of valuations on Wall Street - the Dow Jones industrial average. Whereas the Dow contained all the fuddy-duddy symbols of old America, the Nasdaq was where the hi-techs spawned by the new paradigm economy were traded.Alan Greenspan, chairman of the US central bank, the Federal Reserve, had warned against "irrational exuberance" in 1996. He believed in the transformative power of new technology but said there was a risk of investors getting carried away.Ultimately, share values have to be based on profits or dividends. By early 2000, the price of new economy stock hugely exceeded any likely earnings, and Wall Street was as overvalued as at any time in its history.Investors were told there was unlimited money to be made out of the dotcom revolution -and that was true, until the point where there were no longer more buyers than sellers. The market reached that point in March 2000, since when the Nasdaq has lost 60% of its value and millions of small investors have suffered.As the tide went out, it left behind its flotsam and jetsam of hucksters, snake-oil salesmen and outright criminals.In retrospect, there were signs of trouble brewing. The Federal Reserve, for instance, had been prompted into action by the scale of the boom, keeping rates artificially low in 1999 because of fears of the Y2K bug but adopting a more aggressive line once it was clear fears of a meltdown had been exaggerated. Borrowing costs went up by a percentage point between February and May 2000.A second straw in the wind, a characteristic of booms that have run their course, was the biggest merger to date, between America Online and Time Warner. In reality, AOL cashed in on its sky-high valuation before the crash, gaining tangible assets. It was never worth the $350bn boasted of at the time of the deal's announcement, and the merged entity now has a valuation of $80bn.In the UK, Freeserve, Baltimore Technologies and Psion were elevated to the FTSE 100 in early March, just as one of the City's last remaining bears threw in his hand. Fund manager Tony Dye - dubbed Dr Doom by the bulls - resigned from Phillips &amp; Drew at the very moment his predictions were about to come true.In the US, the trigger for the crash was thought to be an article headlined Burning Up in investment journal Barron's, which raised the possibility that   at least 50 quoted hi-techs could run out of money before the year was out. The article coincided with one of the best-timed book launches in history: the release of Irrational Exuberance by Yale economist Robert Shiller, exposing the shaky underpinnings of Wall Street.March 2000 was the start of a three-year bear market that slashed the value of pensions and endowment policies.The economic fallout was, however, much less damaging than after the Wall Street Crash of 1929. Different explanations have been suggested - such as that the subsequent bounceback reflects the buoyancy of the capitalist system, or that policymakers learned from 1929 and acted to combat recessionary forces by cutting interest rates and allowing budget deficits to grow, or that loosening policy flooded the markets with liquidity, allowing a new bubble to inflate in real estate.But there has been no great escape for the small investors. More than &#163;8bn poured into tech funds in February and March 2000, much of it into Isas offered by Aberdeen, Henderson, SocGen and Jupiter. Aberdeen alone took &#163;506m in the first 12 weeks of 2000 into just one fund. Today that fund has lost 82.4% in value - despite the recovery in stock markets since March 2003.Few, if any, investment managers emerge with distinction. About 30 retail tech funds were launched in 1999-2000, backed by startlingly confident investment predictions. Many have since shut down.Research by advisers Bates this week found someone who invested their &#163;7,000 Isa allowance into the average tech fund in March 2000 will now be sitting on &#163;1,521.10 and would need growth of 360% just to recoup their losses. Even at an annual growth rate of 10%, this will take 16 years.But investors are not hanging around - each tech revival is greeted as an opportunity to get out. Some are burned, and never return to the market.It was in the internet chatrooms spawned by the very technology behind the boom, the frenzy was at its worst - more than 200,000 small investors rushed to buy shares in Lastminute. On March 14 2000, the 19-month-old firm came to the market at 380p. On the first day of trading it soared to 487p, producing a value of more than &#163;800m when its revenues were running at only &#163;1.5m a year.Small investors were furious. They bombarded chatrooms, angry at allocations of only 35 shares each when big City institutions scooped up millions. But within a fortnight those shares fell below their issue price - and carried on plunging to below 50p by 2002.Some investors burned in the boom are now buying into commodities, oil and resource stocks. When one bubble pops, it's never too long before the next one blows up.
Britain's multibillion pound effort to create electronic government received a confidence boost this week. It is officially the most advanced large European country at making public services available online.In the latest regular survey of e-government progress, covering 28 countries, only Sweden and Austria beat Britain in a league table of sophistication.Previous surveys placed the UK in the middle of a field led by Nordic countries, with their small and technically savvy populations. It echoes the findings of the latest United Nations survey of e-government, which placed the UK behind only the US and Denmark in a league table of 191 countries' "e-government readiness".Evidence that the UK is relatively good at something to do with computers in government will surprise people who assume that widely reported disasters are uniquely British. It is welcome news for the government, which is betting on IT to crack a range of difficult national issues, from fuel taxation to doctors' productivity. The bad news is that there is little evidence that e-government makes public services   more efficient, or contributes to overall national wellbeing.The author of the European survey, Graham Colclough, of consultancy Cap Gemini, warned this week that the most difficult challenges for e-government lie before us.The European Commission "benchmarks" e-government progress as part of an "e-Europe action plan" designed to catch up with north America and east Asia. The latest survey is the fifth, and the first since the EU's expansion to 25 member states. It also covers non-members Iceland, Norway and Switzerland.Researchers working for Cap Gemini, a French-based company, tested the extent to which 20 basic public services were available online: 12 for citizens, eight for businesses.The results show that most public organisations in Europe are on the web - across the 28 states, 84% of "service providers" had a website. Almost all offline bodies are local organisations such as hospitals.Different functions of government are moving online at different rates. Not surprisingly, the most advanced group contains processes for collecting taxes. The least developed group covers "permits and licences"; in most of Europe, applying for planning   permission cannot be done online.In country rankings, the five most sophisticated e-governments are Sweden, Austria, the UK, Ireland and Finland. The UK's jump from seventh position places it among the pioneers. Another fast mover is Estonia, a new member state. It comes eighth, ahead of France, the Netherlands and Germany. Latvia is bottom of the 28, while Luxembourg, at 23, is the least developed of established EU members.Luxembourg breaks the rule that small rich countries are generally   good at e-government because its population is simply too small to make investment worthwhile.Among individual online services, the UK scores well in passport applications. It is the only country apart from Portugal to offer a service ranked 100% for sophistication. The 100% score does not mean that it is possible to apply online for a passport, only that the website "offers an official electronic form to start the procedure to obtain an international passport".Along with Norway, Britain also   scores 100% for the sophistication in its online driving licence applications. In public libraries, however, Britain is well down the league, with 17 states ahead in the sophistication of services. The UK is 10th in the sophistication of procedures for registering businesses and is also well down the league in electronic public procurement.The study offers several examples of services that might be usefully adopted elsewhere in Europe. One is the UK Customs and Excise's Chief system for processing customs duties. Britain's planning portal also won praise for its ability to submit planning applications electronically to some local authorities.Elsewhere in Europe, the German federal border police apparently have a sophisticated website for collecting "hints or observations" on border security, while the French education ministry runs a national site for holders of the French baccalaur&#233;at to enrol in university.Norwegians do not have to apply for birth certificates - they are issued automatically on the basis of data that hospitals submit to the population register. In Finland, likewise, all authorities have access to a population register if they need proof of identity.Belgians claiming social security do not have to notify the authorities when their status changes - an organisation called the Crossroads Bank receives the information automatically and changes the benefit accordingly.Europe's approach to benchmarking e-government has several weaknesses. By concentrating on the same set of services year after year, it creates a temptation for countries to boost their ratings by investing only in procedures that will be measured.A more serious weakness is that it does not differentiate between a website slapped on top of an existing process, and one truly integrated with it. It is only by the second approach that e-government can save money, and in most countries this process has scarcely begun. "We've done the easy bit," Colclough warned.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
It might not be as glamorous as CES in Las Vegas or as entertaining as Ceatec in Tokyo, but the CeBIT exhibition, which kicked off this week in Hanover, Germany, is possibly the world's most influential electronics trade show.And while all kinds of technologies are represented in the exhibition, the focus this year has been on telecommunications. In particular, the race to replace the traditional home phone landline has taken dramatic twists, with solutions unveiled by both mobile and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) companies. Promising to take VoIP to the masses is Inventel, which paraded a DECT gateway that will enable users to make cheap or free phone calls away from their PC on a wireless handset. The company has apparently teamed up with BT in the UK.Siemens is also eyeing the VoIP market with the Gigaset S35 WLAN mobile, which can latch on to a wireless network, either at home or at a Wi-Fi hot spot, to make and receive VoIP telephone calls.Almost all the major players have been showcasing their mobile phones. Among them is the S200 from Hagenuk, a Palm OS-based smartphone with a touch screen, SD card slot and 1.2 megapixel camera. It goes on sale in Germany soon with a UK launch expected later in the year.CeBIT's other major story is the explosion of GPS systems for PDAs and mobile phones. Among a range of solutions for both Windows and Symbian smartphones is the Falk Activepilot service, a GPS system from Map&amp;Guide and Falk Marco Polo Interactive, which will work with Java-based handsets - the majority of mobile phones sold.Meanwhile, rival GPS company TomTom is supplementing its range of satellite navigation systems with a new service, TomTom Plus, which enables real-time traffic and weather information to be delivered to any new TomTom product via a Bluetooth-enabled mobile phone.Navman, one of a contingent of exhibitors from New Zealand, also has a new GPS product in the guise of the PIN 57, a Windows-based PDA. It is also displaying the X300, the latest in its series of sports devices, which uses GPS to tell joggers, skiers or cyclists how far and fast they are going.Other highlights include the MP-010, a 40GB hard disk-based portable media player from Sitecom, which is set to retail for a competitive &#163;174.99, the Planon DocuPen R700, apparently the word's smallest A4 scanner, and the mm22, a portable speaker system for the iPod from Logitech.
For several decades, audio manufacturers have tried to develop products that recreate the full cinematic surround sound experience from a single box. Although the Yamaha YSP-1 digital surround projector cannot compete with a fully wired home cinema speaker system, it certainly gets closer than sub-&#163;1,000 systems have before. The rather sombre-looking YSP-1, retailing for &#163;800, is designed to fit unobtrusively under flat-screen TVs, and boasts 42 amps and 40 speakers that deliver a powerful room-filling performance. Its digital sound projection technology places surround sound signals into various beams distributed around the room, interacting with walls and furniture. It works best in smaller spaces. The YSP-1 is also very simple to set up - it connects directly to a TV/digital decoder and doesn't require a separate amplifier. So while it won't quite cut it with serious home cinephiles, it is a real winner for those who enjoy noisy movies.www.yamaha-audio.co.uk
Digital camerasUpdate the entryPentax has refreshed its range of digital cameras, adding a pair of budget models and an updated version of its entry level digital SLR. The &#163;150 Optio 50, aimed at first-time buyers, takes five megapixel images, sports a 3x optical zoom and features a "simple" mode that optimises the camera's settings to deliver the best results. The Optio S5n, available this month for &#163;249, is an ultra-compact camera that also takes five megapixel images, and features a 2in LCD screen. Pentax is to offer its entry level *istDS digital SLR in silver. Due to go on sale next month for &#163;699.99, it takes six megapixel images and is compatible with Pentax's interchangeable lenses.www.pentax.co.ukMobile phonesGizmondo gamingThe mobile phone/PDA handheld games console hybrid Gizmondo will arrive in the UK on March 19. The device will be available from several retailers including Gizmondo's own London store, which will open that day in Regent Street. The Gizmondo has a pay-as-you-go Sim and SD card with movies and samples of games, and will sell for &#163;229. Cards featuring full games, including Richard Burns Rally and Conflict: Vietnam, will retail for between &#163;10 and &#163;30. It will face tough competition from Nintendo's DS, which reaches UK stores tomorrow, and Sony's PSP (PlayStation Portable) which is tipped to arrive in the UK at the end of next month.www.gizmondo.comSiemens styleSiemens is aiming for high-end 3G mobile phone buyers with the feature-packed SXG75. The white-and-silver candy bar-style handset, unveiled this week at the CeBIT   computer show in Germany, features a two megapixel camera, an MP3 player and a full GPS satellite navigation system that delivers voice or text instructions to guide users to their destination. The phone also offers video calling facilities and sports a 256K colour LCD screen. Other features include Bluetooth, instant messaging, email, push-to-talk, and a built-in translator for English, French, German, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish. There is no definite launch date yet.Music playersPair it upKorean music player manufacturer iRiver has taken the wraps off two new players in its H10 series. Set to debut in the UK next month is a 20GB hard disk player (&#163;229), which is slightly larger than the 5GB module, and a 1GB Flash memory-based model (&#163;139). Both have 256K colour LCD screens and touchpad controllers, plus FM radio and voice recording facilities. Battery life is 16 hours for the 20GB player and 60 hours for the 1GB. Both will play MP3 tracks and are compatible with protected Windows Media Audio files downloaded from sites such as Napster.www.iriver.comHardwareFirst kissDenmark's Kiss Technology has unveiled what it is billing as the world's first hard disk video recorder that can be programmed remotely over the internet or via a mobile phone. The DP-558, which has an integrated DVD recorder, uses an internet-controlled Electronic Programme Guide that can be accessed via a special web page. The recorder also boasts a TV tuner, an 80 or 200GB hard disk and a timeshift function that enables users to pause and rewind live   television. There is no word on price or launch dates.www.kiss-technology.comInternetSearch specificGoogle has launched its Desktop Search software. GDS is now much less Microsoft specific, and searches Netscape and Mozilla Thunderbird email and web pages viewed with Netscape and Mozilla Firefox browsers. It can also search inside Adobe PDF files and AIM (AOL Instant Messenger) chats. When it comes to multimedia - images, videos and sound files - GDS will search any metadata stored in the file, which can include artist and album information in music files. Google has also released an SDK (software development kit), so companies whose files formats are not searched can create their own plug-ins. There are already beta test plug-ins for ScanSoft's OmniPage and the Trillian Pro instant messaging program.http://desktop.google.comStat of the week: Firefox makes its presence feltWeb browser Firefox is still chipping away at Microsoft's Internet Explorer, despite the fact that its phenomenal early growth is slowing down. IE's share of the US browser market dropped below 90% for the first time last month, according to WebSideStory's figures.Firefox's rate of growth, % of market shareNov-Dec1.03Dec-Jan0.89Jan-Feb0.74&#183;Source: WebSideStory&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Saving VHSI recently bought a Panasonic Diga DMR-E95 DVD Recorder with integral hard drive and can confirm it's really easy to transfer tape footage on to the hard drive &amp;/or DVDs. You simply plug the VHS deck into the video connections on the front of the Panasonic Diga, and press play and record on the respective decks. I tend to record on to the hard disk then edit the footage. You can even add cue marks so you can skip to parts of the footage as you can with commercially purchased DVDs. You can also do the same with camcorder footage. In the two months I've had the Diga, I've chucked a stack of VHS tapes away and saved loads of space - I can't recommend the unit highly enough. The big surprise was how well it lets you edit - it's frame perfect.David FosterJack Schofield replies:Several readers asked about transferring VHS tapes to CD. I suggested it was probably easier to buy a hard disk-based DVD recorder or DVD/VHS combi unit rather than mess around with a PC, but I hadn't actually done it. The response, like the letter above, confirmed that suspicion, with no votes against. Andrew Kirk said: "It is worth pointing out that once one has made a DVD from a tape of any kind, it can be copied very quickly and with no loss of quality on a PC using Nero 6." Angelos Agathangelou added: "PC editing, authoring etc allows the addition of fancy transitions, effects and menus, of course, so it depends what people want." He recommends thewww.dvdrhelp.comandwww.avforums.comwebsites, including the forum on DVD Recorders, recording and media athttp://tinyurl.com/6cyf9.Although not every happy reader mentioned the brand of their DVD recorder, most used Panasonic. The models mentioned included the DMR-E95 (David Foster), DMR-E85H (Andrew Kirk, Fulton Gillespie), DMR-E75V (Graham Kennison), DMR-E50 (Gordon Hamilton) and DMR-E30 (Alan Williams). Two had Liteon systems while Sony, Philips and Pioneer got one mention each.Cheap MP3s?MP3downloading.com says it's legal and seems to be very reasonable from a download cost point of view - flat fees for access with no album or track fees. Is it legal etc?Mike PigottJS:I have not used MP3downloading.com but the site says it "gives the tools and access to the largest file-trading networks online". Well, there are no file-trading networks for the legal exchange of copyright music tracks, and access to all the largest peer-to-peer file-sharing networks is already free. I can therefore see no reason to pay MP3downloading.com anything. A Google search brings up the suggestions that MP3downloading.com is a front for the Recording Industry Association of America, which I don't believe, and that its eTomi program is just a renamed version of the open source Shareaza program (www.shareaza.com), which looks very likely. In sum, MP3downloading.com looks so much like a scam that I would strongly advise against trying it.Contacting eBayMy eBay account has been suspended but I cannot find out why. There are links on the Help site inviting you to contact Customer Services, but this requests you to log-in, which is impossible when they have removed your password. They do not respond to emails.Douglas McLeodJS:eBay.co.uksays your current log-on name and password should still work, so you should still be able to email Customer Services. This appears to assume your account has not been phished or hacked, in which case, the hacker could have changed your password. Either way, it is still possible to get to a web form without logging on. For example, click the Help link at the bottom of the front page, then go to the box on the left and click Contact Us. In the three boxes displayed, select: 1. Ask about registration, passwords, changing email/User ID; 2. Sign-in problems; 3. The problem you're having with sign-in isn't listed. Click Continue and this will take you to a Contact Us page. (This link may do the job quicker:http://tinyurl.com/4t8ld) If you now click Email (under Contact Support), you will get a working web form.Don't select: "3. Ask about your blocked or suspended account" because that takes you to a log-in page.Backchat&#183;Continuing the TaxCalc/Quicken saga, Brian King (who uses Intuit's QuickBooks program) points out Intuit has not stopped doing business in the UK. Thewww.intuit.co.ukwebsite address diverts to quickbooks.co.uk, where Intuit offers a range of small business accounts software at prices from &#163;79.95 to &#163;449.95.&#183;Several readers disagreed with Niall Leonard's claim that K9 fromhttp://keir.netis better than Mailwasher. As Huw Thomas points out, Mailwasher Pro's "killer feature" is that it lets you delete spam on the server, without downloading it to your PC.&#183;Michael Mcshane wonders whether it is worth spending &#163;200 on a notebook PC on eBay (such as the ThinkPad I suggested to Nigel Ward) when you can buy a new ThinkPad R50e (UR08RUK) from PC Business World for &#163;490 including delivery and VAT (seehttp://tinyurl.com/6uoa5). I agree this is better value, but not everyone can find &#163;500.
Classic hilarityWarioWare TouchedNintendo DS, &#163;29.99Intelligent Systems/Nintendo, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;If you are of the opinion that Nintendo's DS games console is more gimmicky than ground-breaking, then you need to play WarioWare Touched. The DS-specific version of the gap-toothed, Terry Thomas lookalike's collection of "microgames" is more immediate than any of the DS's other launch games. You do not have to work out the best control system but can just plunge in, stylus in hand.Its format will be familiar to those who love WarioWare Inc on the Game Boy Advance - gameplay consists of a long sequence of gleefully idiotic and laugh-out-loud games, punctuated by untimed boss levels.The garlic-loving Wario has enlisted the help of all his friends (including the blue-afroed Jimmy T and his family and new favourites such as Mike the karaoke robot), each of whom has a themed sequence of games.One entire section is played by blowing into the microphone, but the really impressive aspect is the way in which the touch-screen blows away barriers between the area of your brain controlling motor functions and the software on the game cartridge. Thus, when faced with a badly drawn toilet roll, you know instinctively that you must grab the end and pull until the roll has been detached from its card centre, or that, to make a swimmer win a race, you must make his arms rotate using circular motions.Familiar old WarioWare games have been given a new spin - the air brushed cutie with a runny nose is back, for example, but is elongated over the two screens and you must snip her enormous bogey to send it back into her nostril.Cute touches abound. In one boss level, you must dab at virtual flies behind a pane of glass, cracking the virtual glass in the process. Eventually, you reach a "hardcore" sequence of games in which you must progress as far as possible with just one life.Although the game could be longer, unlocking every last microgame provides plenty of replay value.Supremely addictive, hilarious and both hi- and low-tech at the same time, WarioWare Touched is a classic.Steve BoxerCharmed to be sureSuper Mario 64 DSNintendo DS, &#163;29.99Nintendo, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;This conversion of the classic N64 hit from the mid-90s is a cracking effort   that will have older gamers misty-eyed with nostalgia. The original was the first ever 3D platform game and introduced the concept of different areas accessed by a central hub. It was ingenious and entertaining - the world's finest videogame amusement park. Now shrunk to fit into the DS, the first thing you notice is the graphics. Buffed up from the original, they retain their primary coloured simplicity that so charmed in the first place.This time round, players control other characters as well as Mario, each with different abilities. Wario, for example, is your man when walking underwater is required. But while the core gameplay of platforming, exploration and star-collecting is as much fun as ever, there are some issues. The analogue beauty of the N64 controller has gone, replaced by the less precise controls of the DS. This becomes doubly frustrating when precision movement is required.Also included are amusing mini-games that make full use of the stylus and dual screen. These are likely to   take up as much time as the main game and show off the potential of the hardware. Annoying controls aside, this is an essential purchase for new DS owners.Greg HowsonFresh is bestDarwiniaPC, &#163;29.99Introversion Software, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Despite the fact that many developers spent their youths rewriting every bit of code they could get their hands on, the high production costs surrounding today's games have resulted in the "bedroom coder" becoming an endangered species.But Introversion Software, which comprises just three guys, is keeping the flag flying for indie development in the UK - first with Uplink in 2001 and now with Darwinia. It is hard to nail Darwinia into a particular genre and it would be doing the game a disservice to try. Loosely, it is a mixture of strategy, action and arcade in pseudo-retro style that looks like something straight out of Tron.Darwinia deals with a digital world created to study artificial intelligence and emergent behaviour in peaceful little green sprites known as Darwinians. But a virus has broken loose and laid waste to most of its inhabitants. You are called in by Dr Sepulveda, the creator of Darwinia, to restore the world to its former glory.The Doc provides a few computer programs to help you. These can be activated to create squads to kill the virus incarnations, or create engineers to repair machinery. Sepulveda also lends a hand and researches and upgrades your programs, while you get on with cleaning up Dodge.There are a few path-finding issues and bugs in Darwinia but nothing that detracts from the freshness and style that represents the best in indie development.Rhianna PratchettTop 5 games  PC1.Football Manager 20052.Star Wars: Republic Commando3.World of Warcraft4.Half-Life 25.The Sims 2&#183;Leisure software charts compiled by ChartTrack, (C)2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Networking pitfallsSean Dodson's article (All wired up, March 3) was informative but the pitfalls of wireless networking should have been noted. The successes of sniffing and cracking make me question initiatives such as Philadelphia's "muni-net". I would have liked to know what security measures are foreseen for this wireless growth. Second, is legislation foreseen to stop me "broadcasting" streaming free music (or whatever) or advertisement-rich material throughout my street while still being regarded as a private user?Mike EdwardsViennaFree the softwareRichard Stallman (Second sight, March 3) says the government should give away software it has financed. He is right. I am a software engineer and appreciate that software is infrastructure. Look around. Benefits paid by credit transfer; electronic voting trials; arguments about tax relief for telecommuting; downloading TV programmes from BitTorrent; tax returns by internet. All this is or was delivered through state infrastructure. Infrastructure doesn't stop being the state's responsibility just because it is software.Many people would have a stake in the continued existence of software produced at the expense of the UK government. My advice is: free the software. If no one wants it, it will die. If it is useful, it will prosper. The benefit to UK plc? I'm guessing it will be better and cheaper than any other alternative.Ed McConnellWireless expressThe coverage given to wireless music around the home (What's new, March 3) has missed one that has been around a while. The Apple AirPort Express (&#163;89, for PC or Mac) is the size of a socket plug and is neither a "trend ahead" nor for PC geeks - but appears very simple. It is also somewhat cheaper than the Roku Soundbridge. Apple even suggests taking this small device with you so you could DJ at a party from a laptop!Roger SleeNorwichQuality controlGiven the nature of UK government and the civil service, I'm not surprised that IT services companies can get away with failed IT projects (Public domain, March 3). In the commercial world or with the Japanese government, they'd be unlikely to get another contract. I wonder how much work is done overseas, and all the problems involved. I have concerns with managing these sort of   arrangements - misunderstandings causing delays that potentially result in the same overall cost with longer development times, not to mention maintaining quality.John BuftonCambridgeSupport yourselfWhile Apple is pushing the iPod Shuffle brand hard, it appears there are problems, certainly with PCs (Feedback, passim). I was overjoyed to receive mine - but imagine my dismay when I plugged it in and nothing happened. The charging lights on the Shuffle came on but my PC failed to recognise it. I looked on Apple's website and discovered I was not alone.I took it back to the Apple store in Regent Street, where staff denied there was a problem and said they had sold thousands with few returns. My Shuffle was plugged into a Mac and worked. But no one could help me since I was a PC user and they only supported Macs in the store.Staff claim that 95% of Shuffles are sold to people with PCs, but they have no support for these customers and deny there is a problem - even when the Apple site reports them. I was offered a refund, but said no. Through trial and error, I found out the problem was caused by my USB port not providing sufficient consistent power. I plugged in a powered hub and now enjoy the marvel that is the Shuffle. But if I weren't such a nerd, where would I be now?Tony JosephsLondonWritten wordWhat an amazing comment from Cyworld's Michelle Park (Beginning of the end, March 3) that: "There is no way to express yourself through email and that's why young people are not using it so much." Maybe they should learn how to write.Alan DawsonCrieff, Perthshire
Never mind that the US is now not even in the top 10 most-connected countries, and sinking: corporate greed is killing access, innovation, and opportunity. An interesting contrast can be found in the more humane UK with the very same issue, as reported in Online last week (All wired up, March 3)www.joemurray.com/blogger.htmlA BT executive said the company isn't interested in following in the footsteps of its US counterparts in trying to limit municipal wireless projects. Hopefully BT will sing the same tune once networkers start targeting the big towns. A group called Wireless London was formed earlier this year, aiming to promote free wireless networks that span the city.http://europe.wifinetnews.com
It's official: the world will be moving to multi-core processors in the next couple of years. At last week's Intel Developer Forum in San Francisco, Intel vice president Stephen Smith said the company had 15 dual-core developments under way.Smith said Intel expects 85% of its sales of server chips to be dual-core by the end of next year, and about 70% of desktop and mobile processors. Single-core chips will not disappear because there will be a continuing market for cheap PCs, but Intel expects most users to buy the premium line.Further, Intel will start shipping dual-core chips in the next quarter of this year, though they are unlikely to arrive in any volume until the third quarter.Since dual-core Pentium and   Xeon processors will need new support chips and new motherboards, this means many businesses will need to take another look at their purchasing plans, at least for servers and high-end workstations.Intel makes the bulk of the world's processors, so its road-maps are generally a good guide to the immediate future. However, in this case, Intel has by no means led the way. There are already multi-core versions of Sun Sparc and IBM PowerPC processors, and Intel's main rival, AMD, says it has already started production of dual-core Athlon 64 chips. These should be available in PCs in the shops in the second half of the year.Of course, we can guess why Intel has recently accelerated its move to dual core. It's pretty obvious that its previous strategy of relent lessly winding up the clock speed of its processors has come to an abrupt end.IBM PCs started with 4.77MHz Intel processors in 1981, and progressed through 1GHz to reach 3GHz by the end of 2002. Things have been tough since then. We should now be seeing 5GHz chips and thinking about 10GHz versions. Instead, the Pentium 4 line has run out of puff at 3.7GHz, and the promised 4GHz version has been cancelled.The good news is that there is no shortage of operating systems that can use dual-core processors, because to the software, they look like two separate chips. Microsoft Windows NT, launched in 1993, was also designed as a multi-processor system; it is now sold as Windows XP.The bad news is that there are   relatively few applications designed to exploit multi-core processors, and relatively few applications programmers who have much idea how to get the best out of them. And unless they write applications with multi-threading to exploit multi-processing, it is hard to see where they are going to find the power to offer extra features.Programmers will no longer be able to rely on users buying new PCs with faster chips every few years, because there won't be any. As an article in Dr Dobb's Journal explains, The Free Lunch Is Over.There's no need to panic. Most people aren't using most of the processor speed they already have, unless they are playing action games. But unless "software bloat" suddenly goes into reverse, they soon will be.LinksIntel Spring IDFwww.intel.com/idf/us/spring2005/systems/ExtremeTech IDF reportswww.extremetech.com/category2/0,1556,489239,00.aspThe Free Lunch Is Over: A Fundamental Turn Toward Concurrency in Software, by Herb Sutterwww.gotw.ca/publications/concurrency-ddj.htm&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Online donations for victims of the tsunami were enormous. Has that affected the way Comic Relief is approaching this year's appeal?I don't think the tsunami experience has changed what we are going to do, but it has increased our gratitude to the British public. If you show them a genuine need, they respond. It was always going to go one way or another after people gave so much to the tsunami appeal. Sales of red noses have risen by 40% on 2003.How important has the web been to Comic Relief?The internet has been the single most radical change in the way we work. In 2003, 8% of overall   money was donated online. So far this year, about half of our 140,000 requests for fundraising packs have come from the web. About a quarter of our money comes from merchandise sales, but this year, for the first time, we've had an online shop. It's already made about &#163;250,000.Has it made it easier to communicate with the public?One thing that is incredibly important to us is to be able to show people where the money is going. Before the net, we either had to show a TV programme or send out leaflets. Now, just with a click, people can see more about the projects we run. The work that is done in Africa is very humbling, and in this country it is tackling the root causes of poverty and injustice. It also makes it easier to give more to our fundraisers. Since Comic Relief began 20 years ago, we've had access to comedians and comedy. But   with the internet, we're able to give people little treats - this year, French and Saunders gave us a sketch that hasn't been broadcast yet, and we're showing it online. Before the net, we would have had to make quarter of a million video tapes and send them to people.Does it save the campaign money?That's hugely important because of the golden promise we have that every penny from the public will go directly to our causes. We raise the money for running the appeal from elsewhere, which means that the more we can save on communication and distribution costs, the better. We're incredibly grateful to our partners - Cisco Systems, Macromedia, Oracle and Sun.Is it just people donating the same money through different channels?That's a very good question, and I don't really know the answer. But the average   donation on the internet is 25% more than a telephone donation, so I'd like to think it is an increase. The average donation through interactive TV is lower than online, but it is about giving people as many ways to donate as possible.You are Sigmund Freud's great-grandaughter. What would he think of the internet?He'd probably say it was "verrrrry interesting". Actually, I don't know much about him. Probably the worst person to ask about Freud is a Freud.Do you have many gadgets?I'm in love with the idea of gadgets, but unfortunately I'm allergic to instruction manuals. I have three digital cameras and don't know how to use any, and a phone that can do fancy things, such as multimedia messages, but I can't use it.Emma Freud's favourite linksOfficial Red Nose Day websitewww.rednoseday.comMake Poverty Historywww.makepovertyhistory.org"I've never been so proud," says Freud&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Mobile sales upWorldwide mobile phone sales grew by 30% to 674m units in 2004, according to Gartner research. This was well ahead of the 560m units Gartner predicted a year ago. Nokia remained the market leader, selling 207.2m handsets, but its market share fell by four points to 30.7%. This was followed by Motorola (15.4%), Samsung (12.6%), Siemens (7.2%), LG (6.3%) and Sony Ericsson (6.2%). Gartner expects growth to continue, and predicts sales of 730m units this year.http://tinyurl.com/58fb4Visual radioFinland's Kiss FM has become the first radio station to start broadcasting Visual Radio. The system, developed by Nokia, provides visual information on the song being played, including artist and album details. It also enables listeners to take part in polls and competitions, buy ringtones and wallpapers, and book concert tickets. The Visual Radio software runs on Nokia 7710, 6230i, and 3230 mobile phones.Nokia, MTV, Sonera, YLE (The Finnish Broadcasting Company) and others have also started testing mobile TV with 500 mobile phone users in the Helsinki region. The pilot service delivers live TV and radio to a Nokia 7710 smart phone, using IP Data-casting (IPDC), which conforms with the DVB-H standard. A UK trial is planned for Oxford, with Nokia, O2 and NTL.www.visualradio.comwww.finnishmobiletv.comKeep pressure onThe deadline for European companies to comply with a major section of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act is being extended by a year. Section 404 of the act requires auditors to certify that IT systems are capable of documenting and evaluating all controls deemed significant to the financial reporting process. Mark Strauch from Business Engine, an IT/business alignment specialist, says this does not mean companies can slacken their efforts because the need to improve the transparency of reporting process is critical for upcoming legislation, such as the Companies Bill, which is due to bring in changes on April 6.http://tinyurl.com/5pbx2E-gov speed trapThe e-government initiative is entering a second phase as local authorities analyse the success of their implementations. The Society of Information Management (SocITM) is monitoring the performance of six sites using software from Speed-Trap. The tests examine the pathways visitors follow,   popular search words and phrases, and whether visitors find what they need. Merely testing the response times of web servers was ruled out because the user experience depends on other factors, such as the speed of their computer and their internet connection. The six local authorities taking part are the Royal Borough of Kensington &amp; Chelsea, the Isle of Wight, Stroud, South Tyneside, Kirklees and Durham.www.speed-trap.comCitizen softwareGoss has launched Citizen Transact software, which it claims is the first shopping-basket type application aimed at the public sector in the UK. The company says it will enable citizens to make payments and request services throughout a local authority's website. Citizen Transact is based on Goss's content management software, iCM.http://tinyurl.com/6v2r9Broadband qualityTiscali is claiming to be the first broadband supplier to offer prioritised bandwidth for small businesses and home office users. The company is offering measurable service levels under its guaranteed Quality of Service DSL (QoDSL) option, which is based on controls built into its Cisco Systems hardware. QoDSL enables technologies such as Voice over IP (VoIP) phones, teleworking, video-conferencing and virtualised call centre services to be offered on a par with leased line services but at a much lower cost.http://tinyurl.com/3qjk7Moving speechMicrosoft is bringing voice control to Windows-powered mobile phones and Pocket PCs through its Voice Command software. This has been available in the US but now encompasses 13 UK dialects. According to Microsoft, "anyone in the UK" will be able to use the application to dial numbers, phone friends by name, retrieve calendar information, or control other applications. The software does not require training to attune it to its user's voice, says Microsoft. The software costs &#163;19.99 and can be bought online from Handango.www.handango.comCondemned cellNokia is shelving plans to use methanol-based fuel cells in its mobile phone equipment. Although the technology is approaching market readiness, the fuel is a problem because airlines have regulations forbidding the carriage of toxic inflammables such as methanol unless suitably packaged. Nokia is waiting until such issues are resolved, possibly with the development of ethanol-based cells, but not abandoning its plans to introduce fuel cells in the future. Fuel cells oxidise a small amount of methanol in the presence of water to produce electricity.http://tinyurl.com/6qotm
"Microsoft executive J Allard will use his keynote address at the Game Developers Conference later today to unveil a number of key features of Xbox 2," says Tom Bramwell atEurogamer.The piece is based on "highly detailed information released by Xbox's Dutch PR firm Citigate today" -- and you can read that at Eurogamer.Update:See theSeattle Post-Intelligencerfor details. BBC News also has areportwith a pic of J Allard.
"Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. unveiled the world's first mobile phone with a powerful 7-megapixel camera on Wednesday, providing a potential competitive threat to manufacturers of digital cameras," reportsReutersin Seoul."The new phone, which also has an MP3 player and business card reader, would go on sale as early as the first half, though a price had yet to be set, Samsung said in a statement."
No longer need your broadband internet connection be limited to one computer, or even to one room in the house. One-box wireless networking is increasingly common in connected homes.Over the past two years, wireless networking has reached further into spaces it has not penetrated before, and you can often find connections in coffee shops, airport lounges and hotels. Some cities are even running wireless broadband networks that cover whole districts and boroughs.The key change  came with the founding of the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance. WECA was dedicated to making sure that 802.11 wireless networks from different suppliers all worked together.  It trademarked the Wi-Fi (Wireless Fidelity) name and provided a logo for products that met its standard, which was ratified in September 1999. This set the scene for an avalanche of Wi-Fi products, and Apple led the way with the launch of its Airport hub.Today, Wi-Fi products are sold on the high street and through online suppliers. Wi-Fi is not limited to broadband: you could easily use it with a dial-up modem.However, broadband is driving sales. Typically, someone gets a high-speed ADSL or cable connection and finds it is "always on", but only one PC can use it. Wi-Fi makes sharing that connection simpler.You start with awireless hub, and plug that into your ADSLmodem. Other computers - Wintel PCs, Macs, PocketPCs, it doesn't matter - can be connected to the Wi-Fi system by plugging in awireless Ethernet card.This could either be an expansion card that fits in a PCI slot on the computer's main board; a PC Card (formerly PCMCIA) that fits almost all notebook PCs; or a USB adaptor, which avoids opening a desktop PC's case.Symbol sells a CompactFlash-sized wireless card for PDAs. Mac users can choose to buy Apple's Airport hardware - a base station and a card that plugs into a dedicated slot on Macs (though many new Macs come with Airport built in), although a Mac with an Airport card can use any Wi-Fi network.The situation is trickier for people who don't have Ethernet ports in their broadband adaptor. If the internet connection is made via a USB modem (such as the Alcatel "frog"), there may not be a way to feed the Wi-Fi hub.In that case, one option is to fit a second Ethernet card to the PC, connect that to the Wi-Fi access point, and share the internet using Microsoft's ICS (Internet Connection Sharing).ICS is part of recent versions of Windows, and will automatically create floppy disks to set up other computers, including Macs. A better idea is to give the frog the boot.Many combined routers pack the Wi-Fi capability, an ADSL modem and a router or switch into one box. There are examples from the likes of BT, Netgear, D-Link and Vigor.Buy a "bare wire" broadband connection, plug in a Wi-Fi ADSL router, and you can get online anywhere in the house, provided the signal carries far enough. Most Wi-Fi products come with a CD that automates the set-up process.However, there is still an advantage to using Microsoft Windows XP or Mac OS X on PCs, because they were created with Wi-Fi networking in mind. When they work as advertised, they really do make things easy. Unfortunately, when they don't work, it can be almost impossible to find out why.Underneath the software there is a rat's nest of arcane configuration details for encapsulation, authentication, VCI and VPI, TCP/IP, NDIS, DNS, DHCP, gateway addresses, SSIDs, and more.The SSID - short for Service Set Identifier - is what differentiates one wireless network from another, and all the devices that connect to your Wi-Fi system must use the same SSID.If you buy a system from a single supplier, you should find they all have the same default SSID. This simplifies the set-up and, unless you change it, also provides a gaping security hole.You also need to use Wireless Equivalent Privacy (WEP) encryption to keep eavesdroppers out; or even the more secure system called Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA). The Wi-Fi industry is continuing to develop rapidly, and new standards such as 802.11a and 802.11g have started to replace today's 802.11b. Both 11a and 11g are much faster than 802.11b -nominally 54Mbits/sec compared with 11Mbits/sec.However, this is not a big deal for internet use: 802.11b is already 10 times faster than a 512K broadband connection, which could be shared by several machines. The 802.11b version of Wi-Fi is not going away, and many products are dual-mode or multi-mode - are compatible with both 802.11b and one of the faster alternatives - at no increase in price.
Most gamers are still cynical about the mobile phone as a gaming platform - but these console-hugging luddites may soon be in a tiny minority according toJuniper Research. The company has published a report which claims that, "the onset of mass multiplayer gaming, a widening gaming demographic, greater playability, and increased adoption of mobile services in emerging markets point to a fast expanding market for mobile games." The report goes on to suggest that the mobile games market could mushroom by 78% this year."With console games, customers are obliged to make the commitment to purchase a fairly expensive piece of hardware. The beauty of mobile is that it provides a potential global audience of several hundred million 2.5G users who already have that hardware in the form of their handset," said report author, Dr Windsor Holden."We're still waiting for a killer app with the crossover appeal of Snake to take advantage of the possibilities offered by Java. The mobile games community is getting there I think. They just have to stop porting eighties arcade games for five minutes and have a think.
As a footnote to Aleks''Losing Play'piece on monday, here's agreat postfrom a blog named Wonderland, transcribing a GDC keynote speech by videogame theorist,Raph Koster. Definitely worth a read, if only for the bit where he says:"Here's the thing: ask a gamer about Grand Theft Auto's hooker moment, they see this: pac-man eating a cherry. They've grokked it: it's a power up!"I'm not sure what 'grokked it' means but I think I agree with him. You can read more about the speechhere. Lots of interesting ideas.
Looks like the Voice over Internet revolution is going to step up a gear: Wanadoo, one of the UK's most prominent ISPs, is offering a VoIP service to customers.Here's the hype:For just £4 a month, householders can enjoy free evening and weekend calls to any UK landline - plus free calls at any time, day or night, to other Wanadoo Wireless and Talk users.Users will not even have to switch on their computers to make calls. Instead, Wanadoo's revolutionary Livebox - a discreet and stylish Broadband hub included in the monthly charge, makes the technology child's play.Simply plug a phone into the Livebox and make calls in the normal way on the dedicated Wanadoo line - perfect for families who may want to make or receive more than one call at once.And as the name implies, Wanadoo Wireless and Talk also offers fast Wireless Internet access anywhere around the home. That's more great news for the family, as the Livebox supports multiple computers. No more waiting to get on the Internet - with Wanadoo Wireless and Talk you can jump straight on.What's going to be the next move in this telephony chess game?
"Singapore has toppled the US from top spot in a ranking of world economies that make the best use of information and communication[s] technology (ICT)," reportsBBC News."The annualWorld Economic Forum (WEF) indexplaced Singapore, Iceland, Finland and Denmark above the US, with the UK up three places in 12th spot."The WEF'spress releasehas more details.The WEF rankings are:1. Singapore (2) 2. Iceland (10) 3. Finland (3) 4. Denmark (5) 5. United States (1) 6. Sweden (4) 7. Hong Kong (18) 8. Japan (12) 9. Switzerland (7) 10. Canada (6) 11. Australia (9) 12. UK (15) 13. Norway (8) 14. Germany (11) 15. Taiwan (17)2003-2004 rankings in bracketsQuestion:What happened to South Korea?Trivial answer:It's in 24th place on the list, which you can downloadhere(warning: PDF). But why?
