Intel, which makes chips for 80% of the world's PCs, faces a near-existential threat.With so much focus on the smartphone market, which is still seeing year-on-year growth of about 50%, the PC business is facing one of its toughest years ever, with analysts forecasting an overall decline in Windows PC sales this year.But Intel insists that the future remains with the device that has made it rich – and showed off hybrid tablets and ultrabook laptops using voice and gesture recognition, as well as a low-power chip scheduled for autumn of 2013, as it tries to persuade investors that the PC business will recover.At its annual Intel Developer Forum in San Francisco this week, the company demonstrated a range of mobile devices, many of them crosses between tablets and laptops.Executives showed sleek ultrabook laptops with improved gesture- and voice-recognition features, similar to those already found on some smartphones.It also showcased the low-power Haswell CPU, scheduled to start appearing in laptops in the fourth quarter of 2013, which will use just 10 watts rather than the 17W consumed by the current generation of Ivy Bridge chips used in today's laptops.Cutting that power consumption should mean longer battery life – and is part of Intel's recognition, along with the rest of the computing industry, that mobility is becoming a bigger and bigger factor in personal computing."Haswell was designed with mobility in mind ... from sleek tablets to ultrabooks to high-performing desktops," said David Perlmutter, general manager of Intel's Architecture Group.However, a report this week from the analysts IHS iSuppli says that while the combined market for PCs, smartphones and tablets will almost double over the next four years, Intel's share of the processors used in them will dip from 35% to 29%. So what can Intel do?Speaking to the Reuters news agency, Perlmutter suggested that the strict categories that we use now for laptops and tablets will have less meaning as manufacturers over the next few years offer a wider range of mobile products, mixing and matching new features, performance and size.He said recent launches of smaller tablet sizes by Google, with the Nexus 7, and Amazon, with its revamped Kindle Fire, were part of the growing range of devices for consumers to choose between – and that trend would gain more steam."There will be a variety of needs fulfilled by a variety of solutions. Some people want something very benign, very simple," Perlmutter said. "Others need performance."Chip performance – and stock too?For Intel, showing off its most recent innovations at this week's forum is key to convincing investors and hardware developers that the PC industry remains innovative and still has a future.Perlmutter pointed to tablets with extendable screens, and laptops with removable keyboards, as devices that he said might catch on given the upcoming release of Microsoft's Windows 8, which will feature touch capability and be available from late October.The biggest problem for Intel is that so far the tablet explosion, led by Apple's iPad, has passed it by because almost every tablet on sale today is powered by chips designed by British company ARM.Intel's share of the tablet market, from devices running Windows 7 and earlier, accounts for a few million annually in a fast-growing segment that saw Apple sell 17m iPads in the second quarter alone.Intel's tablet strategy so far has focused on Windows 8, but Perlmutter said tablets running Intel processors and which could run Google's Android were also in the works.It is not clear which of those will be the more successful: Android tablet activations make up 0.1% of daily Android activations, which are running at about 1m a day.Windows 8 tablets, meanwhile, could boost the market – but Microsoft's Surface tablet, due to go on sale later this year, uses ARM chips.ARM chips are also used in every mobile phone in the world, and provide the CPU for almost every smartphone on the market; only ZTE and Motorola have announced phones using Intel chips.The woes in the PC business, which is seeing tablets and smartphones stealing its revenue, led Intel to cut its third-quarter revenue estimate more than expected last Friday due to a decline in demand for its chips, as customers reduce inventories and businesses buy fewer PCs.Intel's challenge is that it has struggled to reduce the power consumption of its chips to match that of ARM for smartphones and tablets – and that has left it vulnerable as mobility and especially long battery life has become increasingly important.The Haswell chip's improved power efficiency was a step in the right direction to offering consumers punchy performance in thin laptops without sacrificing battery life, said Evercore analyst Patrick Wang."Will it stymie the shift towards tablets and smartphones? Not yet, but only time will tell," Wang said.As well as investors, Intel's forum is visited by thousands of hardware developers, many of whom face decisions about whether to focus their resources on the PC industry or mobile devices using chips made by Intel's rivals.Intel is heavily promoting premium Ultrabook laptops powered by recently launched Ivy Bridge processors. But Wall Street investors say that adding costly touch screens to models due out soon may make them too expensive for many consumers.Many ultrabooks currently on the market, without touch screens, cost more than $1,000 – or in the UK around £800.According to the research company Gartner, in the second quarter of 2012 ultrabooks, despite seeing their first releases at the end of 2011, are still seeing small shipment volumes and had little impact on overall shipment growth.But the introduction of Intel's Ivy Bridge chip this summer could help the segment grow, Gartner suggested.Perlmutter said bringing down the costs of building ultrabooks to make them more mainstream was a challenge Intel was working on with PC manufacturers.The company has put up a $300m investment fund to help PC makers produce more.Underscoring the shift in focus toward mobile, Apple on Wednesday offered more distraction from the PC segment with the launch of its new iPhone 5 at the Yerba Buena centre in San Francisco, not far from Intel's showcase.Some analysts said Perlmutter's speech was lighter on details about future products than keynotes in previous years."This time around, the company only highlighted a few next-gen features, lacking the details to show how Intel would play more materially in the low-power segment of computing devices," said Doug Freedman of RBC Capital Markets.
Apple has unveiled the iPhone 5, describing it as the thinnest, lightest and fastest handset yet as the brand behind today's personal computing revolution sets out to prove that it still has the creative edge to dazzle consumers without Steve Jobs at its helm.Promising a camera that makes "the ocean look bluer" and "kids look happier", Apple showed off a gadget with a taller 4-inch screen and thinner body, capable of running on 4G mobile networks, including in the UK.In what has now become an international event, the online audience following this year's showcase was the largest since the first groundbreaking Apple handset arrived in 2007, but commentators have already described it as the last great iPhone launch.British shoppers will be able to buy the new handset from 21 September, with the unsubsidised price starting from £529 and depending on memory size.Apple unveiled a new version of its iTunes music, film and TV series store. The updated software, available from October, uses cloud computing so that viewing paused on one device can be resumed at the same point on another. The UK's largest mobile network,EE, will have an effective monopoly on sales, given that it will be the only network with 4G service before Christmas and rivals could take up to a year before they are ready to launch one.With a feature set widely leaked before the launch – and described by onetech bloggeras "evolutionary rather than revolutionary" – sales of the latest version of Apple's "Jesus Phone" will be watched closely by those who wonder whether the world's largest company has what it takes under new chief executive Tim Cook to retain its creative momentum.From the launch event in San Francisco, Cook said: "Only Apple could create such amazing hardware, software and services and bring them together. Apple has never been stronger."Apple is expected to shift significantly more phones in the runup to Christmas than the 37m it sold last year, with research firm IDC predicting sales of 51m units. Nonetheless, it now has a fierce competitor in Samsung, which has already shipped 20m of its best selling Galaxy SIII handsets and is expected to slash its price over the coming weeks."The company has changed," said IDC analyst Francisco Jeronimo. "It is a lot more focused on profits and management rather than product. Hopefully that won't bring Apple back to where it was in the past."In 1996, when Jobs rejoined the company after a period in the wilderness, it was on the verge of bankruptcy. All that changed with successive hits including the brightly coloured iMac computers, the iPod, which changed the music industry, and the world's most popular phones and tablets.With the release of the first iPhone in 2007, Apple triggered a personal computing revolution which has shifted our online lives away from PCs and laptops and on to smartphones and tablets.It is a revolution that has turned Apple into the world's most valuable company, with $620bn market capitalisation and a near $100bn pile of unspent cash, largely held in foreign bank accounts to avoid the tax bill repatriation would incur.A successful iPhone 5 could boost GDP in the US, with ripples around the world for the more than 150 companies in Apple's supply chain, and the mobile networks hoping to fatten their revenues from an increasingly smartphone dependent subscriber base. But a new edition that lacks the wow factor needed to persuade shoppers to part with hundreds of pounds to replace their existing smartphones could have wider implications."There is an economic impact if they don't come up with something more exciting than they did last time," says telecoms strategistBengt Nordström. "The impact will be slower growth in the industry, and this is one of the few industries that have been growing."Cook was never the ideas man, but is credited with making the Jobs vision a commercial success by reorganising Apple into a slick money-making outfit, closing its factories and outsourcing manufacturing to an array of largely Asian suppliers.The challenge now is whether Apple can hold on to its creative edge without Jobs. To make this happen, Cook is relying on those who report to him such as British-born Sir Jonathan Ive whose minimalist designs and attention to detail can be seen in Apple's hardware, and head of software Scott Forstall.The fact that so many of the iPhone 5's features, from photographs of its inner workings to its screen size and 4G capability, were leaked before the launch added to the feeling that Apple's marketing events have lost some of their magic.Jobs was a master showman, obsessively keeping details under wraps until the last moment, and often saving the most interesting news until the end of his presentations, pretending to walk off the stage before announcing, finger in the air, that he did have "one more thing".But as Ricky Gervais pointed out, there are legions of diehard Apple fans prepared to buy its latest hardware no matter how incremental the changes. The comediantweeted: "Can't wait for the new iPhone 5. I've had this mint condition, perfectly good, antique iPhone 4 for over a year now. Embarrassing."
Thursday! Let's talk about games all day!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEU to banks: assume all PCs are infected &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityAn agency of the European Union created to improve network and data security is offering some blunt, timely and refreshing advice for financial institutions as they try to secure the online banking channel: "Assume all PCs are infected."From a few weeks ago, but very relevant.iPhone 5 - View countries with supported LTE networks &gt;&gt; AppleWorth noticing: different models exist and will work with different networks (or not) in different countries. The good news: the UK ones work in Germany, Australia, Japan, Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore.Windows 8 gets 'browser ballot' amid EU antitrust probe | Windows 8 - CNET ReviewsMicrosoft is pushing out an update to Windows 8 users to enable the "browser ballot" screen, even though the forthcoming operating system's release date is set for over a month away.Windows 8 users in Europe are now given the choice of which browser - including Microsoft's own Internet Explorer - they wish to install.Good for Chrome, if it has a Windows 8 Metro version. Does it?Apple as the last hope for growth in business PCs &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comIn a broad report on global information technology spending that it plans to publish on Monday, Forrester Research estimates that government and business purchases of computers will grow a meager 1.7%, to $146.6bn, in 2012 from the year before. Forrester includes tablet computers like the iPad in its forecast; sales of iPads to businesses are booming. Forrester estimates that business spending on iPads will rise 76% to nearly $10bn this year.That growth, along with a 9% increase in business spending on Macs to $6.7bn, will help offset what Forrester expects to be a dismal year for PCs and tablets that run Windows.An unimaginable headline only a few years ago.Zuckerberg Wrote All 2,178 Words Of Facebook's S-1 Founder Letter On His Phone | TechCrunchIn a riveting conversation today at TechCrunch Disrupt, Zuckerberg underscored and underscored and underscored again the importance of mobile for Facebook. He gave a telling and sort of chilling anecdote, for those of us who know how difficult it is to monetize mobile: "Want to know something sort of funny?" he told TechCrunch founder Michael Arrington, "You know the Founder's Letter in the S-1, well I wrote that on my phone."Zuck's feat is super impressive, considering the letter is about the size of your average MG Siegler post -- 2,178 words according to my Word document word count, if you don't include Zuckerberg's signature.It includes the letter, which is extremely long. He may have written it on the phone, but we suspect it was edited on a larger screen. But it points to a key trend: smartphones can be content creation devices for more than trivially short content. (Did he dictate it, we wonder? That would be really interesting.)Key disclosure laws can be used to confiscate Bitcoin assets &gt;&gt; ForbesKey disclosure laws may become the most important government tool in asset seizures and the war on money laundering. When charged with a criminal offense, that refers to the ability of the government to demand that you surrender your private encryption keys that decrypt your data. If your data is currency such as access control to various amounts of bitcoin on the block chain, then you have surrendered your financial transaction history and potentially the value itself.There's bound to be some good news about BitCoin out there somewhere, surely?What Alec Baldwin doesn't know about air travel &gt;&gt; Salon.comCan a cellphone really interfere with a plane's systems and avionics? The answer is that it's highly unlikely, but possible. That's not the answer you want, I know, but like almost everything in commercial aviation, it depends. For example, although a plane's electronics are designed with interference in mind, if the shielding is old or faulty there's a greater potential for trouble.We've sailed around this buoy before; if the shielding is old or faulty, it needs replacing for reasons other than phones. The key reason to ban hard-edged objects flying around the cabin if there's an emergency.Designer builds functioning radio with London tube map circuit board &gt;&gt; The VergeThe first clickbait headline ever that is not controversial. You simply have to see this. (Thanks @tehgreatgonzo for the link.)'It smelled something like pizza': how the iPhone was made &gt;&gt; Slate MagazineGood compression of the rambling testimony from the Samsung-Apple trial to tell the tale of the iPhone's genesis:Jobs himself was particularly taken by two features that Bas Ording, a talented user-interface designer, had built into the tablet prototype. One was "inertial scrolling"--when you flick at a list of items on the screen, the list moves as a function of how fast you swipe, and then it comes to rest slowly, as if being affected by real-world inertia. Another was the "rubber-band effect," which causes a list to bounce against the edge of the screen when there were no more items to display. When Jobs saw the prototype, he thought, "My god, we can build a phone out of this," he told the D Conference in 2010.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Apple's iPhone 5 launchheld few surpriseson the hardware front, thanks to the barrage of pretty-accurate leaks in the weeks leading up to the event. But now the new handset has been unveiled – as well as a new iPod touch – what are the implications for developers?Well. In the short-term, plenty of apps will be updated to fill that new four-inch screen, although it's not an urgent task. As shown during the launch, existing apps will simply be centered on the new screen, so developers can take a bit more time to figure out how to best make use of that additional space.Games developers will be digesting the potential of the device's new A6 processor, which Apple claims is twice as fast as its predecessor, the A5. Spiffier graphics, then – the phrase "console-quality" will become even more bandied-about in the months to come.Yet as the demo of Real Racing 3 at the event showed, innovation is as likely to come from canny use of Apple's software as from its hardware: the idea of "time-shifted multiplayer" sounded like a silly attempt to rebrand ghost racing, before EA's Rob Murray explained that players will be able to bump their friends' cars and affect their times – even if that friend raced the day before.The iPhone 5's improved camera will be welcomed by various genres of apps, from augmented reality to barcode-scanners. Evolution rather than revolution, to use a hackneyed but still-appropriate phrase.Meanwhile, that new dock connector was so thoroughly leaked that it's unlikely to put the wind up the burgeoning "appcessories" industry (yes, a word used seriously by real companies). As Apple's Phil Schiller noted, a lot of the interesting stuff happening around accessories involves wireless connectivity now, rather than plugs and docks.So yes, nice hardware, but nothing seismic from the point of view of developers in the iPhone 5 itself. It will sell in its tens of millions very quickly, so the business case for supporting its particular specs (screen, processor etc) is clear – something that could also be said of flagship Android handsets like the Samsung Galaxy S III.In truth, the bigger news for app developers tonight was getting a date for the rollout of Apple's iOS 6 software – 19 September – which is when we can expect a blizzard of updates taking advantage of the new features in that. Again, no panic: developers have had iOS 6 betas since WWDC earlier in the summer, and the consumer-launch date is as expected.Developers will be zooming out for a wider view of Apple's product family for iOS: the iPhone 4, iPhone 4S and iPhone 5 as the current models on sale, as well as the new iPod touch – all with Retina displays, albeit now at two sizes rather than one.As ever, the fact that older iPhones are dropping in price is meaningful for developers if it brings another influx of upgraders into the iOS ecosystem.There will be legacy models to support too: the old iPod touch remains on sale at a cheaper price, while the iPhone 3GS is seemingly off-sale, but will still get iOS 6. And, of course, there are the three iPad models to consider too – we'll save the iPad mini discussion for October.In short, iOS will be a bit more fragmented, but sales of the two new devices with the four-inch screens are likely to be high enough to justify the costs of supporting them. Again, not a surprise.Recommendations improvementIf there was a disappointment for developers tonight, it came in the segment of the presentation that covered iTunes, and specifically the redesigned App Store on iOS devices – more than two thirds of Apple's content downloads happen on these, but since that includes music and films, I'd be willing to bet the percentage is higher for apps specifically.Developers have already had a look at the new App Store in the iOS 6 betas. It's clean and elegant, and the Facebook integration should spur a bit more word-of-mouth buzz.A bit? Well, it relies on people recommending an app at the point of purchase – i.e. before they even download it – or going back in to find its page on the App Store later. Developers integrating Facebook Likes into the apps themselves is more likely to move the needle in this area.The disappointment comes in the silence about how app recommendations startup Chomp's technology is being built into the App Store following its acquisition earlier this year.Apple's senior vice president of internet software and services Eddy Cue referred to "improved search results" during his section of the presentation, but from his demonstration, this looked more like Google's autocomplete suggestions than full-on Chomp-style recommendations.To put this another way: app developers knew Apple's iPhone 5 would be an improved version of its predecessor; they knew the on-device App Store was getting a makeover; and they know that all the new iOS devices will sell like hot cakes, thus continuing to expand the potential market for their apps.With 700,000 iOS apps now available in the App Store, though, developers are keen to see what changes Apple has up its sleeves to significantly shake up recommendation and discovery on the store beyond a nicer design. We didn't quite get that today.Even so, iPhone 5 bolsters iOS' position as the first-choice mobile platform for the majority of app developers, not least because Apple continues to do a good job of selling the dream – a theme Iwrote about last weekfollowing Nokia's Lumia launch.The dream in this case was epitomised by the two external developers on-stage at the iPhone 5 launch: Rob Murray of EA Studios – formerly of Flight Control and Real Racing developer Firemint until it was acquired – and Torsten Reil of NaturalMotion.Four years ago, Firemint was an unknown indie developer and NaturalMotion was best known for its (console) physics engine technology. Real Racing is now a bona-fide AAA racing franchise, while NaturalMotion made $12m in a single month from its CSR Racing iOS game earlier this year.iPhone 5 is an impressive piece of hardware, but so is the Galaxy S III, Lumia 920 and so on. It's the dream of joining the companies above and other shooting stars in the iOS ecosystem that will linger with app developers.
Will you want to buy one? Like any of the top-end smartphones with which it's competing, such as the Samsung Galaxy SIII and Nokia's forthcoming Lumia 920, buying the top-end version will be a big commitment.Two groups of people will be delighted to snap this up: anyone with an iPhone from before September 2010 (so the iPhone 3G, 3GS, or 4); and anyone who wants to get 4G superfast mobile broadband speeds and is with Orange (aka T-Mobile, aka Everything Everywhere). The first group will be delighted to get a new phone; the second, to get really rapid downloads in citiesThe screen isn't bigger than the Samsung Galaxy SIII, and only a side-by-side comparison with the (as yet unreleased) Nokia Lumia will tell how their camera software matches up.But the iPhone is going to be available later this month — whereas Nokia hasn't given a date yet.Android users considering a switch will probably enjoy features such as iMessage (the equivalent of BBM, but already bigger because Apple has a larger user base than BlackBerry).And the software that runs iMessage works on every iPhone since 2009. There's nothing as good as the Siri voice control on any other system. And the simplicity of use is something people clearly like. But if you leave Android or BlackBerry, you'll have to abandon your apps — although the equivalents are almost certain to be available on the Apple App Store. The only difference? You might have to pay for the App Store ones. Android users also like the shortcuts built into the system, which they won't find on the the iPhone.BlackBerry users meanwhile will miss the keyboard — but they'll like the giant screen. And they'll like and all the apps.The maps software will have to be closely compared against Google's; but the addition of detail on traffic from TomTom means that even though Apple is cutting more its ties to the search giant, the maps look great: during the demonstration Apple showed off an aerial view of Big Ben. Early UK users of the software already say it's great.The new "lightning" connector, which makes about a billion existing ones obsolete in a flash, isn't going to ruin your life – you'll be able to get adaptors.If you don't have a smartphone, the cost will look daunting. (Though the prices of the older iPhones has come down substantially.) Samsung's Galaxy S3 is becoming cheaper, and Nokia may be able to compete — once we know the prices. But the key difference there is that neither company designs the software that runs the phone. Samsung uses Google's Android; Nokia, Microsoft's Windows Phone. That limits both in subtle ways.Apple offers a walled garden, it's true – and it's hard to break out once you're inside. Android has the advantage that it offers many different brands, while Windows Phone is borne up almost entirely by Nokia. But with any of these you'll only buy once every couple of years. If the time and the price is right, the iPhone 5 is definitely the most integrated phone out there.
Ubisoft has always been the most creative and experimental of the major publishers, willing to bet millions of euros and hundreds of staff on mega-concept brands like Assassin's Creed and Watch Dogs.Over the past few years it has also been taking increasing notice of the digital sector, bringing back classics such as Rayman as downloadable console titles, while introducing free-to-play versions of console blockbusters such as Ghost Recon.On the verge of a new console generation, and with a range of interesting digital projects on its books (including the promising Mighty Quest For Epic Loot), Ubisoft is gearing up for an unpredictable and challenging future. So what are its plans, and how important will digital distribution be? We spoke to the company's chief executive, Yves Guillemot, to find out.Last week, Ubisoft held a big digital gaming event in Paris, and you had plenty of big online, smartphone and free-to-play titles on show. Is digital already a major part of your business, or is this really only the beginning?It's the beginning for us, it's going to grow very quickly over the next couple of years.My favourite title at the event was Mighty Quest For Epic loot, which is your first new free-to-play IP. Some people are saying that all games will be free to play in the future. What do you think?Free-to-play is one model; it's just a different way to monetise games. I believe that all the models will co-exist with different types of experiences. Free-to-play is working very well, and we're going for it because in some countries, especially in Asia, it's the only model. But we will continue to make console and high-end PC games.You're bringing the Ghost Recon brand to every platform, from console to tablets to social networks. Is that the inevitable future for your titles – huge multi-platform roll-outs?Yes, the goal is to reach more consumers. We went from 300 million to 1 billion to more than a billion customers and the newcomers were from tablets and other platforms. The goal is to make sure our brands are platform agnostic. We're trying to make sure all gamers know about our games, and that they get an experience that's adapted to the format they play on.Do you think this will lead to a future of seamless cross-platform play – of persistent experience across console, phones and tablets?You should be able use whatever device you have, wherever you are, to continue a game. What I see for the future is that you'll be able to take console and PC titles wherever you are, whether that's the full experience or [a modified experience for smartphones] where you can prepare for the main game or react to things happening in the world.If a game is always on, friends may have done something in the game world, and you need to react. We want to provide the possibility of being connected to game worlds and to act on a regular basis, either with friends or alone. Not every game will do it, but it's a feature that's needed – we all have smartphones and tablets and we want to be able to use those devices to interact with the experience. We need to be able to compete with friends either synchronously or asynchronously. It makes things much more fun and interesting.Are the new models and new platforms changing the way you design and green light games at Ubisoft?We need to adapt to these new phenomena – it's different from console where you create the content and deliver it whole. With digital games, we will have to make sure we can react quickly and change the experience and we have to create all the systems so that we can understand what is going on; we need to know why people are stopping playing at certain points. That's something we've been working on for the last three years – not just listen to what players say, but see what they do.With the next console generation approaching, and a new era of very wide cross-platform release schedules, do you think you'll be making fewer titles?With next gen consoles, it's going toward bigger games, and yes, we will make less of them. But with free-to-play games, the teams aren't as big so we can try different things and find subjects that are of interest to consumers. We announced Mighty Quest for Epic Loot last week, and we are announcing new types of games. This new environment is actually giving us the chance – because we're reaching new consumers – to develop new types of game brand and experience. What I like about the FTP model is that you are with your consumers all the time – you can spend six months refining the gameplay and then put it in another environment, another title, because you automatically know it works well.So you'll be able to take proven game systems and ideas out of free-to-play titles and put them in other projects because the notions have been tested?You've already had feedback from gamers. You can use those features in other types of games.Ubisoft has also used digital platforms to explore its legacy brands such as Rayman and Prince of Persia. Do you see this continuing? I mean, there are a lot of people who would love to see another Beyond Good and Evil game. Could Beyond Good and Evil 2 come out as a digital release?You never know. It could happen! It's a fact that you don't have to create a game that's very long, you can take different risks with games.What are you expecting from the next generation Xbox and PlayStation consoles?I think what happens this time will be like what happened in the past. Generally, next generation consoles pick up what's interesting in the world around them – they look at what the PC experiences are, what the mobile experiences are, they look at the social elements … and then manufacturers come up with a unit that you can put in front put the TV but that takes advantage of all the innovations that have happened since the last generation, and at a price that is accessible. So for sure, the machines will be more powerful, but we can expect this generation – because they took quite a long time! – to actually come with something really new, really interesting that will boost the market enormously.How will they be different?You have a glimpse at what could happen with SmartGlass from Microsoft. Microsoft is also moving in to mobile – we can look at what they and Google are doing – those guys are trying to consider the universe we inhabit. Being connected, playing with your friends on any device – consoles can continue to improve that experience and make sure it's more believable, that you're immersed in those worlds. The potential is there, with everything that's been created in the last seven years, to give us new sensations.With Wii U, Nintendo is betting on this new idea of dual-screen entertainment, the theory that we're all interacting with both a large screen display and a smaller personal device simultaneously now. Is that going to be a big part of the future?Yes, there are two factors there. You can play on the small screen when the large one is taken. but also there's the possibility of having different gameplay for different people, depending on what screen they're watching. It's not only playing together, it's having a different experiences in the same world. We see lots of new very interesting possibilities with the Wii U: you can adapt the game to the different levels of know-how among your players. So a father who is not as agile as his kid could be doing a part of the game that is complimentary, that doesn't require speed. This will develop – it's the whole idea of complimentary activities. And that's just one facet. There are a lot of changes coming, starting with the Wii U.How about Ubisoft's approach to smartphone and portable console development going forward?Starting with putting Assassin's Creed on Vita, what we see is that those machines will be able to play big, epic adventure games – you will see more of those games from Ubisoft coming on mobile platforms. Rayman is on iPhone and iPad and Android – this is something created on console but all the graphics and animations have been moved onto the other machines.You're very optimistic about it all, but the digital era brings with it a lot of problems. For example, gamers are still somewhat suspicious about the free-to-play model …It's a new type of game – you have to change the way you think. There can be misunderstandings about the type of monestisations in place – some mobile games push you very quickly to buy something. But we see that, the longer people can play without having to play, the more we actually monetise. It shows that if you provide a good experience it will bring in more people and a greater number of these players will eventually want to show they have, say, a better costume than others, or will want different items than the others.We don't look at the first steps toward free-to-play, we're looking at what it will be in the long term. The goal will be to make sure you want to stay in that environment, to be with your friends, to be able to help your friends progress. The first goal is always to make sure the experience is interesting. And, as I've said, everything we learn there we can use in console games. After a year you can be so confident, you can optimise it so well, the experience becomes perfect.And you've just closed your first big digital controversy – your very unpopular always-on DRM. Is that a sign that you're developing a new approach to the industry as it evolves?In fact, when you look at it, we changed our system in June last year and we thought everyone would see it – but that wasn't the case. People now understand that one-time activation is what's been happening for more than a year. The goal is to make sure we can create content that will be paid for; everything we've been trying to do, which hasn't always been popular, is to make sure we give our creative staff more to put into their games – the higher the revenue, the better the games can be.But we saw that it caused problems and we've made it lighter. Our systems are no different than what we see with other companies. We have to make sure our customers are happy. We weren't happy about the trouble. From the beginning, the goal of this company has been to make sure gamers are pleased.
Apple's attempts to keep details of its latest iPhone under wraps were temporarily blighted on Wednesday, after the technology giant published four articles about the "iPhone 5" on its website hours before the official announcement.The articles – including an official press release, titled "Apple introduces iPhone 5", and an iPhone 5 tips page – appeared on the website at least three hours before Apple's press conferences in San Francisco and London.Eagle-eyed Apple fans spotted that asearch for "iPhone-5" on the company sitereturned the apparently inadvertent links on Wednesday afternoon, ahead of the 6pm (UK time) announcement.The slip-up is the strongest official confirmation yet that Apple will call its latest handset iPhone 5, as was widely expected.TheApple rumours site 9 to 5 Macalso reported that a press release headed "Apple introduces new iPod Touch and iPod Nano" was temporarily available on the company's official site, although that could not be found by the Guardian.All the linksreturned a dead page, suggesting that they had been launched accidentally.The internet has predictably been abuzz with rumours about the Apple announcement for several weeks in the run up to the iPhone 5 launch.Apple's press invitation to the announcement helped fuel the speculation, with a carefully coreographed "5" in shadowed lettering all but confirming that the new iPhone would be given a more memorable title than its predecessor, iPhone 4S.Separately, the Guardianrevealed on Wednesdaythat the iPhone 5 would run on the high-speed 4G network when it launches in the UK this autumn.Major telecoms network equipment vendors – which include Huawei, Nokia Siemens Networks and Ericsson – have been testing iPhones that work on the 1800 band 4G spectrum to be used in the UK.Apple has had similar slipups through its website in the past.Once, ahead of the launch of a new Power Mac desktop, the images of the product appeared on the company website, just days before Steve Jobs was to announce it.A vacancy followed soon afterwards on Apple's site for a website editor.
The iPhone 5, to be unveiled by Apple in California on Wednesday evening, will run on the 4G network that goes live in the UK this autumn.A source has confirmed to the Guardian that the major telecoms network equipment vendors – which include Huawei, Nokia Siemens Networks and Ericsson – have been testing iPhones that work on the 1800 band 4G spectrum to be used in the UK.Apple has also registered soon-to-be-launched devices that use the frequency with a confidential database operated by the international industry body the GSMA, according to a second source.Apple's decision to use the 1800 frequency will hand a massive advantage to what is already the UK's largest network, EE.The company, which already has 27 million customers, announced on Tuesday that it would launch 4G on the spectrum within weeks, while its three smaller rivals will have to wait until Autumn 2013 to be able to market 4G networks.Being the only network able to offer the iPhone with a 4G subscription hands EE a precious exclusivity with the world's most popular handset.In 2007, an official two-year exclusive to sell the first iPhones helped propel O2 to the number one spot in the UK and helped trigger the decision by the Orange and T-Mobile groups to merge to form EE in 2009.Fourth generation (4G) radio signals are likely to be popular with consumers because they can transport information at many times the speed of the 3G networks in use in the UK today.EE is promising speeds five times as fast, on a par with good Wi-Fi and home broadband connections, so that smartphone owners can watch television and make video calls with ease.On 31 August, the day EE was given the go-ahead to launch 4G this year by telecoms watchdog Ofcom, it is understood Apple updated its device entry on the GSMA's "master list" to indicate that some of its new products would contain chips supporting 4G on 1800.Any handset maker wanting to sell devices that run on GSM networks (used in more than 220 countries by nearly 800 operators) is required to register these devices with the organisation.The process enables them to get the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) numbers that are unique to each handset sold and must be legally assigned for security and safety reasons.The product information given by Apple on the master list is minimal, and the devices could be phones or tablet computers or both.A source close to the network equipment vendors said engineers had been testing 4G iPhones on 1800 for some weeks both in labs and in public places.The source said: "EE should be very grateful to Ofcom. They have all the ingredients in place to be the dominant player in the market for the foreseeable future."Huawei, Ericsson and Nokia Siemens Networks declined to comment. A spokesman for Apple said the company did not respond to rumour and speculation.EE is able to launch 4G this year because it owns a massive holding of 1800 spectrum. Its rival operators must wait until the next spectrum auction, which could raise as much as £4.5bn for the treasury, to acquire enough bandwidth for their own 4G services.The auction concludes early next year, but some of the spectrum being sold is currently used to transmit digital television and it will take until September 2013 to clear the bands ready for mobile signals.
The list of things that people are expecting – or perhaps hoping – to see in an iPhone 5 is growing longer and longer: 4G/LTE connectivity, fingerprint recognition, a bigger screen. But what are the things that would really be useful in the next iPhone?Having used an iPhone for around a year, and before that having used Android phones, and having also used Windows Phones at various points in between, here's my list of things that I really want to see in the next iPhone – though I'm not necessarily optimistic that they'll arrive. There's also a list of things that are rumoured (some more than others) but I don't expect.What the next iPhone should have1) Better signal reception.I live in a rural area where the mobile signal is variable at best; though it's possible to get a signal in the kitchen standing at the end of the table, moving a few inches to left or right can kill it to zero. When I've tried Samsung smartphones and non-smartphones on the same network in the same location, they seem to handle it fine.2) Longer battery life.Of course, everyone says they want this, but the iPhone is again not a great contender. The iPhone 4S in particular hasshorter standby battery life than the iPhone 4, for reasons that have never been explained (though might be due to the heftier CPU). Certainly I've found that after a day consisting of a couple of hours' music listening, in parallel with a few hours' email, web and app use plus some phone calls, that the iPhone falls gasping across the threshold as you arrive home.Other makers (Samsung again, and RIM's BlackBerrys, and to a lesser extent Nokia's new Lumias) do better here. Perhaps the addition of an LTE capability with a larger screen (both anticipated) will mean a bigger battery capacity – so that if you're not using 4G, you'll get more battery time. I certainly hope so.3)  Android's "pattern unlock" system.Since I first used it on the first Android phone (the G1), I've liked this system enormously. You have a 3x3 grid of dots: you swipe a pattern (which you decide) to unlock it. Much quicker and easier to get right than numeric pins you type in. Obviously, to offer this Apple would have to license the patent from Google – and that's unlikely to happen in a hurry.4) A "scripting language"to tie together multiple functions. Sometimes you want to turn off your Wi-Fi or turn off your 3G at the same time that you start a new app, or set an alarm for 15 minutes' time unless you receive a phone call, or any number of combined actions. That's when you need to be able to chain together functions from different settings or apps. Desktop OSs have this (Apple has a language called "Applescript"), and Android has an app that uses it in the form ofTasker. As smartphones get smarter, we need to make them simpler to use by putting programs together.There are some signs that Apple is doing something like this, with apatent on a system to change smartphone settings by location, but that falls a little short. Also, the strings of actions you want to trigger aren't necessarily location-dependent; it might depend on time, or battery level, or location.5) More control of phone functions using Siri.Though everyone was dismissive about Siri when it was introduced, I have found it increasingly effective: having a phone with a multi-digit numeric lock means that it's often faster to tell Siri "Tell X I'm on my way over" and have that sent as a text message than to unlock the phone, go to the Messages app, type a name and type a message. I can also walk while Siri does the hard work, which means I get there sooner.Voice control is surprisingly liberating once you start using it enough. Get a pair of headphones with a mic and you don't have to take the phone out of your pocket.But what's missing is the ability to use Siri to turn functions such as Wi-Fi on or off,or to launch apps(you can launch apps in iOS6), or trigger a chain of actions created by your scripting language as above. (Obviously you'd want to block: "Siri, factory reset.") There's a whole landscape of voice-controlled potential out there just waiting to be used.6) A bigger screen.It's not that high on my list, but it's definitely a good thing in a phone. In time I can see phones becoming more like Samsung's Galaxy Note with its 5in screen: you control it mostly without having to see it (by voice), and then bring it out when you do want to interact with the screen, which because it's big offers the best interaction. Samsung is definitely on the right track with the Note.7) Better use of colourto indicate status in the status bar at the top of the screen. At the moment they're monochrome; but it would be useful to know whether the phone signal is strong or weak through coloured bars (red, orange, green) as well as the number of bars; ditto for Wi-Fi and battery.  It means at-a-glance understanding of what the phone's state is.8) Less intrusive notifications.The introduction of notifications in the status bar in iOS5 (which people say copy Android, but are actually much more like Palm's webOS – because the engineer came from Palm) is great: it's a very quick way to find out what's new. But they have an annoying habit of covering navigation elements at the top of any onscreen page.That means that if you're in a hurry and haven't been using your phone and have a lot of notifications, they keep rolling over the element and getting in your way; you have to flick them out of the way like flies, and there's a high risk of hitting a notification instead of an element, and getting yanked over to the notifying app. This is really annoying. Perhaps a larger screen will solve this by putting more space between status bar and the onscreen elements. Here's hoping.9) 4G/LTE.We know this is coming, but it would be good to have the option of the superfast speeds it offers, even at the cost of burning through one's battery in an hour or so.10) Wireless charging.Nokia got here first with the Lumia 920 (and HP before that with the TouchPad tablet). It is indubitably cool to be able to dump a phone in a cradle without attachments and then grab it up when you need it.Update:one remark on Twitterwas "it appears a 'Samsung Android' already answers a number of your iPhone X requirements". That's true except in one key area: user experience. In my opinion, the iOS experience is better than Android in lots of subtle ways that cumulatively all add up. Samsung's TouchWiz slows phones down (to give juddering scrolling); HTC's interface is the nicest I've tried.Update:Android's notificationsin Gingerbread, still the most widely used Android OS, aren't as informative as those on iOS5; they don't have content, just the fact that you have a message. Android 4.x does provide more detail in notifications.Things I'm not expecting to see in the next iPhone1) Fingerprint reading.I knowApple is buying Authentec, but it won't have had time to incorporate it.2) NFC.There's no indication that Apple has yet decided that it wants to take on the monster that is cashless payments just yet. Perhaps in a year's time.3) A 5in screen.It will be bigger than the present 3.5in (measured diagonally), but not that big.4) Face recognition/unlocking.Google has the patent on that.5) Curved screen.Therumours abound, but it just doesn't sound like what Apple would do.6) Haptic feedback.It'san idea whose time will (probably) come one day, but almost certainly not on phones.
Mark Zuckerberg has called Facebook's stock market debut disappointing but said the company was set to bounce back. "Some days are hard, some days kick ass," the firm's billionaire co-foundertold an audienceat TechCrunch's Disrupt conference in San Francisco in his first interview since the company's disastrous initial public offering in May.Zuckerberg has come under intense criticism since the IPO. The company's share price is close to half the $38 (£23.5) price it reached at the launch and the company and its advisers are being sued by angry investors.The price collapsed due to fears that the company was not prepared for the dramatic shift to mobile devices, an area in which the company has struggled to make money. But after Zuckerberg offered a robust defence of Facebook's mobile strategy, shares rose 4% in after hours trading."The performance of the stock has obviously been disappointing," said Zuckerberg. He said the big question in people's minds was how well the social networking company would do in mobile.Zuckerberg said that IPO rules had prevented the company from updating people on Facebook's mobile developments and that "a lot of things have changed"."I think it's easy for a lot of folks without us being out there talking about what we are doing to fundamentally underestimate how good mobile is for us," he said.Zuckerberg said mobile had more users and those people were spending more time on Facebook. He said the firm expected to make a lot more money off those users in the long run.Questioned about the atmosphere inside the company, Zuckerberg said the collapsing share price had brought pressures. He has faced criticism about claiming he was more interested in Facebook's "mission" than in making money."It is definitely true that the primary thing that makes me excited about what we are doing is the mission, but I also think that from the beginning we have had a healthy understanding that we need to do both," said Zuckerberg. He said "it doesn't help" motivate staff that the share price had fallen so hard but said the future looked brighter.Zuckerberg ruled out the prospect of Facebook launching its own mobile device. Arch-rival Google has increasingly moved into the hardware business with phones and tablet devices. He said such a move would make no sense for Facebook.But he said he was interested in Google's core product - internet search. He said that the "legacy" in search was about keywords triggering responses from search engines like Google or Bing. Social search would give people more specific answers to questions like "what sushi restaurants have my friends been to in New York and liked".Zuckerberg also defended his $1bn purchase of Instagram, a loss making photo-sharing site that now has over 100m users. "They are this super-talented group of engineers that are building this amazing product," he said. He said Instagram would remain a standalone company."There's no doubt we are a mission driven company," said Zuckerberg. "The thing that gets us excited is making the world more open and connected. But you can't just focus on that."
When it was originally unveiled, the iPhone was so universally revered that wags dubbed it the "Jesus Phone". Five years on, its power is so great that its latest iteration could perform the miraculous feat of saving the US economy.Apple's release of the iPhone 5 on Wednesday could materially impact US gross domestic product (GDP) in the fourth quarter of the year, claimed JP Morgan's chief economist Michael Feroli in a note to clients. Boosting the bottom line of the world's most valuable company is one thing, but Feroli contends that iPhone sales could add between 0.25 and 0.5 of a percentage point to the US's sluggish economic growth rate.JP Morgan expects Apple to sell around 8m of the new devices in the fourth quarter and for the iPhone 5 to be priced at about $600. Subtracting about $200 in imported component costs would allow the government to factor in $400 per phone into its GDP calculations for the fourth quarter, according to Feroli's calculations.In his note, Feroli wrote: "Calculated using the so-called 'retail control method', sales of iPhone 5 could boost annualized GDP growth by $3.2bn, or $12.8bn at an annual rate." Sales would help prop up the struggling US economy by limiting "the downside risk to our Q4 GDP growth protection, which remains 2%", he wrote.Feroli said the estimate of between a quarter to a half point of annualized GDP "seems fairly large, and for that reason should be treated skeptically". But, he added, "we think the recent evidence is consistent with this projection".The report met with some scepticism among Feroli's peers. "God help us if we have to rely on the iPhone to underpin the US economy," said one analyst who wished to remain anonymous. Others questioned the math, pointing out that if people buy iPhones with money they had intended to spend elsewhere, there would be no GDP boost.Dan Greenhaus, chief global strategist at BTIG said the larger point was what the story said about the US economy. "There's no doubt that Apple are going to sell millions of these things," he said. "But it underscores how weak the economy is that we even care about the possible impact of a quarter percentage boost to the economy."Of course there is always the tiny possibility that Apple will not be releasing the iPhone 5 at all. The notoriously secretive company has given no details of tomorrow's much anticipated launch. If it isn't a new iPhone, heaven help us all.
It's time for mid-week gaming chat!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM's BlackBerrys losing shelf space, mindshare among carriers &gt;&gt; AllThingsD[Carriers in the US are] beginning to give [RIM] less retail shelf space.Anyway, that's what Pacific Crest analyst James Faucette is seeing. He says that recent retail checks show not only a significant decline in BlackBerry inventory, but shelf space pressure and lackluster sales as well."Our sell-through checks in the United States indicate that BlackBerry sales were largely unchanged in August versus July; however, we detected meaningfully lower inventory levels versus a month ago," Faucette explains. "In terms of sell-through, we believe that current run rates are roughly one-fifth of those we saw in the United States just eight months ago. Further, we found a meaningful number of carrier retail locations which had not sold a single BlackBerry in over a month."That is a very serious problem if broadly repeated. RIM reports its quarterly results to the end of August on 27 September.iPad no flight risk says Federal Aviation Authority &gt;&gt; The RegisterBeing asked to switch off your electronic devices during the takeoff and landing phases of a flight now looks even more anachronistic, after American Airlines announced it has been given permission to let its pilots use iPads in the cockpit "in all phases of flight".No, it's OK, because unlike the passengers they don't have to pay attention during takeoff and landing..oh.How Google builds its maps - and what It means for the future of everything &gt;&gt; The AtlanticVolmar has clearly spent thousands of hours working with this data. Weiss-Malik told me that it takes hundreds of operators to map a country. (Rumor has it many of these people work in the Bangalore office, out of which Gupta was promoted.)The sheer amount of human effort that goes into Google's maps is just mind-boggling. Every road that you see slightly askew in the top image has been hand-massaged by a human. The most telling moment for me came when we looked at couple of the several thousand user reports of problems with Google Maps that come in every day. The Geo team tries to address the majority of fixable problems within minutes. One complaint reported that Google did not show a new roundabout that had been built in a rural part of the country. The satellite imagery did not show the change, but a Street View car had recently driven down the street and its tracks showed the new road perfectly.In effect we're beyond the 1:1 map. (Linked to mobile site because the SEO-friendly URL is too long for Pinboard's servers.)Tracking down the UDID breach source &gt;&gt; Intrepidus GroupSome ploughing through UDIDs for repeating strings yielded a link to Blue Toad, where most of them came from.Since I now have several more employee's names, I spent some time looking for email addresses, to (hopefully) increase the chance of a response. While searching, I stumbled on a partial password dump for the company! And it was dated March 14, the same week that the hackers claimed they'd hacked into the FBI computer.Fascinating detective story - though there are disquieting little elements, like that one.Nexus 7 not yet allowed to enter China market &gt;&gt; DigitimesWhile the Nexus 7, the tablet co-developed by Google and Taiwan-based vendor Asustek Computer, has been witnessing booming sales in major markets around the world, it is difficult for the model to be available for sale in the China market because the China government has not yet approved its import, according to industry sources in Taiwan....Without the China market, the cumulative global sales volume of Nexus 7 will reach an estimated 3.5m units at the end of 2012, the sources noted.The problems of being made by a Taiwanese company? (Taiwan and China are not officially at peace. Though not at war either.)Tasker for Android &gt;&gt; Dinglisch.netSome people on the "things I'd like to see in iOS" hadn't heard of Android's Tasker, which lets you tie together strings of actions using Android's intents. Presented here as a public service. (Android users only, obviously.)Impact of iOS &amp; Android on the PC replacement cycle &gt;&gt; tech-thoughts.netFrom the chart above, we can see that modern mobile device shipments together exhibit an 89% correlation with the PC replacement cycle for a given year. This means that as mobile device shipments have grown, consumers have resisted upgrading their PCs more and more. However, this still does not prove that there is a causal relationship between the two.He then, however, goes on to show that the chances of itnotbeing causal are very, very low.Apple's next IPhone seen adding to fourth-quarter US growth &gt;&gt; BloombergThe iPhone model to be introduced this week is expected to be "much larger" than last year's device, he said. Feroli, who is JPMorgan's chief U.S. economist, is predicting the U.S. economy will expand about 2 percent in the fourth quarter, with the iPhone limiting "downside risk." Still, he cautioned that his estimates should be "treated skeptically."Brought to you by Flying Pig News.The Pluto Switch that fell to earth &gt;&gt; WiredFascinating tale of what happened when two telecoms engineers discovered a piece of networking gear sitting on its own in the middle of Iowa with no identifying marks apart from some writing - in Finnish - on the back.Google Wins Major Antitrust Victory In Brazil, Does It Foreshadow Broader EU &amp; US Wins?Very encouraging result for Google.Basically what the court said was the following:Despite Google's overwhelming search market share, Buscapé [the plaintiff's] shopping sites have other ways to be found. Google isn't a monopoly.Google's vertical results aren't competitive "products," they're just a part of Google's search resultsGoogle owes no duty to present plaintiff's site(s) in a particular position; Google can present search results in whatever manner and order it deems best for its users.The key distinction - which might become germane in the US and Europe - is that Google isn't a monopoly; it's the leader. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
A Minnesota woman, one of the last people to be individually prosecuted in the US for illegal downloading and file-sharing, faces a $220,000 bill after a  federal court ruling on Tuesday.The federal appeals court reversed a district court's decision to reduce Jammie Thomas-Rasset's owed damages to $54,000 from $1.5m.Tuesday's ruling (pdf)sets the damages at $220,000 and forbids Thomas-Rasset from making sound recordings available for distribution."We are pleased with the appellate court's decision and look forward to putting this case behind us," the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) said in a statement. The trade group filed their first complaint against Thomas-Rasset in 2006 on behalf of six record labels and has been embroiled in a legal battle with her ever since.The RIAA accused her of downloading and distributing more than 1,700 music files on file-sharing site KaZaA, but took legal action on 24 works for efficiency. They initially offered a $4,500 settlement which Thomas-Rasset did not accept.Court papers show Thomas-Rasset testified she had not heard of KaZaA prior to her case and after being found guilty, she filed a motion that any statutory damage awards would be unconstitutional in her case. Her lawyer Kiwi Camara said in an email they would try to take the case to the US supreme court.The RIAA suedmore than 18,000 peoplefor illegally sharing music in the mid-2000s. Most of those cases were settled out of court or dismissed – Thomas-Rasset's case being one of the few exceptions.The group adjusted its anti-piracy strategy in 2008 and stopped suing individuals. Since then, it has beenin talks with Internet Service Providersin an effort to create a new strategy to abet piracy."The individual lawsuits were unbelievably counterproductive," said Christopher Jon Sprigman, co-author of the Knockoff Economy. "The record companies basically bought themselves a huge amount of bad publicity, a few settlements and no real impact on file-sharing."Sprigman said the new strategy would involve internet service providers sending gentle reminders to people they think are infringing on behalf of the RIAA. Eventually, the internet service providers could cut people from internet access who did not stop downloading"I think that strategy is also fraught with peril," said Sprigman, explaining that it would likely irritate customers who felt like they were being spied on by their cable providers.Anti-piracy groups are also adjusting their strategies to focus on file-storing websites like Megaupload, which accounted foran estimated 4% of internet traffic at its peak. Site founder Kim Dotcom faces criminal copyright charges related to the site and is currently in New Zealand, awaiting an extradition hearing.One of the other individuals to be prosecuted is Joel Tenenbaum, who was left with a huge damages 30 songs he downloaded illegally after his appeal was deniedin August.In 2009, a jury ordered Tenenbaum – who graduated from Boston University with a doctorate in statistical physics in May – to pay $675,000 in damages. At one point, Tenenbaum's damage charges were reduced by a judge to $67,500, but the original amount was reinstated in the first circuit court"They're trying to create an urban legend out of me – the kid who downloaded music,"Tenenbaum told the Guardian in May.
A 25-year-old British computer science graduate is taking on Google's Goggles project and aiming to transform how we shop for clothes online.Snap Fashion, her new iPhone app, lets users take a picture of an item of clothing – whether in a magazine or on the street – and see similar items from high street retailers.The app was dreamt up by University of Bristol graduate Jenny Griffiths, and claims to be the first fashion-focused visual search engine in Britain, ahead of Google's ambitiousGoggles project, which lets people translate text, identify landmarks and get contact information – but has no clothes shopping element.TheSnap Fashion websitelets shoppers search online using only a web link, rather than entering text. A link to a picture of Nicole Sherzinger wearing a floral print dress would return search results for a similar-looking floral print dress from various fashion retailers.The search engine uses computer algorithms to deliver the results without human involvement.The London startup has partnered with several big-name retailers – including Selfridges, Liberty, Harrods and Urban Outfitters – to deliver the results. And Snap Fashion is not restricted to female shoppers; it will launch a menswear function shortly.Snap Fashion has secured funding from private investors and through the government's Tech City technology strategy board.Griffiths said: "Snap Fashion takes the concept of style sharing on blogging sites a step further by putting its cutting-edge search technology in the hands of fashion fans so they can buy the clothers they see in personal photos, favourite websites and magazine imageies. It makes shopping for clothing faster by using images instead of words."The ability to search the internet without entering text is a priority that has occupied some of the brightest minds in computer science for several years.
This week, Guardian Technology editor Charles Arthur talks to world wide web inventor – and Olympic opening ceremony superstar – Sir Tim Berners-Lee.We also remember Bill Moggridge, the inventor of the laptop, who died this week at the age of 69.And Charles digs into the numbers behind Amazon's new Kindle Fire, and we take a look at the latest news in the UK communications data bill debate.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Are you worried that using your tablet screen in bed at night may stop you getting a good sleep? You may well be, following aspate of headlinesreporting on the work of scientists at the Lighting Research Centre, part of theRensselaer Polytechnic Institute in New York.Mariana Figueiroled a team of scientists whofound thatexposure to the light from self-luminous displays, such as Apple iPads, could be "linked to increased risk for sleep disorders because these devices emit optical radiation at short wavelengths, close to the peak sensitivity of melatonin suppression".Melatonin is a hormone used by the body as a biological indicator of how dark it is outside. It is often used by travellers to get over jet lag, and works by helping the body to adjust its circadian clock to match the time zone.In Figueiro's experiment, carried out on 13 volunteers aged around 20, the scientists found that two hours of iPad use before bedtime suppressed the body's melatonin levels by around 23%. (The researchers also measured melatonin suppression after an hour of iPad use but found no statistically significant change).The study,published recentlyin the journal Applied Ergonomics,hasreceivedalot ofattentionand has already ledcommentators to plead fora self-imposed break on computer use at night.However, Russell Foster, a professor of circadian neuroscience at the University of Oxford, is not convinced.For a start, he said, melatonin levels were not a good way to predict how much sleep someone will get."The relationship between melatonin and sleep is completely flawed," he said. "Melatonin is not a sleep hormone – what it does is provide a biological representation of the dark. There is no empirical evidence that suggests that lower levels of melatonin will have a direct effect on the sleep axis."If you take melatonin, it can speed up the shifting effect of light on the clock and, in some people, has a slight sleep-inductive effect. Making the jump from the biology of what we know of melatonin to the effect it's having on sleep is completely flawed."The levels of light needed to suppress melatonin are an order of magnitude different from the amount of light needed to shift a person's body clock. In Figueiro's study, the participants experienced light exposure levels that ranged from 5 to 50 lux. Foster said a person would need around 500 to 1,000 lux to shift their circadian clocks.He said the issue at stake was an important one, namely the potential adverse effects of light and use of computer and television screens on sleep, the body's circadian system and brain alertness."Does this paper give us any empirical evidence of the effects of light on the clock? No it doesn't," he said. "Extrapolating from these data into a more global effect can't be done."Foster advised people not to get unduly concerned as a result of Figueiro's research. "On the basis of these data, we cannot say anything empirical about sleep; I wouldn't worry. The bigger issue of the impact of light, particularly before you go to bed, is serious – there may well be effects of light on alertness."One final thing that very few of the news reports on the research have mentioned: the study was funded bySharp Laboratories of America, the research organisation run by Sharp Corporation, the electronics company that makes TVs, PCs and tablets. They produced their own tablet in 2010 but subsequently dropped it and launched a new one in March, the catchily titled RW-T110.
It's no real secret that much of the most exciting and innovative game design work is being done in the indie sector these days. While mainstream publishers stack their chips behind safe brands and long running licenses, smaller studios and lone coders are continuing to explore the wider, more surreal possibilities of the medium.The past month in particular has seen an astonishing range of indie releases across all formats and genres. Here are ten examples you should really check out before – or perhaps instead of – the Triple A Christmas hits to come.Mark of the Ninja(Xbox Live Arcade)From the creators of the brilliantly deranged brawler, Shank, this stealth platformer is effectively every eighties Ninja flick rolled into one engrossing adventure. Players must traverse a series of environments, using firecrackers to distract enemies, crawling through vents, avoiding guard dogs and killing silently with throwing stars. The action is depicted via lovely cell-shaded visuals, the complex background designs bringing a real sense of depth to the single plain gameplay. If you thought Shadow Complex was the pinnacle of scrolling 2D gameplay on Xbox 360, you may need to think again.Gateways(PC, Xbox 360)If you loved Portal 2 and have already finished Kim Swift's ideological follow-up, Quantum Conundrum, this is the one for you. Gateways is a 2D platformer in which a mad scientist must escape his lab using a gateway gun that shoots traversable portals onto flat surfaces. Instead of simply cribbing Valve's masterful physics puzzler, however, developer Smudged Cat has added a range of different guns, including one that shrinks or enlarges the inventor as he passes through and another that allows him to time travel. It's mind bending stuff, wonderfully designed to inhabit one enormous level and a real treat for gamers seeking a well-crafted intellectual challenge. Available on PC via Steam or Desura, and on the Xbox Live Indie Games service.Super Hexagon(iOS)Game writers are calling this the cruellest game ever made, but Terry Cavanagh's minimalist blipvert of a puzzler is also magical in its Zen-like purity. The set up is simple – you control an arrow as it rotates left and right, trying to find the small gaps in a series of incoming hexagons; if the walls of the shape touch you, you're dead. That's it. Sessions are frantic, chaotic and confusing, often lasting little more than a few seconds, but you'll be compelled to continue because this is effectively game design compulsion at its most cleanly distilled. The pulsating visuals and rousing chiptune soundtrack add to the almost hypnotic onslaught, and the global leader board will compel fanatics to continue through the rage barrier. This game made Guardian contributor Simon Parkin so angry, hewrote a fictional revenge dramain response. Few games do that to people.Qrth-Phyl(PC, Xbox)Indie coder Matt James wrote the conceptually wonderful Leave Home, a shooter about growing up and coming of age. Now he has re-invented the Nokia classic Snake (or if your influences go back further, Blockade) for a new age. In this mesmerising puzzler, available on PC and the Xbox Live Indie Games service, you control a sort of snake-like space craft as it gobbles energy balls on a series of hallucinogenic space platforms, growing larger with every meal. Hit a wall or your own tail and you lose a life, finish off enough dots and you open up a new realm. The visuals swap between 2D planes and 3D environs, and the levels are emergent, building themselves on the fly so the challenge is different every time. It's just so clever and so gorgeous to look at, and it is as challenging to play as the title is to pronounce.Snapshot(PC)The latest masterwork from indie gaming prodigyKyle Pulveris a neat puzzle platformer featuring a super cute robot whose camera can capture objects and then re-materialise them in other places. Need to reach a high platform? Take a snap of a crate and then stick your photo next to the ledge. Photos can also be manipulated or taken from different angles to solve specific puzzles, so prepare to dust down your lateral thinking powers. It sounds complex, but the interface is so seamless and the worlds so beautifully drawn, you quickly attune to the logic of the universe.Thomas Was Alone(PC/Mac)A narrative adventure, told in 2D and with shapes instead of human characters. That's essentially the idea behind Mike Bithell's blocky odyssey following a collection of sentient sprites as they navigate the interior of a computer, forming friendships along the way. In a way, it's another platformer, but featuring a rather touching narration from Danny Wallace it somehow becomes a somewhat cinematic quest, touching and funny, and still functioning perfectly as an abstract puzzle. Not bad for an idea that Bithell originally developed and prototyped in just 24 hours.Thirty Flights of Loving(PC)Big Triple A titles like Uncharted and Call of Duty aspire to cinema through their use of narrative sequences and epic visuals, but they rarely engage with the form and methodology of the medium. This surreal first-person heist game, which can be played and completed in barely 15 minutes, does amazingly clever things with editing and character perspective, grabbing players from the first moment to the fade out, despite the lack of dialogue and the expressionistic design. Play this game now because in years to come people may point back and say that's where video game story telling changed forever.Closure(PC)Developed by a three-man team at Eyebrow Interactive, this creepy monochrome puzzler has you controlling a weird alien creature that must navigate a junk-strewn underworld using light beams as traversable pathways. Nothing in this environment exists while in dark, and plunging into the inky blackness means death, so everything from locating and manipulating objects, to reaching the end of each stage is governed by how you manipulate light. It's atmospheric and deliciously gothic, reminding some of Playdead's Limbo; and out there in the void, there is a strange story to uncover...Dust: An Elysian Tail(Xbox Live Arcade)Released in mid-August to huge critical acclaim, Dust is an ambitious action RPG crafted by one coder, Dean Dodrill, who took over three years to complete it. Eponymous hero Dust must traverse a beautiful hand-drawn world, battling enemies and gaining XP. Hardly revolutionary stuff, of course, but the intricate yet accessible combat system and lavish environments really set this apart from conventional mainstream RPG hits. A true spiritual progeny of Castlevania and Metroid.Papo and Yo(PlayStation Network)Very few video games are autobiographical, and few attempt to deal with real-life tragedy or trauma. The beguiling adventure title Papo and Yo, however, handles both. It is effectively about creator Vander Caballero's childhood with an alcoholic and abusive father – except in the game, the father is a monster who must be controlled and tamed by the lead character so that he is no longer a danger to his friends. It is a game that's both emotionally fascinating and utterly compelling as a ludic experience. It is the anti-Call of Duty. At times it represents what everyone in the industry must aspire to if people are going to refer to games as an artform without others sniggering derisively.
Google has released astandalone YouTube appfor iPhone and iPod touch, with a slicker design and richer features than the version that has been preloaded as part of Apple's iOS software.Those new features include a channel guide, enabling users to quickly access a list of the YouTube channels that they have subscribed to, and tweaked search tools including autocomplete suggestions.Social features include the ability to share videos to Google+, Twitter and Facebook. The app is focused on watching videos rather than uploading them: in fact, there doesn't appear to be an uploading feature included."We're working on an optimized version of the YouTube app for iPad in the coming months, and stay tuned for more details," writes YouTube mobile head Andrey Doronichev in ablog postannouncing the new app.The app's release comes a day before Apple unveils its iPhone 5 smartphone, which – judging by previous years – will be released alongside the company's new iOS 6 software.That timing is no co-incidence. In early August, developers using a beta version of iOS 6 noticed that the preloaded YouTube app had disappeared. Appleconfirmed to Engadgetthat its licensing deal with Google "has ended, but users can still use YouTube via the Safari web app".In other words, YouTube will not be preloaded on the iPhone 5, and it looks like it will disappear from existing iPhone, iPad and iPod touch devices when they upgrade to the iOS 6 software too.Google's release of a standalone YouTube app was thus inevitable. One silver lining to being unfettered from the iOS software for Google will be the ability to push out more regular updates to the YouTube app. Indeed, several of its flagship apps are offered in standalone versions on its own Android OS too for this very reason.The new app's release does spark another question: what are Apple's plans for online video? iOS already makes it easy to share videos shot on an iPhone on various social networks, but will the company offer a like-for-like replacement for the YouTube-viewing app in iOS 6?When Apple launched its latest Mac software, Mountain Lion, its default video partner was YouTube's rival Vimeo. What price a Vimeo app preloaded on new iOS devices from September? Apple's launch event will presumably reveal all.
Any Monday night gaming action, then?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApache patch to override IE 10's Do Not Track setting &gt;&gt; ParityNews.com: ...Because Technology MattersA new patch for Apache by Roy Fielding, one of the authors of the Do Not Track (DNT) standard, is set to override the DNT option if the browser reaching the server is Internet Explorer 10.Microsoft has by default enabled DNT in Internet Explorer 10 and upcoming Windows 8 stating that it is to "better protect user privacy." This hasn't gone down well with Ad networks, users and other browser makers.This one is going to run and run.Quick First Look: Kindle Fire HD 7" &gt;&gt; YouTubeSeeing it in action, it looks... laggy. (The British press hasn't yet had a hands-on.)Supply chain to face challenges preparing for Windows 8 notebooks &gt;&gt; DigitimesWindows 8-based notebook shipments are expected to start increasing in September as the launch date of the operating system approaches, but because most orders are scheduled for shipping in September and October, sources from the upstream supply chain are concerned that related supply chain players will face great challenges in terms of capacity management and production smoothness.The first batch of Windows 8-based notebooks was shipped in late August via marine routes and were all models without touchscreen panels. For models equipped with touchscreen panels, ODMs are still in the processes of conducting final adjustments and debugging, and finished products are only expected start shipping in late September by air.When Digitimes writes about pure supply chain issues, it's usually right on the money.New broadband minister snubs 'ugly' fibre cabinet gripes &gt;&gt; The RegisterBrits will no longer be able to object to the arrival of "ghastly" fibre optic cabling cabinets outside their homes: Blighty's new broadband minister has stamped her authority on moves to upgrade the nation's internet infrastructure that sidestep local councils.Maria Miller, who replaced Jeremy Hunt earlier this week during Prime Minister David Cameron's reshuffle, said she planned to legislate immediately following consultation, and added the government would - if necessary - use existing powers to put an end to local bureaucracy that she thinks is slowing down the rollout of faster broadband.Have any fibre installations been stopped because of planning objections?GRiD Compass 1101 computer &gt;&gt; Old ComputersDesigned to be the ultimate portable computer, the clamshell-style GRiD Compass 1101 is the grand-daddy of all present-day laptop computers.The Compass is very high-tech, with its flat-black, die-cast magnesium-alloy case, and bright, sharp electroluminescent display (ELD). No other system packed so much speed and power in as small a case, and none had such a unique and large, easy-to-read screen, allowing full 80x24 text.Of course, all of these great features raised the price significantly. At $8150, the GRiD Compass 1101 was the most expensive personal computer you could buy.Originally developed for business executives, GRiDs were also used by the U.S. military 'in the field', and by NASA on the Space Shuttles during the 1980's and 90's. It's even been said that the US President's "nuclear football" at one time included a GRiD computer.RIP Bill Moggridge.The ho-hum era of smartphones has begun &gt;&gt; CNET NewsStephen Shankland:There's a precedent here: personal computers. For years, it's been hard to stand out in that realm, with largely interchangeable designs made of of the same innards sourced from the same suppliers. Apple stands out for its sturdy laptops, slick track pad, and in-house operating system, but it's the exception that proves the rule for the much larger remainder of the market.Occasionally, dramatic change sweeps through the personal computer world, and I think Windows 8 and touch screens are driving one of those big changes now. It remains to be seen whether consumers will embrace the changes, of course, but there's no doubt many of next year's PCs will be very different from last year's PCs.But what's going to drive the next big change in mobile phones?HP introduces new Apple iMac &gt;&gt; The Next WebHeadline of the day.Tabeo 7 inch Kids Tablet &gt;&gt; Toys "R" UsOnly $150 for an Android 7in tablet including a 1GHz processor to make gaming "fast and fun!". This really is one where you'd be very wise to get hands-on experience before passing over your hard-earned.The purpose of design patents &gt;&gt; TechPinionsBen Bajarin:If you went into a grocery store and looked at a wall of beverage containers, all without the labels, you can easily pick out the one which is a Coke bottle and that is the point. It is iconic, consistent, and easily identifiable.Now perhaps those engaging in the "you can't patent round corners" debate have either no appreciation for consistent design philosophy or never taken a step back and looked at all of Apple's products. Because when one does take a look at all of Apple's products you will see that every piece of hardware follows the four perfectly asymmetrical rounded corners design.HTC revenues down for fourth straight month in AugustHTC has reported revenues of NT$24.02bn (US$803.34m) for August 2012, down 4% sequentially and 47% on year. The data shows that HTC's revenues have been declining for four consecutive months.For the first eight months of 2012, revenues amounted to NT$207.87bn, decreasing 34.8% from a year earlier, according to a company filing with the Taiwan Stock Exchange (TSE).Expects to break that in September following Asian launches, but this does not look healthy for HTC. Those are very large decreases in revenue in this market.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The hacking group Anonymous lied when itclaimed to have hacked into an FBI agent's laptopand extracted a file with millions of personal details about Apple users.The file in fact came from a web publisher called Blue Toad, whosechief executive Paul DeHart said on Mondaythat the file details of unique device IDs - UDIDs - which were put online match those in a database that the firm has collected from its customers.DeHart said that the file was copied from the company following a "criminal cyber attack" just over a week ago. That, he said, "resulted in the theft of Apple UDIDs from our systems.  Shortly thereafter, an unknown group posted these UDIDs on the internet."Blue Toad describes itself as "a Digital Publishing company providing Digital Editions and Apps to publishers worldwide. We utilize Page Flip technology to convert a PDF into an online viewable format." That matches some of the details in the leaked file, which the Guardian has seen, which include names of people living in France and Europe as well as the US. There would be no reason for the FBI to have details of people living outside the US.Anonymous had claimed that it had hacked an FBI agent's laptop using a vulnerability in the Java programming language and copied a file called NFCTA_iOS_devices_intel.csv which contained 12.36m UDIDs, as well as names, phone numbers, and other identifying details.But it released a file which contained 999,936 entries, and only had the device UDIDs, a string known as a "push token" used to send content to the device, the name given to the device itself (such as "Aaliyah's iPad") and the kind of device - either iPhone or iPad.Unusually, the FBI rebutted the claim within hours,saying on Twitter that the claim was "totally false". Normally, the agency ignores claims made by hacking crews alleging leaks of information. Apple also later said that the file had not come from it.Suspicion initially fell on an app called AllClear ID, used to protect personal details and which has connections with the NFCTA, but the company refuted the claim by pointing out that it does not collect UDIDs.The hack against Blue Toad, while serious, would not have revealed any personal details. The UDID for a device does not identify its user directly. Nor would the "push tokens" in the database be usable to identify a device.DeHart said in the blog post: "We sincerely apologize to our partners, clients, publishers, employees and users of our apps. We take information security very seriously and have great respect and appreciation for the public's concern surrounding app and information privacy."He added that no other details had been taken besides those shown: "BlueToad does not collect, nor have we ever collected, highly sensitive personal information like credit cards, social security numbers or medical information.  The illegally obtained information primarily consisted of Apple device names and UDIDs – information that was reported and stored pursuant to commercial industry development practices."Apple is phasing out the UDID in the next version of its iPhone and iPad operating system iOS, which is expected to be released later in September with the next version of its iPhone. That is expected to be unveiled on Wednesday.
GoDaddy, the internet's largest domain registrar, was hacked on Monday morning by a member of the Anonymous hacking group. Although it was not clear how many websites were affected, "DNS" or Domain Name System, "GoDaddy" and "Anonymous" are trending on Twitter, as thousands of clients and observers comment on the outage.A hacker identifying himself as the Security leader of Anonymous claimed responsibility shortly after the attack.@AnonymousOwn3rsaid he hacked GoDaddy because: "I'd like to test how the cyber security is safe and for more reasons that I can not talk now."@film_girlI'm taking godaddy down bacause well i'd like to test how the cyber security is safe and for more reasons that i can not talk now&mdash; Anonymous Own3r (@AnonymousOwn3r)September 10, 2012Also on Twitter, GoDaddy customer service representativessaidthey were overwhelmed with complaints, but were working on the problem.Update: Still working on it, but we're making progress. Some service has already been restored. Stick with us.&mdash; Go Daddy (@GoDaddy)September 10, 2012GoDaddy is also one of the biggest hosting providers on the internet, housing the content for millions of websites. Domains affected by the attack range from small community groups likeLittle Rock Mommies, an online group for mothers in Central Arkansas, toCoursera, an online education company, toJHill's StaffingServices, a Los Angeles-based recruitment &amp; career consulting firm.Well, it appears our servers have been affected by the GoDaddy DNS Service Attack.Unfortunately, we're stuck...fb.me/EuElPxwQ&mdash; LittleRockMommies (@LRMommies)September 10, 2012Anonymous is a loose collection of hackers who co-ordinate online and infiltrate websites as a form of protest against governments or corporations they view as oppressive or corrupt. In a tweet, @AnonymousOwn3r claimed that he acted alone and without the cooperation of other Anonymous members.Since its creation in 2003, Anonymous has claimed responsibility for several high-profilehackingsincluding the recent takedowns of several UK government sites in April 2012 and that of CIA.gov in February 2012.
Bill Moggridge, who has died aged 69 of cancer, designed the world's first laptop, the Grid Compass. But it is not being first that makes you famous in the digital universe – it is being able to do something cheaply enough to make it ubiquitous, which took longer.When the Grid finally went on sale in 1982, it cost a minimum of $8,000. Early customers were limited mainly to military users, who valued its robust body and stubby keys. One Grid went into orbit aboard the space shuttle in 1985. The screen was relatively tiny, 320 x 240 pixels. It weighed 5kg and its memory was just short of amnesiac at 340kb. It was ahead of the field with its flat screen, die-cast magnesium-alloy case and built-in telephone modem.Moggridge was not interested in fame. He was the softly spoken, diffident and modest antithesis of the designer showmen of the 1980s, with their taste for publicity and pink suits. But he succeeded nevertheless in creating something very few designers ever achieve. He was responsible for an archetype: a new form for a new kind of object, one that set a model that became universal, and is still going strong four decades later.It is a rather more satisfying achievement than the endless refinements that keep most designers busy afterwards. The basic configuration that Moggridge came up with, the fusion of a briefcase with a manual typewriter, with a screen that folds up when in use, and folds flat into the shell, is only now being challenged by the rise of the tablet computer. For designers, this kind of category definition is a key ambition, achieved by very few.Moggridge did much more than style an existing concept thought up by engineers and software designers. Without him the project might never have got off the ground. John Ellenby, the man behind the Grid start-up, needed to convince investors that his hunch about portable computing had a future. He asked Moggridge to work with him on creating the basic concept. It was Moggridge's detailed  model that looked seductive enough to bring in the cash to realise the project.The Grid Compass portable computer designed by Bill Moggridge in 1982.  Photograph: Don Fogg/APMoggridge was born in London, the son of an artist, Helen, and a civil servant, Henry. He studied industrial design at the Central School of Art and Design, which produced so many of Britain's designers, from Terence Conran onwards.In 1969 he set up his own studio. Its work – pop-up toasters, office telephones, marine communication systems and medical equipment – were the staples of most of the small industrial studios in London at the time. The work was restrained and devoid of stylistic mannerisms.But Moggridge, who had already worked in the US, saw that there might be more to life than a constant diet of kitchen appliances. He set up in Palo Alto, California, just three years afterSteve Jobsestablished Apple, and secured the Grid commission. It put him at the heart of a Silicon Valley that was about to see its growth accelerate beyond all predictions.Moggridge co-founded IDEO, the  consultancy that claims credit for designing Apple's first mouse, and now has a worldwide reach with 500 employees. What really interested Moggridge  were the people who used technology, and what they did with it, rather than the technology itself. He was fascinated by the way that a screen interacts between machine and user. He made the way that people related to a machine to carry out a task the starting point for a design, rather than attempt to produce a beautiful sculptural object.He taught what was called interaction design at theRoyal College of Artin London, and published extensively on the subject, with his bookDesigning Interactionsappearing in 2006. The physical switches, knobs and dials of the analogue era were being replaced by screen menus; and designers had to understand how that changed the nature of their work. His own designs, teaching, publishing and role in leading one of the world's most influential design groups brought Moggridge the respect and affection of the profession. He won the Prince Philip prize for design in 2010, was designated aRoyal Designer for Industry, served as a trustee of theDesign Museumand collected a lifetime achievement award from Michelle Obama.Moggridge moved from California to New York three years ago, to become the director of theCooper HewittNational Design Museum, an outpost of the Smithsonian Institution. It was a bold appointment, for an organisation more closely associated with design's past than its future. Under his leadership it took bold steps to move beyond its origins as a museum of exquisite decorative arts, to explore the wider world of design as he himself had practised it.He is survived by his wife, Karin, and their sons, Alex and Erik.• William Grant Moggridge, designer, born 25 June 1943; died 8 September 2012
A Cambridge-based company has figured out how to make "augmented reality" glasses that will seamlessly project information into the scene in front of you, creating a more effective version of the technology Google is developing with itsGlass project.Google co-founder Sergey Brin tries out Google's new internet-connected glasses at the I/O conference in San Francisco. Photograph: Paul Sakuma/APDeveloped as a prototype by TTP (The Technology Partnership), a technology development company, the glasses incorporate a tiny projector in one arm of the spectacles. The picture is then reflected from the side into the centre of the lenses, which are etched with a reflective pattern that then beams the image into the eye.That means the image is directly incorporated into what the wearer see when looking directly ahead – unlike Google's current incarnation of Google Glass, which puts a small video screen in the bottom right-hand corner of the right eye. That requires the wearer to look down to focus on it, taking their attention away from the view ahead.Unlike the present Google Glass implementation, where it is obvious that the user is looking into a screen in the corner of their glasses – both because it is visible and because their eye direction changes – the TTP system is invisible to anyone watching, and doesn't require a change of gaze by the wearer.Though the TTP glasses are only a proof of concept, its engineers believe the idea could be taken up by larger businesses that are interested in developing systems incorporating augmented reality. Though it declined to give any names, it is understood to be talking to at least one California-based company about applications of its technology."We would talk to all the big players," says Dr Allan Carmichael, business development manager at TTP. "We would tell them that we have a solution, and we would aim to persuade them that this can be used in practice." TTP would then license the technology to companies that were interested; TTP is not, Carmichael emphasises, a manufacturing company in its own right."Sports and leisure use are obvious applications," said Roger Clarke, TTP's project manager for augmented reality technologies. "For sports, you could show information like your heart or breathing rate; a simple display with relevant information is where this technology is headed. Then after that is proven you can move on to larger displays with more tailoring and information."Carmichael thinks that the "killer app" for an augmented reality system might be one that would work when you look under your car bonnet, "so rather than seeing a big block, you see it all clearly labelled to tell you what part is what". Alternatively, he suggests, surgeons might find it useful, "not to show them what they're looking at, because it's never actually that clear, but to tell them what's happening to the patient's life signs: – to the blood oxygenation when I press here, what happens to the pulse. If you can display that directly into their field of vision, that's really useful."At present the system is only able to display a still image in monochrome. But engineers at TTP are confident that, as interest in AR-based systems grows, companies will be able to make tiny video projectors that can be incorporated into the arms of spectacles.Google's Glass project aims to produce systems built into ordinary-looking spectacles that would overlay information about a location, or from the user's internet feeds, into their visual field. Aconcept filmreleased in April suggested that one day systems which could react to location and to what was seen by the wearer would become commonplace."Google has done a remarkable job of getting the world to alight on the idea of augmented reality," says Carmichael. But he feels that the next step need to be to improve both the appearance of the system to the user and to other people. "It's about creating desirability and elegance in how it appears," he says.Clarke says that sports glasses, because they tend to be large, offer the best option. Recon Instruments already offers ski goggles which have a built-in video projector like Google Glass, but those too are limited to a non-central point.In the TTP prototype, the present projector technology offers VGA, or 640x480 pixel, resolution. "We can get a video attachment in a few weeks," he told the Guardian.The team has also devised a passive system by which the user can control the device, or an attached computer, just by moving their eyes to the left or right. Rather than using eye-tracking systems, which demand a camera watching the pupils and which Clarke says are "relatively computationally expensive", it uses passive electrodes mounted on the glasses that monitor activity in the muscles at the side of the temple - which produce particular signals that are indicative of eye movement.He thinks that head-mounted displays could have been commonplace now, but that in the 1990s companies making displays decided not to focus on miniaturisation, and instead aimed for bigger products, principally seen in large screen TVs. "Sony and Sharp bet that people would want smaller displays. That turned out to be the wrong bet then. If things had gone differently then we would already have very high-quality tiny displays today."Carmichael is confident that, in time, heads-up displays using glasses such as TTP is demonstrating will go from the realm of experiment to become commonplace. "If you had told people in 2002 that they could have their email on their phone, they would have said 'why would I want that?'," he says. "Getting micro-displays is still a big challenge, but the lenses are getting better all the time." In time, he adds, we might find that such glasses are ideal for something that we barely do at present – such as watching video while on the move.
In August 2012, Nielsenpublished the resultsof its latest survey of 3,000 Americans, focused on digital music.It found that 48% of respondents still say radio is the main way they discover music. Even among teenagers, where 64% said they listen to music on YouTube, radio still came second with 56%. Online video hasn't killed the radio star just yet.Radio is evolving, though, with mobile apps playing a key role. In fact, so-called "personal" radio is shaping up as a key battleground between companies like Apple, Nokia, Spotify and Pandora in the digital music industry.In itslast financial results, for the second quarter of 2012, Pandora reported that more than 75% of its total listening hours took place on mobile and other connected devices. That's just under 2.5bn hours during the quarter, and this for a service only available in the US at that time.Pandora made $59.2m in mobile revenues for Q2, with eMarketer predicting that it'son course to make $226.4mfrom mobile advertising alone in 2012 as a whole. As a comparison, eMarketer thinks Twitter, Facebook and Apple's iAd network combined will make $277.5m from mobile ads this year.Personal radio, and particularly personal radio on mobile devices – is already big business. Although admittedly, that's a business running at a loss, since Pandora's net losses for Q2 were $5.4m. The company's executives regularly speak publicly about their concerns about the level of their statutory royalty payments to music rightsholders.Pandora has other things to worry about in 2012 though: competition coming from all angles. In the US, media giant Clear Channel relaunched its iHeartRadio app in September 2011.Previously focused on providing the internet streams of traditional radio stations, the new version added Pandora-like features to create personal channels based on specific songs or artists – the idea being a playlist of songs similar to those. By May 2012,10m people had registeredfor the new Custom Station feature.Nokia has its own Pandora-like feature, Mix Radio, as part of the Nokia Music app that's preloaded on all its Lumia Windows Phones. It too offers a mix of curated playlists and personalised stations.The app became available with the first handsets in late 2011, butexpanded to the USin early September 2012. It's both free and ad-free: Nokia sucks up the royalty payments in order to provide a selling point for its Windows Phones.For much of 2011 and 2012, Pandora executives patiently explained to journalists and analysts that the company didn't fear competition from on-demand streaming music services like Spotify and Deezer, on the grounds that these were complementary rather than cannibalistic.That was optimistic: both Spotify and Deezer have their own personal radio features built into their mobile apps. Spotify in the US and Deezer elsewhere in the world actually allow people to use the feature for free on mobile, as a gateway drug for their premium on-demand services.The running thread through iHeartRadio, Nokia and Spotify's radio features is US company The Echo Nest, since all three use its technology to provide their personalised playlists. One of Pandora's key tech features – its 'this song is similar to that song' recommendation engine – is now commoditised.SpotOn Radio shows what developers can do with APIs from Spotify and The Echo NestMeanwhile, developers can work with APIs from The Echo Nest, Spotify and others to easily create their own slick personal radio apps without having to worry about licensing costs. Swedish iPhoneSpotON Radiois the best example, and for a while was more popular in the Swedish App Store than the full Spotify app.That's the situation in September 2012. Personal radio has proven popularity on mobile devices, but with considerable room for growth – Pandora had 54.9m active listeners at the end of June on all platforms, yet there are an estimated640m active iOS and Android devicesglobally.The technological barriers to launching a personal radio service that provides decent recommendations have fallen, and it supports various business models: mobile advertising, selling hardware, and offering an entry-point to services charging for on-demand features.Enter Apple? All of the above is the context for which Apple might launch its own personal radio service, as the Wall Street Journal – often well-informed when it comes to Apple leaks –suggested earlier in September.Its report claimed Apple was in "talks to license music" with rightsholders for a Pandora-like service, which would be funded partly by iAds. Although this being Apple, the main business case for such a launch would surely be the belief that it would help sell more iOS devices – even if disrupting Pandora, Spotify and Nokia would be an undeniable bonus.iRadio – although this is merely my shorthand for what Apple might launch than a serious naming prediction – could be announced on 12 September alongside the iPhone 5, licensing talks permitting. Or it could be the latest in a long line of predicted one-more-things at Apple keynotes that don't actually materialise.An important point, though: if and when it does launch, iRadio won't be perfect. None of these personal radio services are. For all the work being done by Pandora, The Echo Nest and other smart data engineers and developers, music recommendation engines are still in their youth.They're algorithms, not people. I suspect that traditional radio's popularity for music discovery has a lot to do with the human face put on it by DJs – even when they're not picking the actual songs.In 2012, the idea of a smartphone or tablet app spitting out a decent playlist of songs you might like is increasingly familiar.But for the companies behind these apps, and those like Apple who have yet to enter the market, the big challenge is how "personal radio" can get closer to the genuinely personal feeling of, well, radio.
The official Formula One licence has a reputation for being one of the games industry's poisoned chalices. Before Codemasters acquired it in 2008, it had been in the possession of Sony and Electronic Arts, both of whom professed frustration at their inability to persuade F1's famously autocratic governing body, the FIA, to let them do anything imaginative with it. However, at last, Codemasters has demonstrably cracked that particular nut.F1 Race StarsThe proof of that exists in F1 Race Stars, a game that uses both the F1 licence and Codemasters' much-admired F1 game engine in the unlikeliest of ways. It's essentially Mario Kart with a heavy Formula One flavouring. The entire Formula One grid is represented in cartoon form – although Codemasters is keen to point out the game's visual style is less like a cartoon and more that of a Pixar or Dreamworks animation.Once you pick your favourite driver, you're pitched into a game that is very reminiscent of Mario Kart. Although, if anything, the tracks in F1 Race Stars are even longer. There are 11 of them: representing half of the countries that feature on the F1 calendar; and while they take the merest inspiration from the real-life circuits, they demonstrate plenty of inventiveness. We raced around the Germany track, which starts with a couple of corners loosely based onHockenheim, before veering off for a tour of a Pixaresque impression of Germany, taking in a giant Bavarian schloss (any Mario Kart-alike has to have a castle to drive through), the Lorelei, the Rhine and the Black Forest. Loops, jumps and shortcuts abound in the tracks.The Formula One theme becomes more apparent as you investigate the power-ups, which include a safety-car (bunching everyone up, useful if you're lagging behind); DRS, which increases your maximum speed; and rain – and only the person who triggers it will be given wet-weather tyres. Plus there's one that teleports you up the track, and another which briefly transforms your kart into a bottle-rocket, just like Mario Kart's Bullet Bill. Also, the karts sustain damage (bits fly off them and they slow down), so it often pays to divert into the pits. And if you pump the throttle while negotiating corners marked with cross-hatching, you charge yourKERS(kinetic energy recovery system), which gives you a speed-boost immediately afterwards.F1 Race Stars, in time-honoured fashion, can be played by four people in split-screen mode or, say, two people can play in split screen on one console against two mates hooked up via the internet – up to 12 players can compete online. F1 Race Stars may lay itself open to accusations of being derivative, but it's great fun to play, nicely executed and, for the first time ever, brings an element of fun and playfulness to F1-related gaming.F1 2012: new modes widen appealThe subject of originality is also occupying the mind of Paul Jeal, F1 2012's game director: "One thing people said about F1 2011 was that they didn't think it was different enough." That, of course, is bound to be a perennial refrain with any game (cf FIFA, PES, Madden, et al) that routinely receives a yearly update. But Jeal demonstrates that, the moment you load F1 2012, you will notice differences from F1 2011: "There's a new user interface this year, both to freshen the game up and to bring to the fore things people didn't notice before, like the flashbacks."Career mode starts differently this year, too, pitching you into the Young Drivers' Test, which (in real life) takes place in the off-season, giving the most promising drivers from Formula Three and lower a chance to sample F1 cars. Jeal says: "Day one of the Young Drivers' Test is compulsory for everyone – it makes sure everyone has a basic level of familiarity with the controls and can use flashbacks, KERS, the DRS and so on. On day two, you learn the theory of cornering and how to strategise."Season ChallengeThose tweaks – with the Young Drivers' Challenge in effect a tutorial for novice players, which the hardcore can skip through – address criticisms that F1 games can be intimidating for those who are committed Formula One fans, but F1 2012's mooted new-found originality lies in two new game modes. The first is called Season Challenge, and is designed to provide more instant gratification than you would get from the Career mode.Jeal explains: "It's a five-year Career mode condensed into 10 races. For example, you start at Italy, because it's an easier track to learn. The car you start in depends on the difficulty level you choose: the easier, the further down the grid. You must pick a rival driver, in a slightly better car than you. If you defeat that rival over three races, you steal his car. Then you pick another rival, and so on. Qualifying is interesting in Season Challenge: it's just one lap, so everyone has one shot. You get a clear lap: everyone is ghosted, but you can see who is in first place."Champions modeJeal says: "This reflects the unique fact that there are six world champions on the track this year. In Champions mode, you must defeat each of them one at a time, to unlock the others." Instead of pitching you into full races, Champions mode gives you scenarios from the past. The first champion you take on, for example, is Kimi Räikkönen, and Jeal details your challenge: "You're 41 laps into a 44-lap race at Spa, and Kimi's tyres are in bad shape, but he is five or six cars ahead of you. In your next challenge, you take on Lewis Hamilton in the rain at Brazil." The final challenge, naturally, pits you against seven-times world champion Michael Schumacher.Both new modes add a precious element of diversity to F1 2012 – especially the imaginative Season Challenge, which drips with replayability, as you fight to get to the top of the Formula One tree in just 10 races. And the game has another crucial difference from previous iterations, thanks to Formula One itself, in the form of the newCircuit Of The Americastrack, which is still being built in Austin, Texas.Currently, the only way of sampling it in its final state is via F1 2012 and, indeed, if you head to the track's official website, you will findthe only video of a completed lap was taken from F1 2012. We drove the Austin track at E3, and it's a corker: the least identikit track Hermann Tilke has ever designed. In places, it's reminiscent of Turkey, but the first corner is like Brands Hatchs Paddock Hill taken in reverse, and there's a complex that emulates Silverstone's awesome corners Maggotts and Becketts. The drivers will love it, and it's so technical (yet generally fast) that it should breed plenty of overtaking.As ever, Codemasters has tweaked the game technically. The physics system has been uprated. Jeal says: "It makes the cars slightly easier to drive, but a little bit harder to get that extra 10% out of them," – and there's a new system which, fiendishly, enables localised weather, so it can be raining on one part of a circuit and dry on another. Technically, Codemasters' F1 games have been streets ahead of their predecessors and, indeed, most of the current generation of driving games. But the Leamington company's efforts to extend F1 2012's appeal beyond the diehard F1 fanatics are what really mark it out as a potential smash hit.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 8 September 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (2)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)42 (–)The Sims 3: Supernatural (12+)PC (100)13 (3)New Super Mario Bros 2(3+)3DS (100)44 (4)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (43)PC (1)115 (5)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (27)Wii (20)PS3 (20)3DS (7)126 (1)Guild Wars 2(12+)PC (100)27 (7)Madden NFL 13 (3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)28 (12)Dead Island GOTY Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (38)PC (1)109 (6)Darksiders 2(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (39)PC (2)310 (10)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (43)PC (2)Wii (1)4011 (11)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (61)3DS (38)4112 (16)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (33)DS (15)Wii (11)1313 (9)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (37)PC (5)1614 (8)Transformers: Fall Of Cybertron(12+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (35)PC (1)315 (15)The Amazing Spider-Man(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (40)Wii (3)3DS (3)1116 (18)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (34)PC (11)4517 (–)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (39)PC (4)1318 (17)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (32)Wii (12)PSP (8)5019 (13)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (46)PC (5)3420 (–)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (29)PC (20)40UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Apple is due to secure its acquisition of a company specialising in fingerprint scanning next month, days after the latest iPhone goes on sale, suggesting the technology will be used to improve security in the world's bestselling phone.The board of AuthenTec is expected to agree to a $365m (£228m) acquisition by Apple – one of the largest sums paid in a takeover by the California technology giant – when it votes on 4 October.The company specialises in mobile phone security and is developing 2D fingerprint sensors for Apple, according to themerger documents. The two companies have been talking since late last year and there have been suggestions the hi-tech sensors could appear as an eyecatching feature of the iPhone 5 when it is unwrapped on Wednesday."Will we see fingerprint technology in the new iPhone (or iPad)? It seems almost certain," wrote Matt Brian of technology blogThe Next Web. "Details are scarce but [Apple's] desire to use the technology and see it developed quickly leads us to speculate that we could see it in just a matter of weeks."If fingerprint scanning is not among this year's new features, it looks likely to appear in the next handset update.AuthenTec signed a development contract with Apple in July which runs until September 2013, just in time for next year's iPhone launch.The scanning could be used to unlock company handsets which carry sensitive information, or to authenticate payments. Apple is introducing a service called Passbook this autumn when it releases its iOS 6 phone software.While stopping short of replacing cash payments and credit cards, Apple has confirmed that Passbook will store coupons, loyalty cards and even airline boarding passes. Time, date and location data will be used to show the relevant passes on the home screen, so that these can be scanned by checkout or airline staff.Over the last few days, it has emerged that American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and Virgin Australia will join United Airlines in offering mobile phone boarding via Passbook.A spokesman for American Airlines, which already produces mobile boarding passes for its own app, told travel industry blogSkiftit would be "rolling out an app update in the coming weeks in support of Passbook".In Australia, a traveller whose phone was running on a trial version of Apple's iOS 6 software, which is expected to be released when the new iPhone arrives in the shops on 21 September, reported last week that he was prompted to store his boarding pass in Passbook when checking in with Virgin Australia.Passbook has been described as the first "brick" in Apple's mobile wallet system, which is being championed in the company by software chief Scott Forstall. Apple always declines to comment on yet to be released products.But there has been speculation that the latest iPhone could contain microchips capable of making payments by swiping the phone over a reader, using the same technology as Oyster cards on London's underground.AuthenTec's fingerprint identification is designed to work with the technology – known as NFC, or near field communication – and is already being used on Android phones made by the Japanese company Fujitsu.In a recent company blogpost, AuthenTec executive Art Stewart wrote: "The real sweet spot for today's smart sensor is the NFC-enabled smartphone, where the smart sensor not only strengthens security but greatly increases the speed and convenience of mobile payment transactions. It accomplishes this by reducing multiple steps into one simple user action."With a single swipe of a finger across the smart sensor, the technology allows a user to unlock their phone and turn on the NFC transmitter to enable the payment, which is then made by tapping the phone. Adding fingerprint scanning to the iPhone could both improve security for features such as payments and boarding passes, and speed up the transaction.
Oh no, how is it monday already?! Oh well, tell us all about your weekend.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPirate Party in Germany loses popularity amid growing problems &gt;&gt; Der Spiegel"A unified strategy is not observable," Klaus-Peter Schöppner of the Emnid opinion-research institute told SPIEGEL ONLINE. Although his organization once put support for the party at 13 percent, it has now dropped to 8 percent. "The Pirate phenomenon was so fascinating at the beginning," he says, "but people are ultimately yearning for strong individuals who want to take responsibility and stand for something. The model of an ominous, gray mass quickly loses momentum."Also: "almost half of the party's members have yet to pay their annual membership fee."30 really unfortunate product names &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedCome on, it's Monday.An open letter to Wikipedia about Anatole Broyard and "The Human Stain" &gt;&gt; The New YorkerPhilip Roth (yes, the author):when, through an official interlocutor, I recently petitioned Wikipedia to delete this misstatement, along with two others, my interlocutor was told by the "English Wikipedia Administrator"--in a letter dated August 25th and addressed to my interlocutor--that I, Roth, was not a credible source: "I understand your point that the author is the greatest authority on their own work," writes the Wikipedia Administrator--"but we require secondary sources."Guess what? Articles in the New Yorker count as secondary sources. The page was changed.Lumia 900 helps net Nokia the "most improved" award in JD Power customer satisfaction survey &gt;&gt; WMPoweruserJD Power's quarterly customer satisfaction survey results are out, and at first glance it may not read like the best news for Nokia.  Dig a bit deeper under the surface however and it is clear that Windows Phone's excellent customer satisfaction numbers is pushing the Nordic company higher and higher in the ranks.It's moved from being above Palm to being above LG and, significantly, above BlackBerry. This is Nokia in the US, remember.Amazon's Bezos explains how it makes money while keeping prices low &gt;&gt; AllThingsDJeff Bezos:We do not like the razor and razor blade model, where you lose money up front and then somehow make it up on the backend. We also do not like the other model, where you make a lot of money on the device, because it doesn't follow our approach.By the way, one thing I should tell you is that our approach is our approach, and we don't even claim it's the right approach. It's not something that's new, but it's something we've done since the founding of the company. In my view, you set up the business in a way that is aligned with the customer, or you can set it up in odds with the customer. When you have the option, you should figure out a way to be in alignment. Sometimes that requires you to be more patient, so it's part and parcel with long-term thinking.But if you were a short-term-oriented share owner, you might say let's get the money up front. That's where I decline to say that approach is wrong. I won't say that. But it's not ours. I work with the teams to set up the business models.Q:How long-term are you thinking for the Kindle?Bezos:This one is pretty straightforward. We don't want to lose a lot of money on the device.Really fascinating.Meet Apple's favorite blogger &gt;&gt; BusinessweekHandset makers Samsung Electronics and HTC have paid for bloggers' flights and hotels to attend meetings as far away as Berlin, in an attempt to generate buzz for soon-to-be released products, says Phil Nickinson, editor-in-chief at the blog Android Central, whose writers are allowed to go on such trips. Google has attracted a small network of websites that fervently track its Android mobile software.Apple's ecosystem of more than 100 dedicated sites is unmatched, however. "It helps that Apple is very secretive, so people want to know what's coming," says Arnold Kim, who started MacRumors in 2000 and left his job as a kidney doctor four years ago to focus on his gossip site full time.Either being a kidney specialist pays badly, or Mac blogging pays incredibly well. (John Gruber, whom this piece is about, gets a colossal take.)The coming civil war over general purpose computing &gt;&gt; Boing BoingCory Doctorow has a call to arms.Zero-Sum Markets &gt;&gt; John LillyConsider this:at a board meeting last week, someone put up a slide that really emphasized what's happening. It said this:MInutes in North America and Europe spent in the browser on "traditional computers" is growing at a rate of 1.6% a year. (from IDC forecasts June 2012.)1.6%.For a technology that's changed the world as much as the web has, and has gotten to 2 billion people in under 20 years, that's an incredible statement. Growth has stopped. People will spend about as much time on the "desktop web" next year as they did this year -- and actually maybe less per person, since population is growing. And as we know from history, flat is a precursor to down. And then way down.Guess where the growth is happening.Where oh where is Windows Phone 8? &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaPeter Bright:With the end of summer fast approaching (I may be old-fashioned, but the equinox marks the end of the season), with the occasional leak excepted, the SDK is still nowhere in sight.Apparently aware that time is running out, Microsoft has at long last spoken. Next week, the company will release a beta SDK... to a few people. Calling it a limited "Preview" release, some number of developers with existing, published Windows Phone 7 applications will be able to use the new SDK. This is in addition to an existing private beta program already running, that's giving OEMs and special software partners access to the software.A full SDK will come, but not until the company properly unveils the operating system--which is currently rumored to happen on October 29th. Presuming Windows Phone 8 devices ship this year--and Microsoft is certainly talking as if they will--that leaves developers little time to update their applications and get ready for the new platform.Not having an SDK for developers is, in these app-hungry days, a big problem if you're looking to make a difference in the smartphone market. Just ask RIM about BB10. (Thanks @avro for the link.)Audience Inc chips not in next iPhone &gt;&gt; SEC filingA formal SEC filing of expected change in contract:Audience now believes that it is unlikely that the OEM will enable Audience's processor IP in its next generation mobile phone. Audience is not aware of any intended changes by this OEM to its use of Audience's processors or processor IP in prior generations of the OEM's mobile phones.Audience recognizes royalty revenue from the license of its processor IP one quarter in arrears of the sale of the device, when it has received a royalty report from its OEM. As a result, Audience does not expect any impact on its business outlook for the third fiscal quarter from the situation described above. The revenue and net income impact of the OEM's next generation mobile phone would first affect Audience's financial results one quarter after the OEM commences end customer sales of its mobile phones.Audience provides noise filtering to Apple (and Samsung). Its chips are in the 3GS onward but not in the iPhone 5, it seems: Apple has taken that in-house.New photos show details of alleged 'iPad Mini' rear shell &gt;&gt; Mac RumorsNew photos show details of random bit of gear in China onto which someone has silkscreened "iPad". It's an industry in itself in China.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
When my kids were small, one of their favourite walks was down Staithe Street in Wells-next-the-Sea, a charming seaside town in Norfolk.Staithe Streetis long and narrow and is lined by small shops on either side. What fascinated my kids, however, was not the second-hand book shop, or the antique dealers or the delicatessen or the cafes but the fact that there were several shops selling plastic toys of the kind one finds only in British seaside towns. In addition to buckets and spades and improbable fishing nets, there were exotically shaped pump-action water pistols, plastic swords, three-legged boomerangs, plastic tennis rackets with balls attached by elastic strings and battery-powered devices with lights that flashed and sirens that wailed.In vain did I, as a conscientious parent, try to dissuade my youngsters from squandering their pocket money on such gee-gaws. They came, they saw, and they spent, with the result that their aged parent now has a garage full of defunct water-pistols, eccentric boomerangs, plastic tennis rackets and other crap. The kids, for their part, have long outgrown such childish amusements and devote their every waking hour to the diverting entertainments to be found on smartphones and iPads.These entertainments are, of course, apps – of which there are now an unconscionable number. Apple has to date authorised500,000 of themfor its iPhone. The corresponding number for theAndroid platform is 600,000. These numbers provide ample justification for the late Steve Jobs's great insight: phones were really powerful hand-held computers that could run useful applications. And so it proved. Jobs unleashed an explosion in creativity as programmers raced to create apps that people would buy in huge volumes. The result is a world in which smartphones are basically app-running devices that can also make voice calls. Ditto for tablets, except that they don't bother with the calls.So that's all right, then? Not quite. Look closer at this explosion of creativity and you find that much of what it has created is either trivial or downright crap. You can, for example, get an app to putan image of bubblewrap on your iPhone screen. Then there's the Halloween Sound Machine ("Sneak up on your mates with the sounds of a rusty chainsaw, go on, you know you want to!"). Or how about iBeer ("turns the iPhone's screen into a showy pint of the foamy stuff")? And gentlemen trying to decide between a walrus moustache, Victorian sidewhiskers or a goatee beard will doubtless findBeard Boothinvaluable.I could go on, but you get the point. A large proportion of smartphone apps are the contemporary equivalent of those plastic gee-gaws my kids bought all those years ago: impulse purchases that provide a moment's entertainment – or even delight – and are then forgotten. The only difference is that instead of cluttering a garage they take up the precious screen area of a handheld device. And this is true not just for teenagers. Count the apps that you have installed on your smartphone or tablet and then ask yourself how many of them you actually use on a regular basis. (Full disclosure: I have 132, of which I use no more than 10 on a daily basis. Maybe I'm unusual because I write about this stuff, but a casual inspection of friends' smartphones also reveals a lot of infrequently used apps.)Does this matter? Yes, in one unexpected way. The success of Jobs's insight about apps means that we have replaced the old Microsoft Windows software monoculture with a new one based around an apps-centric user interface. Mobile devices have become machines for running apps. And whatever patent litigation says, all smartphones are now either iPhones or iPhone clones: a visiting Martian would be hard pressed to distinguish between an Android device and an Apple product, except perhaps on the basis of price. And, given the way network effects work, we will be stuck in this rut for the next few decades.And now comes the big irony. There is one company that is trying to challenge the dominance of the app-centric model. It has released phone software that puts social connectivity at the heart of the user experience. "The shining asset" of this new interface,writes its most perceptive previewer, Andrew Orlowski, "is that it's people-centric. Each contact card gathers their activities, whether it's interactions with your or social media broadcasts. So you can quickly see recent calls, text messages, emails or social network activity from Facebook, LinkedIn or Twitter ... This makes the app-centric design of Android and iOS look quite clumsy."It does indeed. And the name of this ingenious, adventurous company? Er, Microsoft.
In a world where three colossal nations vie for power, brothers Asbel and Hubert Lhant are more interested in their childhood adventures. But, on finding an amnesiac girl in a field of flowers, a series of events is triggered that will haunt the youngsters into adulthood and beyond.So beginsTales of Graces f, the latest in a long-running series of Japanese RPGs, yet one that is only now starting to gain traction with western gamers. And, yes, as a J-RPG you can look forward to a near 80-hour epic full of oddly named characters with unlikely backstories who ultimately decide (cue portentous drumroll) the fate of the world. It's endearingly melodramatic at times and largely typical of the genre made famous byFinal Fantasy, but also does a whole lot more to move it forward.Combat is a speedy affair, your main character delivering flurries of attacks at your command while team-mates run on programmable objectives. Basic to start with, greater strategy is revealed as you progress and you'll soon relish each battle. There's a surprisingly in-depth collectable creation system, too, turning otherwise inconsequential items into useful healing items or weapons.With cutscenes provided by famed animation studio Production IG and character designs by the anime world's finest,Tales of Graces foffers a refreshing take on a genre that once looked past it. Engrossing fun.
The last time I was allowed to access the internet was several moments before the police came through my door in the Shetland Isles, over a year ago.  During the past 12 months I have pleaded guilty to computer misuse under the banners of "Internet Feds", "Anonymous" and "LulzSec". One of my co-defendants and I have also been indicted with the same charge in the United States, where we may possibly be extradited, and if found guilty I could face several decades in an American prison. Now I am on conditional bail and have to wear an electronic tag around my ankle. I'm forbidden from accessing the internet.I'm often asked: what is life like without the net? It seems strange that humans have evolved and adapted for thousands of years without this simple connectivity, and now we in modern society struggle to comprehend existence without it. In a word, life is serene. I now find myself reading newspapers as though they weren't ancient scrolls; entering real shops with real money in order to buy real products, and not wishing to Photoshop a cosmic being of unspeakable horror into every possible social situation. Nothing needs to be captioned or made into an elaborate joke to impress a citizenry whose every emotion is represented by a sequence of keystrokes.Things are calmer, slower and at times, I'll admit, more dull. I do very much miss the instant companionship of online life, the innocent chatroom palaver, and the ease with which circles with similar interests can be found. Of course, there are no search terms in real life – one actually has to search. However, there is something oddly endearing about being disconnected from the digital horde.It is not so much the sudden simplicity of daily life – as you can imagine, trivial tasks have been made much more difficult – but the feeling of being able to close my eyes without being bombarded with flashing shapes or constant buzzing sounds, which had occurred frequently since my early teens and could only be attributed to perpetual computer marathons. Sleep is now tranquil and uninterrupted and books seem far more interesting. The paranoia has certainly vanished. I can only describe this sensation as the long-awaited renewal of a previously diminished attention span.For it is our attention spans that have suffered the most. Our lives are compressed into short, advertisement-like bursts or "tweets". The constant stream of drivel fills page after page, eating away at our creativity. If hashtags were rice grains, do you know how many starving families we could feed? Neither do I – I can't Google it.A miracle cure or some kind of therapeutic brilliance are not something I could give, but I can confidently say that a permanent lack of internet has made me a more fulfilled individual. And as one of many kids glued to their screens every day, I would never before have imagined myself even thinking those words. Before, the idea of no internet was inconceivable, but now – not to sound as though it's some kind of childish and predictable revelation spawned as a result of going cold turkey – I look back on the transcripts of my online chats (produced as legal evidence in my case, in great numbers) and wonder what all the fuss was about.It's not my place to speculate on whether or not the hacker community should stop taking itself so seriously, but I certainly became entangled within it and had forgotten how easy it was simply to close a laptop lid.I hope, then, that others in a similar situation may decide to take a short break from the web (perhaps just for a week) and see if similar effects are found. It can't hurt to try.
Price £34,995MPG 235Top speed 100mphOne of the visually stunning adverts that has accompanied the launch of the new Vauxhall Ampera features an interview with William Trubridge, the first man to dive unassisted to a depth of more than 100m on a single breath of air. As the handsome New Zealander bobs about on the sea's surface, he says: "There's a great parallel between a free dive where you need to extend one breath of air to get as deep as possible and an ecological car that has to get as far as possible on a single charge."It's a perfect metaphor for "range anxiety" – the fear of running out of battery power – that has so far been the Achilles' heel of electric cars. Though possibly a bit extreme. Could William's last, lung-busting rush back to the surface ever really match the nail-biting agony of grinding to a&nbsp;powerless standstill at the red on the Norbiton interchange? Or the bad-boy thrill of pushing that flickering charge needle down below a quarter full?The other slight problem is that William's observation cannot be applied to the Ampera. The whole point of the pioneering Vauxhall, you see, is that it is an electric car which can never run out of power. Beneath its relatively ordinary exterior is a&nbsp;left-field technological solution that totally eliminates range anxiety.It is a plug-in electric car, or more precisely an "extended-range electric vehicle" or E-Rev. It takes about three hours to charge its battery and for that you get 40 miles of clean and virtually free motoring – the equivalent of 235 miles to the gallon – on its 151bhp electric motor. After 40 miles or so, depending on your driving style, a green battery light blinks  red on the dash – the usual cue for  an episode of unfettered range anxiety – but miraculously the Ampera carries on seemlessly, for another 320 miles if you wish.This is because an efficient 1.4-litre petrol engine fires up and drives a&nbsp;small generator which in turn charges the battery which then keeps the electric engine going which in turn (big breath) keeps the wheels turning. It sounds complicated, but to the driver the only clue is that changing graphic and the slightest of engine sounds from deep within the car.If you rarely drive more than 40 miles and you can recharge the car regularly from the mains, that life-saving petrol engine will never start.This may all sound very clever, but what's the Ampera actually like, you know, as a car? From the outside, it looks modern but hardly the stuff  of sci-fi fantasies. Vauxhall's  re-designed Griffin perches between a&nbsp;pair of boomerang headlamps, with just a touch of the now defunct Saab 9-3 about it. Inside, however, the designers have risen to the challenge. Two large information screens greet you with a barrage of HD graphics. Press the "start" button to engage the electric engine and the cabin fills with a rich, space-age sound – an amazing aural sculpture of hi-tech whooshing a million miles from the usualayayayayayof an engine turning over. The finger-touch controls click and snap with gratifying conviction. Annoyingly, the roomy four-door saloon is only a&nbsp;four seater, which will rule it out for many families.To drive, the Ampera has a brisk urgency about it. It accelerates smoothly and handles precisely, though the regenerative braking takes a while to get used to. I went a lot further than 40 miles in it, out into the wilds of Essex and back.  And it was a great relief to know that my only anxiety was whether I'd come home with an orange face and super-white teeth.Further reading: Knowledge is powerTo celebrate the Ampera, Vauxhall Motors and The Idler Academy have collaborated onWe're Electric– a unique exploration celebrating the impact of electricity in industry, entertainment, art and fashion.The book takes the form of a limited-edition collection of essays, musings, artworks and practical science, curated and edited byThe Idler's founder Tom Hodgkinson. He says: "With writing from Jenny Uglow and Will Self, and newly commissioned art from Alice Smith and more, we reckon we have produced a volume that is both very useful and very beautiful. It is the Idler Academy's stated aim to instruct and delight.We're Electricis also, of course, a celebration of a real breakthrough in the story of the electrically driven automobile."In the chapter "Shocking Truths", historian Jenny Uglow writes on the early pioneers of the electricity revolution, the so called Lunar Men, who carried out all sorts of experiments on animals and even each other, as they tried to tame and understand 'heaven's dreaded bolt'. Will Self reflects on his electric life and cloud expert Gavin Pretor-Pinney uncovers the science of lightning studies. Conrad Shawcross's electric artworks have been reproduced and poet Murray Lachlan Young has written a specifically commissioned poem celebrating the history of electricity. The book also features fashion historian NJ Stevenson on the use of electricity in fashion, and artist Danny Wooton has written an inspiring guide to domestic wiring, which aims to take away the fear around electricity in the home.We're Electric is priced £12.95 and can be bought atidler.co.ukBond is roaring backWith the latest Bond film,Skyfall, to hit our cinema screens at the end of next month, the National Motor Museum in Beaulieu has laid on an amazing spread of 50 of the greatest Bond cars. The exhibition is called Bond in Motion and will run until the end of the year. It's stirring stuff.It's worth remembering that 007 has always had a penchant for motorbikes, too, and the Honda CRF250Rs used in the stunt sequences at the start of the movie – which was filmed in Istanbul and Adana in Turkey – are also on show.Twenty CRF250R machines were used in total, adapted and "dressed" appropriately into two native style motorbikes. One is a Turkish police bike that henchman, Patrice (Ola Rapace), seizes after a crash, the other is a Turkish merchant's bike that Daniel Craig uses to pursue Patrice through the streets. Two further bikes were used by the camera crew as only a motorbike could keep up with the action and follow the various stunts.For more information, go tobeaulieu.co.uk
With both main parties doing a good job of making a mockery of the American electoral process during their conventions, it seems fitting that the presidential contest should come to&nbsp;the iPhone in the form of beat-'em-upVote!!!(free, app store).Chair's follow-up to the hugely successfulInfinity Bladetitles is slightly more tongue in cheek, with caricatured versions of Mitt Romney and Barack Obama battling it out, but the controls remain the same. Block, dodge and deflect are renamed damage control, spin and rebuttal, as the pair "debate" through various White House locales. It's simple fun, with much of the game's pleasure coming from seeing a topless Obama thwacking Romney with a lightsaber. Coins can be earned (or bought with real money) to buy ever more outlandish weapons and outfits – expect Clint Eastwood versus Empty Chair to feature in the sequel.Barrel of Donkeys' new title,Toybox(App Store, iOS, 69p), ignores current events in America in favour of mashing up two favourite gaming genres: bullet shooter and falling block puzzler. With your left hand you have to move about a perpetually shooting rocket ship, taking down a host of aerial foes, while with your right you're ordering falling blocks into matching rows of three – create a row and the left-hand side is temporarily cleared of enemies.It's a superb test of dexterity and left/ right brain coordination, with subtle tweaks being made weekly, ensuring regular replays are required to keep you up near the top of the highscore table.Elsewhere, with iPad-enabled parents now downloading an app a month for their children, Mattel are launching their new toy/app hybrids,Apptivities(£11.99 or £24.99 for large sets). You don't just download the game, you also buy a miniature toy to go along with it – a tinyBatman, anAngry Birds pig, or, with theHot Wheelsversion, a small car. The games are controlled by moving the toys around the iPad's screen, thereby engaging children in both the physical and virtual worlds.The Hot Wheels toy has rubber touch points which can be raised when using it as a normal toy, or lowered in order to interact with the screen. The physical toy can then be used to steer around the virtual landscape, racing, performing stunts or setting off fiery afterburners. The viewpoint is very tight but the game works impressively well and is sure to captivate smaller children.Meanwhile,Horn(Phosphor, £4.99, app store, iOS) shows that "i" devices are in no danger of becoming the sole vehicle for children's entertainment. A third-person action game in the style of theInfinity Bladeseries, it looks stunning – so much so that the graphical heft required can cause slow-down on iPhones and older iPads. You guide the eponymous hero as he clears a village of gargantuan monsters, all of whom hide a big secret. Combat is all swipes and dodges, but exploration and puzzling in a point-and-click style are equally prevalent and add something to this familiar format, ensuringHorndoesn't just have to rely on its good looks for success.
The Worms series hails from a different, simpler era of gaming, when&nbsp;multiplayer was a side-by-side affair that offered huge entertainment&nbsp;as players vied to bump off the opposition's chirruping antagonists in ever more inventive ways&nbsp;and when a suicidal sheep was in every player's arsenal.This collection offers a chance to revisit those days with a group of previously download-only titles – two 2D gamesWormsandWorms 2: Armageddon, and the 3DWorms: Ultimate Mayhem. All three stay true to the classic, comical Worms formula, where teams&nbsp;of invertebrates take turns to destroy one another over randomly-generated maps.The first,Worms, is the stripped-down original experience from 1995 with just a small selection of weapons and a few basic challenges and is easily skipped for the more expansiveArmageddon, which adds a satisfying single-player mode (including puzzle elements), plus a wealth of weapons and customisation options. It looks great in HD and is easily one of the best 2D Worms games available.However,Ultimate Mayhemdoesn't quite match its 2D counterparts. The visuals are poor, the camera fiddly and loading times are long. None the less, it, too, remains enjoyable, with plenty of modes and two diverse story campaigns. There's plenty of good fun to be had here, particularly with friends, but as the core gameplay has remained pretty much unchanged for 17 years, whether all three variants are actually needed may depend on how nostalgic you are for those simpler times.
Spalding railway station in Lincolnshire is not a big place. It takes me about two seconds to scan the platform and spot who I'm looking for:Jake Davis, aka Topiary, the computer hacker who at one point last year was the subject of one of the biggest manhunts on the planet.For a period in 2011,LulzSec– an offshoot ofAnonymous, the internet "hacktivist" collective who came to prominence around the time of the Wikileaks affair – wreaked a trail of chaos across the web. Their actions ranged from the transgressive – they hadtaken downthe CIA's website and hacked into Sony's database and released more than a million user names and passwords – to the absurd: after the American network PBS aired a critical documentary about Julian Assange, LulzSec hacked into their website and replaced the homepage withan articleabout Tupac Shakur, the (very much dead) rapper, which bore the headline "Tupac Still Alive in New Zealand". During the Arab spring, members of the group hacked and defaced Tunisian and Egyptian government sites. One hacker,Tflow(later discovered to be a 16-year-old London schoolboy), allegedly wrote a webscript that enabled activists to circumvent government snooping.LulzSec had also hacked into the website ofSoca, the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency, and replaced thefront page of theSunonline with a "report" that Rupert Murdoch had been found dead (with a helpful hint for the FBI in the closing paragraph: he'd been found, it said, "in his famous topiary garden").For a time, LulzSec demanded and caught the world's attention. Their tweets made headlines. Their jokes were retweeted by thousands. And there, waiting for me at Spalding station, is LulzSec's PR guru. "Look out for the pale kid that needs a haircut," he'd texted me. And he's not wrong. He is quite pale and could do with a haircut. And he's impossibly young: just 19. A skinny teenager with a soft Scottish accent who – for a period of time last year, during "the 50 days of Lulz" – ran rings around law enforcement agencies on several continents.Of course, I already know what Jake Davis looks like, because in July last year, Davis, then 18, was arrested at his home in the Shetland Isles. And after being charged with five hacking-related crimes and released on bail, he emerged into the sun outside Westminster magistrates court for the world to see. Anonymous suddenly had a face: and the face was of a furtive, greasy-haired youth, wearing a pair of dark glasses and carrying a book calledFree Radicals: The Secret Anarchy of Science. If you had to imagine what a teenage computer hacker would look like, this was it.The episode was front-page news on websites across the world, as a string of arrests were made: 19-year-old Ryan Cleary from Essex; 16-year-old Tflow from London; 27-year-old Jeremy Hammond from Chicago; a 25-year-old former soldier, Ryan Ackroyd, from Doncaster; 19-year-old Darren Martyn (or PwnSauce), from Galway, and Donncha O'Cearrbhail (or Palladium), also 19 and from Offaly, Ireland. The mostrecent arrest, 12 days ago, was of another American, 20-year-old Raynaldo Rivera of Arizona.In March this year came thenews of how it happened: the FBI had turned a LulzSec member in New York, a 28-year-old Puerto Rican father of two called Hector Xavier Monsegur, known online as "Sabu", and used him as their informant. It was likeThe Sopranos, but instead of organised crime and Italian hitmen it involved teenagers sitting at computer screens. And perhaps most confusing of all, the vast majority of the main players seemed to be living in Britain or Ireland.Gabriella Coleman, professor of scientific and technological literacy at McGill University, in Montreal, probably knows more about Anonymous than anybody on the planet. She has studied them from the moment they first emerged as a new political force in 2008, and says that it's no coincidence that so many of the arrests were of British and Irish nationals. Anonymous is a vast, new, poorly understood global force who specialise in "ultra-co-ordinated motherfuckery", as one of Coleman's contacts puts it. And it attracts a huge British following.In the chatrooms where Anons gather, Parmy Olson, a London-based journalist withForbesmagazine, found the British connection blindingly obvious. Her book,We Are Anonymous: Inside the Hacker World of LulzSec, Anonymous, and the Global Cyber Insurgency, published in America this June, offers a brilliant insight into the hacktivists' world. Almost by accident, Olson charted the emergence and domination of LulzSec, following the twists and turns of the story as it happened. "And," she says, "you could just see a lot of people talking about British things, British television shows, they were speaking with English spellings. You could tell they were British."Olson met Jake Davis before he reverted to Jake Davis – when he was still Topiary – in the Shetlands. "It took a day and a half just to get there," she says. "And it was embarrassing really. He was one of the most wanted hackers on the planet, and he just seemed so young."A year is a long time, though, when you're 18. I'd been expecting a socially awkward geek, but Davis turns out to be open-faced, chatty, good at eye contact and not geeky at all, though this may have something to do with the fact that he hasn't been allowed access to the internet for more than 12 months. He's pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit computer misuse under the Computer Misuse Act and is back in court in April next year. He's also waiting to see if he'll stand trial on another charge: conspiracy to commit fraud (the CPS is currently assessing whether a trial is in the public interest, given that he's already pleaded guilty to the first charge). He's currently at liberty on condition that he wears an electronic tag, is home by 10pm, and lives with his mum (who moved to Spalding shortly before his arrest).And that he goes nowhere near the internet. His only means of communicating with the outside world is a mobile phone that looks like it was a recent model circa 1995. And the greatest surprise – not just to me, but to him – is that he's barely missing the internet at all. "I actually feel a lot better within myself. My life was the internet, pretty much. It was chatting on the internet and amassing groups of friends. And I had no life outside it. A year ago I would just be head-down kind of walking along, mumbling monosyllabically."It's that lack of contact with the outside world that has led Jake Davis to me. He helped Parmy Olson with her book, and he seems keen to have some form of communication with the outside world. Because communicating was both his speciality and what  got him into this mess in the first place."Living in the Shetlands, I didn't understand the impact of what we were doing," he says. "I didn't understand the impact on the real world. And now that I'm here in Spalding, and I've been a lot in London, I kind of see that the world does go round and it's not about hiding in a bedroom."What seems incredible, even now (and maybe, especially, to Jake), is how a slightly troubled teenager living on the two-sheep island of Yell, in the Shetland Isles – a place as isolated and remote as anywhere on Earth – came to find himself at the heart of a radical global political movement.But then, maybe that's the point. When I met Gabriella Coleman in Edinburgh she'd spent the previous evening meeting one of her contacts, who lived in a remote croft in the Scottish countryside. "He cooked me pheasant," she said. Olson, too, found that a disproportionate number of contacts she met "lived in out-of-the-way places".For Jake, living in the Shetlands, the internet became his everything. It was where he made friends and socialised. "It's where I learned almost everything I now know. The thing I miss the most is Wikipedia. I mean, at school I learned to knit. I'm actually a pretty good knitter now." Jake had a somewhat difficult childhood, and that (combined with the knitting lessons) led him to drop out of school at 13, shortly after his stepfather was killed in an accident.What's surprising, at first, is that he's not unhappy that he was caught, or that he faces the prospect of several years in prison. "People say that prison is bad, but I lived in my bedroom with a computer for years. It's not going to be as bad as that. I just want to go and do my sentence and get my education in there. I want to get a really good education and just read loads of books."That's if he doesn't get extradited – because he's been charged in America, too, where his fellow hackers are facing up to 20 years inside. By contrast, in Ireland no charges have been brought against the arrested hackers. Anonymous may be an international phenomenon but there's no consensus (yet) on how to police the internet.What's immediately apparent about Jake Davis (and about a lot of the people involved with Anonymous) is just how bright and intelligent he is. And how the internet is where they find an outlet for their intellect – an outlet that somehow seems to have eluded them in real life. "These weren't just normal individuals who found themselves in extraordinary circumstances," says Parmy Olson. "They really were extraordinary individuals in extraordinary circumstances."What I find so interesting about Davis is how completely he seems to have been let down by the education system. It entirely failed to uncover or nurture his talents. "I literally have not a single qualification to my name," he tells me at one point, and looks rather sheepish. Davis rose to prominence in Anonymous and then LulzSec not because he was some expert hacker – he wasn't; his technical skills were limited – but because he is a naturally gifted writer and communicator. Among other things, he controlled the LulzSec Twitter account, from which issued forth a stream of jokey pronouncements, the last of which had the feeling of prophecy to it: "You cannot arrest an idea," he said. Which may be true, but almost exactly a month later a team of police officers burst into his living room, and then flew him by specially chartered plane to London, a place he'd never been to before. "It was like going to the future or something," he says.You can't arrest an idea, though. And although Anonymous's impact may have been exaggerated (not least by itself), at its heart is a radical idea: that the internet can enable mass, participatory, possibly illegal action in a way the world has never seen before. Actions that can be controlled by neither governments nor international agencies, and which are decided by the horde, enacted by the horde, and policed by the horde.According to Parmy Olson, the "hivemind", or getting people to "believe in the power" of the hivemind, is probably Anonymous's greatest achievement. There is no central organisation (though there are organisers) and no official membership. In some ways it resembles that other recent un-organisation, al-Qaida. If you believe in Anonymous, and call yourself Anonymous, you are Anonymous.And in 2008, it seemingly came out of nowhere. At the time, Gabriella Coleman was studying theOpen Source community(the network of programmers who believe in, and develop, free software open to all) and was based at the University of Alberta, which happened to have the largest Scientology archive in the world. And she couldn't help but notice what happened when a video of Tom Cruise being interviewed about Scientology appeared on the internet. A group of online hackers began "trolling" (mocking; trying to get a rise out of) the Church of Scientology. For a lot of people, the video – meant for internal PR purposes only within the church – was provocation enough: Cruise appears as a genuine, bona fide, swivel-eyed religious nutcase. Then things escalated. The church beganissuing legal threatsagainst the sites hosting the video, and it was this attempt to police the internet that prompted certain people to rise up and try to defend it."What I realised," says Coleman, "is that the Church of Scientology was like the perfect nemesis. It was the geeks' worst nightmare, because it is a religion of science and technology, but the technology doesn't work and the science is pseudoscience. And it's an extremely proprietary religion: they have very aggressive control over trademarks and copyright, so in every way it seemed like the hackers saw how the church was like them, but their evil twin."And in doing so, they also realised that they possessed a hitherto unrealised power: strength in numbers. Instead of merely staging online protests, a day of global protest was organised. And on 10 February 2008, 7,000 peopleshowed upin 127 cities around the world. They didn't know it then but a new political movement was born. "We are Anonymous," read one of the flyers. "We are Legion. We do not forgive. We do not forget. Expect us."Talking to Coleman and Olson, I think I'm getting a handle on Anonymous, and what it is and what it has done. And then I start going into Anonymous chatrooms, on IRC (internet relay chat), on the so-called "deep web", a place unsearchable by Google. And I realise I don't understand a thing. People just seem to be talking about random crap in acronyms I don't understand. It's confusingly chaotic. There are people entering the room every five seconds, people leaving, people changing their nicknames. And then there's the slang. Everyone is a fag: there are newfags (newcomers) and oldfags (old-timers) and fagfags (homosexuals) and moralfags (those perceived as taking the moral high ground). I realise that I am a newsfag. But I can't spot the plans to conquer the universe between the casual misogynism and the Aids jokes.It's only on the reporter channel that I find people who can type in sentences and speak a language that I recognise as English. It's where self-selected Anons interact with the press and explain Anonymous's objectives. A 17-year-old called The_Poet, who tells me he's of Iranian parentage, says he became involved because ofOperation Iran(or OpIran as it's known, Anonymous's campaign to help activists in Iran following the re-election of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2009). He wanted to feel that he was doing something to help activists there. He's at school, he says, and he was about as computer-savvy as I am when he found the forum (ie, not very) but now he spends up to five or more hours a day on it. We chat away, and he tells me that having helped draft press releases and the like, and having become interested in world affairs, he's now considering diplomacy as a career. Though saying you're in Anonymous is possibly not the most obvious CV-building step, I venture.It's late when we chat, around 1am UK time, and it's obvious he's in Europe somewhere, and it's school the next day. "Go to bed," I keep telling him. And I can't help but feel relieved when he tells me that he hasn't done anything illegal. Because via the encrypted chat protocol,Jabber(the first step to communicating with anyone in Anon world), I have chatted to another teenage Anon who was arrested, but never charged. He was lucky. "I was immature and stupid and reckless," he says. "I caused a lot of damage. Hurt alotof innocent people. I put millions of people at risk of identity theft by leaking their passwords. It is never justified. Never."But you did it because…?"At the time, it seemed great fun."Because fun is the bedrock of it all. "Trolling". Agitating. Taking the piss. Lying to, manipulating and taking in fellow internet users. Making a joke of everything. Jake suspects it's why it's so big in Britain. "Anon humour is quite dark and ironic and is pretty similiar to British humour," he says. The origin of "lulz" is a corruption of LOLs, meaning "laugh out loud" (and not "lots of love", as David Cameron thought when he put LOL at the end ofa text to Rebekah Brooks).It's all about the lulz. On 4chan, the "image board" (like a chat board, but where people came initially to share images, and whose /b/ – or "random" – board spawned the idea of Anonymous), anything goes. Just so long as it's not taken seriously. In fact, 4chan is the originator of hundreds of internet memes and viral videos, many of which have found their way into mainstream media.It's easy to grow paranoid researching an article on Anonymous. Some terrible things have happened to people who have tangled with them. LulzSec's first collective action was against Aaron Barr, the CEO of an internet security firm, HBGary Inc, who claimed to have penetrated Anonymous and worked out who the central players were. To cut a long story short, he hadn't. LulzSec cracked his email password, downloaded 40,000 of his emails andreleased themin a torrent online for anyone to read.Soon after I start hanging out in Anonymous chatrooms, my computer starts running slowly. My phone starts glitching. I start waking in the night with paranoid dreams. Quinn Norton, a reporter forWiredmagazine, tells me that there is a strong culture within the group of not attacking the press. Even so, she suspects there may be a "cache of [my] documents somewhere, but they're not doing anything bad with them". The main thing to bear in mind if writing about them, she says, is "not to be an asshole".I tell Jake about my paranoia. "I had that every day," he says. "Every morning I spent an hour doing searches and running certain scripts to make me feel better." But in his case, at least, it comes down to the old truism that just because you're paranoid, it doesn't mean that there isn't someone following you.When Sabu, the Anonymous turncoat, was intercepted by the FBI, he disappeared offline for 24 hours, and when he came back his story didn't quite hang together. "I was completely suspicious of him," says Jake. "I was just too stupid to do anything about it. The idea that there was a group of Feds out to get me is the kind of stuff that happens in films. And I'm from the Shetland Islands. The FBI aren't going to be using one of my friends to spy on me. That happens in American action films, it is not real life. And it turns out that this is exactly what happened."It was even stranger in some ways for Gabriella Coleman. She met Sabu in New York before any of the arrests, and immediately became suspicious of his status and motives. "I just knew," she says. "There was no way while he was still the world's most wanted hacker that he'd be wanting to meet me unless he'd been arrested. I knew he'd been arrested. But of course, I couldn't tell anyone. And that was really hard."As an anthropologist studying Anonymous, at times, she says, she felt like a cross between "a detective and a priest". She watched the group take shape from the time of the Scientology uprising, and was online, in the chatrooms, at the moment it hit the big time: WikiLeaks.Julian Assange had just released the USdiplomatic cables, PayPal had announced that it would no longer accept donations on Wikileaks' behalf, and the internet was in uproar. "There were 7,000 people a time logging into the channels [chat rooms] when, usually, at the very most there would be 1,000," says Coleman. "More than 35,000 people downloaded the software.""The software" was something called low orbit ion cannon (LOIC), and it meant that anyone with a few clicks of a mouse could become a "hacker", or at least a website attacker. Computers all over the world started sending packets of information to the PayPal andVisawebsites, flooding its servers with a DDoS attack (distributed denial of service). In her book, Parmy Olson explains what actually happened. The PayPal and Visa websites were attacked successfully, but the main perpetrators weren't the "hive": the real firepower came from a couple of individuals with "botnets", illegal networks of compromised computers. Olson suggests the hive was a PR myth.Still, it's a dangerous PR myth. A few months after the attacks, the FBI began to arrest people: people who had been drawn into Anonymous by the rhetoric, and either didn't realise that what they were doing was illegal, didn't have enough technical nous to cover their tracks, or simply didn't care. There were students, middle-class professionals… Anonymous wasn't just "the stereotypical kids living in their mum's basement", as Coleman puts it. "You'll probably find at least a couple in your IT department."But when you look, for example, at the stunning visual nature of some of Anonymous's designs, that shouldn't come as too great a shock. Nor the brilliance of its operations inEgyptandTunisia, and recently inSyria. At its most powerful and compelling, it has leaped to the defence of the internet itself. It was only when Anonymous started highlighting what was happening in Tunisia, for example, after thegovernment banned Wikileaksin late 2010, that the rest of the world's press started paying attention to what became the Arab spring.It is "political art as spectacle", according to Coleman. And it stands in opposition to almost everything mainstream society holds dear. Individual fame is neither sought nor welcomed. Anons who draw attention to themselves or claim to speak for Anonymous are ostracised. "It's almost like the polar opposite of everything that social media stands for," says Coleman. "They dramatise the importance of anonymity and privacy in an era when both are rapidly eroding. They are the anti-Facebook."Being anonymous was the source of Jake's power: no one knew he was a kid. That, and the idea of the hive. "Everyone secretly knows that everyone else [in Anonymous] is kind of a lonely, geeky guy," says Jake. "But we all ignore it, and we all play this Anon game where we are all these invincible Anons."And they were mostly guys. Anonymous is very male. In theRules of the Internet, which came out of the 4chan site, Rule 30 states "there are no girls on the internet". The previous rule states that "all girls are men and all kids are undercover FBI agents", which contains a grain of truth.At times it seems like Anonymous is a nest of slightly naive teenagers who are going to get into trouble. Teenagers have always acted out. Now they get to act out on a global stage, where just a few clicks of a mouse could lead to them spending the next 20 years behind bars. It's impossible to generalise, however. One figure behind one of the most popular Anonymous Twitter feeds told Coleman that he is a "member of the 1 per cent". "He's always in Paris on vacation," she tells me. "He's a very, very wealthy engineer and he's extremely careful in concealing his identity."And on the #reporter channel, I chat for a while to an Anon called "nsh", who tells me that what we're witnessing is "the emergence of a new kind of identity, and with it a new form of identity politics. Traditional politics caters to fixed demographics, requires that participants have continuity of identity, can be located in geography. These are things that can be dispensed [with] online, and have been, with great effect."He's a bit fond of his long words, nsh, and he likes his historical analogies. The random attacks on websites are really the contemporary version of writing a political slogan on a wall, he says. It's like online vandalism. "But the Vandals," he writes, "got the short stick, historically, didn't they?" He won't tell me anything about himself, but my guess is he's British and studying at one of our better universities. It's probably not a coincidence that bothCambridgeandOxforduniversities have been targeted in the past two weeks, as part of Anonymous's ongoing Operation Free Assange. If you're going to spray-paint a wall, you might as well do it somewhere your mates will see it. I like joshing with nsh, but I do feel the generational difference. When he makes a joke, he signals it with an emoticon. When I make a joke, he says "lol". I have to say, "Ha, ha!" because otherwise, I tell him, "I'll sound like Ali G. It'd be embarrassing. Like hearing your gran try to rap."There is "no clear-cut moral assessment" of Anonymous that can be made, says Gabriella Coleman. "But if you hurt the internet, be careful, because the internet may well hurt you back."In Spalding, Jake Davis can make even less sense of it, even though, for a time, he was it. His lawyers have made him readhundreds of pages of his chat logs as part of his case. "And I just think 'Who is this Topiary guy?'" he says. "He is just full of crap. We tried to do something funny, something political, something ideological, and it ended up just being a mess."I'm possibly more confused about Anonymous now than when I started researching this article. When I look atpastebin.com, which is where hackers put up the latest data dumps, the results of their latest hacking and defacement operations, the targets seem random, perverse."Cadwal, there is always mad shit going on in Anonymous," an Anon called KnowledgeUS tells me. "It is even hard for an Anon to know all that's going on with Anonymous."It makes me feel a little better. "Ha, ha!" I say. Because Anonymous is something that belongs to a new generation. It's their internet. Their Anonymous. And at my age, I'm just too old for the lulz.This piece was edited on 2/10/12 to clarify a contributor's quote
Therelease by Jeff Bezos of a brace of new Kindle Fire tabletsin the US and, for the first time, into the UK, shows that Amazon has gotten serious about its tablet business - and that it sees huge potential in selling content on the 7in devices.Amazon is being cautious about how many of its products it sells internationally: the 8.9in version is not being released in the UK for now. That has fuelled speculation that Amazon's strategy here is the "games console" (or "razors/razorblades") strategy: sell the devices at or close to a loss and make up the difference through profit on the purchases that people make. The fact that the Kindle Fire comes pre-set with your Amazon account bolsters that idea.Horace Dediu, of Asymco, reckoned that the first version of the Kindle Fire was simply made to a production run - his estimate was 5m - and that Amazon nursed that through to the announcement last week.For the same reason hethinksthat the latest batch of Kindle tablets has also been developed in the same way:I think the total number of new Fire units to be sold has already been determined by a production order. You cannot think about the business from a demand point of view. If the product would be free then the demand would be infinite. The decision about how many will be "sold" will depend on the goodwill of the producer.What Amazon tries to do with the brand is ensure that the Fire is in the hands of its most ravenous consumers.That may well be true. But for consumers, the only questions are likely to be: how much does this cost, and how good are the specs. Here's the table of specifications:Kindle Fire v Nexus 7 v 'iPad mini' specifications2012 KindleFireKindleFire HDKindleFire HD 8.9Google Nexus 7 8GB?iPad miniiPad 3US price$159$199 (16GB)$249 (32GB)$299-$499$199 (8GB)$249 (16GB)?$499-$729UK price£129 (16GB)£199 (32GB)£159 (16GB)£199 (32GB)-£159 (8GB)£199 (16GB)?£399-£559AvailableSept (US), 25 Oct (UK)Sep (US), Oct (UK)Novnow, 8GB online only16GB online and shopsOct?now, online and retailersstorage8GB16GB, 32GB16, 32, 64GB8GB, 16GB?16, 32, 64GBscreen size7in7in8.9in7in? 7.85in9.7inscreen res1024x6001280x8001920x12001280x800? 1024x7682048x1536screen ratio16:916:1016:1016:10? 4:34:3Screen ppi169216254216?264CPU speed,cores1.2GHz dual-core1.2GHz dual-core1.2GHz dual-core1.3GHz quad-core? A6 chip?Dual-core custom ARM A5X3G?optionoptionN? option?optionWi-Fi802.11n dual antenna802.11n dual antenna802.11n dual antenna802.11n? 802.11n802.11nOther wirelessLTE in US?LTE in US; AirPlayFront camera"HD", 720p video“HD, 720p video"HD" 720p video1.2MP?3MPRear cameraNNNN?5MPOS versionAndroid 4.0*Android 4.0*Android 4.0*Android 4.1iOS 6IOS 5, iOS6weight395g395g567g340g?652gConnectorsMicro-USBMicro-USBmicro-HDMIMicro-USBmicro-HDMIMicro-USBnew Apple dockApple dockThe new Kindle Fire is slightly lighter (395g v 413g) than last year's and has a faster processor (1.2GHz v 1.0) and a newer version of Android (4.0 v 2.3). Note that Amazon is using its own version of Android - so it doesn't log on to Google's servers.The "iPad mini" is of course unannounced and may not even exist - but we know that there have been internal emails in Apple suggesting it should be produced (this emerged at the Apple-Samsung trial) and that this is a burgeoning market: Amazon managed to sell between 5m and 8m 7in Kindle Fire tablets, even if it was at a slight loss.What's noticeable is that the Kindle Fire HD offers the samebetterscreen quality and more storage for the same price and faster access to content such as films than the Google Nexus 7.That's an immediate problem for Google, which has been cutting it fine with the Nexus 7 anyway; it's a problem too for other Android tablet makers, which now have two unbeatable rivals.It's a problem too for Apple - and the challenge of filling in those gaps, on storage, price and screen PPI in particular will be big.(Update:to answer the question: why include a device that hasn't been announced? Because multiple separate sources point to it coming, and some guesses have pointed to size and screen; and to show the size of the challenge Apple has if it does get into this market.)Corrected table to show that 8GB version of Nexus 7 is online-only, 16GB is in shops as well; and that equivalent Kindle Fire HD and Nexus 7 have same screen quality.
Effect 3: Leviathan, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360The latest downloadable extra for Mass Effect 3 has Commander Shepard on the trail of the mysterious Leviathan of Dis, which apparently has the power to kill Reapers; the giant robotic monsters intent on killing not only all humans but all organic life in the galaxy.For once that means going in using a subtler, CSI-style rather than all guns blazing, as is Shepard's wont, although naturally there are plenty of things to shoot at later on. Weaving in galactic exploration, a spooky mining outpost and a windswept ocean planet, Leviathan adds interesting new layers to the story, going some way towards explaining what the Reapers are up to and where they came from while leaving the game's oft-lambasted ending well alone.EA, PC: 800 Bioware pts (£6.99); PSN: approx £8; XBLA: 800 MSP (£8.50)Jack Lumber, iPad &amp; iPhoneWhen his granny gets killed by a cheeky pine tree, Jack Lumber takes hatchet-based revenge on an entire forest. Following a path hacked out by the bestselling Fruit Ninja, in which your finger was the katana, here it's an axe, letting you help Jack carve a sap-spattered trail of destruction through a series of increasingly deviously gnarled logs. Putting your finger on the screen slows the spinning lumber enough to paint a single line through everything you can see, adhering to each log's progressively more specific rules while avoiding giving innocent woodland creatures the salami treatment. With an upgrade shop to add spice and difficulty, Jack Lumber is funny, silly  and addictive.Sega, £1.49Bad Hotel, iPad &amp; iPhoneIn an unusual twist on tower defence, you need to build a hotel that can defend itself from attack by bomb carrying birds, snakes, swimmers and a range of life-threatening oddities. Some rooms earn money, while others help shoot down antagonists or repair damaged parts of the building. There is also a musical element to the game which creates original sounds that are influenced by a player's decisions. Each level arrives with fresh surprises and interludes from the establishment's unscrupulous Texan owner – "I used a credit default swap fair and square to get this hotel". Pulsing to the beat of every shot and explosion, it's an unlikely work of minimalist art.Lucky Frame Ltd, £1.49Games newsPity the PlayStation 3-owningSkyrimplayer. After putting up with a bug that made the game grind to a halt when the save file got too big, it now seems they'll never be able to playDawnguard, the vampire-centric downloadable content that arrived for Xbox in June. This week's announcement ofHearthfire, an Xbox and PC-only extension, allowing players to build sprawling homesteads, will really rub salt into those open wounds …It's getting towards the end of the videogames silly season, although you might not know it from this week's releases:Wappy Dog(Nintendo DS) adds a game-lite component to Activision and Sega's kid-baiting virtual pet;iCarly: Groovy Foodie!(Nintendo DS) is rank Nickleodeon merchandise andPort Royale 3: Pirates And Merchants(Xbox 360, PS3, PC) delivers ultra-low budget buccaneering un-thrills.
I'm not sure it's socially acceptable to admit to enjoying driving these days. It's a bit like saying you're into hare coursing. I'm afraid I&nbsp;do, though – like driving, that is (coursing I don't know – I've never tried it. I can't imagine I would. I like hares). And cars don't get much more enjoyable to drive than this one.It's not the quickest, the cleverest or the flashiest. That's part of its brilliance. Too many sports cars these days have so much power, and massive fat tyres to keep them on the road, and all sorts of sophisticated electronics to help you keep control, that you may as well not be (in control). It's like driving by proxy.Not so this one. A modest two-litre flat four boxer engine, a little under 200bhp, 151lb ft... sorry, I'm turning into a boy. Basically, it's not very, very powerful. But it's light, with a low centre of gravity, rear-wheel drive, beautifully balanced, precise, accurate. Oh, and those tyres – they're the same ones they put on a bloody Prius. Meaning you&nbsp;can drift a bit on the corners, if&nbsp;you so wished.And there you have it, the old-fashioned pleasure of driving, Mr Toad style, machine connecting man to road. Poop poop. So maybe you won't get there quite as fast as the fat cats in their supercars. But you will arrive with just as big a smile on your face.Bigger, in fact – Cheshire to their fat. Not only because you're more in touch with the road, but because bystanders aren't making the internationally recognisable sign for small penis at you as you pass. (I'm assuming these are male drivers;&nbsp;a&nbsp;woman in a supercar is something quite different, and absolutely acceptable).Plus, you've spent a fraction of what they have. Grin per pound, this&nbsp;is about as high as it gets. Apart&nbsp;from aSubaru BRZ, perhaps, which is exactly the same car as this one, only ever so slightly more desirable because Subaru is a cooler brand than Toyota.To return – neatly – to hare coursing. If the Ferraris and Porsches are the greyhounds, then the GT86 is the hare – more nimble and agile on the turns... Yeah, except that analogy doesn't really work because a Porsche or a&nbsp;Ferrari actually corners quicker, too, even if it may not feel like it, so the hare's going to be caught every time. That's no good.OK, then, how about this: it's not just the steering on the GT86 that's brilliant, the brakes are, too. So if an actual hare ran into the road, chances are you'd be able to stop, or steer around it. There you go, everyone's happy, especially the hare.Toyota GT86Price£24,995Top speed140mph0-60 mph7.7 secondsAverage consumption36.2mpgCO2 emissions181g/kmCool rating9/10
It's time for this week's roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps, based on a mixture of App Store trawling, press releases and developer submissions.Games aren't included – you can find the latest multi-platform mobile games rounduphere– and PLEASE before posting an angry comment about The Guardian's dreadful Apple bias, check out the20 Best Android appspiece that was posted earlier.Here's this week's iOS selection:SlideSharkAlready available on iPad, useful presentation-viewing app SlideShark is now available for the iPhone too. The service includes cloud storage for PowerPoint presentations, which can then be downloaded and viewed with the app, and shared with others.iPhoneHouseMateThis app is the work of Shelter Scotland, aiming to help tenants avoid arguments with their landlords over deposit repayments. The idea: the app creates a digital inventory of your rented house's contents, which can be shared between tenant and landlord, complete with photos.iPhoneAppNet RhinoThese are still early days for Twitter-alternative App.net, but the first mobile apps from third-party developers are beginning to appear. First to the App Store is AppNet Rhino, which makes a start on putting the real-time social feed on a smartphone with streams, posting and profiles.iPhoneBarbie: Princess and PopstarAt the time of writing, this is only available in the US. It's a book-app by Random House Digital based on the latest Barbie DVD. Expect a 20-page story, karaoke songs, digital stickers and slide puzzles.iPhone / iPadFlicklistThere are apps to watch films on an iPhone or iPad, but Flicklist is an app to help discover them. Invite-only for now – although invites arerequestableon the developer's website – it's based around curated lists of films and social networking to get the recommendations of friends and strangers alike.iPhoneSwarmlyThe logical next step on from social location apps like Foursquare, Swarmly aggregates social activity from real-world venues and displays them on a map, to show where's hot right now among social apps users. And if the idea of people nose-deep in their smartphones when out for the night enrages you, think of it this way: Swarmly will show you which venues toavoid...iPhoneYogiPlay Parent CenterUS startup YogiPlay is one of the companies trying to help parents discover good educational and/or entertainment apps for their children. Like a Game Center for kids, a bit, except with the connectivity going between parents and children, rather than children and children. Anyway, this is its central app, showing parents how their kids have been using any YogiPlay-enabled apps, as well as recommending others.iPhone / iPadgTarStartup Incident Technologies raised $350k on Kickstarter earlier this year for its educational guitar named gTar. It's a guitar with a dock for an iPhone running the gTar app, which was released this week. The app helps players learn songs, and also functions as the sound-generator for the guitar itself. US-only for now, as that's where early shipments of the gTar itself are going.iPhoneMagic Belles: Magic MusicThis is another new app aimed at girls, featuring characters created by British firm Luma Creative that already exist on the Magic Belles website. The app itself stars six of the fairies with musical mini-games, with flowers and rainbows high in the mix.iPhone / iPadInstaTableThis may be a good back-to-school app for children with their own iPod touch devices (or iPhones, obviously). It's a timetable and homework-planning app with lots of customisation options, to help students quickly input all their classes and tasks, reviewing them as they are completed.iPhoneFeedflowThis weekly post would be stranded without NewsRack, the excellent RSS reader that I use to scan new App Store apps via Google Reader. Feedflow is a stylish-looking alternative, though: logging in to a Google Reader account, downloading articles for offline reading. It also supports sharing on Twitter, Pocket and Readability.iPhoneIndie ShuffleAnother week, another crop of apps trying to solve the music discoverability problem – finding good new songs amid millions of digitally-available tracks. Based on the Indie Shuffle website, this provides playlists in multiple genres, with songs able to be favourited to create your own.iPhoneJohn Cage PianoReleased to celebrate what would have been composer John Cage's 100th birthday, this iPad app is a digital version of Cage's "prepared piano", which (as the App Store description notes – I'm not a Cage buff) involved placing objects "beneath and between the strings of a grand piano to create an entirely new instrument". The sounds have been "meticulously sampled" – great for playing your own avant-garde masterpiece. Or just making a racket.iPadGojeeAlso featured in our Android roundup this week, Gojee aggregates recipes for food and drinks from a range of foody blogs – more than 200, it claims – presenting them in a neat design with lots of photographs to help you choose something appetising to make.iPhone / iPadBlue Badge StyleAnd another dual iOS/Android release for this app, which recommends bars, restaurants and clubs nearby, with reviews. Which may sound like an app genre that's been done to death on iOS – because it has – but the twist here is that Blue Badge Style is also focused on accessibility, showing which venues are friendliest for disabled visitors.iPhone / iPadStarmaticHow much room is there for new photo-sharing apps? Instagram may have gathered 50m users and finally sealed its Facebook deal, but there are plenty of startups jostling to bring something new to the SoPho* genre. Starmatic is the latest: a well-designed app based on the Brownie Starmatic camera, with filters, social sharing and some very nice work on its user interface.iPhoneDM's ft. AggyThere has been a spate of fashion-related apps on iOS in the last month, although not all of them have been as impressive as the clothing they feature. Shoe-brand Dr. Martens has made more of an effort with its new iPhone app though, roping in model Agyness Deyn to show off her own collection. It accompanies the firm's latest line of footwear.iPhoneHow My Body WorksPublisher De Agostini has put together this anatomical book-app, providing two 3D models of the human body – male and female – and splitting its explanations, illustrations and mini-games into eight "packs" which can be bought individually or en masse using in-app purchases. It's aimed at younger iOS users.iPhone / iPadWeathercubeAt first glance, this is the latest app to take inspiration from the no-buttons interface of to-do-lists app Clear, although Weathercube has a different focus – weather forecasts – and does some different things through its cube-like structure. "It's the weather – in a cube – awesome!" reckon the developers.iPhoneMixerOne more social location app to talk about this week: "a social mixer for your location". Nothing to do with cocktails. It's about finding interesting people nearby, which a lot of apps have been trying to do, without much hard evidence of a demand for this. Even so, Mixer has some interesting touches with its focus on neighbourhoods that could help it catch on.iPhone*You will never see the SoPho abbreviation used on the Apps Blog again. That's a promise.
Even before Apple has announced the name or the shape of its next iPhone — expected to be unveiled by chief executive Tim Cook next Wednesday — analysts are certain that it is going to dominate the Christmas market in the US and, to a lesser extent, Europe."Our target is for Apple to sell 50m iPhones in the fourth quarter, of which 28m will be the iPhone 5," said Neil Mawston, executive director of research firm Strategy Analytics. That compares with 37m iPhones in total in the same period a year before, of which Mawston reckons 20m were the then-new iPhone 4S.As ever with Apple product launches, expectations are running high. The breadth of its supply chain means the once Kremlin-like secrecy around iPhone launches has become sieve-like: there is certainty that the "iPhone 5" will have a larger, longer screen, thinner design, smaller SIM card, bigger battery and new connector; it is also expected to offer high-speed 4G/LTE wireless broadband, a step up from the 3G first added to the iPhone in 2008.What isn't known is what the "rabbit in the hat" — the surprise extra — will be. Two years ago it was the high-quality "retina" display; last year, the "Siri" voice recognition system."I wouldn't be surprised if they come up with some kind of service that differentiates them from the rest and which consumers value," says Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst for researchers IDC. The latest reports suggest some sort of music-streaming service, at least in the US, to rival Spotify and Pandora; others suggest the next iPhone will have NFC, a short-range data transmission technology that could be used for mobile payments. Apple has declined to comment.Getting the iPhone right has become crucial for the Californian company which is now the biggest business the world has ever seen, valued at some $628bn (£393bn). The product generates just under half Apple's revenues, and a significant chunk of its massive profits. Any misstep would be disastrous. Next week's model will also be the first launched without Steve Jobs's imprimatur — the Apple co-founder tested last year's iPhone 4S and its key feature, the voice-driven assistant "Siri", despite his terminal cancer — and thus a key test for Cook and the company he has been running since August 2011.Analysts feel so far he has kept it stable. "It's still heading upwards," says Mawston. No analyst sees any sign of a misstep yet — though Cook is not the showman Jobs was, and leaves the presentations to Phil Schiller, the long-time head of marketing, and Scott Forstall, the rising star who heads the iPhone and iPad software divisions. Others suggest Apple could continue for years before the weaknesses emerge and undermine it — as happened at other companies with strong leaders, such as Sony and Disney.There's no sign of weakness for now. Apple collects 71% of the world's smartphone profits, analysts reckon; Even though Samsung ships the most phones, it takes 37%; Taiwan's HTC gets 1%. (That total exceeds 100% because it's offset by losses at Nokia, BlackBerry-maker RIM, Motorola, Sony, LG and others.)The sector is dominated though by phones using Google's Android system: in the second quarter of this year, 68% of the 153m smartphones shipped worldwide used Android, according to Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst at IDC. Apple's collection of just three models — the 4S, 4 and 3GS — made up 17%."But there are so many Android phones!" exclaims Jeronimo. "I counted on our database — 950 different devices in that quarter. For Windows Phone [using Microsoft's mobile software] it's 63, and for BlackBerry it's a little more."What that means for the customer walking into a phone shop, he says, is confusion: "They look at the price, and the design, and look for a brand they've heard of." Apple has built its brand into something that users trust for a reliable, simple experience, he says. "It's seen as the best and easiest user experience in the market."For rivals such as Nokia and Google-owned Motorola, which earlier this week held their own events to show off their new handsets, the attention that Apple garners for its single releases each year must be galling. Nokia, once the world's biggest mobile phone business, is no slouch, showing off two new models with innovations such as touchscreens that work with gloves and wireless charging — no connectors necessary. Motorola, which created the mobile phone business, had three devices, with almost edge-to-edge screens.Benedict Evans of Enders Analysis says though that adding features isn't enough. "Apple doesn't put a technology into a product without knowing what people are going to do with it. There wasn't a front-facing camera until there was also a video-calling service [called FaceTime]."Can Apple go on, though, releasing just one phone a year? By doing so it is making its sales more and more cyclical, says Evans, as buyers hold off for the next version. Jeronimo says: "I have had this discussion with Apple. They say 'do we need to increase the number of phones we make, or have the best-in-class experience?'"Jeronimo says: "Look at what Samsung is doing. It's trying to compete in every market segment, and they will lead in every market. But even Samsung is changing its strategy. It's sold 20m units of its [flagship] Galaxy S3 phone in 100 days, which is very impressive." You could think that Samsung only offers the one phone from its advertising, he suggests, rather than the scores it really does: "Having a strong message and advert around one device pays. Samsung is starting to do that."Evans wonders whether Apple might begin fighting its bitter rival on lower-priced ground. "The average selling price [to carriers] of the iPhone is over $600; most Android phones sell for about $150, though the average is increased by Samsung and HTC to around $250. Nothing that has happened is going to shift that unless Apple starts selling different products at a lower price."
It's time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps for smartphones and tablets, drawn from a mixture of Google Play digging, press releases and submissions from developers.Games aren't included – they get aseparate roundupwhich has plenty of Android games this week. The weekly iOS apps roundup will be published later in the day.Here's this week's Android selection:PizzaExpressFancy a pizza? UK chain Pizza Express' innovative app has been ported from iOS to Android, enabling customers to book tables, and then pay for their bill using PayPal at the end of their meals. The app will also provide regular offer codes, and it ties in with the chain's Click &amp; Collect takeaway-ordering service too.Via.mePitching itself as a "social storyboard", Via.me is an app for sharing photos, videos, audio and text on a standalone social network, as well as through Facebook and Twitter. That means photo filters, feeds of friends' activity – assuming they're on it, of course – and notifications aplenty.White HouseThe official White House app has been out for a little while, but what's new this week is a version for Android tablets, just as the US presidential election gets into swing. Expect news, photos and videos from the White House, including live video streams of events featuring the president himself, and his officials.QuoraLots of people in Silicon Valley have been getting excited about Q&amp;A service Quora for a while now, thanks to plenty of tech executives giving candid views on their industry. Can it become more mainstream through mobile apps? The new Android version is a step in that direction, providing a usable window into Quora, and lots of Android-specific widgetry and features.Richard and Judy Book ClubOut on iOS a couple of weeks ago, WHSmith's official app for this year's Richard and Judy Book Club initiative is the latest example of branded augmented reality. Using HP subsidiary Aurasma's AR technology, it encourages readers to scan covers of participating books to watch reviews and other videos.µTorrent BetaPossibly controversial, this, but on the basis that it's a significant new release – and that there are a number of non-copyright-infringing uses for it – µTorrent makes our selection this week. It's a beta Android client for one of BitTorrent's two clients (the other, BitTorrent itself, already has an Android beta). For now it's free, and aims to make it easy to find and download torrents, including RSS feed subscriptions.TellyThis sounds like it should be some kind of social TV / second-screen app, but actually it's more of a social videos play, taking on Socialcam and Viddy. The idea: shoot videos, add music, and then share on Facebook and Twitter, as well as through Telly's own standalone social network. It's the work of Twitvid, which was one of the first social video startups.KinderPhoneThis app is the latest attempt to make Android smartphones safe for children (see also: Famigo Sandbox). The idea is that parents install the app on their child's phone, and can then monitor what they're doing in terms of apps, social networking and calls. It also has "check-ins messages" to make it quicker for children to let their parents know their current location. A bit Big Brother? That's a debate worth having. If a child is old enough to be given an Android smartphone, are they also old enough to not have their usage of it monitored this closely?Blue Badge StyleStuxbot Technology's new Android app wants to be "a guide for a less able lifestyle". That means a location-based guide to restaurants, bars, cafes and so on, but with an emphasis on how accessible they are (for example: wheelchairs). The app can also be used to call venues for bookings, or browse their websites, and it recommends nearby places with reviews.Gojee - Food &amp; Drink Recipes"Prepare yourself for a happy mouth explosion," shouts Gojee's Android app description, by way of introduction (in capitals). It's an app aggregating food and drink recipes from more than 200 foody blogs, and presenting them with lip-smacking photography in a slinky user interface.ZaraSamsung has bagged an initial exclusive on the official Android app from fashion house Zara. On offer is the company's catalogue, refreshed every week, with options to buy clothes, and scan barcodes when in a store for more information and alternative colours.Meet Travellers by TripayoThere's a mini-blitz of social travel apps in 2012, as startups scramble to help travellers connect to friends and strangers alike for better information on destinations. Tripayo's new app is, as its name makes clear, about hooking up with fellow travellers while on your jaunts – presumably for friendship or more, depending on the situation. Hotel and flight-bookings features are also included.RadiowallaIndian online radio service Radiowalla has launched its official Android app, offering its hand-picked selection of streaming stations in music, sports and talk genres. Some shows can be listened to on-demand, too.Hollywood ReporterHollywood industry magazine The Hollywood Reporter has taken its app to Android, offering a feed of news, views and videos from the film, TV and music industries. Social features are also built in.Coach's EyeTechSmith's Coach's Eye app is a very clever tool for athletes (pro or otherwise) and coaches. The idea: "video capture with slow-motion review, drawing tools, and simple sharing" to analyse your performance and learn to do things better, whether that's running, throwing or swinging a golf club.Internet Radio (Beta)Another app that does what it says on the title. EnsightMedia's app offers 50,000 streaming radio stations drawn from Shoutcast's radio directory, with search features, a sleep timer and some skeuomorphic design touches to make it look like a vintage radio.FoneclayAndroid is already one of the more customisable smartphone operating systems, through its own widgets and third-party apps. Foneclay is the latest example of the latter, promising "immersive, art-interfaces as dynamic as you are". Including, as you'll see from its Google Play screenshots, big yellow monsters. It's a more fun take on the phone-customisation apps genre.Sleep Time Alarm ClockIf I had a pound for every alarm-clock app I've seen go live on Google Play, I'd be too busy browsing speedboat catalogues to write this roundup. Sadly, most of them are rubbish. Sleep Time – Alarm Clock is one of the better ones though: a "sleep cycle alarm clock" that aims to detect your movements in bed using your device's accelerometer, then wake you up at the right moment to avoid grogginess.ChestbursterSome fun here, of the augmented-reality-t-shirt-to-make-an-alien-burst-out-of-your-chest variety. Scan one of Fingerfunk's t-shirts and, yes, an alien will burst out of the person's chest. A novelty, yes, but a useful showcase for what's possible with technology like the Unity 3D game engine and Qualcomm's Vuforia AR platform (both used here).Vibease - Chat and VibratorAnd a bit more fun to finish off, although "finish off" is perhaps not the best phrase to use in this context. Vibease promises "soothing ambient sound and customizable vibration rhythm", as well as a private social network for couples to... Well, make one another's smartphones buzz. The app will also work with a separate Vibease vibrator for true Android-fuelled sexytime. Not a phrase you'll be reading in this column for a while, thankfully.That's our selection, but what have you been using this week on your Android smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations with a comment.
The name should give you plenty of clues about the nature of Ubisoft's newly announced free-to-play dungeon crawler. It's silly, it's self-conscious and it wants to poke a bit of fun at this most straight-faced of ridiculous game genres. But that's not the main thing – Mighty Quest For Epic Loot is actually a clever blend of hack-n-slash action and map editing fun.The idea is simple. You build a castle using a simple drag and drop editor, fill it with traps and enemies, then upload it to the game's online world for others to raid. Every room and every monster you add to your building, and every scenic prop costs a certain amount of either virtual gold coins, or gems, which can be bought for real cash. As you add more to your building it levels up, unlocking new items and creatures. Once online, others can invade your castle and try to reach your treasure room to beat the level - at the end they're able to provide a score for your work as an architect (sort of Trip Advisor, but for fortresses), and high ranking creations will be slotted in among the main Ubisoft-crated missions in the title's online campaign mode.And while you're not crafting the perfect deathtrap dungeon, you can choose your own hero character and go off to attack other people's creations. There are various classes to go for including knights and archers, all with their own different weapons and special powers: the knight for example has a smite move which allows him to do enormous damage to a foe with one deadly swing of his blade. And of course, enemies drop loot including armour and weaponry, and completing a castle earns your character XP which can be used to upgrade - without paying any real cash. You can also send challenges to friends, naming a castle and tempting them to beat your completion time - it's even possible to put some gold coins on as a wager.The whole things looks to be cleverly balanced. For example, each room has a set defensive value so you can only fill it with a certain number of guards and traps – this ensures nasty players aren't able to craft impassible bottlenecks of death. This isn't Dark Souls. In a neat touch, though, your final room has a higher value, allowing you to slip in a more powerful boss character, such as a giant cyclops. (There are also mini-bosses to abandon around the place – in the demo we saw, one was a large scuttling crab.)The humour extends further than that daft title. Castle traps include a deadly spiked wheel which is driven back and forth by a giant hamster. One of the areas in the campaign is named Stabbinshire, and the end-of-level dragon is called Mr Firesly. It's not subtle, but then neither is invading a castle, killing everything and then stealing treasure.The visuals have a cartoonish brightness, but all the tropes of the genre, from flaming torches to gothic arches, are here. It's such a compelling idea, which combines both social and hardcore gaming elements, and equips it all with a seemingly subtle monetisation system. If Ubisoft can support its creation with regular additions to the editor, this could well become a mighty time sink for epic looters.The Mighty Quest for Epic Loot is due out on PC in early 2013
Amazon stepped up its fight with Apple on Thursday, unveiling a new set of Kindle Fire tablets including some with larger screens designed to compete with the iPad.In a former airplane hangar in Santa Monica, California, Amazon boss Jeff Bezos unveiled a slate of new products that will also compete with rival devices from Google, Microsoft and bookseller Barnes &amp; Noble.Bezos unveiled two new versions of its bestselling Kindle Fire tablets he intends to use to drive use of Amazon's expanding online video library.The Kindle Fire HD comes in a 7-inch and 8.9-inch version and will sell for $199 and $299, respectively, for a 16GB model. The new product will have two wi-fi channels for faster transfers.A premium 32GB version with an 8.9-inch screen will cost $499, and will have the capacity to connect to the 4G cellular networks being built by phone companies in the US. A data plan will cost $50 a year.The basic, 7-inch Fire model will cost $159, down from $199 for the original model. Amazon is also dropping the price of its low-end Kindle to $69, from $79. Both will start shipping next Friday.Two of the new models will be available in the UK: the 7-inch Kindle Fire at £159 and the basic model at £129. Both will ship from 25 October."We haven't built the best tablet at a certain price. We have built the best tablet at any price," said Bezos.The company also released a new e-reader, Paperwhite, featuring a new higher resolution monochromatic display and a body that is "thinner than a magazine, lighter than a paperback", Bezos said. Paperwhite, priced at $119,  is lit from above rather than from the back, which, according to Bezos, made it "perfect in direct sunlight". A model with a 3G connection will cost $179.Paperwhite starts shipping on 1 October in the US, and will also be available in the UK.The Kindle Fire has captured 22% of tablet sales in the US in the nine months since it went on sale last November and has been the company's top-selling product since launch, Amazon said last week. But the sales leave Amazon trailing far behind Apple's far more powerful iPad devices which accounted for 68% of global tablet shipments in the second quarter, compared with Amazon's 5%, according to research firm IDC.Apple is rumoured to be looking at launching smaller, cheaper tablets that will further intensify the fight between the two firms while Amazon has considered launching a mobile device that would compete with Apple's iPhone.Amazon's latest move comes after both Google and Microsoft have made forays into the tablet market. In July Google launched the Nexus 7 tablet, a $199 device about the same size as a Kindle Fire but with more computing power and a camera. In June Microsoft announced the launch of a series of tablet PCs dubbed Surface that will go on sale in October.The online retail giant has been building its media ties in order to compete with Apple and its rivals. Earlier this week Amazon announced a deal with film distributor EPIX, which counts recent blockbusters including The Avengers, The Hunger Games and Thor among its titles.
