Just back from lunch with the Sierra Wireless people behind the Voq, which Jackmentions below. I got a first play with the new phone, which will go on sale at an as-yet-unspecified point in the first half of next year.First impressions: it's a nice smartphone, light years ahead of the Orange SPV I'vemoaned aboutrecently. For a start it uses a 200MHz Intel PXA262 processor with stacked flash memory which means that - combined with a much-improved and adapted version of Microsoft's Smartphone software - the experience is much more snappy. There are some nice features Sierra Wireless has added on top of the OS, too, including a very fast and easy way to file and retrieve information locally, and from the web/network.The most obvious hardware feature is its fold-out keyboard: a QUERTY effort divided by a big, solid hinge. It's reasonably fast to peck out a message - certainly, much better than an alphanumeric keypad or even the SPV's fabric keyboard - although don't expect to be touch-typing. But the device is also light - lighter than the SPV? - if slightly taller, and around the same thickness.The phone will be aimed squarely at business users; although it will play games and do fancy/irritating ringtones, the most important features will be pretty pragmatic; support for standard BigFirm email systems including Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Notes, for one.Price info: top end of the SmartPhone scale, less than a PDA, which places it in the £200 - £300 bracket by my guessing.
According to a research report released Wednesday by IDC, "Microsoft's Windows accounted for 55.1 percent of new shipments of server operating systems in 2002, up from 50.5 percent in 2001, while paid versions of Linux accounted for 23.1 percent of new shipments in 2002, up from 22.4 percent in 2002, the Framingham, Massachusetts, market research company said in its report. The IDC report did not take into account the free versions of Linux available," saysIDG News."According to the report, license shipments by Microsoft, on the client side, increased to 93.8 percent of the worldwide market in 2002, up from 93.2 percent in 2001. In 2002, paid Linux client license shipments accounted for 2.8 percent of the market total."
"New Voq-branded professional phones will be based on Microsoft Windows Mobile software for Smartphones and will feature both a familiar phone keypad and unique flip-open QWERTY thumbpad," says the press release atMSMobiles.com. The pictures show how it works....
Applehas announced the launch date of the next version of its OSX operating system, code-namedPanther. It will be available from 7pm (UK time) on Friday October 24, for £99. And while I wouldn't say the new version is important enough to spoil your normal Friday night plans, the previews we've seen suggest it will be worth popping out for - say - the following morning. Best bits include fast user switching for those of us who have multiple users of one computer, and Expose - a new system to make it easier to locate open application windows. With this being the third major revision in as many years of OSX, we've got to hope the system is now mature enough to need only (cheaper) incremental revision for a little while now...
"IBM Monday released two new laptops that include a detection technology similar to the one used in automobile airbags," reportsCRN. "The Armonk, N.Y.-based computer maker said its new ThinkPad R50 (USD$1529) and T41 (USD$1649) models will come with the automatic hard drive protection technology because frankly, notebook owners are a clumsy lot."
"Sony Corp said on Tuesday it would launch the "PSX" -- an entertainment system boasting a satellite TV tuner and DVD recorder plus its PlayStation 2 game player -- in Japan later this year at a minimum price of 79,800 yen ($719), reportsReuters. "It hopes the all-in-one entertainment system, which also has a hard disk drive (HDD) recorder, will boost its electronics division, whose aging product line-up and high costs were a big factor behind a net loss of almost $1 billion in the January-March quarter."
The NSPCC warned last night that children who have been abused by people producing pornographic photographs for the internet are likely to suffer life-long damage.An analysis of 140,000 images of child pornography posted on websites over six weeks found 35,000 were pictures showing the systematic abuse of just 20 children, none of whom had featured before on known pornographic sites.This worked out at an average of 1,750 images of each child, none of whom could be identified or located. Even the children's home countries were in doubt, according to University of Cork   researchers, who were looking into the activities of European paedophile networks.The NSPCC said computer technologies were transforming child pornography into a "global cottage industry, where boundaries between consumers, distributors and producers become blurred".It commissioned a review of the evidence on child pornography after the conviction of the singer Gary Glitter in 1999 for downloading more than 4,000 indecent images.The report tells of the experiences of abuse survivors, who spoke about their "intense feelings of powerlessness, shame and humiliation in the knowledge that a record of their abuse exists and can endlessly be recirculated".The charity called for long-term support and treatment to be available for all victims.
The NHSnet, the National Health Service's private intranet, started out as a project in 1992, launching in 1995. Today the service has almost 10,000 connections, allowing NHS Trusts, GP surgeries and health centres to have a direct connection to the network. But now, the NHS is considering opening up the service to the public, and this could bring its own headaches.Carrie Armitage is head of access to information with the NHS and the manager in charge of the NHSnet project. Speaking this summer at a north-western regional internet forum in Manchester, she said that the reasons for creating the NHSnet have now been overtaken by the general acceptance of the internet by the community at large."When we created the NHSnet, the internet was still in its infancy," Armitage told delegates, adding that, now the 10-year contracts forged with BT and Cable &amp; Wireless in the early 1990s are coming up for renewal, there is a big question as to whether the private NHSnet should be opened up to all.Despite the fact that it took until 1999 before the NHSnet had its own central messaging service and a user-friendly email addressing system, today it has 850,000 registered email users in its national directory and handles more than 2.5m messages a day. According to Armitage, the service has a budget of £60m during the current year, with £20m for mail and messaging facilities alone.The obvious reasoning behind the NHSnet having its own infrastructure, Armitage explained, is the need for patient confidentiality, since the internet has had more than its fair share of security problems. Against that now, however, is the cost issue. The internet has become ubiquitous, while the technology for secure and authenticated transmissions has also fallen in price. Coupled with the fact that the NHSnet has reached the point where patients can be invited to access the service, the intranet is now at something of a crossroads."We've reached the stage where it is possible for patients to book their own appointments with their GP, so the issue of patient interaction across the NHSnet also has to be taken into account as we develop the network for its second decade," Armitage said.While there is a strong cost-based argument to move the NHSnet network infrastructure over to the public internet, there is also the issue of internet reliability. The NHSnet, said Armitage, has a 99.99% "uptime", compared to the internet's uptime - in the UK at least - of around 98%. If the NHSnet were to be simply plugged into the public internet, the question is would NHS staff and their patients be able to cope with the NHSnet being down?The answer, of course, is that NHSnet downtime equates to potentially significant losses, both in cash and patient treatment terms. As if all this were not enough to weigh up when considering the future of the NHSnet, Armitage told delegates that there is now a pressing need in some sections of the NHS for mobile access to the NHSnet service."There are now 600,000 to 700,000 PCs in the NHS, and we know that only a small fraction of these are actually connected to the NHSnet. As we expand the service, we also have to accept that the number of machines hooked into the network will rise significantly, so we also have to plan in advance for that expansion." To date, she added, the NHSnet has had something of a slow takeup, with most of its growth happening within the past few years.Armitage says that Syntegra, which handles the NHSnet's email facilities on a managed message-handling service basis, has had 100% uptime since the main service started in 1999. Small wonder then, that Armitage and her team fear a migration of the NHSnet to the public internet would reduce service levels for both staff and patients. "How we develop the NHSnet in the coming few years depends on a lot of factors, but the issue of patient care has to be a priority," she said.Given the flakiness of the public internet at the best of times, Armitage and her team have a task on their hands.
According to the latest official count last June, the UK state sector had 2,643 websites, rising by about 50 each month. But what it needs is fewer sites, and much better ways to navigate around them, according to the Office of the e-Envoy, which is in charge of coordinating e-government."We need to kill off a few websites," Alan Mather, head of e-delivery at the office, told a recent conference on boosting takeup of e-government, run by Headstar, a leading website on e-government. "We need to consolidate them down, or throw them away. That means collaboration."Firstly, this means some coherence in the look of state websites. Mather said that the state sector receives as many visitors as the BBC, Yahoo and MSN put together. But instead of the standardised layout and search facilities found on those sites, state websites vary greatly. "We don't just confuse them once, we confuse them repeatedly," Mather said of the users. Sites vary greatly in size, he pointed out, with the largest 150 websites holding four of the five million UK government web pages - meaning sites that are increasingly difficult to control or search. They vary even between comparable organisations: some local authorities have a couple of dozen pages online, whereas others have 100,000.There is a similar lack of consistency on domain names. Two-letter names are ruled out by policy, meaning that the obvious place to look for the Department of Health - dh.gov.uk - does not work, the actual domain beingdoh.gov.uk. However, the Inland Revenue (ir.gov.uk) and the prime minister (pm.gov.uk) are exceptions.At the other end of the spectrum, 10 domain names exceed 30 characters, Mather said, citing examples includingwww.employmenttribunalsystemtaskforce.gov.uk(to be fair, the website at this particular domain has now been closed, with visitors redirected to part of the DTI site).Maintaining each website costs money, which could be better spent on fewer, better services. And the proliferation and diversity of sites makes it very hard for a citizen to find what he or she wants online. Mather blames this on a failure to break down divisions between departments. "We need to switch off this attitude: 'It's my department, and we'll do it the way we want to.'"This means that websites should focus on areas, rather than departments, he said. These could be transferred when departmental responsibilities change, and could work across departments, without the user noticing.One example of how this should not work is at the US sitewww.govbene fits.gov, which suggests information on benefits for which a user may be eligible. However, it just passes users to the departmental websites running those benefits, where they have to enter their details from scratch.The government has to provide services people actually want, Mather added. Health would have been the obvious service to start with online, given its popularity. Instead, the UK, like most governments, went for tax-paying first.Fred Perkins, former chief executive of the Stationery Office and now at the Digital Content Forum, told the conference that the 2005 target for getting all services online should be dumped. "Organisations set targets to get people thinking about direction. Sites are increasingly difficult to search. They vary between comparable organisations: some local authorities have a few pages online; others have 100,000. A year later, the targets are changed. Set new targets, tweak the direction a little bit."Targets that measure usage can be a red herring, and are in some cases the reverse of what should be sought. "We've got to remember, we are not selling something," he said. For example, lots of people using a local authority's website to report dumped cars could show its failure to move vehicles promptly; ideally, a council worker would spot it, report it and the vehicle would be moved before any member of the public needed to make a report."A measure of e-government is a decline in interactivity with citizens, as they would be happy," Perkins commented. "Let's not worship the mantra of ever-rising website hits or interactions."Rather than trying to attract users to a website, state sector organisations need to start by getting their internal technology sorted out, then set up systems that can cope with all kinds of communication, not just email, he said."Get the frontline people onside. All this stuff starts as a bit of a threat to them. They can see jobs threatened."However, technology can be used to help them do their jobs better, Perkins added. "The greatest challenge of all for e-government, which also happens to be the greatest opportunity, is freedom of information." (The Freedom of Information Act is already law, but it comes into full effect at the start of 2005.)"We are going to be involving citizens in why that process is as it is, as all the decision-making will be available to every citizen in the country." And that will require using technology to make the procedures of government as open as possible.
This government made websites the subject of one of its broadest of broad-brush targets when it promised that all services would be available electronically by 2005.For local government, the state has provided all councils with some funding, on receipt of their IEG (Implementing Electronic Government) plans. The situation needed some work: in 1999, 40% the 467 UK councils at or above district size did not have a web presence.Each year, the Society of ITManagement (Socitm), the professional association for locally based IT managers, examines council websites: its first report produced the figure above. This year, its Better Connected survey found for the first time that all these councils have a website.But quality still varies widely. The best council websites are excellent: clear, user-friendly and rich in services. Wrexham (see below) among 10 given "transactional" status by Socitm, meaning they offer several kinds of service online, along with excellent information.But a fifth of the UK's local authorities still have a website categorised by Socitm as "promotional" - essentially little more than an online brochure.There is no parallel research for the NHS. However, there are fairly strict guidelines for trusts and other health service organisations follow, provided by the Department Health (seewww.nhsia.nhs.uk).The result is that NHS trusts tend to have reasonable websites, clearly laid out with plenty of information. Yet few do anything more, and the facility for electronic transactions seems rare.The shining exceptions for the NHS in England arewww.nhs.uk, providing a database of NHS services (see below), andwww.nhsdirect.nhs.uk, which includes self-diagnostic tools, complementing the telephone service of the same name. There are equivalents for the other home nations. Wales has a small, equivalent site, and Scotland is building one.Other sites generally link to these two, and it could be argued that there is little point in providing interaction on a local basis when these national sites do it so well.But providing local transactions is possible. Netherfield House, a GP surgery in Seghill, Northumberland, allows patients to make repeat prescriptions through its website atwww.netherfieldhousesurgery.co.uk. It is the exception, though, and many surgeries and health centres do not have a website, let alone one able to handle transactions.Many central government websites are of good quality, and several provide online transactions, such as the Inland Revenue's online tax return service. There are also some poor ones, although numbers are falling.If you work for the state sector, your organisation will almost certainly have a website. So why go further? Firstly, because about half of UK adults have internet access, and increasing numbers will use it in preference to other channels of communication. A shoddy website reflects badly, as would a switchboard that kept losing incoming calls.Secondly, it can be a very efficient way of providing some services. Several councils place the same information on the website and their internal network (or intranet), and use it as a knowledge base for those answering the phones. And automated processing of transactions online is a particularly good way of saving money, if the service is used by sufficient numbers - that's why online banks offer better interest rates. People will use such services: Wrexham county borough council has taken around £61,000 in payments through its website during April, May, June and July, for a service it started in November last year.Thirdly, there is specific pressure from the new Disability Discrimination Act to improve websites. Part four of the act will make it a requirement that public sector websites are accessible to all.Robin Christopherson, web consultancy manager for IT accessibility charity AbilityNet, says the business case is at least as strong as the legal case. "There's certainly huge scope for bad PR," he says.And making a site accessible - this primarily means for the visually impaired - tends to be good for all users.A minimum requirement is to provide advice on accessibility, such as on increasing the size of type within a browser - AbilityNet's website has advice atwww.ability net.org.uk- and to use ALT tags (textual alternatives to pictures and images that can be read out by a screen-reader).Christopherson says investing in such software, such as IBM's Home Page Reader, allows designers to check their site is accessible to the visually impaired.But you don't need to tear everything down and start again. "The Act is about reasonable adjustment," says Christopherson. "The one thing that is inexcusable is not to have a plan. The very least you can say is, we know the scale of the problem and here is our plan to solve it."Evidence suggests that well-designed sites can pull in more visitors. Socitm's Better Connected survey used website traffic data from internet service providers to calculate "visits per head of population" for all local authority websites. The top 30 included 16 of Socitm's top sites - these comprise just 10% of local authorities."There's definitely a correlation between those which are well-used and those which are well-developed," says Martin Greenwood, editor of the Better Connected report. "If there's a poor structure, or the information is out-of-date, people won't return."This is clear when comparing like with like. Tameside metropolitan borough council, which has one of the best local authority websites, has seven times the usage of the least-used metropolitan district site in the north-west. The London borough of Brent, another top-rated site, has five times the usage of the least-used London borough.And if you have a site, you might as well have a popular one. The cost per extra visit is very small, compared with other kinds of communication such as printed material or phone calls - although there is little worse than promoting a website and then not having the web server capacity to deal with its popularity.However, this is more likely to be a problem for national sites such as the Environment Agency's hazard mapping service or the Public Records Office's 1901 Census, both of which were inundated with requests on their high-profile openings.There is help available. Tameside (www.tameside.gov.uk), the first council to meet the government target to offer all its services electronically, has offered advice and software to other councils. Aplaws (www.aplaws.org.uk) offers a free content management system to all UK local authorities. The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister provides information on pathfinder websites at the following site:www.lgolpathfinder.gov.uk. NHS bodies are encouraged to turn to the NHS Information Authority for guidance.And online, it is very easy to see how others do what they do. Just bear in mind that everyone else can see what you are doing as well - something of a motivational factor in itself.Four websitesGoodWrexham metropolitan borough councilwww.wrexham.gov.uk/english/The home-page is simply designed, with dark text on a white background, but with splashes of colour. On the left there are links to the site's main sections, as well as links to other state bodies such as UK Online and the Welsh Assembly.In the top right, the red "Cymraeg" links to a version of this page in Welsh: one in seven locals speak as their first language. Every page on the site has a Welsh version, with similar "English" link.The domain name is obvious:www.wrexham.gov.uk/english/. This takes you to a page offering either English or Welsh home-pages. The council also ownswww.wrecsam.gov.uk, the Welsh for Wrexham, which takes you straight to the Welsh language home-page.The site accepts online payments for council and local utility bills, along with numerous reporting services such as of fly-tipping and street-lighting problems, through the "Online Facilities" link.The right-hand side includes a map showing Wrexham's location - recommended practice. Below that, job vacancies for council sites, is clearly linked. One of the few drawbacks is that you need to scroll to get to the council's address and telephone number at the bottom of the homepage.The apparently blank top-left corner of each page includes a white-on-white internal link to the page's contents. This allows people using screen-reading software to jump to the contents, without going through the bars on top and left which appear on every page. This and other features meant Wrexham was the first local authority to get the Royal National Institute for the Blind's See it Right award.BadHartlepool borough councilwww.hartlepool.gov.ukIt may be pretty, but is it functional? Not according to this year's Socitm survey, which gave it the lowest mark of any major local authority.This is partly due to a lack of transactional facilities, but several problems are visible here on the home-page, which is more than 100kb in size, making it slow to download on a normal modem. The home-page offers no information and there is no search facility or site-map.The site uses a technique known as "frames", which means every page appears to be www.hartlepool.gov.uk, so you can't bookmark internal pages.This would be fine for a small business, but not for a unitary local authority. The city is currently working on a replacement which should be available in the autumn.GoodNHS gateway sitewww.nhs.ukThis has a simple, clear design. One of the most prominent features answers the question "Are you feeling ill?" with a link to the website for NHS Direct, but also its phone number in big clear numerals.The top right has the site's most useful feature: its directory of GPs, hospitals, chemists, dentists, opticians and walk-in centres. This includes contact details, in some cases opening hours, and for dentists, policy on taking NHS patients. There are links to a full-page version of this search facility at the left-hand side and at the bottom of the page.The "story" in the centre of the site, here about modern matrons, changes every few weeks providing a reason to return. There are also links to the Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish NHS gateways. And you can't beat this for a domain name.BadThe Security Service (MI5)www.mi5.gov.ukAt least MI5 has a website: its sister organisation MI6 remains offline. The problems here are of design. The home-page is almost 100kb in size, with big pictures slowing its download time. The title of every page is Home_MI5, particularly annoying for a user of the search facility.The page is rendered badly in browsers other than Explorer. It also demonstrates another problem: unlike the NHS site, the home-page is much taller than it is wide.How to design a site&#183;Web pages should be reasonably-sized. The government's Guidelines for UK Government Websites says home pages should be less than 40 kilobytes, although research by the web monitoring service NexusWatch found the average is 69k. Anything more than 100k is pushing it. This primarily means keep the images small.&#183;Keep the overall design of the page pretty simple - black on white is absolutely fine, it works for BBC News (and the Guardian). Avoid animation and sound except in special circumstances. Sans-serif fonts such as Arial or Verdana are easier to read.&#183;Any state-sector site should link to other parts of the public sector, and towww.ukonline.gov.uk(the government's central website). A council should consider linking to other levels of local government - the national assemblies, or a district's county council - and to neighbouring authorities. An English NHS site should link towww.nhs.ukand NHS Direct Online (www.nhsdirect.nhs.uk), as well as other local NHS organisations.&#183;Check the site works with different browsers. Microsoft Internet Explorer may dominate the market, but there are plenty of users of Netscape and Opera. Your site should work reasonably on all three.&#183;Include ALT tags for images. You can see these if you turn off images on your browser, or in some browsers, if you rest the cursor over an image - they describe what is in the image. They are vital for use by the visually impaired.&#183;Providing translated versions of pages is desirable in areas with strong use of languages other than English.&#183;Provide accessibility and user preference information. AbilityNet can help with this - see main text.&#183;Provide a search engine facility that works. This means special software, and staff time analysing the results. If people are regularly searching for a certain subject, it may need a link from the home page. Also, provide an A to Z list of services with multiple entries - "waste" as well as "refuse", for example. If words keep cropping up in the search engine, put them on this list too. A site map is also useful.&#183;Update the site regularly, at least every few weeks. This gives people a reason to visit again.&#183;Use proper domain names. Local authorities are entitled to names ending with .gov.uk and NHS organisations are entitled to names ending .nhs.uk. As these are only issued to government and NHS bodies respectively, these establish your credibility. The NHS has strict naming conventions - seewww.addressing.nhs.uk- but local government does not. If your council is not using the most obvious name - ie www.manchester.gov.uk - consider changing to this name, or at least obtaining it as another way to your site.&#183;For any site beyond an online brochure, static pages (the kind designed in desktop publishing-style software) are likely to be too inflexible, as they require web-page design staff to make all changes. Instead, consider content management software allowing departmental staff to edit pages by altering a database.&#183;For more information, go to: Socitm,www.socitm.gov.uk- publisher of the Better Connected survey. The NHS Information Authority -www.nhsia.nhs.uk- provides guidelines on NHS IT, including websites.AbilityNet:www.abilitynet.org.uk- provides free advice on making IT accessible to all, as well as paid-for consultancy.W3C:www.w3.org/wai- the World Wide Web Consortium is the nearest thing the web has to a governing body. This part of its site offers guidelines on good practice in web design.Bobby:bobby.watchfire.com/- an automated service that checks pages for compliance with some of the W3C guidelines.
A number of themes emerged at this summer's Government Computing conference, where hundreds of delegates met to discuss the rigours of e-government. As a former junior minister at the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, Christopher Leslie said around half of all households now have an internet connection and the government sees new technology as central to its agenda for public services reform."E-government is key to bringing about performance change in the public sector," Leslie said. "We want to take the hard work out of the transactions  people have with central and  local government. However, people are not engaging with government online as much as they buy or bank online. We need to invest in systems that deliver the right service but also systems that encourage self-service."Leslie also referred to the  government's Planning Portal, aiming to link councils, business and the public. Councils handle 600,000 planning applications each year, employing an array of manual and electronic processes. The portal aims to create a single system to process applications and operate in tandem with council websites and internal systems. It links relevant organisations and will connect to the government's gateway site and UK Online. It covers the whole of the planning  system from initial inquiry to final decision. Case information is accessible on the internet on  individual council websites via the portal.The issue of user take-up was addressed by conference speakers. London Assembly e-envoy Val Shawcross said: "Many local authorities are pacesetters, but some are off the pace. There are thousands of public sector websites, but a lack of traffic."Another theme to emerge during discussions was that of investment. Three months on from the conference, councils are preparing their third set of implementing e-government (IEG) statements, which report on progress over the past 12 months to the government. Due by November 10, these will determine which local authorities receive funding to implement e-government for 2004. The latest guidance from the ODPM says: "Councils that have not done well in achievement, investment, capacity  or performance management may  particularly need to consider the role e-government can play in delivering improvements as part of the wider strategy for improvement planning."This highlights the government's determination to link funding to performance and suggests the IEG statements are about bringing poor  performers up to the standard of the best. However, many companies are still clamouring to invest in government ICT despite research that shows it could take 10 years or more before  technology starts to pay for itself, let alone begin to rake in profits.Chris Haynes, an adviser to the ODPM's local government modernisation team, said councils have to tread carefully as they simply cannot afford to go bust like some dotcoms. He told the conference that paperbased  systems often need to run alongside new ICT projects; however, the latest round of IEG statements are expected to show that e-government is gradually replacing traditional  bulging files of paperwork.Geographical information systems continue to be a valuable way of linking data held by a range of public organisations. Leslie told conference delegates: "Digitised maps and geographical information systems are key building blocks in creating  thriving, sustainable communities." These systems apply the mapping techniques used by Ordnance Survey to government and agencies to enable them to share information and identify where services are most needed.Sharing information is key to implementing e-government successfully. A discussion on linking health and social care professionals highlighted the fact that hospitals  still do not have access to a national database of patient records. This sort of freedom of information is becoming increasingly possible as those involved in e-government come to terms with a shared language of interaction, security and authentication.Many are undoubtedly still in  the dark on issues surrounding the introduction of new technology, and the government intends to set up an academy of excellence for those interested in finding out more. A standards body has also been set up by the ODPM. It has an initial budget of £2.5m and will be run by leading  local authorities. ODPM adviser Haynes said: "It is a way of giving  people who want to find out more somewhere to start."In fact, the overriding message from the conference was that there is plenty of help around for those just beginning  the journey to e-enablement. If you feel that you are being left behind, just ask. For more information, see:www.localegov.gov.uk
With Concorde retiring and the Dome possibly being turned into a giant casino,  the UK needs a national symbol of innovation. In e-voting, it has one. According to e-democracy expert Stephen Coleman, no other country has gone as far as the UK in applying the internet to voting. (Coleman's own post, professor of e-democracy at Oxford University, is itself a world first.)Earlier this year, this commitment culminated in the biggest trial yet of e-voting to be sponsored by a nation state in a government election: the local e-voting pilots in the English  council elections. The pilots covered 14% of the English electorate. Mostly, the technology and processes worked well. There was only one snag: when it came to the main purpose of the exercise - increasing turnout - e-voting had little measurable impact.An official evaluation by the Electoral Commission (The Shape  of Elections to Come: a Strategic Evaluation of the 2003 Electoral Pilot  Schemes) found "some evidence that turnout can increase slightly" from the availability of e-voting. The increase was impossible to measure, but an "indicative figure" is somewhere between 0% and 5%. Postal voting, by contrast, consistently improved turnouts by 50%.However, the commission urged that further pilots go ahead, and called for a fundamental building block of e-voting, a locally created but nationally accessible electronic electoral register.The good news from last May is that 115,283 people cast votes using e-channels across 14 authorities. That was on average just over 11% of the electorate. The figure for  people choosing e-voting looked even better when measured against actual turnout.In Sheffield, which carried out the most ambitious e-voting trial, 20,845 votes were cast electronically - a record 37% of the total turnout.The Sheffield pilot was also an impressive exercise in multi-channel e-government: voters could send a text message from their mobile phone, call a touch-tone phone service, vote via a website on their computers or use public electronic kiosks dotted around the city.Voters in some wards were authenticated by multi-purpose smart cards issued by the city council to 200,000 residents.However, despite these efforts, Sheffield's overall turnout was 29.53%, unchanged from the previous election, when it pioneered e-voting in three of 29 wards. This suggests that most people who used the new channels would have voted anyway.Councils holding all-postal ballots did better at boosting numbers: south Somerset's turnout was nearly 9% up on the previous election.Overall, according to the office of the deputy prime minister, the average turnout for all postal ballots was just under 50%, well above the average of one-third.Mainly, the e-voting technology worked well in May. The only notable glitch in electronic voting was at St Albans, where problems with verifying e-votes meant that at 15 polling stations paper ballots were used instead.However, the Electoral Commission warned that IT suppliers will need to smarten up their act, particularly when it comes to transparency and processes for collating votes from different sources."In general terms, however, processes at the e-voting counts were not well developed in advance and were rarely documented."The processes often involved the manual transfer of results data (for example, by email), followed by an import into standard office technology (for example, Microsoft Word or Excel) and manual transformations. Difficulties were apparent in the integration of the count from different voting channels."The commission said the government should, as a priority, "develop a detailed road map towards its stated goal, drawing on expertise across the public and private sectors in the successful development of major IT projects. It is important that this road map is in place before the next round of electronic pilots to enable progress to be reported against an agreed long-term project plan."However, the new Department for Constitutional Affairs is already drawing up plans for the next big  test of e-voting. Under legislation unveiled last month, English councils organised by region will be able to allow e-voting in European and local elections on June 10 next year.Christopher Leslie, minister at  the Department for Constitutional Affairs, said the legislation would  "allow important pilots of innovative voting methods to continue at local government elections and to take place at European parliamentary  elections for the first time."But first, central government may need to put some national building  blocks in place. In a separate report published in June (Voting  for Change: an Electoral Law  Modernisation Programme), the commission calls for reform in electoral registration.The aim is to move from household - a throwback to the time when only property owners could vote -  to registration by individuals. To register, each voter will have to identify themselves (presumably  by the ID card being mooted by the Home Office) rather than as today: being named by the householder (or whoever fills in the electoral  registration form). Apart from reducing the risk of fraud, the commission says a national register is an essential step towards e-voting."We also need to have a national electronic register, compiled locally, to make e-enabled elections a realistic aspiration and to allow votes to be cast securely from any polling station."The commission also proposes allowing citizens to register much more closely to the date of an election, including over the internet and by telephone. It does not say how voters will prove their identity electronically.The report is a boost for the delayed Local Authority Secure Electoral Register (Laser) project, a national register planned by the ODPM with the commission, the  Local Government Association and the Improvement and Development Agency. The Treasury has already allocated £12m for Laser, but the  project is awaiting the go-ahead.Nationally, the government says it is committed to holding a total e-enabled general election sometime after 2006. However, new channels will run in parallel with the old: ballot papers and boxes will be around for a long time to come.This has implications for cost: the Electoral Commission points out that the UK spends less per head on elections than many comparable countries (eg a quarter of the Canadian figure). Local authorities are particularly economical (or stingy).Updating 408 local electoral registers costs £72m each year. Although the signs are that the UK will be the first major country to hold an e-enabled general election, others are investing in the basic technology. In this year's Belgian general election, 44% of Belgians (3.2m citizens) voted electronically at polling stations. First  results were announced 15 minutes after polling stations closed.Surprisingly, the US, where internet voting technology was born, is unlikely to take the lead. Internet polls in primary elections have been challenged under the 1965 Voting  Rights Act, a key piece of civil rights legislation which banned discriminatory electoral practices. As fewer American blacks than whites have internet access, an internet presidential election is unlikely - however flawed existing processes are.www.electoralcommission.org.uk
Update:Now with working links... The new-ish weblogging toolTypepadcame out of beta yesterday. If you're thinking about starting a website/weblog, or are wanting to change the way you publish your existing one, Typepad is well worth a look. Why? It's got power and flexibility, nearly all managed through a very nice interface, and once you've set everything up the techy stuff can be left alone. No fretting over hosting, or keeping complex software up. Best of all, its complexity is controllable by the user, which means it can appeal both to newbies and old(er) weblogging hands. I'm not sure if it will stop webloggers all being"upper middle class white males"or"teenage girls"(anyone feel an identity crisis coming on?) but it is certainly a nice way to publish stuff to the web. Using it reminds you of that initial excitement you felt about all this web publishing lark, and makes you want to go off and create something new. Which I think I will...
Japanese videogame producer Nintendo saw its shares fall sharply yesterday as investors reacted to the surprise news that the creator of Pokemon and the Mario Brothers will make its first loss.Shares dropped more than 5% following the news late last week that the group's projected first-half profit of &#163;85m will actually be a loss of &#163;16m - the first in Nintendo's four decades as a publicly traded company - as a result of poor sales of its GameCube console and the dollar's fall against the yen.The company, which keeps much of its foreign earnings in local currencies up to the last minute to take advantage of the better interest rates available outside Japan, has lost about &#163;215m on foreign currency transactions since the start of the year as the yen has soared in value.Analysts are also concerned about the Kyoto-based company's competitive position. Its second place in the video consoles market - behind Sony's PlayStation - is already under threat from Microsoft's XBox and its hand-held gaming devices unit is also threatened.Sony plans to launch a portable version of the PlayStation towards the end of next year and this is likely to undermine Nintendo's GameBoy Advance.Even before the new Sony product hits the stores, Nintendo will have to see off the marketing might of Nokia.The Finnish mobile phone company yesterday said the launch of its N-Gage all-in-one mobile phone, music player, radio and gaming console will be one of its biggest to date.The world's largest manufacturer of mobiles hopes to open up a new segment in the handset market with the N-Gage and is pumping millions of pounds into marketing the device.It will be available in more than 30,000 stores across the world from its launch later this month and the company is hoping to sell several million next year.
A lovesick hacker brought chaos to America's busiest seaport after launching a computer attack on an internet chatroom user who had made anti-American comments, a court heard yesterday.Aaron Caffrey, 19, is alleged to have brought computer systems to a halt at the Port of Houston, in Texas, from his bedroom in Shaftesbury, Dorset, in what police believe to be the first electronic attack to disable a critical part of a country's infrastructure.Paul Addison, prosecuting, told a jury at Southwark crown court that the teenager's intended target was a female chatroom user called Bokkie with whom he had argued over remarks she had made about the US.The court heard that Caffrey, who has Asperger's syndrome,   a form of autism, had an American girlfriend called Jessica and when Bokkie started criticising the country and its people, he became upset and allegedly launched the electronic sabotage.The jury heard that the attack had to go via various intermediary computers to build strength before finally reaching Bokkie's PC.One of those intermediary servers was the Port of Houston, the eighth biggest shipping port in the worldThe "denial of service" bug meant the port's web service was not accessible to provide crucial data for shipping pilots, mooring companies and support firms responsible for helping ships to navigate in and out of the harbour, placing shipping at risk.Mr Addison told the court that the attack could have had "catastrophic repercussions to   life and limb" but he added that it was not the prosecution case that the defendant intentionally targeted the Port of Houston server."The primary target is a female person he met on an internet chatroom service. He became disillusioned after an argument concerning citizens of the United States and anti-American sentiments."The defendant's girlfriend was an American called Jessica. The defendant was deeply in love with her - in fact somewhat obsessed with her. He named his computer after her and he dedicated parts of the attack script to her   rather like the way some adolescents draw graffiti on walls with 'I love so-and-so'. This defendant managed to weave into the script a sentence about his girlfriend Jessica."Mr Addison said the Port of Houston's server had been targeted a month before Caffrey's alleged attack and an American citizen had been arrested and convicted.The jury heard that an investigation of the port's computer system found evidence the attack had come from Caffrey's computer. "There is a clear link between the defendant's computer here in England and the Bokkie computer which was also in America, as well as the Port of Houston's computer in Texas," Mr Addison told the court.Caffrey was arrested in January last year and told police he had used the nickname Aaron X. He denied targeting   the port's system but admitted to knowing what a "denial of service" attack was and that they were "easy to perform".Mr Addison said Caffrey had told police he believed other hackers launched the attack and planted evidence in his hard drive."The prosecution say it was him that launched the attack and not anybody else via his computer," he added. He said a search of Caffrey's hard drive showed he had the "wherewithal" to launch the attack.The jury was told the teenager's form of autism meant he had a preoccupation with a "specialist interest" which Mr Addison said was computers.Caffrey denies a charge of unauthorised modification of computer material contrary to section three of the Computer Misuse Act 1990.The case continues.
At the recent Cambridge Royal Television Society chat-fest, the government reiterated its desire to turn off the analogue spectrum by 2010. But having willed the end, what should they do about the means? The Department of Culture, Media and Sport's current view seems to be that the distribution industry - Sky, cable and Freeview - will carry the UK over the digital threshold by market forces. But I suspect there is a serious and intractable problem with this proposition.There is a sizeable number of people who simply won't or can't pay for a digital set-top box. For example, there are at least five million people - many of whom are over the age of 75 - living solely on a state pension of &#163;77 a week for a single person and &#163;123 for a married couple. When someone is worrying about the price of own-brand baked beans, the idea of buying a Freeview box must seem as realistic as a weekend in Babington House. And, let's not forget, it's entirely likely that many old people have aerials that require upgrading and legacy televisions without Scart sockets. So the sheer complexity of installation will seem like a nightmare.Put simply, without a state-subsidised free set-top box, analogue switch-off will not happen. We all know it. Yet how do you make it happen? You have to think of it as part of the benefit system. And as with all benefits, we as a society have to assess why it would contribute to the public good. I do not think the argument that everyone needs access to more channels is of sufficient public benefit to justify the subsidy. Otherwise, it would be perfectly reasonable for taxpayers to ask why they were funding free entertainment channels for others - and this would be particularly galling for low- income families on the margins of poverty.Furthermore, it will be difficult to make the case that we will individually benefit from any windfall from the sale of spectrum. The funds will, in all probability, not be earmarked for any great and obvious purpose. They will slip into the Treasury's coffers as a windfall and help the hard-pressed chancellor of the day when they turn up.Also, the distribution industry itself may well complain about the idea of a subsidised box and ask why the government has taken away potential customers. At the very least, they will insist that the government waits until the last possible moment before announcing a free box.Before I go on to a possible solution to this particular problem, let me set it in context with another significant problem the government is facing. The government has committed itself to putting all of its services online by 2006 and to spending over &#163;18bn across national and local government and the NHS to achieve this over the next five years. The trouble is, not everyone in the country has access to the internet. Nor will they. It's entirely possible that internet usage will top out at 60% of people in the UK. Those citizens least likely to have access to the net at home are senior citizens, the long-term unemployed and those who are chronically ill. Only 9% of pensioners over the age of 75 have access to the internet.The solution lies in providing a free, low-cost box that provides both digital television and easy access to government services, such as pensions advice, GP booking, repeat prescriptions, chat room-style consultations and home help booking. This would solve a great many problems. It would enable the government to be more efficient and effective in its interactive relationship with those who need it most, and therefore save money. After all, a single visit to a GP costs &#163;17 and missed visits are, paradoxically, expensive because of the administrative burden on the system. Using a simple iTV interface to manage the GP booking system makes economic sense.Other distributors can hardly complain about a box that is part of the benefits system. And we can all agree that the social good is enhanced by making the lives of those who struggle most easier. And, by making their lives easier, we can provide a good reason for pensioners and others to take up the service.There are precedents for this idea. A few years ago the Scottish Executive announced a &#163;350m fund to install central heating in the homes of 70,000 pensioners and 71,000 council house tenants. This works out at &#163;2,500 a home. At YooPublica we have been working on a box that will cost, perhaps, &#163;100 a home to install. And in return for making people's lives better, the government gets all that shiny spectrum back to do with as it wishes. It's a bargain.David Docherty is chief executive of YooPublica
* Spandex-clad rockers du jour the Darkness are about to take the States by storm. The Mercury Music Prize-nominated quintet, currently riding high in the British charts with their ludicrous retread of 1970s pomp rock, are tipped to crack America. But not because of anything so outdated as coast-to-coast tours and radio station meet-and-greets. Increasingly, record sales are being driven by music included in computer games - and the sports game giant Electronic Arts plans to include a track by the Darkness in the mass-selling game John Madden Football 2004. According to the company's head of music Steve Schnur, bands these days no longer dream of hearing their songs blaring out of a transistor radio but accompanying the pixelated computer-generated sportsmen.*Football websites and office IT administrators alike had a busy time of it last week after the rape allegations against eight unnamed footballers became the latest case to get message boards and chat sites humming.Rivals.netdisabled all 92 of its football message boards after getting cold feet about possible legal action. The move upset the users of smaller clubs' websites. Bournemouth fans, in particular, were up in arms, saying the company was "bang out of order" because they were using the board to run appeals to save the club. Perhaps more intriguing is the fact that we could be on the verge of the first high-profile web defamation case, with one player's representative threatening to sue individuals who have revealed his client's identity on electronic media.*He's on the ball, that Iain Duncan Smith. Five years after text messaging took off, the Tories have caught up and are planning their first SMS campaign through mobile marketing specialists Aerodeon. The campaign, aimed at students, is bound to catapult the party into the hearts and minds of young voters - or not. Equally indicative of the mixed-up political times we're living in is the fact that the topic chosen for this momentous campaign is protesting against the threat of top-up fees and rising student debt. One lucky recipient will get his or her tuition fees paid for a year - and probably be condemned to a deluge of "Vote IDS" texts.*We could soon be waving goodbye to another oddly named dotcom institution with the news that the incubator GorillaPark is having more money worries. The company, which pumped millions into ludicrous schemes during the boom, has filed for bankruptcy protection. Dutch chief executive Jerome Mol says the move is merely part of a restructuring process. The 60 staff who still work there are not so sure.Owen Gibson is new media editor of the Guardian
What are your favourite websites?Like everyone in the fashion industry, I useStyle.comand Firstview - invaluable fashion collections compendia. I readWGSN.com,FUK.co.ukorFWD.comfor news andHintmag.comfor scurrilous gossip. For something more creative, though, I think Play-create by Danny Brown, our online multimedia director, is amazing. It's a personal project of his to create digital art in collaboration with musicians.Last online purchase?A Eurostar ticket for Paris Fashion Week.Ever been in a chat room?No. Honest!Most recent technological faux pas?Ill-advised mobile phone use after a few glasses of wine, probably. In work, I have a team of very talented techs and designers to spare my technologically-inept blushes.Main source of news on the web?I rarely use news sites, though I do get a few wires by email. I get Snowmail, the Channel 4 News digest by Jon Snow. But generally I prefer to get my current affairs when I get home.Least useful website?There are plenty of things I get sent for review every day that are nothing   other than beautiful or entertaining. I really enjoyed the photographer Jason Evans' Beauty Where You Find It project for Shiseido earlier this year. He did a 60-day round-world trip, posting one image of beauty per day from wherever he was. It was a simple way of presenting imagery on the web but compelling and heartening.Do you use a screensaver?No. No wallpaper either: my desktop management is so poor you would not be able to see it.Most irritating thing about the internet?Ugly banner advertising. There's no excuse for it. Get a good designer!Do you still bother with old media?Yes. It's only a thorough grasp of what works best in print, film or TV that makes it possible to create genuine innovation for the web. I buy loads of fashion magazines and have a complete collection of Vogue dating from 1967. I read novels sporadically, collect unusual dictionaries and subscribe to Granta. TV is my true love, though. I'll watch anything entertaining or well-crafted, irrespective of whether I have any interest in its subject: I get up for Soccer AM every Saturday despite knowing nothing about football.Penny Martin is editor ofSHOWstudio.com, where creative types from fashion, design and art collaborate on experimental projects and broadcast live events
In 2001, the UK arm of Tiscali, one of Europe's largest internet service providers was, in the words of its chief executive, Renato Soru, "in a terrible mess". Having risen out of nothing and bought out most of its smaller competitors, the ISP, which was made up of nine different businesses, was struggling to establish itself in the increasingly competitive internet access marketplace.However, two years later Tiscali is launching its long-awaited comeback. It has restructured and established one brand for all its ISPs, and is now vying with its arch-rivals Freeserve, AOL and BT for a slice of the potentially lucrative broadband pie. Leading the comeback is Mary Turner, who last month was promoted from UK MD to chief executive of Tiscali. She admits that the past 24 months have "been very challenging" for the Italian ISP in the UK but is adamant that, despite industry rumour to the contrary, it is "successful, sustainable and profitable".According to Turner, the arrival of Tiscali in the UK in 2001 was almost by coincidence and came about purely as a result of its acquisitions in France and the Netherlands of Liberty Surf and World Online, which had very small UK operations. "We were not a thought-through business," she adds.Having inherited a foothold in the ultra-competitive UK internet access market, Tiscali decided to build on it by acquiring LineOne, an ISP with more than one million customers, which its owners BT and United Business Media had been trying to offload."Buying LineOne proved Tiscali's commitment to the UK because it was a substantial investment. It was a huge task for us to bring the nine brands together and we've been working to do this for the past two years," says Turner.The Tiscali brand is still not established in the UK. There's still confusion among both customers and industry watchers about what exactly Tiscali is trying to achieve.Rebecca Jennings, an analyst for Forrester Research, says that unlike, say, AOL and Freeserve, Tiscali has faced a struggle to establish a foothold in the UK because of the disparate companies it has brought together."Building the brand has proved much more difficult in the UK than overseas. Most of its customers were used to having a different branded ISP, and unlike AOL and Freeserve they were not starting from scratch, going on a massive grab for customers."At a time when there's general acceptance across the industry that the net is no longer free and most of the UK's ISPs and the likes of MSN and Yahoo! have embarked on a drive to make content and services pay, you would think it natural for Tiscali to go down this route too, and try to cash in on some of its 1.4 million customers.But while most of its peers are either charging or planning ways to charge for enhanced email, virus protection, downloadable music and online gaming, Tiscali is adamant that it will remain 100% focused on driving most of its profits from internet access, either narrowband or broadband.Turner says that as far as she's concerned, premium services, as they've been badged by MSN, Yahoo! and others, "are not new to the internet" and will only account for a small amount of Tiscali's business."With consumers' use of the internet maturing and more people getting broadband, services like enhanced email, digital downloads and virus protection are becoming more mass-market. Yet the fundamental product for us is still access."In a bid to take advantage of this maturation of the internet and the advent of paid-for services, Tiscali is about to launch a charged-for music digital download service across Europe, in conjunction with the musician Peter Gabriel's OD2.For less than &euro; 1 (69p), Tiscali customers will be able to download tracks and then burn them on to CDs. The launch of the service follows a summer-long promotion offering an album of tracks for &#163;9.99, which attracted over 100,000 customers across the continent.Richard Ayers, Tiscali's portal director, admits that similar services are already on offer in the UK from competitors such as MSN and Freeserve, but he claims that Tiscali's will be different "because it's not just a straightforward digital download service". Instead he says that it will offer artists' biographies, archive tracks and "a vast amount of content" on each artist or track. Tiscali also has plans to launch pay-per-view films, though Ayers admits that at the moment this is difficult because the film studios are refusing to release them on to the net for fear of piracy."We have very little paid-for content on the portal at the moment and it's biased towards our broadband customers, but this is going to change and we are working out the best way of doing this," he says.One other service that Tiscali is looking to introduce - which is bound to cause controversy because of recent events - is video chat. Ayers says that it will be open to any of its customers with a web cam and will enable chatroom users to watch each other while chatting. However, he acknowledges that this could alarm both children's charities and the government for fear of paedophile activity so "it will be strictly moderated".So if Tiscali is not anticipating making the lion's share of its future revenue from what it's calling value-added services, where will the profits come from?When the Italian giant arrived in the UK in 2001, it boasted that it would rival Freeserve, AOL and Yahoo! but so far it has only registered as a small blip on their radar screens. Forrester's Jennings says Tiscali was never "going to topple the big three" because it would have required millions of pounds spent on marketing "which would have been a total waste of money".Instead of trying to beat its bigger adversaries at their own game and throwing away millions on marketing, Tiscali is planning to offer what it's calling flexible access to UK consumers. Broadband has finally arrived and is being taken up - albeit very slowly - and Tiscali is now planning to piggyback on this slow growth.Turner says she's convinced that one of the key reasons broadband is still not a must-have for the home is because of its high price (&#163;30 a month from most ISPs). To counter this Tiscali is planning to launch mid-range access packages which will give customers broadband for a much lower price but may not be available 24/7 or may not provide as high bandwidth as normal packages do."We're looking at what the market really wants from broadband. At the moment, for a lot of people, the price for broadband doesn't stack up, yet the benefits do; we want to take advantage of this," she says.In line with AOL, Tiscali is also going to tie up distribution deals with leading high-street chains, and is on the verge of announcing an accord with WH Smith that will see it distributing both broadband and narrowband access in its 750 stores nationwide.Tiscali claims that there's a niche within the growing high-speed access market for it to fall into and if its mid-range, high-speed packages are successful, then it could provide a much-needed access service to UK net users.But if it doesn't work and it's forced to carry on operating in the shadow of the big three ISPs, then its ambitious acquisition strategy two years ago could all have been in vain.
It is the biggest library of its kind in the world and it was built with your hard-earned money. But for years all you could access was what the chief librarian and a few of his cohorts decided to make available on the day. You could, of course, copy what you liked and take it away, but if you didn't turn up on time bang went your chance. Welcome to the BBC archive, a "treasure trove" in the words of Greg Dyke, that thanks to broadband (and one expects the BBC's upcoming 2006 charter renewal) is on the verge of being unlocked for the first time.At the recent IBC, the annual broadcast tech-fest in Amsterdam, the BBC's new media chief Ashley Highfield presented a technology pilot that, if successful, could enable viewers to download some of the 1.5m TV programmes and 750,000 radio shows hitherto buried in the BBC archive. "The project is in its early stages but for us it 's a very exciting idea. How it will work and how we deal with rights issues, technical issues and aspects like digitisation is up to the pilot," he says.To enable viewers to download their favourite programmes, both archive and current, Highfield says the BBC is developing a new internet media player or IMP. Similar to its award-winning radio player which lets internet users listen to shows such as the Today programme at 6pm rather than 6am,the IMP will enable viewers to record programmes "Tivo style " on the hard disks in their computers or set-top boxes. Sitting on top of this will be a super EPG or electronic programme guide - think digital Radio Times writ large - that is being designed for TV content but which could eventually develop into a navigation tool for all BBC content.Though Highfield says the pilot is distinct from the creative archive, announced by Greg Dyke in Edinburgh in August, it doesn't take much to see where the two might link. The IMP will enable users to download programmes initially up to a week old, whereas the creative archive will enable them to use much older clips from programmes for their own use. "At the moment we haven 't linked these concepts, but clearly with an internet media player that goes back in time it's not a giant leap to see how they might integrate," Highfield says.To overcome the enormous bandwidth costs associated with delivering both current and archive programmes online, Highfield says the BBC is exploring the use of "legitimate" file sharing or peer-to-peer (P2P) networks. Made a household name by Napster, P2P networks typically use individual users 'PCs to store and forward content rather than the more expensive route of squirting them over the internet from a bank of central servers."P2P will enable us to defray our distribution costs and make downloading quicker for the consumer," says Highfield.The key question is how much of its archive the BBC will eventually put online. Reports following Dyke's Edinburgh address celebrated the prospect of being able to access the BBC's entire TV output going back to 1936 and radio back to 1922, not to mention the current output of eight TV channels, 10 radio networks and 43 languages of news output online. Sadly that is unlikely to be the case.For one thing, the BBC simply doesn't have a complete archive going all the way back to that famous broadcast from Alexandra Palace. Before videotape arrived in the 1960s, all TV shows were transmitted live. The Sunday Night Play, for example, a staple of postwar weekend viewing, was repeated on Thursday nights but that meant reassembling the cast and crew to re-enact the whole process live. Even when videotape arrived it could only be edited with scissors and was often re-used after each show, wiping out what was on it before.  Then there is the cost of digitising the library, most of which is still in analogue form - 40% of the archive, for instance, is still on film. Three-and-a-half years ago the BBC began a formal preservation process for its archive of old video formats, but as the head of that archive process, Adam Lee, explains, that is a totally different process to digitising. "Preservation is about transferring old and fragile formats to digital tape. The ideal end state would be to have it all stored as digital files on a server, but the cost of that is still prohibitive."Moreover programmes that enjoy an international following, such as Teletubbies and comedies like Monty Python, are already earning BBC Worldwide a tidy sum that would be wiped out overnight if they were put online. But the real stumbling block isn't to do with technical difficulties, costs, expected demand or threats to Worldwide's bottom line. The real issues are legal. The BBC doesn't own the rights to all its programmes and clearing the legal minefield of rights and residuals paid to actors for repeat showings of programmes will be a mammoth task. Highfield says it took the corporation about a year just to clear the rights to stream week-old radio shows. "We are under no illusion that this isn't a challenge," he says.Even using just those programmes in which it holds the rights may throw up legal challenges from contributors or crew who may have agreed rights deals for television broadcast but not for inclusion in an archive. Legal experts point to the Tasini case in the US where the New York Times was successfully sued in the supreme court by freelance journalists after the paper licensed their work to the database Lexis/Nexus. The journalists successfully argued they had given the company a licence for their work to be published in the paper and on its website online but not as part of a separate archive.Apart from regulation there are issues over the licence fee and whether it will be necessary to pay for watching clips on a laptop, and whether overseas users, who don't pay the licence fee, will have to pay to access the archive. Thinking through all these issues, as the BBC says it is, will take time and resources. While it's giving no hints of a possible launch date, the chances of anything appearing before charter renewal in 2006 are slim. Even when it does launch, the archive will only provide clips from its factual and learning programmes, before expanding to include other content. But the BBC has a mandate under its charter to make all its programmes available to as many people as possible, and it would be a shame if it only opened up one or two sections of its impressive library. After all, licence-fee payers funded the programmes in the first place and they have a right to see them when and where they want.
A bunch of Psion fans have started apetitionto try to get Psion to offer the Symbian OS as an option on the new NetBook Pro, which runs Windows CE 4.2. This presumably makes them feel better, without doing anybody the least bit of good. Rather than signing petitions, it would be much more useful if each of them sent in a cheque with an order for one or more new Symbian-based NetBooks -- whatever number is needed to make it a viable product.After all, Psion isn't against Symbian. It's just trying to make a living, and I'd guess it would be delighted if it could do that by selling systems with its own software.Psion's problem is that it has already tried selling NetBooks and other products with the EPOC operating system (on which Symbian is based), and didn't get enough buyers to make it worth continuing. It's now trying Windows CE because it thinks there is a market for it. If there isn't, the CE-style NetBook won't last much longer. Either way, Psion Teklogix has to make things that people want to buy, or it will soon go out of business.Signing petitions is a much less effective form of action than signing purchase orders. If you really want to do something for Psion, put your money where your mouth is.
A couple of weeks ago, the Washington-based Computer and Communications Industry Association (CCIA) published an interesting paper entitled 'CyberInsecurity: the cost of monopoly'. Its main claim was that the dominance of Microsoft's products poses a risk to global and national security.Nothing new there, you may say. And since the CCIA is mainly funded by Microsoft's competitors, one might discount its publications as the grinding of hi-tech axes. The intriguing thing about the CCIA paper, however, is that its authors included a number of well-known experts on the subject of computer security. They included Bruce Schneier, whose recent book -  Beyond Fear: Thinking Sensibly about Security in an Uncertain World (Copernicus) - contains more common sense on security per square inch than any comparable publication. Schneier has too much of a reputation to lose by associating himself with crude anti-Microsoft propaganda, so I settled down to read the CCIA report.'Computing is critical to the infrastructure of advanced economies,' it begins. 'Yet, as fast as the world's computing infrastructure is growing, security vulnerabilities within it are growing faster still. The security situation is deteriorating, and that compounds when nearly all computers in the hands of end-users rely on a single operating system subject to the same vulnerabilities the world over.'The paper analyses in some detail how the proliferation of Microsoft-powered computers at the edge of the network makes us catastrophically vulnerable to an intelligently co-ordinated attack, because the targeting of a single system would affect so many. It echoes research done at Berkeley and elsewhere on ways that a really clever virus attack could bring down the entire net in 15 minutes. And it makes one think that if al-Qaeda had any sense it would abandon weapons of mass destruction and send its fanatics on Windows technical support courses.The CCIA paper raises a vital public issue. Are we going to wait until a catastrophic cyber-attack forces us to address the security problem posed by Microsoft's monopoly? And when are we going to start talking about this in public?In this context, developments subsequent to the publication of the CCIA report may be instructive. Dan Geer, one of the co-authors, was chief technical officer at a company called @Stake, which does a lot of business with Microsoft. And guess what? Just before news of the report broke, Dan left the company.A Microsoft spokesman chipped in: 'We had nothing to do with @Stake's internal personnel decision.'They didn't - there was no need. Everyone in the industry knows the world's chronic dependence on Microsoft products is one day going to cause catastrophe, yet many people who know about security are likely to be reluctant to speak out.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
While the games industry struggles to be properly respected as the powerful entertainment medium it is, we are maybe overlooking something important; a feature that TV, films and books have enjoyed for a long time. We're missing a bit of social commentary in our games.
	
We are used to seeing hidden (and not-so-hidden) messages about the state of our society and its future in other entertainment mediums. The dangers of unrestrained technology, scientific tinkering and  Machiavellian politics are given regular treatment in our films and TV programs. But you won't see the subjects covered in games.  
	
Part of the problem, according to new media researcher Matteo Bittani, is that current coverage does not assess and pick apart games in the same way that films are judged, and they are not being looked at in terms of what they teach us about ourselves."What we really need right now is new forms of game criticism that would change the way games are socially and culturally perceived," he told the recent European Game Developers Conference.Matteo, who also works on an Italian games magazine, holds the view that the games press in general is guilty of treating games as if they had no other relevance than being mere commercial products.Games are still being assessed by the same criteria of: playability, graphics, sound and longevity as they were 15 years ago, causing the analysis to just boil down to "technological determinism in full effect.""We need to pay attention not only to the games, but the gamers," explains Matteo. "How do they play? How do they act symbolically, culturally and politically with the games? We need to study games consoles as cultural objects, rather than dismissing them as mere devices. "Technology is never neutral. Games are not "just games".For Matteo, part of the answer to this problem may lie in drawing greater comparison between the works of game developers with the works of authors in other fields: "We need to compare Hideo Kojima with Mamoru Oshii. Will Wright with Will Eisner. We need to understand their role in shaping out culture."But this is by no means a problem that simply lies solely with the critical games press. Gaming has certainly managed to create its own equivalent of the Hollywood blockbuster, with highly anticipated games such as Half-Life 2 and Doom III boasting the latest technology and special effects to draw in the crowds.Whether these two will stick too closely to the blockbuster formula in terms of meaningful plot and intelligent content we shall have to wait and see.  However, the potential of games as a medium for deliberately producing pertinent and intelligent thoughts regarding our culture and society is obvious, yet still very under-used by the game makers themselves.The only arena where games have managed to strike a particular cultural note is in the area of violent imagery, and how far this does or does not contributes to violent behaviour, which has been discussed inpreviousOnline columns.The witch-hunt that games are enduring, one that has been rumbling on for years now, is reminiscent of the 80s "video nasty" outcry, when many films were banned for their violent content.But, subsequently, many of these movies have been released, which suggests that times and attitudes have changed for video - but not, it seems, for videogames.The untapped potential for games to contain more culturally-significant content (that goes further than merely depicting real-life war zones) implies a two-way process between the developers and the critics. Other entertainment forms have shown us that commenting intelligently on the world can be entertaining and innovative. Certainly the interactive quality of games has the potential to add a whole new dimension to this. 
	
So while being dismissed as being "just for kids" by much of the media, the fact remains that videogames are reaching millions of people of all ages across the world on a daily basis.The implications of gaming as a social phenomenon therefore cannot - and should not - be underestimated by developers or critics.CHARTS - FULL PRICE SOFTWARE
Official UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Soul Calibur II (GC, PS2, Xbox) Nintendo/Electronic Arts - £37.99
2) Conflict Desert Storm II (PS2, Xbox, PC) SCI - £39.99
3) Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, GC) Electronic Arts - £37.99
4) Colin McRae Rally 4 (PS2, Xbox) Codemasters - £39.99
5) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.99
6) Rugby 2004 (PS2, PC) Electronic Arts - £39.99
7) Command &amp; Conquer: Generals: Zero Hour (PC) Electronic Arts - £19.99
8) Freedom Fighters (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC) Electronic Arts
9) Medal of Honor: Allied Assault: Breakthrough (PC) Electronic Arts - £19.99
10) Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic (Xbox) LucasArts - £37.99
Autoweekhas the story. Thanks toWoody's Office Watchfor the link.
GR Business Process Solutionskept getting asked for for specialist programs to do things that could be done using Microsoft Office, which users already had. So it did some research "to establish the current ability levels of Microsoft Office® users across the four main applications".
Earlier this week, Palm took the wraps off its latest high-end handheld PC, the Tungsten T3.The T3, on sale at £329, is the third model in the company's popular Tungsten T series. While the T2 offered few enhancements to the original T design, the T3 is, essentially, a completely new product.It's an impressive one, too. The most striking feature, apart from its very pocketable slim frame, is its large 320x480 pixel colour screen. Not only is it higher resolution than previous personal digital assistants (PDAs), but it can also extend it to a size that, Palm claims, is 50% larger than previous models.Another neat touch is that the screen can be used either in portrait or  landscape mode, with the latter a better option for web surfing and playing games. It works well, too, with documents from Word and Excel via the on-board  Documents to Go software package.Palm has also packed an impressive array of software into the device, including a Kinoma video player, Real MP3 player and a photo viewer. It has improved both the processor (Intel Xscale 400Mhz ARM) and the amount of storage (now 52MB).Connections between the PDA and  mobile phones to enable its web browsing and e-mail facilities are made via a wireless Bluetooth connection.While it is a product certain to fire the imaginations of Palm users and gadget-lovers, some pundits within the mobile phone industry are predicting that the T3 could prove to be the last hurrah for the PDA in the consumer market.There are clearly many potential uses for PDAs in the business world but, in the consumer sphere, the handheld PC is facing robust pressure from the growing number of smartphones sporting similar facilities.Smartphones have one key advantage over PDAs such as the Tungsten T3 - they do not need an external mobile phone to make calls, collect e-mail or surf the web.Until recently, the smartphone market was dominated by large, clunky PDA-style devices such as the 02 XDA and the Sony Ericsson P800.Now, manufacturers including Nokia (with the 6600), Orange (with the SPV-E100) and Motorola (with its MPx200) offer features like e-mail, web browsing, MP3 music and contact management systems on handsets a fraction of the size of even the smallest handheld PCs.The Handspring Treo 600, a  phone slightly smaller than a PDA, and which runs using the Palm operating system, is also set to launch later this month.Stuart Jackson, Orange's corporate communications manager, believes that a realignment is taking place in the handset market, and could spell the end for PDAs."The kind of products coming through now are not PDAs - they are essentially phones with PDA style features," he said."You only have to look at the  Handspring Treo 600. It has all the PDA functionality in a smaller device. Once phones like these establish themselves, I can't see why anyone would need a PDA."Looking at websites and watching video might not be so rewarding on a smartphone's smaller screen, but Mr Jackson, and others in the mobile industry, believe that, with pocket space at a premium, consumers will plump for one, rather than two, devices.Clearly, the problem for Palm and its rival manufacturers is persuading consumers seemingly obsessed with the size of gadgets that processing power, expandability and, above all screen size and resolution, are more important.Colin Holloway, Palm's marketing manager for northern Europe, remains optimistic that PDA makers can meet this challenge. He sees the arrival of smartphones as an opportunity."Compared with the mobile phone market, the PDA market is very small. But I suspect that the growth of smartphones might provide a catalyst of growth in sales of PDAs," he said."I think what might happen is that consumers may try these new phone devices and discover their shortcomings. Then they will consider buying a PDA."He also believes that only larger screens can make the most out of applications such as GPS route-finding and video viewing, which will become more important to PDA owners as time goes by.Mr Jackson believes there is a trump card that will tip the  balance in favour of smartphones. "A fold-up screen on a phone that expands to a large size could make all these arguments academic," he explained.With recent advances in LCD technology from companies such as Philips, which has an electrowetting  system that makes roll-up large screens cheap to manufacture, he might not have to wait too long for one.As for Palm, the company is much too smart to put all its money on just one horse. It is currently going through the process of merging with a smartphone manufacturer, Handspring, which happens to be the maker of the attractive Treo 600.&#183;Thursday night saw the annual Mobile Choice magazine awards ceremony, which took place at Olympia, in London.Judges at the event (The Guardian's mobile phone authority Vic Keegan among them) chose everything from best phone to top network.In the handset categories, they did the diplomatic thing and split the awards between the year's two outstanding phones. So, while Sony Ericsson's T610 took phone of the year, the award for best cameraphone went to the Sharp  GX20.Samsung was rewarded for its innovative range of handsets with a  manufacturer of the year prize, Siemens took the fashion phone honours for its SL55, and  Orange was top network.
Customers of the high street banks are more likely to be dissatisfied with the service they get than those of smaller operators, according to a Consumer's Association survey.Internet bank, Smile, which is owned by the Cooperative Bank, was crowned king of customer care after 91% of its customers told Which? magazine they were satisfied with all aspects of the service.First Direct came in at a respectable second place with 82% of its customers declaring full satisfaction, while Nationwide had a 74% approval rating. But the big banks were given a dressing down by their customers.Just 30% of people who bank with Lloyds TSB said they were "very satisfied", and Barclays and NatWest failed to fare much better, with just 34% and 36% respectively of customers willing to say the service was up to scratch.The survey also found that the number of errors made by banks had fallen compared with 2002. But 1 in 10 customers said their bank had made a mistake during the 12 months to the end of May. Internet bank Cahoot, owned by Abbey, made the most mistakes, the survey found.
"Psion Teklogix's NetBook Pro: descended from the Series 7 and NetBook, but running Windows CE .Net 4.2 and aimed at corporate mobile workforces. The NetBook Pro bears a striking visual resemblance to the old Psion Series 7, the consumer-orientated device that in late 1999 set the mobile computing world ablaze with its small form factor, long battery life, colour screen and eminently usable keyboard. Some hailed it then as the future of mobile computing. The Series 7 was followed by the NetBook, a more advanced unit based around the same hardware design but aimed at the mobile enterprise market -- just like the new NetBook Pro," reportsZDNet UK.Comment: It set the mobile computing world ablaze without very many people actually buying one....I had a look at the new NetBook a couple of weeks ago and it is very nice, though not priced as a consumer product. And while Psion Teklogix has been selling Windows CE machines for some time, it is very strange to open up a machine so strongly identified with Psion and find it running a Microsoft OS.
"On Sept. 25, 1973, Kutt and his team from Micro Computer Machines, of Toronto, demonstrated a desktop computer powered by Intel's 8008 microprocessor. The 20-pound machine came equipped with a keyboard, plasma screen, cassette drives and a virtual memory function that boosted its operating memory up to 102 kilobytes. It was introduced a year before the MITS Altair 8800, a more famous PC milepost. And it was user-friendly," reports theMercury News.
Silicon.comhas released its top 50 Agenda Setters list. Top of the list is Steve Jobs, with Bill Gates in second place, although the most interesting debating points come further down the list. There's Greg Dyke at number three, for instance. Or the major of Munich at number 20 and, one place ahead of him, spam-fighter Steve Linford. Strangest placing, to me, seems to be Linus Torvalds at number five, when they acknowledge "Torvalds best work is in the past".
After much fiddling, I've managed to fix the Onlineblog template so the ugly ol' thing doesn't break in two when I add sites to our blogroll (that list of links down the right of the screen). So: it's been updated. There are afewnewsitestofreshenthingsup- happy clicking!Update: By popular request (to pull my finger out) thearchivenow makes sense! Hurrah.
Bloggeris prompting users to fill in a "15-minute" survey, although it took me far less time (maybe I was in the wrong demographic for a longer one?) I wonder if Google's cage has been rattled by the newer, but far superiorTypePad?Questions asked include rating the order of importance of certain features, including making it easier to blog from a mobile device, change the appearance of a weblog, improve support for adding pictures, and a weblog content search facility. Oddly (as I guess it's not what Google intends) I thought the last function least important...They didn't leave space for comments. If they had, I'd have added that their lack of support for Mac users (we don't get the full interface - just a "lo-fi" version) means I'm off to Movable Type/TypePad as soon as I can. The lack of support for other popular features, including blogroll management and categories, is also pretty glaring.
"The $299 N-Gage (www.n-gage.com), launching Tuesday, is a hopeless muddle -- lacking in quality games, too confusing in regards to service plans, too expensive and crippled by a series of stunningly bad design decisions. I'm usually reluctant to stick my neck out with predictions on how a product will perform in the marketplace, but not this time: I predict the N-Gage will get squashed faster than a newbie going head-to-head with a video game veteran in NCAA Football 2004," says Mike Langberg of theMercury News.
How important is having the CRE website?Essential - and it has transformed the way we're able to work. Instead of having to send out tons of material and the annual report, we can now refer people to the site. I wrote apiece for the Guardianrecently  and received 150 emails asking for more information on the CRE. In the past, I had to send everyone the information but now I can send them the URL.Could the net be harnessed more for racial equality issues?We need to find more "friendly portals" and   make it ever easier for people to access our material online. The dream of organisations like ours is that, eventually, someone will come up with a better way of hooking PDAs and, more importantly, mobile phones into websites so you can get more information that way.Do you feel the interactivity is still in its infancy?In a way. I remember at university in the early 70s and we first started using computers seriously. Even to do something simple you would have to punch holes in hundreds of cards then put them into "instant turnaround" - meaning you put the cards in and came back the following day to see your result! To some extent, I think we're still at that stage with the internet.What do you use your computer for?Email is very important to my work. I have a work address and two AOL accounts but the main use is for schedul ing. At the CRE we're networked, so that anyone who needs to know what I'm doing can see that information, although my team is the only one with access to change things.Gadgets?I have anIBM ThinkPadwhich I'll be replacing soon and aTungsten Palm. I've just upgraded my mobile to aSony Ericsson P800- although I've no idea how to use many of the functions yet!Do you see mobiles becoming part of the electoral process?I would like them to be. The central problem with getting people to vote is that they have to have something they believe is worth voting for - but we don't make it easy for people to actually vote. What could be simpler than registering your vote by   text message? There are issues around security but most of the trials have demonstrated that it's not so difficult.Isn't texting still a generational thing?It's not that older people will never pick it up, it just takes us longer. My daughter's first line of communication is texting, while it's taken me 48 hours to get used to turning my P800 on.Favourite websites:www.bbc.co.ukwww.guardian.co.ukwww.cabinet-office.gov.ukRaregroove RecordsFortnum and MasonVisit:&lt;A HREF="http://www.cre.gov.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.cre.gov.uk
Two weeks ago, Phones4U boss John Caudwell sparked a media blitz when he banned internal email at his company. He claimed employees were spending three hours a day on mail and that the ban would save &#163;1m a month. The fuss showed how much email is now part of our everyday working lives. Ten years ago, only academics and computer professionals used it. Now, people can't imagine getting through the day without it.That's part of the problem, says Dan Bradley, Communication and Policy Manager for Phones4U. "We want to get people using the most effective form of communication for the task." Email makes people lazy. Rather than think about the message and who needs to see it, people "write a quick email, and copy 20 people in".Email overload is usually blamed on spam. This ban suggests that concerns with junk mail might be hiding a deeper problem - that by misusing email, we effectively spam our work colleagues. And while you can delete spam straight away, you have to look at work email, if only to establish that you don't need to read it.Email's ease of use is a double-edged sword, agrees Max Nathan,   senior researcher at The Work Foundation. As part of the group's iSociety programme, Nathan is writing a report on information technology in the workplace. Researchers visited eight companies and observed how they used computers, the net and mobiles. Email's ease of use made it very popular, says Nathan, and not just for communication. People use their email program as an electronic filing cabinet. But when every employee stores 1,000 emails, it clogs up a company's network. And: "Some people slip into allowing email to govern the rhythm of their day. They wait for the next email and then deal with it. That doesn't seem a very good way of organising your time."Nathan says he can understand why people get frustrated with email. "But because it is such a broad and useful thing, banning it altogether is probably not the best way."Critics have suggested the Phones4U ban is a typical misguided chief executive brainstorm, which Bradley denies. The drive for change came from store managers, he says, who spent so much time on company email, they found it hard to do their jobs. Bradley says people are now comfortable with the ban.The corporate intranet now plays a   role in disseminating information, he explains. It hosts a suggestions page and there's a daily news bulletin. The company sends news/information via text to key personnel, and employees still deal with external email, though they are also being encouraged to use other communications tools, in particular, the telephone.A less drastic course of action   might have been to train Phones4U staff to use email properly. That's the view of Dr Monica Seeley, co-author, with Gerard Hargreaves, of Managing in the Email Office. She has taught executives to use IT more effectively. Now she's spending more time advising on email best practice and performs inbox audits, showing individuals where problems occur.Seeley applauds Caudwell for raising the issue. "Email is eating dramatically into resources. You can see tangible costs in terms of servers, network capacity and the less-easy-to-quantify costs of employee stress, downtime and information overload." However, she says companies need to set guidelines for how email should be used, and train employees properly. "I think that's the bit Phones4U missed."Alternative communications technologies - from instant messaging and intranet bulletin boards to blogs - can help ease email overload. US operation Techdirt Corporate Intelligence creates purpose-built "enterprise blogs" for corporate clients. The main aim is to filter and showcase external information, explains Techdirt president Mike Masnick, but they can also ease internal email overload. Often employees circulate interesting material from outside via email, he explains. "But there's no guarantee the right people see it, no easy way to generate a discussion relating to it and no easy way to archive it." Instead, employees could post that kind of information on a blog, says Masnick, who's sceptical about the Phones4U ban. "Banning the technology probably makes it worse, since the 'misuse' will simply move to other avenues."Phones4U's Bradley dismisses such scepticism. He says he can already see a positive effect at head office. People are communicating more face to face, so that "ideas and solutions now flow around the company more quickly." Ironically, this is what people claimed about email 10 years ago.However, it's hard to find businesses prepared to follow suit. Dr Seeley says some companies are attempting to ban personal email, but iSociety's Nathan says that might be difficult to police. He found companies either limiting the number of emails employees could send or only letting them send mail at a particular time. Others place a cap on the number kept in the inbox. "But people are very conscious of excessive email. They have realised that you can have too much of a good thing."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.LinksPhones4Uwww.phones4u.co.ukThe Work Foundationwww.theworkfoundation.comiSociety programmewww.isociety.netDr Monica Seeleywww.mesmo.co.ukTechdirt Corporate Intelligencewww.techdirt.com/ci
Shropshire countryman Andrew Pinder warned last week that, without access to broadband communications, the countryside will die. "For the health of our rural communities, we need to have broadband there," he told the e-politix website. "If we don't, we're going to end up with an empty countryside and that's really bad for everybody."Pinder has a weekday job, as Britain's e-envoy. For years, he has been proposing that government use its buying power to help deliver broadband to areas where market forces have failed. Next month, one of his ideas will become reality.It's called aggregation. The scheme, announced by the e-commerce minister Stephen Timms last summer, is for public bodies, led by schools and the NHS, to buy shared broadband networks jointly. By acting together, they will get a better deal from telecom suppliers. And, because schools and GP surgeries are distributed throughout the population, their networks will require broadband exchanges to be installed in parts of the country that would not otherwise be commercially viable. Businesses and householders will then be able to   piggy-back on the investment. "It's going to be a powerful mechanism for competitive interest," Timms says.The new networks will be procured and managed by nine new "regional aggregation bodies" (RABs), one for each of England's regional development agencies. "We're currently drafting the terms and conditions for RABs and funding will be released at the end of October," Timms says. "In January, we expect the RABs to be procuring networks."The scheme has two "anchor tenants". One is the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) which has a target to provide two megabits/s for primary schools and eight megabits/s for secondary schools by the end of 2006. The second is the NHS, which, for IT purposes, has reorganised its boundaries to match the English regions. It will need multi-megabit networks to carry the multimedia electronic records being created under the &#163;2.3bn IT modernisation plan.Timms is trying to persuade other public bodies to get on board. His first target is local authorities: "We're having quite an active discussion at the moment." However he has no powers to compel councils to join the schemes and some, especially county councils, are sceptical.The Conservative-controlled Bedfordshire County Council, for example, is about to place a &#163;400,000 order for its own broadband network (funded, ironically, by the Eastern Regional Development Agency). How does this fit with the regional aggregation programme? "It doesn't," says Richard Stay, executive member for information and systems. Stay says that counties, which have a strong local brand, will be better at promot ing broadband than a region no one has heard of. "Politically, I'm opposed to regions anyway, but I'm quite happy to take their money!"Timms agrees that there is an argument for running networks at the county level, but that regions will have "significant efficiencies". These will be tested by a pathfinder aggregation region, East Midlands, which covers Leicestershire, Lincolnshire, Northamptonshire, Nottinghamshire   and Rutland. Alan Srbljanin, East Midlands broadband adviser, says he has developed a "compelling business case" for aggregating networks in the region. What remains to be proven is whether aggregation will result in broadband exchanges being built where they are needed. East Midlands is spending three months examining its assumptions before moving ahead. "The presumption is that we can resolve all the issues, then move to procurement in the spring," Srbljanin says.Although aggregation will be driven by the state, Timms defends competition as the main mechanism for lifting Britain's level of broadband connections from its dismal international ranking. "We've overtaken France and are catching up on Germany, all because of very sharp competition."And competition will continue to be a driver even when the new aggregated networks are in place: "We may end up with more than one service provider in each region."Another broadband laggard, Ireland, will be watching with interest. Dermot Ahern, Ireland's minister of communications, marine and natural resources, is also offering an aggregation carrot, but with a stick, too. Ahern says that, unless telecom firms invest in rural broadband, he will force them by taking a levy from profits - especially those made on text messaging. "We'll take a little bit of the cream off the very high profits that are being made in Ireland as a result of high prices."Timms dismisses a levy as unnecessary - the government already has the cash, in the form of &#163;1bn for public sector broadband pledged by the prime minister last year.But to meet these targets, the regions and their new aggregation bodies will have to get a move on. "We haven't got the leisure to spend six months watching how it works. I expect actual procurement to begin in January." If that happens, at least one Shropshire farmer will be cheering.
No one could possibly pretend that paedophiles using internet chat rooms, email, IRC and so on to contact and "groom"      children isn't a problem. Of course it is. But what should be done about it?Surely it should be possible for the internet      industry and the government to come up with a practical solution between them and fix the problem.       It is not that nothing is being done. The Home Office has a task force on child protection on the internet, one of whose      aims is to make the UK "the best and safest place in the world for children to use the internet".And earlier this year, the government committed £1m to an advertising campaign to warn children of the dangers of the      internet, but it is not obvious that such initiatives are helping as much as might have been hoped.Chat rooms are useful, interesting and fun: turning them off (or, in fact, driving them underground) does not solve the      problem. Banning them is pointless and counterproductive, penalising the majority of responsible users (eg, my wife and      me) while making them even more attractive to those at risk (eg, teenagers).       The problem isn't the chat rooms, but that no one knows who is in them: it is a problem of identity.We are never going to get anywhere by applying existing concepts to the virtual world: the "internet passport" or "web      driving licence" isn't the way forward.This is because proving your identity in the real world generally means proving who you are. But in the chat room, the      problem is what you are: are you an adult, child, UK subject, Manchester City fan or a single parent?Any system that demands to know who you are in this environment makes the problem worse, not better, because it      means that even more people will know your real identity.       Suppose, however, that children were given a digital ID (think of it as some kind of certificate stored on a smart card)      by their school, or their parents' bank or some other trustworthy body. Now suppose the digital ID contained a few      unforgeable credentials ("I am between 14 and 18", "I am male", "I am resident in the UK") but that the children could      choose any name they wanted for the ID ("I am David Beckham").This gives us the best of both worlds: the kids can log on to appropriate chat rooms, but no one else in the chat rooms      (nor the chat room operators) will know who they really are.       As I have pointed out here before, this kind of implementation of virtual identity allows people to partition their online      identities: much as we now have a few credit and debit cards in our wallets, we ought to have a few digital IDs. I might      log on to the bank as myself, to a chat room as The Terminator and NHS Direct as John Doe.Now that Microsoft has decided to withdraw some of its MSN chat rooms, the right question to ask is not "Where do you      want to go today?" but "Who do you want to be today?"&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Global music sales, according to new figures released yesterday, remain in a nosedive. Sales of albums and singles, in all formats, fell nearly 11% in the first six months of this year. The second half, with the Christmas rush, will pull back some of that decline, but the business will still be deep in negative territory by the end of the year.In the first six months of last year, the decline was 9%, which was pulled back to 7% by the year end.The IFPI, the industry federation which collects these figures, and the five major global record companies, would have us believe that this is all the fault of those who steal music via their PCs.This, however, is not the full story. The IFPI does not produce any estimates of how much of the sales decline is due to downloading, but it does not argue with independent estimates that the figure is about 40% - which leaves 60% down to other factors.One of these is undoubtedly economic conditions. The worst fall in sales in the first six months - down 18% - was in Germany. The other three countries worst hit - America, France and Japan - have suffered similar problems. But a large part of the blame for evaporating sales has to be laid at the door of the five majors - EMI, BMG, Sony, Universal and Warner - and their inability to break new bands. The big five account for 70% of world sales, so if they are not performing well, the global industry will also appear to be struggling.Independent labels do not seem to be suffering such a talent vacuum. Take Zomba, which gave the world Britney and Justin; the Beggars Banquet group, which discovered Mercury prize-winner Dizzee Rascal and the White Stripes; and the UK-based Sanctuary group which, though famous for its roster of old rockers, has also found new bands such as the Strokes and the Libertines.Industry experts say that when the majors do find a new band they press them to put out an album - even when they do not have enough good material. In the past, a record company might have put out the small collection of work on an EP. Now they produce many poor albums with only a few good tracks.Little wonder, then, that music fans prefer to download the good tracks and leave the dross in the shop.They can also be accused of failing to put enough effort into their back catalogues. Sanctuary - sales up 31%; profits up 36% at its interims - specialises in back catalogues and even licenses them from the majors, turning a profit where otherwise there would have been none. As for downloading, there are plenty of music industry operators who do not view it as a massive problem. Indeed, many - such as Alan Giles of HMV- regard it as no worse than the mass taping of albums that was commonplace 30 years ago. They rationalise that downloading increases the appetite and market for music, and when fans have the money, they will still buy.The majors' answer to their problems is consolidation to cut costs. The stock market backs that solution. But isn't it just possible that, in this case, the long-term solution is to do the reverse: split, compete and get creative again?The price of lightBritish Energy, the country's largest power producer, responsible for a fifth of Britain's electricity, was saved yesterday. That was hardly surprising, given not only its pivotal role in ensuring the lights stay on, but also that the alternatives were administration or effective renationalisation.Certainly, bondholders had nowhere else to go, other than accept the government-backed rescue plan. They, at least, emerge with &#163;154m of new debt (compared with &#163;408m) and 52.3% of what amounts to a new company. But shareholders, many of them private investors, will end up with only 2.5% of the new equity, and the doleful consolation that at least that's more than the 0.5% given over to their Marconi counterparts.However, even if they reluctantly give their approval, the rescue plan remains clouded by uncertainties. The greatest of these is whether Mario Monti, the European Union's competition commissioner, and his officials will approve the level of state aid - amounting, in initial Brussels estimates, to between &#163;4bn and &#163;5bn - as legal.The auguries are not as favourable as some commentators would believe. Mr Monti and his cohorts are already exasperated by the French government's plans to bail out "national champions" such as Bull and Alstom and, indeed, he has indicated his wrath at the continued levels of state aid provided throughout Europe.If the Alstom arrangement is finally approved, then the British Energy rescue plan is home and dry. If not, and the secretive reprocessing contracts between BE and state-owned British Nuclear Fuels merit the closest of examinations, Patricia Hewitt or her successor will have to rethink.The choice, then, would be either administration, with the plants gradually run down in an orderly fashion, or renationalisation, possibly via the new nuclear liabilities fund which could convert its right to 65% of New BE's net cash flow into equity (with 29.9% of voting rights). It's not an attractive proposition either way, but the government's shillyshallying over energy policy has left it with that potentially ugly choice.
AOL Time Warner responded to the changing ethnic make-up of the United States when it launched a Spanish language version of its America Online internet service yesterday.AOL Latino is aimed at US-based Hispanics, who overtook African-Americans this year as the nation's largest ethnic minority - a fact the media industry has been slow to recognise.The new service will incorporate dedicated Spanish language programming in news, sport, entertainment, music and lifestyle. It will also have the usual features and functionality of the internet service provider in Spanish, including email, customer support and instant messaging. The launch is a significant initiative in AOL's attempt to arrest declining subscriber numbers. The US customer base fell by 846,000 to 25.3 million in the second quarter of this year. AOL research suggests that the service already has 2.3 million Hispanic subscribers, but they tend to be English speakers.The US Hispanic population is estimated to be in the region of 39 million and is growing at nearly four times the rate of the overall population. In AOL Time Warner's magazine division, People en Espa&#241;ol, a Spanish language version of its popular celebrity title, has been a notable success. Its circulation grew by 16% last year to 413,545."I don't think corporate America has the luxury of ignoring this market," said David Wellisch, vice-president of AOL Latino, who moved to the US from Ecuador when he was 18.The company has signed up content partners among Latino newspapers and broadcasters in the US, as well as the Spanish language version of the BBC. "It's not just AOL in Spanish," said Mr Wellisch. "It's about issues Hispanic communities face - immigration; issues about their countries."Hispanic spending power is slowly forcing advertising agencies and media owners to take note. The agency MediaCom says this section of the US population commands a buying power of $581bn (&#163;348bn).NBC, part of General Electric, bought the Spanish language cable network Telemundo two years ago. Advertising revenues on Telemundo and its larger rival Univision are growing at 15% to 20% a year.According to the media buyer Initiative, the number of Hispanic actors on network television has grown fivefold since 1990, though they are still far less visible than African-Americans. Two new Fox productions, Luis and The Ortegas, focus on Latinos in shows the network hopes will have crossover appeal.Procter and Gamble, a big advertiser, broke new ground with a Spanish language commercial for Crest toothpaste during a network broadcast of the Grammy awards this year.
There's no doubt that the concept of TCO - total cost of ownership - is becoming increasingly popular. If nothing else, it reminds people that things such as cars and computers are very much more expensive than they like to think.Of course, it does have drawbacks. The most obvious is that the TCO figures are more or less worthless unless they are based on specific groups of people doing specific tasks in specific geographical locations. (Staffing levels, skills and salaries vary.) On the other hand, it can lead to more sensible IT spending.Currently, many of the decisions about IT systems are made by IT people. They look at the costs of acquisition, installation, support and so on - the ones that come out   of the IT budget. But in badly designed systems, all these costs are dwarfed by the real cost to the company, from (lack of) user productivity. That does not come out of the IT budget but, in the end, someone has to pay for it.The research and advisory company Gartner made a similar point recently about the TCO of obsolete PCs. If you keep PCs in service for four to six years instead of three, it doesn't add much to the TCO. However, as Gartner points out, it just shifts the costs from the IT organisation to the end user.I'm always amazed by the number of PCs still running antique DOS-based versions of Windows, when faster and far more reliable NT-based versions have been available for a decade. In a few cases, this must be because these   machines are still doing exactly the same job they were bought to do, and there are no benefits to be gained from updating them. More often, it's people pouring money straight down the drain.Gartner has recently produced TCO figures for a variety of desktop systems of topical interest. For example, it reckons that for knowledge workers, a Windows XP machine costs $5,908 a year, while a Linux desktop costs $6,101 a year. The similarity should not surprise anyone. Since you can buy a perfectly good PC for $600, or $200 a year, the price of the operating system is an insignificant proportion of the TCO.If you really want to lower TCO, invest in systems management software that enables you to get rid of expensive support staff.Gartner's figures are not of   practical use, because they don't include the cost of application development and the use of company-specific software. Still, they help put the "free" software argument in a more sensible context.But if you want real TCO figures, you have to do proper time and motion studies with real members of staff running real applications. You cannot assume, for example, that one word processor or mail program is the same as any other. It just ain't so.I have suffered from one particularly painful example: a notoriously awful email client was costing me at least 30 seconds per outgoing message in wasted time, or about 60 hours a year. Multiply that by the cost of employing your average knowledge worker and it dwarfs the cost of the PC.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Useful linksDublin Core Metadata Element Sethttp://dublincore.org/documents/dcesAdobe XMPwww.adobe.com/products/xmp/main.htmlJITI Builderwww.hisoftware.com/Franklin/JITIBLD.htmGartner: Re-evaluating PC TCOwww4.gartner.com/pages/story.php.id.9423.s.8.jspEvaluating Total Cost of Ownership for Software Platforms by Alan MacCormackhttp://aei-brookings.org/admin/pdffiles/phpdI.pdf
eBay fishingI have received two identical emails, supposedly from eBay, asking me to reply with my eBay user ID and password. In the light of recent email scams involving banks, I thought this was somewhat suspicious and haven't replied. The address I used to question the authenticity of the email - ukprivacy@ebay.com - is apparently no longer in use.Alex CookeJack Schofield replies:eBay will never ask you to send your password and ID by email, nor will any other reputable company. Email is insecure, unless it is encrypted. You should forward any such emails tospam@ebay.com.One of the many problems with internet email is that it is ridiculously easy to forge the From, Reply-To and other addresses, and you have to examine the routing information carefully to get any idea where a message originated. In this case, your fake email was sent from Hotmail via the Korea Network Information Center. This is an unlikely route for an official eBay message, but not surprising if you happen to know that last year's  fake eBay verification site (www.ebay-verification.net) was hosted in Korea.eBay has a useful page on  "user account protection" which also warns against authentic-looking fake websites that try to lure people into giving away their IDs and passwords. Also seewww.privacyrights.org/ar/phishing.htmabout "phishing". For help with reading email headers, seewww.stopspam.org/email/headers/headers.htmlandwww.usask.ca/its/help_desk/mail/spam/reading_headers.html. You can paste headers into John McLean's Mail Tracker web page and it will try to read them for you. Go towww.theinquirer.net/email_tracker.htm.Chip resetterI have just bought an Epson printer/scanner/copier. The printer cartridge supplied with it did not last long, so I refilled it, only to be told that there was no cartridge present. I bought some compatibles to be told the same. It seems a "smart chip" means that only Epson's own original cartridges can be used, but Epson's TO40 cartridges cost &#163;33 each, compared with &#163;8 or less for compatibles.Maurice LineJS:Most printer companies now sell hardware at close to cost and make their money on consumables, so they are protecting their profits. Using America's appallingly anti-competitive Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), Lexmark even sued a company that was producing toner cartridges using compatible chips. However, if you search Google for (in this case) "Epson chip resetter" uk, you will find you can buy products that make cartridges re-usable. This may offer a short-term solution, though you can expect printer companies to improve their chips to make them harder or impossible to reset.Last year, the European parliament voted for an "electroscrap" recycling law, "which includes a ruling directing manufacturers of printers to no longer incorporate chips into their own-brand ink refill cartridges"www.electricnews.net. Don't hold your breath.Upgrade testIs there a program that I can download to my Windows 98SE machine    to test for XP compatibility? I tried the siteyou mentionedbut that requires each item to be entered individually online. When my HP DeskJet 720C printer got a "not found" message, I gave up.Tony MeacockJS:A corporate IT person would probably get XP Upgrade Advisor fromwww.microsoft.com/windowsxp. Since the Windows world has a huge choice of products, this is a 50 megabyte download, though you could try running from the web. Not all printer manufacturers have rushed to support old models - they would rather sell you a new one - but you can get an XP driver for the 720C fromwww.hp.com/cposupport/swindexes/dj720c_swen.html.Backchat&#183;Avram Dumitrescu wanted something to let him know when selected web pages were updated. Further suggestions were given last week, andArvindrecommends EasyWatch. It is available free, fromwww.websitewatcher.co.uk.&#183;John Ward recommendedwww.yourIPnow.comas a quick way of getting your IP address into Windows' clipboard. This does not work in my case because, for security reasons, I disallow "paste operations by script". Sean O'Reilly says he has updated his site so that users who do not want to change their security settings can simply click Select All to copy their IP address to the clipboard. Also, I mentioned that you can type ipconfig /all at a command line to get IP information, but the slash fell off the page on the way to the press.
In European hell, the food is British, the pop music German, the police French and the civil service Italian. So Whitehall isn't culturally disposed to taking advice from Rome about running an efficient public administration.ID cards could be an exception. The Italian government is in the process of issuing electronic multi-purpose cards to the country's population. It is promoting the card as the prototype for a continent-wide scheme, which Britain is cordially invited to join. Whether David Blunkett will welcome the invitation remains to be seen.Italy's minister of innovation and technology, a former IBM executive called Lucio Stanca, says the national smartcard is the logical solution to administrative chaos in electronic government. "We have   at least 10,000 administrations in Italy. Either we allow them each to develop their own proprietary digital authentication, or we have one national standard."Unlike the UK, which is slipping towards the 10,000-card model, Italy chose a national standard, which will almost certainly contain a biometric ID such as a fingerprint or retina scan. About 1.5 million people have already been issued with the card in pilot schemes, Stanca says, the rest will receive them over the next five to six years.Citizens will be charged for the card, though the amount is still under discussion. (Italians already pay five euro for their cardboard IDs, which are renewable every five years.)The Italian government, which currently holds the EU presidency, doesn't see why the card's useful ness should stop at its borders. "We cannot have a different ID card in Spain, and France," Stanca says, "we must converge".Sure enough, plans for standardisation feature strongly in the European Commission's first "Communication" on e-government, published by the Information Society Directorate last Monday.One of its aims is "strengthening the internal market and European citizenship through pan-European services". A handful of cross-border services are already available, for example between Belgium and France. But in general, government services generally operate within national frontiers. The EC communication suggests that this must change, while taking into account "legal and cultural practices".Despite this caveat, the document can expect the usual hysterical re action in the Europhobic press. Tory Eurosceptics were largely responsible for killing a national ID card when it was proposed in the mid 1990s, making much capital of the fact that the card would have to carry the 12-starred EU symbol alongside the Union Flag.Stanca says that he understands the concerns of "Anglo Saxon people", but assumes that an ID card will be inevitable on security grounds alone. The UK starts with an advantage, he claims. "You are better off than us because you can start from a modern card."For the Italian card, the main obstacle is money. Stanca is battling with his finance ministry for funds to roll out the project, which is slipping behind schedule. In Italy, even Silvio Berlusconi's technocrats can't always make government run on time.
Up in smokeJimmy Cauty's resum&#233; is one of the most illustrious in the pop canon. He co-founded The Orb, enjoyed seven consecutive top 10 hits with KLF partner Bill Drummond, and burned a million quid on the Hebridean island of Jura. He also began his career by painting the classic Lord of the Rings poster for Athena that adorned thousands of student walls in the 70s.Now he is back with Blacksmoke, a new outfit with a stylish new website to promote it. Under the banner, "hard music for hard drives", the site features live audio streams, free MP3 downloads, Flash animations and, somewhat incongruously, some very blatant road safety advertisements. The group has yet to release a record but the site offers a taste of things to come. This includes former KLF roadie Gimpo's ode to the M25: a kind of heavy metal musical interpretation of Ian Sinclair's London Orbital, but a lot shorter.The enigma of the KLF (which presciently stood for Kopyright Liberation Front) still lingers, with dozens of fan pages across the web.www.blacksmoke.orgwww.klf.deNo frills"Many airports are actually better than local lodging" claims Donna McSherry, a Canadian who has been hosting a site dedicated to sleeping in airports since the heady days of 1996. It features ratings on airports in 523 different cities, ranking the quality of seating, listing those with sleep rooms or showers, and offering countless tips on the best place to have a kip. It says you cannot sleep at either Heathrow or Gatwick (although both offer free showers). McSherry rates Changi airport, Singapore, as the best airport to sleep in. "So quiet," she says, "that students study there during exams." She goes on to say there are signs reading: "no pets, no skateboards, no studying."Closer to home, Flybudget.com is a   site "helping to ruin the profit margins of rip off airlines around the world." It's an informative guide to budget airlines, run by 24-year-old Alex Banks, who shares a love of low-fi web aesthetics with McSherry. Most useful feature? It allows you to see what budget carrier flies from which airport, rather than trawl through the individual airlines' sites.www.sleepinginairports.netwww.Flybudget.comwww.changi.airport.com.sgwww.skyscanner.netPhallic buildingsCabinet magazine has just run a competition to find the world's most phallic building. The winner, chosen from a long list of 47, was a water tower in Ypsilanti, Michigan. It has been nicknamed "the brick dick" by locals, apparently. Sir Norman Foster's "erotic gherkin," recently erected on the site of the old Baltic Exchange in the City of London, won the category for Best Uncircumcised Building.www.cabinetmagazine.org/phallic/winner.phpAl-Jazeera EnglishAl-Jazeera, the Qatari-based news service, has just relaunched its English language website. A rudimentary site was live during the recent war in Iraq, but it fell victim of numerous denial of service (DoS) attacks and was eventually taken down. As you might expect, the news agenda is focused on the Islamic world and the Middle East (although Blair's visit to the Labour conference makes the front page), but the reporting is unpartisan. There are also notable culture and technology sections. In terms of style, the site seems to have borrowed heavily from the template from BBC news online.http://english.aljazeera.netwww.Aljazeera.netEscape realismPolitics and the computer game world rarely collide, except perhaps when the Daily Mail finds something to generate moral outrage about. But the games world has seen computer games tackle controversial issues. Last month, an online game called 9/11 Survivor provoked an outcry because it simulated an escape from the burning World Trade Centre.  Meanwhile in Australia, Escape from Woomera is a similar first-person 3D adventure game set in one of Australia's notorious refugee detention centres. You cannot play this game online, or buy it in the shops (no distributor will touch it), but there is a website explaining the game. As Matthew Mirapaul of the New York Times pointed out recently, these games are turning a "platform for pure fantasy into a medium for social realism".www.kinematic.org/911.htmlwww.escapefromwoomera.orgNew and notedFootball talk for clash city rockerswww.onemickjones.comThey'll get you there somehowwww.skyhighairlines.comDIY Judge Dredd costumewww.2000adonline.com/Six of the bestClick and donateThe hunger sitewww.thehungersite.comFund free mammogramswww.thebreastcancersite.comBuild a schoolwww.buildaschool.orgSave the rain forestwww.therainforestsite.comFeed an animalwww.theanimalrescuesite.comUseful linkswww.freedonation.com
The petal-shaped revolutionThey come in all sizes, but until now mobile phones have adopted one of two shapes: a foldable "clamshell" style that dominates sales in Asia (but increasing in popularity here) and the open-screened "candy bar" style more popular in Europe.Now Nokia has unveiled a third type: a radical petal-shaped handset that looks as much like a camera as a mobile phone. The 7600 comes with a 65k colour screen, VGA camera and MP3 player. Even better, it can shoot up to two minutes of video and store over an hour. The 7600 is the company's second 3g handset, although like its predecessor, it will not support video calling.The rhomboidal 7600 is also the lightest 3G handset yet announced. It weighs a mere 123 grams and measures less than 100 cubic centimetres. Nokia also announced that a limited edition of 1,000 will be sold in five "high quality lifestyle shops" in Europe, including the Conran Shop in London. It costs &#163;310 for the standard version, rather more for the limited edition.EntertainmentMoveable feastSony has unveiled a prototype personal video player and is promising a worldwide launch for a similar product early next year. Likely to go head to head with products featuring Microsoft's Media2Go technology and possibly a video version of the Apple iPod, the Sony player enables consumers to record TV programmes on the unit's hard disk, which they can view on the move on its 3.5in screen. The prototype featured a 20 Gigabyte hard disk capable of storing up to 10 hours of MPeg2 (DVD standard) video. It is not known whether the device will feature copyright protection or whether it will allow users to record DVDs on to its hard disk, like its rival, the Archos AV320.www.sony.co.ukSpin the discSamsung is returning to the MP3 personal player market with the YP-900, a jukebox with a 30GB hard disk. Slightly larger than its Apple iPod rival, the YP-900 plays back MP3 and Windows Media Audio (WMA) files and features an integrated FM radio. Samsung also has a pair of tiny players that store music on to Flash memory. The YP-55 and YP-35 feature 256MB of storage, an FM tuner, and allow music transfer from a CD player/hi-fi.www.samsungelectronics.co.ukMobileOn the big screenPalm is expanding its Tungsten series of PDAs with a pair of models that go on sale this week. At the top end, Palm has delivered the third version of its Tungsten T range - the Tungsten T3. The company is also introducing a low-end handheld, the Tungsten E. The T3's headline feature is its screen. Palm has increased its resolution to 320 x 480 pixels and enabled it to be used in either portrait or landscape mode. Palm claims the screen is now 50% bigger than any rival.  The company has also added a faster processor in the 400Mhz Intel Xscale,   bringing it in line with its other high-end model, the Tungsten C. The PDA also has 64MB of memory, of which 52MB is available to the user.Other tweaks include a revamp of the personal information management system, compatibility with Java, and a host of software applications from Documents to Go (for reading Microsoft office files) to Real's MP3 player already built in. The Tungsten E, aimed at those who want a more basic PDA, features an OMAP 311 ARM processor, 32MB of memory and a 320 x 320 65K colour screen. Prices are &#163;239 for the T3 and &#163;149 for the E.Corporate transferMobile phone network O2 has a pair of handset launches this month that target the small to medium size enterprises and high-end consumer markets. First, it is to offer to all its consumers the Blackberry 7230TM, which had previously only been available to large corporations. The new version adds POP3 email access and the option of making and receiving voice calls to the "push mail" system, which has given the device such a strong following in the US. The new Blackberry will retail for &#163;239 with a &#163;28 minimum monthly charge. O2 is also said to be preparing the second version of its Microsoft Pocket PC PDA/smartphone the XDA for launch later in the month. The XDA 2 adds an integrated camera, an enhanced screen and internal antenna to the original model.Meanwhile, O2 has just launched a new O2 home tariff aimed at the 40% of young pre-pay customers who do not have a fixed line telephone. Users will be able to register their "home" postcode and get cheaper calls, from 2p a minute, from that area. A 5p minimum charge will apply.www.02.co.ukCamerasCrop shotOlympus is adding a five megapixel digital camera with a 3x optical zoom to its compact Camedia range. The successor to the C-404-Z, the C-5050 Zoom also features a new f/1.8 35-108mm lens (the equivalent of a 35mm format), a 3.3x digital zoom, 1.8in TFT LCD monitor and, for the first time, the option of cropping or re-sizing images in-camera. The C-5050 Zoom is also the first Olympus camera to use the xD picture card format. It goes on sale later this month for &#163;700.www.olympus.co.ukHardwarePen palThe Logitech io digital pen, which stores handwriting and allows the user to download it to a PC, has a rival. Due next month is the &#163;75 Mobile NoteTaker from Pegasus. The pen works in a similar way to the io and can store up to 50 pages of handwriting in its memory but, uniquely, users can write on to any paper. Also, users can write directly into a PC document such as Word. With other pens, handwriting has to be   transferred via a USB cradle. The pen will be available from Amazon.www.amazon.co.ukBroadbandRural spreadE-commerce minister Stephen Timms says nine "regional aggregation boards", due to be set up by the end of November, will help drive broadband internet access into rural areas. At a meeting at the Labour party conference this week, Timms said the boards would allow public services in England to jointly purchase broadband. By doing so, rural telephone exchanges should be upgraded for broadband - allowing access to the public as well.
Homeworld 2PC, &#163;34.99 Relic/Vivendi &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Truly landmark games have a habit of spawning underwhelming sequels, with the likes of Quake, Doom and Red Alert, all more fondly remembered than their younger relations. But Homeworld 2 looks fantastic. The interface is a joy to use, allowing control over research, mining and combat from the same display, even in the height of battle. There is a plethora of tactical options, making every mission hinge on striking the right combination of power, speed and research.The storyline sweeps along nicely, blending moody cut-scenes with excellent scripted surprises - often in the middle of levels. However, a total of 15 missions is a little on the slim side. By comparison with its predecessor, Homeworld 2 is workmanlike, polished but somehow less than the sum of its parts. If you love good games, this is certainly one of them. However, if you were waiting for the real-time strategy bar to be raised to new heights, Homeworld 2 continues the more predictable trend of failing heroically at the second attempt.Mike AnderieszTiger Woods Golf 2004PlayStation 2, Xbox, &#163;39.99 EA Sports &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;It seems only days since the release of the 2003 edition, but Tiger Woods 2004 is already here. This is the best serious golf game around - Mario Golf targets a different market - and does enough to warrant a purchase   for owners of 2003. Frustratingly, though, the flaws remain.These include the erratic camera that makes it nearly impossible to gauge spin control, and the hit-andmiss putting system. Luckily, the majority of the game is a treat, offering armchair golfers the chance to compete in all the tournaments.The control system is only marginally refined and remains wonderfully simple. Players swing by pulling back and forth on the analogue stick and there is a huge variety of shots.EA has added one trick - the chip - and new courses. Also, players can create a character from scratch and there is something pleasingly anarchic taking an ill-dressed loon around the more rarefied courses.Win tournaments and you'll earn money to spend on new clubs and upgrades, although improving drive distance and accuracy is still the easiest way to succeed. EA pulled online play in Europe, although multiplayer around the telly is still enjoyable.Greg HowsonWallace &amp; Gromit in Project ZooPlayStation 2, Xbox, GameCube, PC, &#163;39.99 Frontier/Bam &#42;&#42;&#42;Considering how easy it is to make games characters look as though they are made of Plasticine, it seems   strange that nobody has thought to turn the immensely popular Wallace &amp; Gromit into a game before. Project Zoo comes from a very unlikely source: the all-but-defunct publisher Bam which, with help from Acclaim, has been clinging to life to get this project out.Bam deserves a revival in fortunes, as Project Zoo is a decent effort. It is a 3D platform game, in which Wallace &amp; Gromit seek to rescue a polar bear cub they sponsor at the zoo from the clutches of the evil Feathers McGraw.The process involves rescuing several baby elephants and completing levels that often pastiche more famous videogames, notably Metal Gear Solid, Tomb Raider, and the mine-cart level from Donkey Kong Country. That device cutely brings variety to the gameplay, which otherwise consists of jumping, climbing, shooting bananas and solving puzzles - generally achieved by collecting tools so that Wallace can fix broken objects.The involvement of Nick Park and Aardman Animations has ensured an abundance of the gentle humour that adorns the TV programmes (naturally, Peter Sallis provided Virtual Wallace's voice). Project Zoo does not break new ground (although its kitchen-sink approach does stop boredom setting in), but it should still satisfy fans, particularly young ones.Steve Boxer
Switch off crimeIt is probably  l&#232;se majest&#233; to react to the comment by Tim Berners-Lee that "Scripts and programs are dangerous. Pictures are not." (Talk Time, September 25)) However, as Microsoft acknowledges in Hotmail software, downloading a picture in email can confirm to a spammer that your address exists. It is always best to switch off pictures if you use preview or even when you open mail, until you are absolutely certain the source is known. Pictures may be data but they are certainly not safe!Bob AugerKentBack seat driverRe the letters regarding Windows security versus Mac and Linux. I think the problems go much deeper than either letter suggests. For years, Microsoft has made ease of use and being first with the latest gadgetry its primary goals, with security taking a back seat while Linux/Mac make security a high priority from day one.Prime candidates are ActiveX, VB, Outlook Express and Internet Explorer, which are bundled into all Windows versions and are the source of many vulnerabilities, due to their habit of allowing downloaded code to execute directly with little, if any, user intervention. Ease of use and security are not easy to combine, and Windows is a solid demonstration.One of the main complaints from Windows users switching from Linux is that it's more difficult to use: they have to make decisions about confusing-sounding things such as firewalls   and services without wanting to read the handbook that came with the software (it's more than 10 pages long!). This ties in with Jack Schofield's article on why do people expect to be able to use a computer without having any lessons.A Linux virus is possible and there have been three or four, but none caused noticeable chaos as they tended to affect only one version of Linux. Bugfixes appear in easy-to- install form within a day or so of viruses being reported, rather than the weeks or months it seems to take Microsoft.I run Mandrake Linux. It's the easiest to use, but it doesn't do anything without me knowing what's going on, and the support is excellent.Julian Pilfold-BagwellKentOn the front footAs a researcher into Mobile Information Systems, I digested with interest the article Mobilising solutions by Simon Bisson (September 25).While it is true that Staffordshire police are looking at the use of PDAs for officer support, such a scheme has been running in West Yorkshire Police for almost 12 months. Other forces have been, or are, running schemes at the moment.We are involved with the evaluation work for a number of forces and other emergency services. For once, the public sector is leading the way in development of new (and useful!) information applications.That is not to say there are not pitfalls and downsides to the use of mobile technology, and maybe this could be touched on in the future.Charles KnightPostgraduate researcherLeeds University Business SchoolEasy targetI want to congratulate you for going against the grain and writing a balanced article on offshore outsourcing (On the Road to Bangalore, September 25.) Unfortunately, offshore outsourcing is often targeted by the   British press as a method of exporting British business interests overseas, whereas it is anything but.Offshore outsourcing can offer great cost-benefits. However, British companies do not adopt the offshore option lightly with a disregard for local jobs, a picture that the British press seems keen to paint. Instead, it is a strategic business decision, often made to keep abreast of international rivals who have already woken up to the offshore opportunity and are enjoying the cost-benefits it offers.Alex BluesHead of offshore outsourcing,Orbys Consulting LtdSwamped by SwenSince Swen.A hit around two weeks ago, you would have thought that one of the UK's biggest ISPs would have taken some notice. But not Freeserve.  Despite claiming "improved Junk Mail filtering", they seem to have done nothing to prevent something like 80% of my email being Swen.A.Apart from being a pain, I have received, on a conservative estimate, something like 200 of the damn things. At 150K a time, that is 30MB of junk in their servers, for one customer. Multiply by let's say a million customers. That's 30GB of Swen.A, if I am typical.Freeserve's response was to first tell me to do blacklisting (useless against modern spammers as they just change the addresses) and then refer me to a junk mail tracking page run by Energis.How are other ISPs doing? If any are better, I may well change.Keith CollyerReading
Metadata is usually seen mainly as a security risk: do you want people finding out who worked on a document and when, or what changes they made? But it's also a powerful way of tracking down information; after all, metadata such as the keywords on the page and the number of links to it are part of what Google uses to find you the web page you are searching for.In the office, you can work out which files to archive by looking for all the documents more than two years old that no one has opened in the past six months. Better still, that is all free information: because applications record a lot of metadata for you, you don't need to train people to fill it in correctly, or rely on them making time to do it.The problem is how few applications make the metadata available in a way you can work with. Microsoft Office captures plenty of information, and you can add custom properties to make it more sophisticated. But you have to look in the File Properties dialog or run a search for matching documents inside Office, or use extra software such as Exchange, SharePoint, a third-party product like JITI Builder or something you build with VBA or   the Windows Indexing Service, to get at the data.The XML support in Office 2003 will make document contents and metadata much more accessible if you build a system that uses the XML features. But if you want an example of how powerful metadata can be when software makes the most of it, take a look at the metadata features in the recently announced Adobe Creative Suite.The new versions of Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign and GoLive will all use Adobe's Extensible Metadata Platform (XMP) system to attach metadata to the file in the same format (on Mac and PC). Look at images in the Photoshop CS file browser and you can see as much or as little of the metadata as you want: place the same image in an InDesign document and get the same information in a tool tip when you hover your mouse over it.Creative Suite includes a new tool that works in all the applications, called Version Cue. Designers frequently create multiple versions of a document to compare different effects: Version Cue lets you save those versions in the same file and label which is which - using XMP metadata. If your company logo changes, you can save the new one into the same file, labelling the up-to-date   version so everyone knows what they should be using, but still leaving the older version available for old documents, if necessary. Labels, comments, keywords, copyright information: anything you fill in becomes metadata that is available in Version Cue, and in other ways, too.Version Cue is mainly designed to improve workflow - whether you are trying to keep track of your own work or coordinate with a team. You see the information in the standard File dialog boxes. Even if you don't fill in any descriptions, the software still saves the metadata, such as the time the new version was created, so you can look for the version you were working on last Friday and compare it with the version you did on Monday morning.That kind of metadata is most useful to the people working with the files, but metadata such as copyright information for an image is useful   throughout a business. Adobe is working with system integrators and partners such as Documentum and Corbis to get XMP support into document management systems and image databases so the metadata can be used to generate reports or automate billing.One newspaper Adobe has been working with uses metadata to make classified ads more profitable. The later you can include adverts, the more you have the chance to sell each issue, so the more automated the production and billing process, the better. Advertisers send their credit card details in with the advert; the billing details are saved as metadata, as is the number of characters - which tells the automated billing system how much to charge them without any manual processing.If you are using a document as evidence, it is vital to know what has been done to it - and to be able to prove it. Adobe has also been working with UK police forces to document photographic evidence using metadata; the Nikon digital cameras used have GPS receivers so the metadata includes the place and time the picture was taken and even which memory card was used in the camera.Previously, the police had to burn a copy of the original image to CD as a   reference before doing any work to enhance or label it. Now they can open the Raw format image directly from the camera and track every manipulation they make to the image. Those changes (which you'd normally see in the history palette and lose when you close the file) are written to a text file and stored in the XMP packet. They can add custom metadata, such as the case ID, and transfer the image into a secure PDF template that prints the image as well as all the metadata. The US government processed all the footage from the Iraq war in Premier and is looking for ways of using metadata to add more levels of security and documentation.As electronic evidence becomes more important in the courts, the integrity of the metadata in the evidence is going to be critical: an "enhanced" image could easily be misleading, but if you know it has been changed, you can demand the original. Logging the image and tracking the editing history is a step in the right direction, and could be useful for institutions worried their software might be used for working with inappropriate images.For the rest of us, it means we are likely to see sophisticated tools for dealing with metadata that make it faster and easier to get the right file at the right time.
The birdEutelsat has launched e-Bird, which it claims is "Europe's first satellite specially designed for the provision of two-way broadband communications". It should increase the availability of broadband internet in regions beyond the reach of ADSL and cable. The satellite will come into service next month at 33 East, very close to Eutelsat's Eurobird 1 satellite at 28.5 East. Eurobird broadcasts to almost 7m homes in the UK. Eutelsat says it will therefore be possible to bundle its digital television and radio channels with one-way broadband internet services through a double-feed receive antenna.www.eutelsat.comLonghorn round-upMicrosoft plans to reveal details of its next Windows operating system, codenamed Longhorn, at its Professional Developers' Conference in Los Angeles later this month. Longhorn, which is not expected until 2005, will differ from current versions of Windows by integrating all information sources - such as documents, emails and application help files - in a powerful SQL Server-based database. This will allow a single search to reveal every stored reference to a searched-for word or phrase. Longhorn will have an NUI or "natural user interface" that is expected to include speech and handwriting recognition, and natural language processing, as well as a pseudo-3D appearance. The NUI, codenamed Aero, will probably not be part of the beta test code Microsoft gives PDC attendees, but they will get a first beta of its next Visual Studio suite, codenamed Whidbey.http://msdn.microsoft.com/events/pdcCreative officeAdobe Systems has announced the equivalent of Microsoft Office for graphics professionals. The Adobe Creative Suite brings together new versions of Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign and GoLive with integration software called Version Cue. This acts as a repository for files that can be shared by workgroups of up to 10 users. Adobe trialled the system by launching similar bundles in Italy last year.http://www.adobe.com/aboutadobeWorms turnedRed Hat is modifying the Linux kernel to make it harder to plant worms that exploit buffer overflows. When a user inputs data, it is stored in a section of memory called a buffer. If the size of the buffer is not controlled, an overlong string of characters can "overflow" and   overwrite program code with new instructions, allowing a hacker to break in. This only works if the buffer and the code always hold the same relative positions in memory. Red Hat's Position Independent Executables (PIE) system loads program elements in different relative positions each time they run, causing buffer overflows to fail. PIE will be a feature of the forthcoming release of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 3.www.redhat.com/whitepapersOracle wizardsOracle is simplifying the configuration of its supply chain management applications and improving the integration with its CRM (customer relationship management) software. Setting up the Oracle Supply Chain Planning 11i system currently takes weeks, but the addition of automated tools will reduce this to days, the company claims. The rules-based "wizard" builds up a picture of what the implementer hopes to achieve, and then guides the configuration process. Oracle is also improving information exchanges between its applications so customer intelligence gained through the CRM software can be transferred to the supply chain products. Oracle is also preparing its CRM system to handle radio frequency identification (RFID) tags.www.oracle.com/applications/B2BDoom timeCurrent IT monocultures are unhealthy and could lead to a global business collapse, says a report from the Computer &amp; Communications Industry Association (CCIA), which is supported by Microsoft rivals such as Sun Microsystems and Oracle. The report, penned by seven US security experts, argues that if most of the world's computers are running Microsoft's operating systems and applications, then they are all vulnerable to the same threats at the same time. The report points out that this is true of any monoculture, and recommends governments encourage and legislate for diversity, to reduce the threat posed by malicious or terrorist activities. The report quotes IT security firm mi2g as estimating the SoBig worm cost businesses nearly $30bn.www.ccianet.org/papers/cyberinsecurity.pdfSpam site finderThe internet's address control body Icann has joined those criticising VeriSign, the US firm that controls .com and .net addresses, for redirecting requests for non-existent domains to its site SiteFinder. Icann has asked VeriSign to suspend SiteFinder, which suggests alternatives and offers links to other search engines. Previously, users entering a nonexistent .com or .net domain would see an error message produced by their browser. Critics say SiteFinder hits the effectiveness of anti-spam software, which detects spam by checking if an email's domain of origin actually exists, as SiteFinder makes all .com and .net domains appear valid.
Imagine we had two national road networks: one exclusively for commercial vehicles and the other for personal travel. While there might be benefits in terms of reduced congestion, there would be massive duplication of effort and resources. When it comes to voice and data, however, most organisations suffer from the same problem, having separate phone and computer networks. Now, however, Internet Protocol (IP) networks - which can carry voice and data traffic - mean it is possible to merge the two and reduce costs. In addition, IP handsets give phone users access to data and multimedia applications such as instant messaging, inventory checking, directories and news services.IP telephony is not new, but historically, it has been plagued with doubts over line quality and concerns about reling totally on one network. Are such problems a thing of the past?The main technical problem with sending voice over an IP network (VoIP) is the delay that can occur during the coding and decoding of voice traffic. Delays can also be caused by variable factors such as data congestion on the network. Meanwhile, quality of service has to take into account the bandwidth   available, jitter (variation of the length of the physical connection) and packet loss (leakage).When I talked to IP phone users for this article, there was a detectable reduction in line quality in some cases, most notably in terms of lower volume and reduced line clarity.But Cisco, an IP telephony vendor, says these problems are a thing of the past, thanks to improved technology and greater investment in in-house networks. The Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames, for example, recently installed a VoIP network at a cost of &#163;500,000. Over the past 18 months, it has migrated from a traditional 1,500-extension PABX system to one based on Cisco switches and IP phones.Other councils setting up VoIP networks include Bedfordshire, Camden, Cardiff, East Renfrewshire, Hampshire, Milton Keynes, North Wiltshire and Surrey. Educational bodies making the conversion include Trensham Institute for Higher Education and Education Bradford, the public-private partnership running Bradford's schools.Cardiff County Council has installed Mitel switches to deliver IP telephony to 140 staff. Crispin O'Connell, chief officer of ICT at the    council, says the secret to delivering a phone service that matches analogue telephony is to invest in the network: "You have to have a fibre-optic network and make sure it is configured correctly so the network prioritises voice."He says users are largely unaware they are using IP phones because they can be operated    in the same way as analogue phones. Some training is required to get used to new options and the short codes used for extensions on remote sites. Most commonly, the switch to IP telephony is made when a company moves to or opens a new site. Users can take a fresh approach without sacrificing their investment in exist ing telephone switches. North Wiltshire County Council had just such a "greenfield" opportunity to help justify new technology.As part of its relocation of 300 staff from six offices to a new site at Chippenham, it is installing an IP telephony system from 3Com that will create a one-stop-shop for access to information, advice and services.Pete Barnett, senior team leader, says the main benefits are simple office moves and changes and ease of management from any workstation. For example, users can adapt features of their phone from a browser on their PC. Along with other councils contacted, Barnett and O'Connell were adamant that line quality is on a par with traditional telephony.Having voice and data on one network brings obvious savings, but one downside of the switch to IP telephony is the cost of phones: these range from &#163;100 to more than &#163;600, depending on features. Cisco has just announced the &#163;620 IP Phone 7970G with colour touchscreen, rather than the typical greyscale screens, which demonstrates the increasing convergence of handsets and computers with its ability to send and receive images. It has been released in the US and will be available here early next year.Is now the time for councils to consider a move to IP? Experts suggest that although the technology has improved, many should wait, because savings and benefits do not come automatically. "Most of these installations are mainly PABX replacements, and so far, councils are not getting the benefits of virtual call centres and unified messaging," says Keith Humphreys, an analyst with EuroLan Research. "The problem is there are not enough greenfield sites where you can justify a new network."But Humphreys agrees that taxpayers are crying out for call centre services linked to databases, so that service levels can be vastly improved: "Only VoIP can deliver this."
Office workers across the country will be nervously deleting their emails this morning after lawyers for a  top Premiership footballer accused of rape took the unprecedented action of starting proceedings against an individual spreading rumours by email.The sender of the email, who works for a large company, has been warned he could face a libel action for making the claims. He was also told to hand over details of those people to whom he had sent the rumours  and identify the source of the claim.A solicitor acting for  the footballer said that computer users could not consider themselves immune from prosecution simply because the claims were made by email and warned that the matter could be forwarded to the attorney general.The move is believed to be an attempt to scare others tempted to continue the speculation, but much of the damage may already have been done.The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, warned newspapers last night that increasingly feverish coverage of rape allegations against eight Premiership footballers could prejudice any future trial.His intervention came in the wake of widespread coverage of allegations by a 17-year-old girl that she was attacked in a central London hotel last weekend.Meanwhile, football websites are scrambling to take pre-emptive action to avoid being sued for libel, taking down message boards on which fans are speculating about the identities of the footballers involved.Rivals.net, which operates unofficial sites for all 92 league clubs, has closed all of its message boards after fans spent much of yesterday speculating over the identity of the eight players involved."It was felt that given this unique situation and the intense interest in the press and public in general, it was prudent to ensure our network was not used for any unsavoury comments or unsubstantiated rumours," said a spokeswoman."This was a pre-emptive action and this decision has not been taken as a result of any particular post but to protect ourselves from people who may want to use our boards in a manner that is incorrect."Other websites have moved to take down their message boards to avoid possible legal action, while some have warned that users discussing the subject will be banned.The Internet Service Providers Association has called for a change in the law to make those who circulate rumours via the internet liable rather than the ISPs that host the material.Internet giants such as AOL are concerned that under current legislation they could be sued for effectively "publishing" the material, even though they have nothing to do with the content posted on sites that they host.Last year David Beckham became one of the first celebrities to attempt to take on the internet gossipmongers when he issued an injunction against Popbitch after untrue rumours that he was having an affair swept the web.The site was forced to take down the defamatory material but by then it was too late, the case having showed just how quickly rumours can spread online.Also last year, the online version of Italian newspaper La Repubblica published the identity of the man who allegedly raped one of Prince Charles' servants.The proliferation and anonymity of the internet combined with the quickfire nature of email, have already led to a nationwide guessing game as to the identity of the stars involved in the latest case.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
