Twitter on Wednesday confirmed the acquisition of the London-based startup TweetDeck in a deal thought to be worth about $40m (£25m).The deal makes Iain Dodsworth, the 36-year-old founder of Twitter app TweetDeck, an overnight multimillionaire and an instant success story from London's "Silicon Roundabout".Dodsworth, a Sheffield Hallam University-educated programmer,also confirmedthe long-rumoured deal on his company's website on Wednesday."I am extremely happy and proud to let you know that TweetDeck has been acquired by Twitter. We completed the deal on Tuesday and are now in the process of 'joining the flock'," he said."The past three years have been an epic journey, with many highs and lows, accompanied by the constant thrill of never really knowing what to expect next. We've grown from one team member and a single user, to a team of 15 and a user base of millions."Dodsworth said the three-year-old TweetDeck will remain on London's Old Street, dubbed Silicon Roundabout, where many of the capital's most enterprising internet firms are based.More than 20 million Twitter users have downloaded TweetDeck, making it the second most-popular way to use the service, after Twitter.com. The TweetDeck app allows users to organise their Twitter feeds and their profiles on other social media networks such as Facebook in once place.Dick Costolo, the chief executive of Twitter,described the third-party applicationfor "power users" of the social network site as a "groundbreaking" tool.He added: "This acquisition is an important step forward for us. TweetDeck provides brands, publishers, marketers and others with a powerful platform to track all the real-time conversations they care about. In order to support this important constituency, we will continue to invest in the TweetDeck that users know and love."TweetDeck is a great example of a third-party developer that designed tools for the incredibly important audience of Twitter power-users and, in turn, created value for the network as a whole. As Iain's journey suggests, there is significant opportunity for developers who deliver insights that foster a more engaged Twitter user base."As the popularity of Twitter has grown – it now has more than 175 million registered users – the San Francisco-based social media company has embarked on a ruthless bid to control third-party applications such as TweetDeck.The aggressive drive was reported to have sparked a bidding war for TweetDeck earlier this year, with the third-party apps firm UberMedia apparently offering $50m for Dodsworth's software. UberMedia owns rival third-party apps UberTwitter, UberCurrent and Twidroyd.Since its modest, "friends-only" launch in 2008, TweetDeck has raised about $3.5m in funding. Its investors include Betaworks, TAG, SV Angel and PROfounders.
Although the first game was well received by RPG fans, The Witcher 2 is that rarest of things – a sequel that elevates an entire genre, much the way Half Life 2 did for FPSs. With its exquisite production values and huge, single-player campaign, this is a genuine summer blockbuster. From the epic storyline, beautifully rendered in cut scenes, to its fast and skillful battles and deeply interactive questing, Witcher 2 makes better-known RPGs look and feel conspicuously dated.One obvious example of this is the combat – which although not achieving beat-'em-up fluidity, nevertheless feels very different to both the clinical technicality of Morrowind or the mindless hacking of Dungeon Siege. Blocks and attacks have to be timed well, particularly against enemies with shields who behave like mini-bosses but hunt in packs. All this requires a good few more keys than most RPGs, including a fiddly CTRL wheel menu to choose which of the five types of magic you want to use. When surrounded by foes, this is tricky to pull off, making it a blessing in disguise that health potions boost rather than restore points, meaning they must be taken before rather than during battles.Witcher 2: Assassins of KingsBut if it feels challenging, the fact that Witcher 2 is fiendishly hard from the outset is half its appeal. It's a long time since I've spent half an hour trying to tackle a game's very first tutorial mission, but fighting even a handful of guards while escaping a burning castle proved impossible without repeated use of the excellent quicksave system. Nevertheless, once I began to master new and upgraded spells, and particularly once I started unlocking traps, the constant feeling of being close to death merely made the battles more exciting.And much like the combat, other aspects feel flawed but still definitely worth persevering with. As an RPG, Witcher 2 mixes old-school and daringly new ideas at will. Initial NPC conversations and quests seem formulaic, even bland, until you realise there may be profound consequences further down the line. Quests can be shocking, intriguing or deliberately obscure, often requiring further information or items without giving you any hint as to what these are. And speaking of items, there's a whole sub-level of crafting, upgrading and brewing that can be as simple (buy them) or complicated (research and collect herbs, learn the skills, brew the potion) as you want. And as for the storyline, which packs in so many carefully crafted twists and moral dilemmas, it deserves to be fully explored for yourself. The Witcher series is undoubtedly still on a journey in terms of playability, but for scale, depth and sheer class it already feels like Europe's answer to Final Fantasy — and that's been a long time coming.• Game reviewed on PC
If Shigeru Miyamoto had never been born, it's not that fanciful to speculate that the world of video games might, even now, have remained a cottage industry catering exclusively to teenage boys.From the moment that Nintendo's star in-house developer created one of the first platform games, featuring a gorilla hurling barrels and a moustachioed plumber rescuing the girl he had kidnapped – erroneously named Donkey Kong after a printing error – Miyamoto has demonstrated that he is peerless at making games that appeal to all ages and genders.He's still got it after all these years. The massively successful Wii, which yet again widened the mass appeal of gaming, was a product of his remarkable ability to think laterally, and Super Mario Galaxy 2 – the latest instalment of the Mario franchise, which has outsold any other franchise in the history of the games industry – won him yet more awards .Small wonder, then, that he is revered as if he were a pop-star in his native Japan and the US. In the flesh, he couldn't be less diva-like. Perpetually smiley and unfailingly polite in the Japanese style, he has an endearingly cartoonish look to him.We caught him on an extremely rare visit to the UK. Conditions, alas, weren't 100% conducive to a deep, philosophical discussion of the slings and arrows of games development – although Miyamoto understands English, he doesn't speak it, so some subtleties were inevitably lost in translation. This, though, is what he revealed …Miyamoto's 3DS gamesBefore the floor was opened to questions, Miyamoto delivered a short address giving an insight into various 3DS games he is working on. "Now, we are focusing more on games for the 3DS – we want to release lots of games for it this year," he told us.Starfox will be released for the 3DS this summer"The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time will be released in June, Starfox this summer and Super Mario 3D, which is completely original, is coming this year. I am involved with these titles and Mario Kart." Which, alas, implies that Mario Kart for the 3DS won't be ready until 2012.Miyamoto then exposed some specific details of those titles, beginning with Starfox: "Starfox uses the gyro-sensor and the joystick; the combination is the key to its gameplay. Because it's 3D, you have the depth in the screen, so you can aim perfectly."Interestingly, he then addressed one of the 3DS's more controversial aspects: its propensity for inducing eye-strain in some people – a problem from which, apparently, he too suffers."When you have 3D on all the time and are using the gyro-sensor, it can be quite difficult to view it, but if you put it in 2D all the time, you would be missing some of the enjoyment, so I guess you have to adjust and find the best way for you to play."I have a tip: if you have an office chair with wheels on and an armchair, that's the ideal way to play games that use the gyro sensor."Next up was the as-yet-unseen Super Mario 3D: "Super Mario 3D will be a combination of Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario 64, although that doesn't exactly convey what it is like – if you play it at E3 you will see what I mean."For example, when floors are floating in space, in 2D, it's difficult to judge distances, but in 3D, it is easy to."One aspect of Super Mario 3D which has attracted a vast amount of speculation was triggered by the game's logo, which has a tail added to it. Mario-heads are hoping this will mean that the game will feature the rarely-seen Tanooki Suit and Raccoon Suit power-ups and when pressed, Miyamoto seemed to confirm that, albeit cryptically."If I tell you everything, I won't be able to talk about anything at E3. But the power-ups you mention are what you think you are. And you probably know what is going to happen using those characters already."The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time hits the 3DS in JuneFinally, he spoke about the forthcoming 3DS remake of The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time: "It ran at 20fps on the Nintendo64, but on the 3DS, it runs at 30fps, so there is extra smoothness of movement. The graphics, too, have been strengthened: you can feel the immersiveness of its world in 3D. Plus, the touchscreen lets you place items wherever you want them to be."In the original, it was really difficult, say, to change into your boots in the water dungeon, but now it's easy. And in the original, it could be confusing when, say, using the bow, whether you were supposed to push the stick up or down to aim it – but now we have the gyro-sensor on the 3DS, it's easy."Questions from the floorThe first topic tackled when Miyamoto accepted general questions concerned Spot Pass, Street Pass and the 3DS's software updates – the first of which is due in June – which will kick-start Spot Pass and bring an e-shop to the 3D handheld console. According to Miyamoto: "I'm not really involved with Spot Pass – more with Street Pass. But there will be several software updates. As soon as the server is ready, it will be done. For Spot Pass, without you knowing, things like films will be coming to you." What other key things will the update bring? "The browser and the eShop."Insight into the 3DS's eShopMiyamoto refused to be drawn on pricing of download games in the eShop – indeed, he suggested that Nintendo hasn't yet formulated a hard-and-fast policy on that: "Even if you download games via eShop, we will create games that are meaningful and valuable for the 3DS. We would like to create download games that are meaningful and always there with you."It's not that I'm dictating methods to the third parties: they need to be open to the eShop as well, but I'm speaking for Nintendo."So, would Nintendo sell games based on its most highly prized franchises there? "The main software, we would create for packaged games. But if there are any meaningful ideas for download – if it was something that worked when it was always there [on the 3DS], then maybe. I think, for me, a download game would be something anyone could play and that is comfortable to play. So it's not really about forcing a game into the hardware."Game design: the master speaksThere was no way we would let Miyamoto leave without pumping him for some of the secrets behind his enduring ability to design games that are showered with critical praise and sell millions of units. After, intriguingly, earmarking the top-down shooter Xevious as an example of a retro game he would like to see remade for 3DS, he considered the subject of game design."In the past, game design was all about which game was the best on the hardware that was available," he said. "That still holds true in the current world, but for the game designer, it's important to understand the overall system. Plus, it's important to understand all the mechanisms in games, otherwise the movement or the gameplay would not be right. If that is good, then it will be evaluated as a good game."But games nowadays are at a higher level, and the devices are higher-technology, so generally speaking, people can [and should] make good games. Nowadays, it's really important that the designer should be unique, and that their individuality should show through in the production itself."It's costly if you do something because other people are doing it, but the focus should be: 'Because people are not doing it, we'll go this way.' Uniqueness is important. Finance-wise, you can put more budget in, but your energy has to be focused on something, otherwise it won't work. For me, if you tell me, 'I've seen this before,' or 'I've done this before,' that's challenging."
A selection of new apps available today.Scene&amp;HeardScene&amp;Heard is an iPad app that lets people create Visual Scene Display augmentative communication aids, designed for teachers, therapists and helpers working with people with a range of conditions that impair their communication, including autism. The aids can include audio recordings, videos, symbols and scene links.NBC Nightly News for iPadThis US-only iPad app has individual segments from broadcaster NBC's daily (well, nightly) news programme, as well as the entire show. Extra content includes transcripts, related videos and news headlines, with the ability to post comments to Twitter and Facebook from within the app.FridgeiPhone app Fridge claims to be "group-centred coordination and sharing made simple". What does that mean? Users can create instant groups to share photos and message one another, while creating shared events. The native iPhone app has just gone live, but the company also has an HTML5 mobile site for other devices.Ducati ChallengeDucati Challenge is a 3D racing game for iPhone (and also iPad) that marks developer Digital Tales' debut on the App Store. It has shades of Firemint's popular Real Racing games, albeit with a focus on two-wheeled vehicles.MasterChef Academy US for iPadProduction company Shine has released an iPad spin-off from the US version of TV show MasterChef, which aims to be a cooking aid in the kitchen. Dozens of recipes are included, along with more than 150 minutes of how-to videos and social features to share tips on Facebook.
The main focus of Microsoft'sWindows Phone eventon Tuesday was the benefits to consumers of the upcoming Mango software update. However, Microsoft is also keen to get app developers enthused about the Windows Phone roadmap."We have over 18,000 applications in our Marketplace now, and we are about to overtake RIM," said Achim Berg, Microsoft's corporate vice president of Windows Phone marketing, at the London event. "And if you look at the number of new apps, we are head to head with Android and iOS."The latter claim may not stand up to closer scrutiny, given that well over 1,000 new Android apps are being released every day at the moment. But the idea that Windows Phone may be overhauling BlackBerry in the battle for developers' affections (and more importantly their investment) has legs.Following the main event, Microsoft held a separate seminar focused on developers and Mango, with director of developer relations Brandon Watson taking questions from a mixture of developers and journalists as Microsoft releasedbeta development toolsfor Mango."We're driving on my team to make sure everyone is highly available and outreaching to the community," said Watson. "We had to start from scratch last year, but we've had over 1.6 million tools downloads in 220 countries, which is pretty astonishing."Microsoft's Windows Phone rhetoric is big on pillars at the moment, with Berg having outlined communication, apps and web as the "three pillars" of Mango earlier. Watson had his own triple-pillar vision for developers."One is opportunity, bringing more customers to developers in more countries with more billing available," he said. "The second pillar is discoverability, surfacing apps particularly in the context of search. And the third pillar is capability, with great hardware and apps that can integrate with the overall phone experience."Watson was keen to portray Mango as Microsoft's response to feedback from developers, as well as from consumers. "Most of the topline features we've been hearing about that were missing last year are being delivered in Mango," he said, citing the ability to simulate motion and location in the Windows Phone emulator as an example of a direct response to developer requests.Watson expanded on his discoverability pillar, saying that the first seven months of Windows Phone 7 has taught Microsoft that search is going to be important for helping people find apps."We've learned that customers love search, and they do a lot of search on their phones. We can take that metaphor and make it easier." By which he meant serving up app suggestions in response to more general queries using the Bing mobile search engine.Microsoft is also upping the amount of "locally driven merchandising" on its Windows Phone Marketplace, with editorial teams picking out apps from independent developers and giving them a promotional push alongside the apps from larger publishers and internet services.The company is also distributing printed app catalogues for retail staff selling Windows Phones in stores, to ensure they're able to talk about key apps as well as handset and OS features.Some aspects of Windows Phone remain unknown. Watson said he was unable to comment on Microsoft's plans to integrate Skype into Windows Phone once its acquisition of the VoIP firm goes through, and he also played a straight bat to a question about the lack of Flash on Windows Phone."There's no update on that. There are no philosophical objections, it just doesn't run on the phone," he said.Developers may be more concerned at Microsoft's silence about any plans to introduce in-app billing for Windows Phone. "It's not on the phone and there's nothing to announce at this time," said Watson.Gartner's recent claim that it's apps that create loyalty to smartphone platforms is reflected in the effort Microsoft and its rivals are putting into their developer relations. The support of a wide range of talented developers will be as crucial to the fortunes of Windows Phone 7 as the handsets and OS itself.With that in mind, while having more apps than BlackBerry is one metric showing progress for Microsoft, the real battle is yet to come against iOS and Android. Watson's public statements and tone indicate that Microsoft is taking this task just as seriously as it took its entry into the console gaming market a decade ago.
Noted in passing: advert for the Dell XPS-15, containing the phraseFinally, the power you crave in the thinnest 15" PC on the planet*.Wow, the thinnest? But wait, what's the asterisk?Small print time: "Based on Dell internal analysis as at February 2011. Based on a thickness comparison (front and rear measurements) of other 15" laptop PCs manufactured by HP, Acer, Toshiba, Asus, Lenovo, Samsung, Sony, MSI. No comparison made with Apple or other manufacturers not listed."(Update: for clarification, the advert I saw appeared in print in a UK newspaper.)FromEngadget's review of the XPS-15: "it's actually a few hairs thicker than a 15-inch MacBook Pro, wider, and at 5.54 pounds, it weighs practically the same."So that would make the XPS-15 the world's thinnest... apart from any thinner 15-inch laptops it wasn't compared against. This seems an interesting way to proceed with future advertising: the most powerful in the world* (apart from others that are more powerful). And so on.(The Engadget review is quite thorough, and found that the XPS-15 was indeed a very powerful Windows laptop. However in the benchmarks against an Apple Macbook Pro... well, we'll leave you to read them.)Other examples of small print where "thinnest", "fastest", "cheapest" etc is qualified down to "did we say that? Oh, not actually" welcome. Apple must surely have a few egregious ones.
Two hundred computer users in rural Cornwall will be the guinea pigs for trials of a new superfast wireless broadband system being tested by BT and the mobile carrier Everything Everywhere, which could solve the problem of "notspots" that cannot get high-speed connections via telephone wires.If the tests demonstrate that it is economically viable to use wireless broadband rather than wires, it could help to fulfil one of the aims of the Labour administration's "Digital Britain" report, which recommended that every home should be able to get broadband at a minimum download speed of 2Mbps – an aim that the incoming coalition took up and endorsed.The wireless connections will use radio spectrum freed up by the "digital dividend" from shutting off analogue TV transmitters, which occurred there in July 2009.The tests, to begin in September and run for at least three months, will use the new "4G" wireless technology, also known as "LTE" (for "Long Term Evolution"), and involve 100 mobile and 100 fixed-line customers living near the Newlyn East area of south Newquay in Cornwall.BT and Everything Everywhere are inviting people to bid for a place on the trial through a web-based system.Tom Alexander, chief executive of Everything Everywhere, said: "We strongly believe that by sharing our network and mobile services in this way, we can make a valuable contribution to the economics of rural broadband service."The trials will mark the first time that wireless connections have been used for both fixed and mobile signals. BT and Everything Everywhere – formed from the merger of the T-Mobile and Orange mobile networks – hope that it may solve the problem of how to reach distant locations where broadband over standard copper wires doesn't work, and it is deemed uneconomic to lay fibre-optic cable.The trials will test out a range of frequencies borrowed from the communications regulator Ofcom which are due to be auctioned off in 2012 to provide 4G/LTE services. The equipment for the connections will be installed on two mobile masts, and come from Finland's Nokia Siemens Networks and China's Huawei."We're targeting the 'notspots' and the 'not-a-lot-spots," said Sally Davis, chief executive of BT Wholesale, which is providing the broadband connectivity and the "fixed mobile" tests to peoples' homes.A key element of the test is that it will be using the 800MHz frequency band, which should have substantially longer range than the higher frequencies on which mobile masts currently transmit. That in turn should improve reception over distance, meaning that mobile carriers will not have to extend their existing networks to create blanket 4G coverage when the radio spectrum is auctioned off by Ofcom next year.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDevelopers band together to fight Lodsys if necessary"After Lodsys started sending threatening letters to developers, Apple took some time to issue a statement to developers hit by the notices which seemed to provide cover for them. Unfortunately, nothing in Apple's letter to developers said, 'We'll pick up the tab for any legal costs you incur.' So a band of developers have decided to pool their resources and secure counsel to help defend any legal action should Lodsys actually file suit against any of them."Smart to be prepared.Start-Up BlueStacks Raises Cash to Bring Android Apps to Windows PCs - AllThingsD"[Rosen] Sharma, the company's CEO, told AllThingsD that the company thinks it will find eager customers among PC makers looking to stand out from one another, while reacting to the rise of the iPad and Android."All of them are suffering because the iPad came out," Sharma said. 'They don't really have an answer. The answer most of them come up with is lets make an Android tablet.'"However, Sharma said he questions how many [of those tablets] they will sell, particularly if they don't have anything to stand out from the pack."Has $7.6m in venture funding. Our forecast: a pivot in the near future because Windows machines aren't good for touch-driven apps.Global Broadband Performance &gt;&gt; Google Public Data ExplorerAstonishingly, the UK's average upload speed is lower than that for Zimbabwe. Intriguing data set, fun tools.On TermKit &gt;&gt; Steven WittensIntriguing idea: just as you have WebKit for rendering web pages, why not have "TermKit" for rendering the output of Unix terminal pages in a more user-friendly format?Revised cookies' law and lack of guidance takes the biscuit &gt;&gt; CRITique"When we issue email alerts on an imminent change in law that is likely to have a wide impact on normal business activities, we seek to give clear guidance on what steps must be taken for compliance with the new law."Regrettably, this is rather difficult to do for the new law on the use of cookies, which comes into effect on 26 May 2011."This is a horrendous mess.Misuse of 3-D digital lens leaves 2-D movies in the dark &gt;&gt; The Boston GlobeWonder why sometimes films at multiplexes seem dark for no obvious reason?  "A description of the problem comes from one of several Boston-area projectionists who spoke anonymously due to concerns about his job. We'll call him Deep Focus. He explains that for 3-D showings a special lens is installed in front of a Sony digital projector that rapidly alternates the two polarized images needed for the 3-D effect to work."When you're running a 2-D film, that polarization device has to be taken out of the image path. If they're not doing that, it's crazy, because you've got a big polarizer that absorbs 50% of the light.''Female Magazine Readers Flock to Nook Color &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"The Nook Color has surprised publishers of women's magazines like O, The Oprah Magazine, Cosmopolitan and Women's Health by igniting strong sales that rival -- and in some cases surpass -- sales on the iPad."The success was not so easily predictable for a device that has been on the market only since November and faces stiff competition from Apple, Amazon and the Android-based tablets."Not available in the UK, of course.Google decides knowledge is power &gt;&gt; I, Cringely"Microsoft did more than just try to out-search Google. They gave some serious thought to how to make the quest for information on the Internet more productive and useful. Bing struck a chord with users and competitors alike and one result is that Google, too, is becoming more results-centric. That's what is largely behind this perceptual shift from search to knowledge. It was behind Google's Instant Search results, too -- a technically non-trivial effort that lies at the heart of what this particular column is all about. For the moment, Google trading search for knowledge is just posturing, but in the longer run it has really significant meaning. It's a game-changer."Google decides knowledge is power &gt;&gt; I, Cringely"Microsoft did more than just try to out-search Google. They gave some serious thought to how to make the quest for information on the Internet more productive and useful. Bing struck a chord with users and competitors alike and one result is that Google, too, is becoming more results-centric. That's what is largely behind this perceptual shift from search to knowledge. It was behind Google's Instant Search results, too -- a technically non-trivial effort that lies at the heart of what this particular column is all about. For the moment, Google trading search for knowledge is just posturing, but in the longer run it has really significant meaning. It's a game-changer."How to avoid or remove Mac Defender malware &gt;&gt; Apple"In the coming days, Apple will deliver a Mac OS X software update that will automatically find and remove Mac Defender malware and its known variants. The update will also help protect users by providing an explicit warning if they download this malware."In the meantime, the Resolution section below provides step-by-step instructions on how to avoid or manually remove this malware."Going to be interesting to see how much this malware mutates, if at all.Dell XPS 15z review &gt;&gt; EngadgetPromising a new laptop, says Engadget, "Dell even stated that it would have an 'innovative new form factor' of some sort."The company neglected to mention it would look like a MacBook Pro."This is the Dell XPS 15z, and we're sorry to say it's not a thin-and-light -- it's actually a few hairs thicker than a 15-inch MacBook Pro, wider, and at 5.54 pounds, it weighs practically the same. It is, however, constructed of aluminum and magnesium alloy and carries some pretty peppy silicon inside, and the base model really does ring up at $999. That's a pretty low price to garner comparisons to Apple's flagship, and yet here we are."A little later it says: "But let's get this out of the way right now: though the XPS 15z most definitely looks like a MacBook Pro and sports similar materials, you'll wind up disappointed if you're expecting the same exacting attention to detail."Worth reading the review in full for what it does and doesn't do well.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
David Cameron is to resist calls for international regulation of the web by Nicolas Sarkozy at the G8 summit. The French president will table proposals for controls on the internet on the first day of the conference of world leaders in Deauville, Normandy.Cameron's officials stressed they believed there were many hurdles and mechanisms before anyone could regulate the net internationally. "We will not be regulating the internet any time soon," said a Downing Street official.Sarkozy convened a conference in Paris attended by 1,000 digital executives. He warned them against monopoly control, copyright breaches and intrusions into personal privacy.Referring to the British case in which  Ryan Giggs was named on Twitter in defiance of a high court injunction, the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, admitted the difficulties involved in striking a balance between freedom and regulation. She said: "We are exploring, we are stumbling, we are trying to identify what will be the right tools [and] legal principles."Nick Clegg criticised the Liberal Democrat MP who named Giggs in the commons, making clear he did not support John Hemming's action: "I do not think that anyone should be above the rule of law. If we do not like the law in this place, we should act as legislators to change the law, not flout it."Lord Carlile, the Lib Dem peer, suggested those journalists who had broken the injunctions by naming Giggs on Twitter "can and possibly should" be brought before a court for contempt while human rights lawyer Lord Lester suggested MPs had now become "part of the crisis".Sarkozy stressed that "if technology is neutral and should remain so, the uses are not," pointing out that the protection of children and respect for privacy were universal principles. "Do not let the revolution you started undermine basic rights of individuals to privacy and to full autonomy," he warned.Five of the participants at Sarkozy's eG8 meeting in Paris are due to deliver a report to the G8 world leaders. But judging by Cameron's officials' response, Sarkozy's efforts will struggle to gain traction with world leaders.Sarkozy described the internet as the third globalisation and praised it for creating tens of thousands of jobs, but also called for greater social responsibility.He warned: "Your work can be considered historic and impacts on civilisation. With this in mind, your level of responsibility is undoubtedly the highest ever given to individuals who do not work in the public sector or as state representatives."Now that the internet is an integral part of most people's lives, it would be contradictory to exclude governments from this huge forum," said Sarkozy."Nobody could, nor should, forget that these governments are the only legitimate representatives of the will of the people in our democracies," he added."To forget this is to take the risk of democratic chaos and hence anarchy."He reminded the industry of its responsibilities in the fields of piracy, drawing a parallel between intellectual property on which many web companies are built and the copyright that artists seek to protect."These algorithms that constitute your power ... this technology that is changing the world, are your property and nobody can contest that," he said. "Writers, directors or actors can have the same rights."The eG8 guests included the executive chairman of Google, Eric Schmidt, the founder of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg,  the News International chairman, Rupert Murdoch, and Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon.Cameron, whose aides are close to Google, support what they see as the beneficial impact of the web on growth, society and government.They are suspicious of international regulation. But Cameron is under pressure from social conservatives to do more to control the effect of the web on children.Cameron's officials tried to play down Sarkozy's move, saying they intended to make sure nothing newsworthy emerged from the G8 over the initiative. They also stressed that they saw the internet as beneficial and said the discussion at the G8 should be forward-looking.Lord Lester, the Liberal Democrat peer, said regulation of the web was currently internationally difficult. He pointed out that the US president, Barack Obama, had signed a law last year which prevents English judgments relating to defamation being enforceable in the States..Sarkozy's effort to look at the governance of the web is also being resisted by digital executives. Schmidt asked governments to look first at technological solutions before legislating.He said governments were struggling to understand the way the internet was empowering individuals. "We will move faster than the public sector," said Schmidt. He urged governments to "tread lightly", saying "Clearly you need some level of regulation for the evil stuff. But I would be careful about over-regulating."
At the next aisle take a left and after two metres turn right. You have reached your destination – now pop the cornflakes into your trolley.Tesco is trialling the ultimate trolley dash dream in one of its Essex stores – a satnav system to help you find what you want. No more aimlessly wandering the aisles. Tap the product into an app on your smartphone and a map will pop up showing your position and where you can locate it.That's the theory. Let's see how it goes in Romford first . . .
Microsoft has shown off the next version of its Windows Phone mobile operating system, codenamed 'Mango', which will be released in the autumn, and claimed it is about to pass BlackBerry maker RIM for the number of apps available for its platform.The Mango update, which will be free to existing users, will be the first to be used by the Finnish handset Nokia, which isabandoning its own Symbian product in favour of Windows Phone. The first Nokia handsets running Windows Phone areexpected some time after October.Achim Berg, the corporate vice president of Windows Phone marketing, told the Guardian that Windows Phone's profile will only take off once Nokia begins featuring it on its handsets. But he insisted that the much larger geographical distribution that will follow then, with carriers in Russia, India and Latin America beginning to sell the devices, will have a significant impact on its sales."It gives people a level of confidence in what we're doing," he said. "This becomes a story now. It was hard to begin with, but we're going to have high-end phones and we will also be price-aggressive with other ranges."The research company Gartner reckons that betweenWindows Phone's launch in Octoberand the end of December, 700,000 handsets were sold. In the first three months of this year, it reckons 1.6m were sold. Microsoft has declined to comment on numbers, though it says satisfaction figures are high and that Windows Phone devices have the lowest return rate of any smartphone OS in the UK – a claim that has been backed up informally by mobile operators contacted by the Guardian.Berg said that Mango will include an app to run Skype, the internet telephony system whose company is being acquired by Microsoft for $8.5bn (£5.25bn). But he could not comment further on Microsoft's plans for the company because of regulatory issues.Although Microsoft and Nokia have said they will cooperate closely on future development of Windows Phone, Berg insisted that Nokia had no input into the development of Mango, which was essentially feature-complete by the time the two companies' deal was announced in mid-February.Berg was bullish about the prospects for Windows Phone as the number of apps available on its Market grows. "We've gone from a standing start – zero apps, six months ago – to 18,000 now," he said.RIM launched its own app store for the BlackBerry in April 2009, after Apple opened its own for the iPhone in July 2008. Though the company hasn't offered any clear numbers, the 18,000 figure was quoted earlier this year, suggesting it may have increased since then.Stephen Elop, the former Microsoft executive who took over at Nokia in September 2010, said in February that he thought that in time there would only be three major "ecosystems" of handsets and apps – Windows Phone, Google's Android and Apple's iOS. With RIM's position in the smartphone market under pressure following a profits warning, the company faces a fight to establish a position before Nokia begins its incursion into the space.Tony Cripps of the analyst company Ovum said: "Microsoft needs to do better if it is to persuade the market that it has the most user-friendly – and desirable – mobile platform in the market today. New features look set to deliver a deeper level of integration between different communication apps (and other apps on the device) than users are so far accustomed to. But integration is a tough concept to sell to consumers, even if they may benefit enormously once they've adopted it. Cracking this conundrum may well be key to Windows Phone's future success." But, Cripps added, ZTE could be a key addition in the fight against Android at the low end. "ZTE in particular can be expected to take advantage of the more achievable hardware specs now being touted by Microsoft – plus carriers' desire for low-cost alternatives to Android smartphones. That said, Mango still lacks the potential for customisation and brand differentiation that some manufacturers are looking for. With Nokia likely to dominate Windows Phone shipments once that relationship is fully up and running, that may need addressing if other high-end OEMs are to stay on board."Microsoft is setting out the detail of Windows Phone Mango well ahead of time to allow developers to get used to its setup.Key elements of the update include:• Threads: switching between text, Facebook chat and Windows Live Messenger within the same conversation.• Groups: group contacts into personalised Live Tiles, to show the latest status updates right from the start screen and quickly send a text, email or IM to the whole group.• Deeper social network integration: Twitter and Linked In feeds are now integrated into contact cards, and Mango includes built-in Facebook check-ins and new face detection software that makes it easier to quickly tag photos and post to the Web.• Linked inbox for email: to show multiple email accounts in one linked inbox. Conversations are organised to make it easy to stay on top of the latest mail.• Hands-free messaging: built-in voice-to-text and text-to-voice support enables hands-free texting or chatting.There will also be multitasking for third-party apps, which will go into a suspended mode when not in use to save battery power. The current browser will be replaced with internet Explorer 9, capable of HTML5 rendering. (Notably, Microsoft has not said that Windows Phone will include Flash.)Mango will also see more phone manufacturers coming into the Windows Phone fold, with Acer, Fujitsu and the Chinese company ZTE offering models.
Twitter is poised to acquire London-based startup TweetDeck in a $40m (£25m) deal that will make 36-year-old founderIain Dodswortha multimillionaire.The San Francisco-based micro-blogging site is understood to have finalised a cash and shares deal which is expected to be officially announced  on Wednesday.On Monday talks that a deal had been finalised prompted the US company toput out a statement – via Twitter of course– which said: "For all those who might be curious we continue to not comment on rumours."Dodsworth, a Sheffield Hallam university-educated programmer who has worked at the Prudential and PricewaterhouseCoopers and who counts himself "a Formula One obsessive", commented on Twitter that "an impressive number of people seem to have my mobile number and like to ring it at 4am".TweetDeck, which employs around 15 staff, is based in the Old Street area of London which has been dubbed the 'Silicon Roundabout' due to the proliferation of promising technology startups that call it home.Since being founded in 2008 TweetDeck, which allows users to "tweet like a pro" by customising their Twitter feed, has received more than $3m in funding but has never turned a profit.But it has gathered a huge amount of momentum thanks to positive coverage from Twitter evangelists including Stephen Fry and actor Ashton Kutcher, one of the most followed users in the US.Twitter reportedly entered the hunt to buy TweetDeck last month after reports emerged that the company was being courted by Bill Gross, an internet entrepreneur behind UberMedia which had already snapped up several startups in the sector.Dodsworth launched the service after becoming frustrated atmissing messages from friends.In 2009 he said that TweetDeck would not look to build a revenue stream from trying to charge for access, but that it may look to "charge people for high-end usage" – a similar strategy to that attempted by business networking site LinkedIn, which last week launched a $9bn flotation on the New York stock exchange.The deal marks Twitter's sixth since 2009, according to Thomson Reuters' Deal Intel service. Twitter itself has been the subject of takeover rumours – with Google and Facebook said to be interested.The company, which is only five years old in its own right, has only recently started to tap advertisers for revenue and is on track to earn $150m in this year, according to estimates from research firm eMarketer.
Ashley Highfield, Microsoft UK's managing director of consumer and online announces the upcoming Mango update for Windows Phone 7, and debates with Charles Arthur whether it has been successful.Then Aleks speaks to Jonathan Todd, the European commission spokesperson for digital affairs at the EC, who tells us about new rules as part of their digital agenda. He explains the directives that will enable us to switch mobile providers more easily, potentially get a shorter contract, and find out when our data has been illegally accessed. There's also discussion of the EC's rules on usage of cookies and net neutrality.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Last week Twitter threw open its doors to developers for their latestDevNest meetingin San Francisco. Twitter announced that there are more than 600,000 app developers working on apps that use the Twitter API. That's like a city the size of Glasgow being a Twitter developer community. Not only that, Twitter processes more than 13bn API requests every single day and there are 900,000 existing applications that freely integrate with Twitter.In March, Ryan Sarver, Twitter's product manager,told developers to stop developing new Twitter clients, citing his reasons as significant numbers of client apps repeatedly violating Twitter's terms of service.The quick numbers• Twitter saw a 41% increase in tweets per day in the first quarter of 2011, with a 38% increase in the US• monthly signups are up by 52% in the same quarter• mobile usage of Twitter has shot up, with 104% growth on Android, 72% on iPad, 55% on iPhone and 51% on BlackBerry.But the bottom line from Twitter to app developers is that if you're building a rival Twitter client, then stop. It doesn't want it. It wants to work with you and not against.Twitter's development team, along with new recruit, Jason Costa, who's the developer relations manager, is now actively encouraging developers to build apps that "integrate" with Twitter.Integrate? With advice from Costa, Twitter describes the five key areas of opportunity to developers as "analytics, content, curation, publishing and enterprise". So what does this really mean for developers? Well, that there is plenty of opportunity to develop great apps that integrate into Twitter freely, without directly competing with them by building rival client apps.Looking closely at the five key areas that Costa describes, we have selected five successful apps that we believe currently demonstrate what Twitter is really asking developers to build. Take a look at these:Analytics – Tap11Tap11 is a Twitter business intelligence service that provides your business with analytics and CRM tools to engage and grow your audience. Twitter recently selected Tap11 as a top six app at Chirp (the first Twitter developer conference), the judges viewed Tap11 as the "omniture of the real-time web".This app allows you to monitor your brand, listen to conversations about your brand, products and competitors. It also allows you to focus on important conversations, allowing you to view people by influence and engage them with relevant content. You can also measure the results of each campaign with per tweet analytics.Compatible with iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad. Tap11.com supports Firefox, Safari, Chrome and IE8 browsers.Content – TweetAgoraContent syndication was never so easy than with TweetAgora, providing advanced filtering capabilities to ensure you only see tweets of things you are interested in, even allowing you to "mute" certain users.Currently only compatible with iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad.Curation – Social Cloud iPhoneSocial Cloud is a social network curator of information. Allowing you to manage and find the most pertinent and important information among your Twitter feeds. Your followers become distilled into a text cloud with key words emphasised. You then drill down on those significant words to read the message that are the most relevant.Currently only available on iPhone but soon to support iPod Touch and iPad.Publishing – HootSuitePublishing on Twitter just got a whole lot easier with HootSuite for mobile. It allows the user to manage and post simultaneously across multiple Twitter accounts.Compatible with iPhone/iPad, Android and BlackBerry. HootSuite currently supports a cross-platform web app (HootSuite.com).Enterprise – SeesmicSeesmic is a powerful social media monitoring and management app that natively supports Twitter as well as Facebook and Ping.fm . It allows the user to update dozens of networks at once. Seesmic also allows for posting to one or multiple accounts at the same time.Available on iPhone, Android, BlackBerry and Windows 7 devices as well as Mac or PC.Twitter is growing up and is aware that it is just not possible to please everyone as it figures out its own business model and revenue stream.Twitter wants developers to focus on other facets of Twitter rather than developing rival clients.A key example of the reasoning behind this is the rumoured deal that Twitter has acquired TweetDeck. (We contacted Richard Barley the community manager for TweetDeck but he was unable to comment on the rumours).TweetDeck has become one of the most innovative Twitter based services available and in February was courted by UberMedia hoping to add it to its store of Twitter client apps for both iOS and Android.UberMedia's arsenal currently includes Echofon, UberSocial and Twidroyd. TweetDeck is a hugely successful third-party client, with around 10% of Twitter users currently accessing Twitter via TweetDeck.Twitter's acquisition could be seen as a defensive one, albeit expensive one (reckoned to be around $50m). Defensive, in so much as they simply could not allow UberMedia to control such a large market share in this space. Originally, Twitter was hailed as an example of innovation but has been heavily criticised by many 'power users' recently for its lack of innovation and many of these said 'power users' have switched to TweetDeck because of its customisable and multi-column view.
Shoot-outs on the streets of Paris and New York, gun battles among speeding tube trains in London; it can only be the third title in Activision's globe-trotting Modern Warfare series. Currently in development at Infinity Ward and Sledgehammer Games, Modern Warfare 3 is set to continue the story of its multi-million-selling predecessor, in which America is invaded by Russia.Just in case you still haven't seen the new trailer, here it is, showing plenty of the cinematic set-piece action we've come to expect from the Call of Duty games. Alongside raging skirmishes on city streets, it looks like there will also be underwater sections, and the standard helicopter minigun sequences. I think it's safe to say there will also be gigantic explosions.The release date is set for November 8, and we'll be running a preview later in the week. For now, watch the trailer and let us know what you think in the comments section.
Nicolas Sarkozy opened what he described as a historic conference on the internet and the future of the "digital ecosystem" in Paris on Tuesday on the eve of the G8 summit.The French president said it was a unique chance for the main players in the development of information and communication technologies to come together with leaders of state and hoped it could become an annual event."In this way we can know what you are doing … and you can know what we think," Sarkozy toldthe eG8 forum."We need to talk to you. We need to understand your expertise, your hopes … and you have to know our limits and our red lines."Around 1,500 guests have been invited to the forum. Among the VIPs were Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google, Jimmy Wales, founder of Wikipedia, John Donahoe, president of eBay, and Mark Zuckerberg, founder of Facebook.The theme of the two-day forum is The Internet: Accelerating Growth. Sarkozy said its conclusions would be communicated to heads of state at the G8 economic forum taking place in Deauville, France on Thursday and Friday."Yesterday's dreams have become realities, and the universe of possibilities grows broader around us every day," he said."Democracy and human rights have been reinforced, states have been incited to greater transparency and, in some countries, oppressed peoples have been empowered to make their voices heard and to act collectively in the name of freedom."He said the internet had been a revolution that had changed people's perception of time, of the world and history."You have changed the world … it has been a total global revolution. What has been unique in this revolution is that it belongs to nobody; it has no flag, no slogan, it is a common good."What is also unique about this revolution is that it was done without violence. It was not fought on battlefields but on university campuses."However, Sarkozy warned the internet could not be allowed to become a "parallel universe" or a replacement for traditional democracy."You have given every individual the chance to be heard everywhere by anyone. People have never had this chance before in history, but that right cannot be held by destroying the rights of others."Total transparency has to be balanced by individual liberty. Do not forget that every anonymous internet user comes from a society and has a life."He added: "Governments are the legitimate guardians of our societies and do not forget this."He said leaders of state had to learn how the internet could be used "to reinforce democracy, social dialogue and solidarity" and to create a "more efficient state". However, he said, "we have to make sure that the universe that you are responsible for is not a parallel universe outside laws and morals".Among the issues to be addressed, he said, were privacy, the protection of children from the "turpitude of certain adults", copyright and intellectual property rights.
Every time the Guardian website is updated (which happens, whether you notice it or not, every two weeks) the quality assurance/testing team spend  around two days browsing the soon-to-be-made-live version of the website to see if anything has broken stylistically or functionally.The testing team maintain a dynamic list of more than 75 urls, which represent as many different types of pages and content types as time allows us to check.These 75 urls are then in turn tested in most standard browsers – currently Firefox 3.6.x, Internet Explorer 8, 7 and 6, Chrome 11.x and Safari 4.x or 5.x. The list of browsers we test are dictated by collating users' browser data from our tracking software (Omniture). However, resources are finite and we can't support everything all of the time so we have to keep an eye on when browsers are in the ascendancy and when they are in decline. Monitoring the stats allows us to do this.New for oldWe don't necessarily have the resources to test all recently released browsers such asInternet Explorer 9orFirefox 4or even development versions of browsers such asInternet Explorer 10.It really doesn't make much sense to devote resources to testing new browsers until the uptake of those browsers reaches critical numbers – we can debate what these "numbers" mean in some other post – so we are keeping an eye on our site stats in Omniture. Pragmatically, there seems little point in developing for, or testing in, newly released browsers whose features may change radically in the weeks and months following a public release (whether those features change in response to bug fixes or enhancement requests).At the same time as keeping an eye on user uptake of Internet Explorer 9 and Firefox 4, we have been having continuing discussions about officially phasing out first-line support for Internet Explorer 6. Our site statistics show that use of IE6 has slipped in a year from about 15% of our users to about 3%. This percentage is falling month after month. Microsoft itself recently launched its officialIE6 Countdown siteand now we are comfortable saying that we will only offer second-line support for IE6 as a browser.So what does that mean? It means that we will no longer regression test or browser test our 75 pages in IE6; rather we will only respond to support questions and requests from users who contact us with issues. We'll be reactive rather than proactive for IE6.When we do investigate support issues reported by users, we won't spend time fixing design issues, and we will only fix issues raised around functionality if we consider them critical and if the fixes don't introduce more risk to the rest of the site.In making a decision to phase out first-line support for IE6, we free more resources to explore greater support for more modern browsers and technologies supported by these browsers; to spend our time developing new stuff that will enhance the experience of the whole site for many users.In the future we aim to keep you posted, on this blog, as to which browsers we think our site is best viewed in – and of course we'd suggest to users of guardian.co.uk that it's good to keep your browser more or less up to date, if you can, in order to benefit from the best functionality that the Guardian site has to offer.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTall and Narrow &gt;&gt; Tim Bray's Ongoing"Here's the tablet conundrum: I find that full-size (i.e. iPad or Xoom scale) devices often sit most comfortably in the hand when held sideways. And, during a recent presentation I attended on app design for the tablet form factor, someone pointed out that a landscape-mode tablet, unlike a portrait-mode handset, recalls the shape of computer monitor; so presumably the user-experience lessons we've learned designing for monitors begin once again to apply."Tim Bray, in case you didn't know, is a key developer at Google working on Android Market. So how do you hold your tablet? In portrait, or landscape mode?Hurt Locker makers target record breaking 24,583 BitTorrent users &gt;&gt; TorrentFreak"After being honored with an Oscar for best motion picture last year, the makers of The Hurt Locker have now also secured the award for the biggest file-sharing lawsuit the world has ever witnessed. By targeting at least 24,583 alleged BitTorrent users, Voltage Pictures hopes to recoup millions of dollars in settlements to compensate the studio for piracy-related losses."More likely to go to lawyers.Microsoft's Ballmer says next-gen Windows systems due in 2012 &gt;&gt; ZDNet"During remarks at a developers conference in Japan on May 23, Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer referred to the next version of Windows as "Windows 8." He also said the next generation of Windows systems will be out next year.To those not following Microsoft's Windows saga closely, this may seem like a "so what" moment. But Microsoft execs have been studiously avoiding any references to the timing or naming of the next version of Windows to try to keep the specifics of the product as quiet as possible. Microsoft's top brass has been avoiding calling the next version of Windows "Windows 8? publicly, preferring instead to call it "Windows Next." (Internally, a number of  Microsoft job postings and leaked slides have referenced "Windows 8," however."Also interesting: Ballmer says that "Windows 7 PCs will sell over 350m units this year". Given that last year the market for PCs was about 500m, there seems a big gap between the two numbers.Makers and Takers » Matt Legend Gemmell"Our legal system does have to offer some protection of intellectual property as an incentive towards commercialisation, for the good of the economy. It's important to realise, though, that the logical purpose of such protection is to enable and provide a return on investment; i.e. on the injected capital of invention. For software user interface or interaction concepts, it's dubious what exactly the up-front investment actually is, much less the notional cost of development of the idea. With patented algorithms and interactions, there's often so little difference between the concept itself, and the mechanics of its implementation, that they are virtually one and the same. The entire existence, much less the legitimacy, of the idea is in its execution. The product is the idea."Research projects vie for EU's EUR1bn prizes &gt;&gt; FT.com"Perhaps the most futuristic proposal is EPFL's Guardian Angels, which will use computing and imaginative energy research to 'create the ultimate smart device that will assist humans from infancy to old age'. The guardian angel will 'scavenge for energy' from its environment, for example by tapping the heat and movements of the human body, said Adrian Ionescu, project leader."Faintly scary.Samsung ordered to hand over phone prototypes to Apple &gt;&gt; Courthouse News ServiceMeanwhile, in another part of the patent jungle: "Samsung Electronics was told Wednesday to fork over five of its not-yet-released mobile phones to Apple. Sitting in Federal Court in San Jose, Judge Lucy Koh ruled that Apple deserves the quick production of cell phone samples three months earlier than usual in the litigation process, though she drew the line at requiring testimony from Samsung executives."'Apple has demonstrated good cause for some, limited expedited discovery,' said Koh. 'While Apple has not yet filed a motion for preliminary injunction, courts have found that expedited discovery may be justified to allow a plaintiff to determine whether to seek an early injunction,' said Koh.Iceland Wants To Be Your Friend &gt;&gt; TumblrWell, it sort of does. Mainly by making you stay there if you visit by letting off a volcano.Predators &gt;&gt; furbo.org"We're a small company. We have 12 employees that have created 14 products for Mac and iOS. We have been incorporated in the state of North Carolina since 1999. We won an Apple Design Award in 2008.We've been doing product development long enough to know that legal expenses are just a part of doing business. But as we both know, the costs of patent litigation can be staggering. As a small company, we don't have the resources to defend ourselves, so that leaves us with one option: to pay a licensing fee.And that worries us and every other iOS developer we know.In and of itself, paying half of a percent of our App Store sales to Lodsys isn't going to put us out of business. The fear we have is that this is the first step on a very slippery slope."It's well known that the top titles in the App Store can earn tens of thousands of dollars per day. There are many predators with dubious patents who see dollar signs when they look at the flock of iOS developers."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A burst of 7 apps for your consideration today.Born This Way RevengeYou can't escape Lady Gaga this week, thanks to the promotional frenzy around her new Born This Way album. The onslaught includes a new iPhone game, Born This Way Revenge, developed by Tap Tap Revenge maker Tapulous. The rhythm game lets fans tap along to 17 tracks from the album's special edition, with chat rooms, Gaga's Twitter feed and lyrics thrown in for good measure.AOL TVUS-only for now, AOL TV is an iPhone and iPad app that lets users see what's currently airing on TV, cross-referencing it with content on streaming services Netflix and Hulu, and downloads on iTunes. The app can also look up show info on IMDb and Wikipedia, while setting users' TiVO digital video recorders to record shows. As the name implies, the app is the work of AOL.Best Buy Music CloudUK retailer Carphone Warehouse launched its Music Anywhere cloud music service last year. Now its partner company Best Buy has its own version – powered by the same startup Catch Media – for Android. Users can listen to their collection on the go, while creating playlists and rating songs.AlcohologyFeeling thirsty? Alcohology is a new cocktail recipe app for iPhone, with more than 1,200 cocktails to choose from. Its key feature is the ability to enter the drinks that you have available at home, to only see recipes using those ingredients. Alas, it probably draws a blank at finding a blend for Special Brew, 20/20 and chips.RaditazRaditaz is a new streaming music app for Android which claims to blend Pandora-like personalised radio stations with Foursquare-style location and gamification features. In other words, create streaming radio stations based on your location, and earn points and badges for your activity within the app.SkrappyiPad app Skrappy styles itself as "the scrapbook for you", collecting music, videos, voice notes, websites, text and photos into a swipable virtual scrapbook, with the ability to export them as PDFs or in Skrappy's proprietary format.Simon Faithfull's LimboArtist Simon Faithfull's official iPhone app offers up live 'digital drawings', based on his observational sketches from east London to Antarctica and back again. The app ties in with Faithfull's Facebook and Twitter profiles too.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
It's Tuesday, come and talk about games!
What is Apple doing right in the PC market? And what, exactly, did it do wrong in the first quarter of 2006?Those are the two questions that occur in looking at some of the numbers pushed out by Charles Wolf, an analyst at Needham. He's posted an investment note on Apple which points out that Apple's Mac shipments have grown faster than the PC market for the past 20 quarters (that's five years in normal money).Apple computer sales growth since 2007 Q1. Data sources: Apple, GartnerHe's also noted that in the first quarter of this year, when Mac shipments grew by 27.7% while the PC market shrank by 1.2% year-on-year (by IDC's numbers; Gartner's show a 0.94% fall) Mac shipment growth occurred in "every single regional market". In Europe, they grew 10% against a PC market down 17.5%; in Asia up 69.4% (v PC market up 8.8%); in Japan, up 21.1% (PCs down 16.1%). All figures are IDC data, and all year-on-year.Slice it another way, and shipments to business were up by 66% (while the overall market grew 4.5%); to government by 155.6% (v 2.3%); to the home market by 21.6% (v a 6.5% shrinkage).OK, but what's behind it? Why are all these home users, business users, government users getting Macs? One argument is that with Apple, you're starting from a small base, so any increase is going to look dramatic. And yet something is going on. My analysis of Apple's sales figures and the numbers from Gartner and IDC shows that in the second quarter of 2010, Apple hit 4% of the whole PC market for the first time in more than ten years; it hasn't happened since 1998, and I can't find the time before that when it was true.In fact, my own analysis shows that if it hadn't been for a stumble in the first quarter of 2006, that figure would be 26 quarters, going all the way back to the fourth calendar quarter of 2004, when Apple emerged from 10 straight quarters in which it grew less fast than the market - or in other words, its market share of all computers shipped shrank.Yes, butwhy?According to Wolf, "shipment growth has resulted solely from an outward shift in the demand curve rather than from a relative reduction in Mac prices." We translate from analyst-ese: people aren't buying them because they're cheap, because (relatively) they're not: you can get cheaper computers, as pretty much anyone knows, and as Microsoft harped on about with its"Laptop hunter" advertsin March 2009 - which, if you've forgotten, were about people trying to get value for money in buying a laptop. Much good those did, by the way - Apple's share of the computer market, where three-quarters of its sales are laptops, kept growing from 3.35% to break through that 4% barrier.Apple computer market share since 1999. Data source: Apple, GartnerOK, so what's Wolf think is doing it?"The key drivers of the growth in Mac shipments over the past five years have been the halo effects emanating from the iPod and iPhone," Wolf says. "The Apple Stores have played an important supporting role in providing convenient destinations and support resources for Windows users new to the Mac."This is what has also been called "the halo effect", where one Apple product purchase leads on to others.And he thinks that will get bigger: "The iPhone is competing in the mobile phone market, one measured in billions of units rather than the portable music player market, one measured in millions of units. Of course, the iPad is waiting in the wings."You might have thought that the iPad had already been quite busy, having been on sale for more than a year, but perhaps not.Is it that simple, though? It seems odd if the "halo effect" from iPhones and iPods is feeding through to business and government sales as well - the latter is notoriously indifferent to those outside trivia.One argument is that the increase in Mac sales (in the last quarter, at just under 5m, a level it has been nudging for the past three quarters) is due to governments and businesses getting interested in developing apps for those iPhones, so they're buying one to be able to run the iPhone Software Development Kit. And home users? Quite probably they are the ones who are trading up (or as Wolf puts it, exerting an outward shift in the demand curve).That's the best we have - what's your explanation? And what did Apple get wrong in the first quarter of 2006 to make its sales dip below the rate of growth of the rest of the market?
Twitter may have been credited with helping topple Arab dictatorships. But Britons seem to have turned the site to a different use. Without fear of, or respect for, our own courts and their injunctions, people feverishly transmit the names of footballers and other personalities who have taken out gagging orders to protect them from being linked to stories of sexual indiscretion.That, though, is not necessarily a comment on the morality of Britons, but an acknowledgement of the reality of Twitter. It is naive to assume that it, and other social media, are in essence benign, that their main political function since the Iranian protests of 2009 has been to aid revolutionaries in communication, although it is a point so often glibly made. What is accurate, then, is to see Twitter as an amoral, disruptive force.English law, over many years, has developed careful rules for restraining the media – whether in the form of injunctions and privacy law, or in the form of contempt of court – preventing news organisations reporting on the backgrounds of suspects in a trial. The result, at least when it comes to courtrooms, is that there is all sorts of information that is routinely kept out of the media. Now an unregulated technology has come along and it is unclear if the traditional balance can ever be restored.A first indication of what was to come was when Chris Jefferies was arrested on suspicion of the murder of Joanna Yeates, whose body had been found in the Bristol area on Christmas Day. Jefferies turned out to be innocent (another man, Vincent Tabak, has confessed to killing her), but in the aftermath of his arrest there was widespread speculation about him on Twitter, which lawyers warned could have been in breach of contempt of court. In the end, neither Twitter nor its users were targeted for legal action for covering the case, though the Daily Mirror and the Sun were.What that confirmed was the existence of a three-tier media: a handful of highly regulated broadcasters, a group of lightly regulated newspapers, and the wild west online that had come to be represented by Twitter.Britain's judges have long taken such a view when it comes to injunctions, with Justice Eady declining to overturn the Ryan Giggs gagging order early on Monday  afternoon even though tens of thousands had tweeted Giggs's name, and hundreds of thousands would have read it.Broadcasting and the press have long fed off each other; the new media dynamic adds Twitter, other social media and influential blogs to the mix. The Daily Mail, in particular, is often quick to report what is circulating on Twitter; what the newspaper also well understands is that it is able to whip up enough public sentiment to its brand of morality (as Paul Dacre, the title's editor achieved, by helping prompt thousands of complaints in response to Russell Brand and Jonathan Ross's sexually explicit Radio 2 broadcast).This time, though, the public reaction helped beat the injunction because the newspaper could keep pointing to Twitter leaks and the absurdity of the press's inability to report what the public can openly discuss. And while the judges might complain, it is the politicians who fall into line. So it fell to David Cameron to say on Daybreak on Monday morning that the situation was "unsustainable". Then it fell to John Hemming, a Liberal Democrat, who felt justified in naming Ryan Giggs in the Commons. At that point it was only minutes before the media piled in and the dam was breached.
Apple has warned a patent company that demanded payment for patent infringement from developers that it is "fully prepared to defend Apple's license rights", in a signal that it will defend its app ecosystem from threats by "patent trolls".Lodsys, a company that has apatent which it claims covers in-app upgrades, had written to a number of app developers claiming they were infringing its patents.The Guardian reported thatApple's legal department was investigating the claims by Lodsys. Now it has shot back with a legal letter that indicates that the multi-billion dollar company is not happy to see its app ecosystem - which has produced thousands of apps and earned billions of dollars - threatened.The move does not however settle a separate set of patent lawsuits against app makersfiled by MacroSolve. Those are still outstanding.According to a letter from Bruce Sewell, the head lawyer in Apple's legal department, to Mark Small, the chief executive of Lodsys, Apple is a licensee of the relevant patents "and the Apple App Makers are protected by that license [sic]. There is no basis for Lodsys's infringement allegations against Apple's App Makers."Apple, Sewell says, "is fully prepared to defend [its] license rights."Sewell's piece-by-piece refutation of Lodsys's claims against a number of app developers - who had been served with legal papers claiming infringement of Lodsys patents and demanding payment as a result - shows that the company is prepared to defend its territory against companies described as "patent trolls".Lodsys's claim against the developers is invalidated, says Sewell, because "the allegedly infringing acts require the use of Apple's APIs to provide two-way communication", as well as the physical memory - provided again by Apple - and claims as its "central location" the Apple App Store."Thus, the technology that is targeted in your notice letters is technology that Apple is expressly licensed under the Lodsys patents to offer to Apple's App Makers," Sewell concludes.Lodsyshad not responded on its blogat the time of publication. Previously, it had argued that it was contacting app vendors because "The economic gains provided by the Lodsys inventions (increase in revenue through additional sales, or decrease in costs to service the customer) are being enjoyed by the business that provides the product or service that interacts with the user... As a comparative example, it is the owner of the hotel who is responsible for the overall service (value proposition) that guests pay for, not the owner of the land that the hotel may be leasing". In its example, Apple is the owner of the land.But Sewell's letter rebuffs that thoroughly. "Apple requests that Lodsys immediately withdraw all notice letters sent to Apple App Makers and cease its false assertions that the App Makers... in any [infringed] any Lodsys patent."The text of the letter from Sewell is below.
UK traffic to Twitter's website spiked by 22% on Saturday as people flocked to the social messaging site to find out about the footballer who had taken out an injunction against the site, according to research from the measurement company Experian Hitwise.The traffic was 10% higher than for the site's previous busiest day in the UK, which came on 9 May when the media reported on the creation of an account on the site which purported toname those who had taken out superinjunctionsto prevent details being reported.Hitwise also noted a dramatic rise last week in search terms linked to the injunctionserved by Giggs' lawyers on the site. "Ryan Giggs suing Twitter" was the fourth most popular term for the entire week ending on Saturday, despite the fact that the story only broke on the Friday evening.That was reflected too in Hitwise's data from social networks such as Facebook and Twitter, where "twitter footballer" and "ryan giggs suing twitter" ranked in the top two or three.Experian Hitwise takes its data from internet service providers in the UK, and its figures for visits to Twitter show a steady rise in traffic during March, with its share of internet visits in the UK growing by nearly 60%.That represents millions of people visiting the site for the first time, and could mark a tipping point in its popularity in the UK.Writing on the Hitwise corporate blog, UK research director Robin Goad said that Twitter was growing where Facebook was not: "12% of visits to the [Twitter] website are coming from new users. To put that into context, 99.5% of visits to Facebook in the UK come from returning visitors, but Twitter continues to attract new users to its website every single day. Facebook is clearly much bigger than Twitter (about 15 times bigger in terms of volume of visits) but Facebook's growth in terms of new visitors (in the UK market at least) has been pretty static for some months now."Though Twitter only represents 0.55% of website visits in the UK – compared with 7.64% for Facebook, and 1% for BBC News – the growth means it has passed the BBC's iPlayer in terms of popularity.Twitter's audience is also beginning to reflect the general online population far more accurately than a year ago, according to the Hitwise analysis, suggesting it is becoming mainstream among the UK's internet users. "Twitter is no longer purely in the domain of early adopters; rather it is becoming a universal tool which is being used increasingly by all types of internet users, regardless of their online preferences," Goad noted.
Analysis by the Guardian suggests that the Japanese electronics giant Sony's fourth quarter ending in March was one of its worst sales quarters in 11 years and that it will announce a ¥73bn (£554m) operating loss for the period.The figures emerged after the company warned that on Thursday it will announce a loss for the fiscal year of ¥260bn due to a huge tax writeoff, and that disruption due to the huge earthquake and tsunami in March has had a "major impact" that had reduced sales and profitability.The company's chief financial officer, Masaru Kato, said that the full-year figures, to be released on Thursday, will show the company post an operating profit of around ¥200bn on total sales of about ¥7.18trn, down from earlier forecasts of ¥7.2trn.That suggests however that the fourth quarter that ended in March, which often sees a dip in Sony sales post-Christmas, has been the worst for sales in a decade, and that it lost ¥73bn in the fourth quarter after making a total profit of ¥273bn in the previous three quarters.Sony often makes losses in the post-Christmas quarter as retailers struggle with unsold stock; it has only recorded profits in that period in two of the past 11 years.The annual net loss will be Sony's second-largest ever, underscoring the decline of a company that was once seen as a symbol of Japan's electronic and manufacturing excellence."I have been sceptical about Sony for a long time. Sony has been overtaken by Apple and other companies," said Yuuki Sakurai, chief executive and president of Fukoku Capital Management in Tokyo. "The management is not able to show shareholders the future of the company."Sony has found itself outmanoeuvred by Apple in portable music and by Samsung Electronics in flat-screen TVs, and is facing a tough fight in video games with Nintendo and Microsoft .The company also announced it has spent ¥14bn so far covering the costs arising from the break-in to its PlayStation Network for gamers and Qriocity music network: that covers identity-theft insurance for customers, improvements to network security, free access to content, customer support and an investigation into the hacking.The Japanese maker of the PlayStation 3 video game consoles and Bravia flat-panel TVs said on Monday that the projection of a ¥260bn net loss for the fiscal year ended March 2011 was largely due to writing off ¥360bn related to a tax credit booked in a previous quarter.Sony announced the loss ahead of its official earnings announcement due on Thursday under Tokyo Stock Exchange guidelines. The company had earlier projected a ¥70bn full-year profit.Like many other Japanese manufacturers, Sony has been hit by the disruption to its production set off by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that killed more than 25,000 people, destroyed many factories and froze the nation's economic recovery.Kato said parts shortages in the aftermath of the disaster have eased but a full recovery has not yet been realised. "In the first quarter, we saw quite a major impact on our manufacturing activities," he said. After the quake, "negative factors have grown bigger" and offset earlier improvement in the previously loss-making games division, dashing hopes for a profit.Tokyo-based Sony also faced a new challenge to its reputation following a massive security breach affecting around 100m online accounts.After temporarily closing down its online gaming services last month, Sony began restoring its PlayStation Network services in the US and Europe on May 15 mainly for online gaming, chat and music streaming services.Sony has seen plunging sales of flat-panel TVs and other gadgets, and was likely to remain in the red in its TV business for the seventh year straight.The company booked a ¥40.8bn loss for the fiscal year ended March 2010 after a ¥98.9bn yen loss the year before – Sony's first annual red ink in 14 years.Companies are allowed to carry forward tax losses for up to seven years if they can show that future taxable profits are likely. But under US accounting rules, the global standard, three consecutive years of net losses are considered evidence that those credits may not be available to it.
If anything is going to finish off the hacking community it's more likely to be early-onset diabetes than security agencies, given the way the assembled hackers and software company security officers demolish the cake for breakfast, lunch and tea at Amsterdam's Hotel Krasnapolsky.It might come as something of a surprise to people who don't come to these events just how buddy-buddy hackers and software corporates are these days. Hack in the Box (HiTB) isn't an ersatz event put together by some canny event company; it's organised by hackers for the community. Indeed, over the years, nothing has succeeded in persuading the guys behind it to try to make a reasonable living out of it.But for all the hacker cred HiTB enjoys there's no sense of cold-shouldering the suits, or in this case logo-emblazoned T-shirts. RIM, Facebook, Google and Mozilla are all sponsors and Microsoft is paying for the floating after-party on the Ijsselmeer.Indeed, the boundaries between software companies and hackers have been growing steadily more fluid over the years. The big names are here to make friends, listen to the latest research and to recruit. Often their in-house security teams claim to have a degree of autonomy that other divisions – such as sales, marketing and R&amp;D – don't. These, after all, are the guys who have to saddle up occasionally and ride out of the stockade at Fort Gates into the wild west of software. I'd say some of them seem to prefer it out there.If all this sounds slightly counter-intuitive, bear in mind that in this particular world there are a lot of people out there with a lot of different coloured hats. Taking a lead from the visual language of the westerns there are white hats (the good guys), the black hats (the bad guys) and the grey hats (either the morally ambivalent or the guys who didn't figure out which washing machine cycle to use).The white hats are essentially freelance security experts who look for vulnerabilities in software and who then sometimes develop "exploits" or tools to take advantage of them. If you want a visual metaphor the conference handily provides one in the shape of the "lockpick village" – a table of enthusiasts who bring along a bag of brass or steel locks and padlocks and sit there picking away at them until they've cracked every one.One of the major themes here is how the big software companies reward the hackers for their efforts. Different corporations respond to hackers in different ways. Mozilla, the company behind the Firefox browser, was one of the first to pay these freelancers for drawing their attention to vulnerabilities or even better for coming to them with a solution as well as a problem. Google is here to ensure the hacking community knows it is following suit and offering a bounty on every one they report. Chris Evans, who is head of security for Google Chrome, describes it as "recognition for their efforts".Chris and Lucas Adamski, director of security engineering at Mozilla, are sharing a panel platform with senior security people from RIM, Adobe and Microsoft. The latter doesn't pay hackers for coming up with exploits.But as Adobe senior security strategist Steve Adegbite explains, direct remuneration isn't the only way that big companies reward hackers. Most give public credit to those who identify problems, others offer paid freelance work or full-time jobs and, where freelancers set up their own consultancies, they can get big-name endorsements."We actually go out there and vouch for good researchers," says Adegbite. "If somebody comes to us and says 'we want somebody to look at our technology that's similar like yours', we'll recommend somebody."His opposite number at Microsoft, Katie Moussouris, takes a similar line, saying that flagging vulnerabilities is a good billboard for hackers seeking security jobs. She uses the "teach a man to fish" adage to underscore their preference for employment over piecemeal reward. Moreover, she says, plenty are happy to make available their findings for free.Now one can appreciate why people might contribute their time to Wikipedia. It's a community project. It's not a big moneymaking operation. Microsoft is a vast business.Understandably, some hackers are a little sceptical. But sceptical doesn't even begin to describe their feelings towards Sony. Google pays hackers for their help; Adobe praises them; Sony sues them.There is a feeling among the white hats that Sony isn't handling the PlayStation Network situation well. Perhaps a little more than not well. One conference-goer put his hands over his eyes and chants "there are no bugs at Sony, there are no bugs at Sony". Others simply don't believe that the Japanese giant's corporate culture will allow it to get a grip. "It's a totally different mentality", says Lucian Constantin of the tech website softpedia.com."Sony isn't a software company, it's a hardware giant. They make firmware. They're very entrenched into that mindset of enclosed and proprietary systems. They tried to defend themselves through the legal system and it backfired; a great deal." No data security breach causes reputational damage like loss of financial details does.Sony may not need the hackers. Indeed Microsoft, Mozilla and Google arguably don't need the hackers as they have sizeable security teams of their own, but they do see a beneficial relationship to be had and they certainly see the downside of a hostile one. The question for Sony, given the way security challenges only serve to whet the hacking community's appetite, is whether it wants the tech equivalent of a Vietnam; an unseen and resilient enemy with no shortage of recruits and little or nothing to lose while it is big, out in the open and has a target painted on its corporate posterior.Meanwhile, though the hackers and chief security officers rub shoulders happily through the event, come the evening they part company. The CSOs march off for a beer and a lively debate while the Hack in The Box crew repair to a coffee shop to review the day through a cloud of smoke. Well, it is Amsterdam after all.•Jonathan Kent is a freelance writer and broadcaster who reports regularly on technology issues
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 21 MayPositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (–)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)12 (2)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Xbox 360 (34)Wii (25)PS3 (21)DS (13)23 (1)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (31)PC (5)24 (3)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (2)85 (–)The Witcher 2: Assassins Of Kings (18+)PC (100)16 (9)Crysis 2(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (32)PC (17)97 (4)Portal 2(12+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (36)PC (9)58 (8)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (24)PSP (7)DS (5)349 (6)Mortal Kombat(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (50)510 (5)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (70)PS3 (17)Wii (5)PC (5)27UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
The Electronic Frontier Foundation has joined the debate aroundpatent infringement threatsmade by Lodsys to a number of iOS developers. Staff attorney Julie Samuels haspublished a blog postcalling for Apple to "stand up and defend its developers", claiming that letting them fend for themselves will harm the innovation around apps on the company's platform.Apple has been publicly silent since the legal threats were first publicised by worried developers earlier in May – likely less a sign of a lack of concern on its part, and more a sign that its lawyers arescrutinising the threatsand the patent that forms their basis.The EFF is not impressed, though. "Apple's failure to defend these developers is troubling and highlights at least two larger problems: patent trolls and developers' vulnerability when harassing and counter-productive patent litigation comes around," writes Samuels, who links this into a wider trend of small developers without the resources to defend a patent infringement lawsuit being targeted."What's different here, however, is that Apple provides this functionality to its developers and requires that they use it. Apple itself is protected from liability – Apple took a licence from Lodsys' predecessor to use this very patent (which was likely part of a larger blanket licence). And the apparently one-sided Apple-developer agreement does not require that Apple indemnify developers from suits based on technology that Apple provides."The importance of in-app payments to the iOS platform – something likely to be repeated on Android, BlackBerry and Windows Phone in the months ahead – cannot be overstated.Games are a striking example: at the time of writing, six of the 10 top grossing iPhone games in the UK App Store are free to download, and thus make their revenues mainly from in-app payments. Two of the four paid games – Infinity Blade and Angry Birds – also use IAP.As Samuels points out, the vast majority of these developers would not have spent time and money investigating whether they required a licence from a company other than Apple to use its APIs."Even careful developers who hire lawyers to do full-scale patent searches on potential apps would not expect to investigate the technology that Apple provides. Instead, they would expect (with good reason) that Apple wouldn't provide technologies in its App Store that open its developers up to liability – and/or would at least agree to defend them when a troll like Lodsys comes along."The latter option has not been ruled out, but as things stand, Lodsys is asking developers to pay 0.575% of the US revenues over the period of its notice letter until the expiration of the company's patent, meaning $5,750 per year for an app that makes $1m of annual revenues.The company's own blogstrongly hints that it may prefer Apple to "choose to contact Lodsys and purchase a license on behalf of its application ecosystem" though.The EFF wants Apple to act quickly – albeit by taking Lodsys on rather than paying for an ecosystem-wide licence – to head off the prospect of developers reining in their creativity for fear of getting sued. With Gartner claiming last week that apps areone of the main reasons people become attached to specific smartphones, Samuels may have a point."By putting the burden on those least able to shoulder it, both Apple and Lodsys are harming not just developers but also the consumers who will see fewer apps and less innovation," she writes. "We hope that going forward companies like Apple will do what's right and stand up for their developers and help teach the patent trolls a lesson."
A burst of 7 apps for your considerationRio FerdinandManchester United and England footballer Rio Ferdinand has launched his own official app, choosing Android first. The app includes videos shot by Rio, while pulling in his tweets – with a promise of more features to come, and an iPhone version in a few weeks' time. The publisher of the app is New Era Global Sports, the agency that has Ferdinand on its books.Hunch MobileUS personalised recommendations startup Hunch was co-founded by former Flickr co-founder Caterina Fake. Now it has an official iPhone app, albeit only in the US for now. Hunch Mobile promises to "find restaurants, hotels, coffee shops, movies, and fun activities near you", while also recommending electronics, music, TV shows and books.StreamGliderWe noticed StreamGlider pop up on our feed of new iPad apps this weekend, but at the time of writing it doesn't appear to be available on the UK App Store, just the US store. It claims to be "the first app to let you design your own information and entertainment streams. Mix RSS, YouTube, Flickr, Twitter and Facebook together in custom designed Streams of information that move across your screen." That would put into competition with Taptu.Epilepsy SocietyThe UK's Epilepsy Society charity and Citrix have released an educational Android app, which offers information about epilepsy and first aid, as well as an interactive seizure diary. The latter can be used to record details about seizures, triggers, medication and side effects – a potentially important tool for people with the condition.MobliMobli is the latest social location app with a focus on photos and videos, while sorting this content into themed channels. So, while it's partly for people to upload their personal pics and vids to share with friends, there also appears to be an emphasis on following live events through the material posted by others: "Whether you're at a concert, just saw a celebrity, or watching a sports game..."BabyTV MobileParents who have found their way to BabyTV on their TV will be up to speed on the various shows and characters on the channel, which is aimed at 1-4 year-olds. Now it has an iPhone app with a paid subscription model: users pay £2.39 a month for full access to the on-demand video episodes.Gavin FridayIrish singer Gavin Friday has released an official iPhone app alongside his new album Catholic. He's using startup ShoutEm for the app, which includes 90-second song samples from the album, news, photo galleries and the ability to sign in with various social profiles.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSony BMG Greece the latest hacked Sony site &gt;&gt; Naked Security"An anonymous poster has uploaded a user database to pastebin.com, including the usernames, real names and email addresses of users registered on SonyMusic.gr."The data posted appears to be incomplete as it claims to include passwords, telephone numbers and other data that is either missing or bogus."Why Apple might be your best bet for this 'cloud music' thing &gt;&gt; Wired.com"Apple's success in licensing labels means that Apple iCloud, or whatever it ends up being called, will let you mirror your local music collection to Apple's servers in minutes rather than days."Mainstream users determine the future, and they have neither the time nor inclination to upload thousands of songs over a period of days in order to set up a music locker. And when they acquire new music, they don't want to repeat a miniature version of that process each time."Ars Technica Investigates the State of Malware on the Mac &gt;&gt; Daring FireballArs Technica: "Internally, Apple's [IT] department mandates the use of Norton Antivirus on company machines."John Gruber: "This may be true for any Apple-owned machines running Windows, but it is not true for machines running any version of Mac OS X. I asked several Apple engineers whether any antivirus software was mandated or even recommended for Mac OS X, internally. All said no. Said one, 'You couldn't get me to install Norton on OS X if you slipped me the date rape drug.'"Windows Mobile 6.x funeral on July 15, no new apps &gt;&gt; WinRumors"Anthony Wieser, who runs Wieser Software LTD, told WinRumors that Microsoft has simply strung developers along. 'The most irritating thing about the whole ordeal is the way they just drop customers who have bought the software,' said Wieser. 'I can't imagine why anyone should wish to purchase anything now from the 6.5 marketplace, if they knew what was going on.'"Security researcher slams Microsoft over IE9 malware blocking stats &gt;&gt; Computerworld"[Security researcher] Wisniewski also pointed out flaws in IE9's download blocking, using Microsoft's own statistics to back up his case."[Microsoft's] Haber said that 90% of all downloads do not trigger a warning by IE9, but of the 1-in-10 downloads that do display an alert, the 'false positive' rate -- meaning that the warning was incorrectly flagging a legitimate file -- was between 30% and 75%."'If that's true, will you continue to pay attention to the warning when it really matters?' Wisniewski asked. 'People may get sick of it, just like they did with [User Account Control] warning in Vista.'"Why We Chose Exchange Online, Not Google Apps &gt;&gt; CIO.com"Winston-Salem tested out Google Apps and Gmail on these [600 out of 2700] deskless workers as a way to evaluate Google's cloud service without having to make the full commitment.'Nothing was wrong with Google Apps,' says Newman. 'Gmail is a rich environment, and customer support was good. But we were not willing to replace Office with Google Docs, and the cost of having Google Apps and Office client was too much for us.'"The interesting understory (if that's a word) possibly being that Microsoft had to cut its price to win the contract over Google. Hard otherwise to understand how it would be too expensive to have Google Apps and Office, and yet cheaper to have Sharepoint and Office.Which, by the way, will integrate with the council-approved mobile phones: BlackBerry.. and iPhones.Malware on the Rise Attacking Windows7 &gt;&gt; Windows 7 News"According to Microsoft,  malware infections on Windows 7 machines went up by more than 30% during the second half of 2010."For the second half of 2010, 32-bit Windows 7 machines were infected at an average rate of over 4 PCs per 1,000, which was a 33% increase over the approximately 3-per-1,000 infection rate during the first half of the year. On the other hand, PCs running the 64-bit version of Windows 7 did better, with an infection rate of 2.5 per 1,000 during all of 2010.  Meanwhile the infection rate for Windows XP dropped by more than 20%. However, Windows 7?s infection rates are five times lower than a XP SP3, even when fully patched."BlackBerry PlayBook sales miss targets by over 90% at major retailer, 'much higher' return rate than XOOM &gt;&gt; Boy Genius Report"According to a trusted source from a major big box retailer, sales of RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook have fallen far short of expectations. In addition, we're told that the PlayBook is being returned at a higher pace than the Motorola XOOM. According to our source, PlayBook sales at this particular retailer missed internal sales targets by more than 90%."Pinch of salt may be required: other sources suggest comparatively good sales. But sales through retailers probably aren't RIM's intention for the PlayBook.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Monday again? So soon? Nevermind, let us know what you played over the weekend...
Watching British politicians engage with technology companies is a bit like listening to maiden aunts wondering if they would look better in thongs. Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, to name just two such aunts, fantasised that Microsoft was cool, and spent years trying to associate themselves (and New Labour) with Bill Gates – even going to the lengths of making the Microsoft boss an honorary knight. Then we had the equally ludicrous spectacle of Cameron and co believing that Google is cool, which is why its CEO, Eric Schmidt – who for these purposes is the Google Guys' representative on Earth – was an honoured guest at Cameron's first party conference as leader. Given that, it's only a matter of time before Ed Miliband discovers that Facebook is the new cool. And so it will go on.Cameron's worship of Google did, however, have one tangible result. Mortified by the Google Guys' assertion that the UK's intellectual property regime would have made it impossible to launch their company in the UK, he decided to commission an inquiry into said regime under the chairmanship of Professor Ian Hargreaves. This was a mite puzzling, because the previous government had in 2005 commissioned asimilar inquiryunder the formerFTeditor Andrew Gowers. His report had concluded that the UK's intellectual property was fundamentally sound but made 54 specific recommendations about possible improvements. Most interestingly, though, Gowers also concluded that copyright on music recordings should not be extended from its current limit of 50 years after the date of recording, a finding that reawakened Cliff Richard's fears that his heirs and descendants would be reduced to penury. For the copyright industries, therefore, Gowers had clearly reached the wrong conclusion, a fact that their representatives lost no opportunity of pressing upon Lord Mandelson on various luxury yachts moored off the coast of Greece.Some of us feared, therefore, that Hargreaves would be pressured into being more sensitive to the needs of hard-pressed pop stars and their agents. His report,published this week, suggests that we seriously underestimated him. What he has produced is a tough, intelligent and radical analysis of our current IP regime. "Could it be true," he asks, "that laws designed more than three centuries ago with the express purpose of creating economic incentives for innovation by protecting creators' rights are today obstructing innovation and economic growth? The short answer is: yes."Hallelujah! At last we are getting somewhere. The notion that laws framed in an era when copying was difficult, imperfect and expensive could work in an era when copying was effortless, perfect and cheap was a proposition that only imbeciles and industry lobbyists could entertain. But up to now, our politicians subscribed to it.Hargreaves usefully explains why this ludicrous state of affairs has persisted for so long. "Lobbying," he writes, "is a feature of all political systems and as a way of informing and organising debate it brings many benefits. In the case of IP policy and specifically copyright policy, however, there is no doubt that the persuasive powers of celebrities and important UK creative companies have distorted policy outcomes. Further distortion arises from the fact (not unique to this sector) that there is a striking asymmetry of interest between rights holders, for whom IP issues are of paramount importance, and consumers for whom they have been of passing interest only until the emergence of the internet as a focus for competing technological, economic, business and cultural concerns."It's a measure of the ludicrousness of our intellectual property regime that some of the most mundane, commonsensical recommendations in the Hargreaves report read like great leaps forward. Take, for example, for example, the idea that henceforth none of us – or at any rate, none of us who use an iPod – should be criminals. Eh? Well, under current arrangements, if you copy music from a legally purchased CD and transfer it to your iPod, then you&nbsp;are,&nbsp;technically,&nbsp;breaking the law.Then there's Hargreaves's proposal that, in future, British lawmaking on intellectual property should be "evidence-based". As opposed to what,asks the legal scholar James Boyle: "Astrology-based?" But our lawmaking in this area has been so weird that the idea that we might try rationality for a change seems genuinely radical.Hargreaves is also very good on the thorny problem of "orphan" works – works still technically in copyright but for which no rights-holder can be traced. He wants the government to legislate to enable the licensing of these works – a commonsensical idea but one that in the insane world of IP lawyers sounds like revolutionary talk.No doubt there will be lots of expert cavilling about this report. But overall it's a refreshingly intelligent and welcome document. I've a good mind to start a Facebook page for it – and invite Ed Miliband to click on "Like".
Modern smartphones are some of the most advanced gadgets available - combining computer, filofax, console and of course phone into one tiny little package. However, the inevitably contrary nature of many users means that some of the most exciting apps on offer have a decidedly retro feel.Death Worm(Android Market, PlayCreek, £1.82) has been a firm iPhone favourite for a while, but has only recently made it to Android handsets. The game casts you as a giant man-eating worm, such as the ones featured in old-school movies such asTremorsandDune. Steering the worm with an impressively accurate on-screen analogue stick, the aim of the campaign mode is to leap from the ground to eat as many men, camels, cars and helicopters as possible, while all the while levelling up your wormy friend to gargantuan fire-breathing proportions. It's simple, yet engrossing fun.Streets of Rage 2(Apple App Store, Sega America, £1.79), meanwhile, offers a more directly nostalgic experience. This old Megadrive classic has been reproduced on the iPhone with tremendous success, featuring a virtual D-pad and buttons to control your choice of character as they roam the roads angrily, punching and kicking decidedly 16-bit opponents in the face. Pleasingly, the game supports the Bluetooth multiplayer, and it's here, as anyone familiar with the original will remember, that much of the enjoyment is to be had, as the mysterious Mr X is vanquished in tandem – completing a 90s classic that will have even more consumers revisiting low-tech with their hi-tech.
"There are 30 complex life forms aboard this ship," a computerised voice clinically intones, "of which one is human." Left behind on the titular spacecraft, this chilling line makes it clear that the apparent rescue party is anything but friendly. With the lights off, you're forced to navigate your path to safety by sound cues alone. Initially, the whirrs and bleeps of airlocks and sensors are your guide. Before long, you'll be tiptoeing through a room while your left ear hears sickening slurps and crunches as the first mate is eaten. As with the developer's last game,Papa Sangre, this is "a video game without video", the minimalist visuals on your Apple device merely display the controls – taps move you forward, while swipes control orientation. Headphones are essential, as you'll need to centralise sounds to head in the right direction. Sterling voice work fromSherlock'sBenedict Cumberbatch enhances a compelling narrative.With just 14 short levels, the end comes rather too soon, but it's hard to quibble over a free download of such quality. Regardless of its brevity,The Nightjaris an atmospheric and genuinely unnerving experience that proves graphics aren't necessary when you have imagination to spare.
Collecting three of the most acclaimed Xbox Live Arcade titles yet developed,Hits Collectionoffers some outstanding content for those wanting to avoid the occasionally hit-or-miss nature of online gaming and for a remarkably reasonable price.The first – physics-based motocross puzzlerTrials HD– is a joyfully overblown experience. The thrill of getting a biker through each madcap level of explosions and stomach-turning drops is matched only by doing it again, and then again, just faster. Side-scrolling platformerLimbois a substantially different affair. A dark game, literally and thematically, players take on the role of a boy searching the eponymous realm of lost souls for his missing sister. Inventive puzzles amid stark, disturbing imagery create a game you won't soon forget – even if you sometimes want to.'Splosion Manrounds out the bunch. A man with the ability to blow up repeatedly seeks escape from a subterranean lab. Exploding off walls and scientists to fly through platform puzzles makes for frenetic fun, and to say this is the weakest of the three must be tempered by the caveat that it, too, is excellent. A must-have selection for offline gamers keen to see what the indie scene has to offer.
On the Wii,No More Heroeswas an anomaly, a blast of defiantly adult entertainment on a console best-known for family-friendly fare. Three years on, it belatedly arrives on PlayStation 3 in uncensored form and with a glorious high-definition makeover, but on a format where blood, bad language and bonking are more prevalent. Consequently, it just can't hope to have the same impact, although this remake retains much of the original's rebellious streak, if "punk's not dead" as developer Grasshopper Manufacture's motto has it, it's certainly having a bit of a lie down.As before, players step into the shoes of Travis Touchdown, a scrawny loser with a penchant for violence. Having inadvertently killed a member of the United Assassins Association, he finds himself part of a bloodthirsty competition to become the number one killer. To reach top spot, he needs to beat the 10 assassins ahead of him in the rankings, taking on odd jobs and murderous missions to earn the entry fee for each round.The town of Santa Destroy looks particularly inviting in HD, though it's as barren as it was on the Wii, and navigating it can be awkward thanks to the bizarre control tweaks to Travis's oversized motorcycle. Otherwise, the game makes good use of the PlayStation Move, sensibly restricting gesture controls to finishing flourishes and special wrestling moves rather than forcing the player to swing the wand for every swipe of Travis's blade. Disappointingly, there's nothing that takes advantage of the extra precision of Sony's device and this version loses out on the inventive gimmick which saw phone calls relayed through the Wii remote's crackly speaker. Standard controllers are also supported, though the swordplay loses some of its thrill without the motion.It does, however, include the fountains of blood that were replaced in the UK version of the original game by showers of black pixels. The kills here are arguably more satisfying thanks to the geysers of gore from every lopped limb leaving the environment pebble-dashed in vivid shades of claret.Otherwise,Heroes' Paradiseis the same flawed gem it was in 2008. Lacking the improvements made in Wii follow-upDesperate Struggle, its idiosyncrasies are a little harder to forgive, but its anti-establishment edge ultimately does still feel like a breath of fresh air in a market where such risks are rarely taken.
In these days of public prurience and celebrity superinjunctions, it's refreshing to learn that there is another way to deal with the vagaries of an extramarital affair.Exactly a century ago, the 6in sculpture that would become known the world over as the Spirit of Ecstasy appeared for the first time on the bonnet of a Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost. Along with the three-pointed star of Mercedes-Benz, the winged B of Bentley and, of course, the leaping cat of Jaguar, it is perhaps the most famous motoring emblem of them all – and she has stood proudly, arms outstretched, diaphanous dress rippling in the wind, on the bonnet of every Rolls-Royce built since May&nbsp;1911. But the Flying Lady is not only the clue to a scandal, but also the custodian of a tragic secret.The second Lord Montagu of Beaulieu was a motoring pioneer and became the founding editor ofThe Car Illustratedmagazine in 1902. While carrying out his no doubt onerous editorial and estate duties, the Lord also managed to find time to start a&nbsp;passionate affair with his assistant, Eleanor Thornton. So all-consuming was this affair that Montagu threw caution to the wind and commissioned the chief graphic artist of his magazine, Charles Sykes, to create a&nbsp;sculpture of his lover. Sykes came up with the striking image of a&nbsp;curvaceous young woman with her index finger pressed to her lips, her robes flowing suggestively around her. It was known as the Whisper, though those close to the Lord often referred to it as "Miss Thornton in her nightie".At around the same time, Montagu was forging a lasting friendship with Charles Stewart Rolls and Henry Royce – the three men ultimately went on to play a&nbsp;vital role in the development of the British motoring industry.At the start of the last century, manufacturers didn't put mascots on the front of their cars; it was left to drivers to put whatever they wanted on their radiator caps. Bulldogs were popular, so too were silver St&nbsp;Christophers, but Montagu persuaded Rolls and Royce that a single mascot might help build their brand's identity. In a surge of boastful pride, Montagu suggested they commission something suitable from Sykes, who duly came up with the Spirit of Ecstasy – a&nbsp;thinly reinterpreted version of the Whisper. Rolls and Royce leapt on the Winged Lady, so to speak, and from 1911 on, Montagu's mistress has commanded the eyeline of the driver of every Rolls-Royce.Unfortunately, Montagu's love was to end tragically, as Miss Thornton died in 1915, going down with the SS Persia when it was torpedoed by a German submarine. The two were reported as being swept from the deck in each other's arms. Lord Montagu surfaced,  but Eleanor did not.Montagu's ancestral home atBeaulieuhas, of course, since gone on to become theNational Motor Museum, and the centenary of the Spirit of Ecstasy seemed like the perfect excuse for me to make a long-overdue visit. Among the collection of more than 250 classics, the museum has half a dozen prized Rollers. On the day I visited, the chief mechanic, Ian Stansfield, who has worked in the museum's workshop man and boy, was giving one of their rarest cars, a 1914 Rolls-Royce Alpine Eagle, a&nbsp;spin around the block.The Spirit of Ecstasy."It's a £3m car," he told me, "and the conservators would like to wrap it in cotton wool. But the best way to maintain these old motors is to drive them." He fired up the astonishing 48 horse power 7.5-litre engine with gusto. Today a&nbsp;bog-standard Vauxhall Meriva with a 1.3-litre engine will produce more than double the horse power. We stood by, expecting a deafening roar, but the Alpine Eagle's engine was almost silent – a&nbsp;whisper. Ian offered to drive my wife and me out of the estate and on to the open roads of the New Forest. We waved at slack-jawed ramblers; wild ponies stopped chewing as we sailed past. "It'll do 70 all day," shouted Ian into the wind. With the sun on our backs, I felt our fine four-fendered friend might spread its wings and take off like Chitty Chitty Bang Bang.Finally Ian dropped us back in the pretty village of Beaulieu, where I'd booked a night at theMontagu Arms Hotel. The Michelin-starred chef Matthew Tomkinson did his stuff admirably and later, as I gazed across at the spires of the main house, I&nbsp;silently raised a glass to Eleanor.
LA Noire, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360When second world war hero Cole Phelps returns to LA, he gets a job as a cop. He's soon promoted to traffic, then homicide, then vice, and before he knows it, he's taking on police corruption as well as notorious cases.Shrouded in smoky jazz and cynical voiceovers, your work as detective takes you from crime scene to car chase to shootout, but far more time is spent interrogating witnesses. For the first time in a game you need to use intuition here, rather than dexterity, to read suspects' expressions and vocal inflection to spot lies and half truths. It's not flawless, but this is still a feat so astounding you wonder how you'll ever go back to the emotionally flat polygon finger puppets of other games. It's a hugely atmospheric, richly textured interactive detective story, replete with period detail and tightly scripted, superbly acted intrigue. LA Noire is a massive achievement.Rockstar, £44.99Dead Or Alive: Dimensions, Nintendo 3DSDead Or Alive: Dimensions.Along with a solid 3D effect, the second thing you'll notice about Dead Or Alive: Dimensions is how fluid fights feel, even with a simple set of controls and very small screen. The game's main thrust is Chronicle mode, which delivers a totally incoherent, anime-infused story spanning all four original games. The unfortunate side effect is that you have to sit through many minutes of powerfully cheesy yet unintelligible dialogue before you can actually have a fight. The battles are dramatic and fast, taking advantage of the series' usual plunging, multitiered arenas and relying heavily on counters and reversals. Unfortunately, online multiplayer is hobbled by technical problems (turning off 3D helps), but actually this game's worst crime is simply not being as good as Street Fighter IV, currently also out on 3DS.Tecmo Koei, £39.99DiRT 3, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360DiRT 3.The latest in the series formerly known as Colin McRae Rally, DiRT 3 strips away much of the excess baggage racing games have picked up over the last few years; so you'll find no upgrades, overwrought in-car views, or complicated tournament structures. What you get instead is a broad range of events, iconic rally cars dating back to the 1960s, and gorgeous, diverse geography against which to frame your screaming engine and tyres churning up dust. Once you've switched off a few driving aids, DiRT 3's biggest draw is its feeling of power and momentum, delivering an exquisite sensation of poise and control that never ceases to thrill. Crashes are equally eye-popping, but thanks to "flashbacks" you can rewind your worst driver errors and carry on. It's viscerally authentic and hugely entertaining.Codemasters, £29.99-£49.99
I don't live inSandbanks, or&nbsp;Alderley Edge. I live in an&nbsp;unglamorous part of London. The cars in my street go old Saab, Mini, Primera, Mondeo, Yaris. No&nbsp;Bentleys, until today.It arrives in a lorry – to save fuel, probably. A ramp is lowered and something claret-coloured and very shiny emerges. And keeps on coming. This isn't the "baby" Bentley, the one the footballers drive; the Mulsanne is one massive mofo, a proper flagship Bentley with a proper flagship price tag. Can they really be letting me borrow one, here in Dollis Hill?My first attempt at a drive doesn't go well. Right, I've psyched myself up, I'm going to go out there, get in that car… Oh my God, a couple of passersby have stopped and are admiring – or loathing – it. I can't do this with people around, and suddenly remember I've forgotten something, do a damn-I've-forgotten-something face in case anyone is watching, tap my pockets for authenticity, then scuttle back inside.Later, under cover of darkness, I&nbsp;try again. With a reassuring clunk, Dollis Hill is suddenly a painful memory. I'm in a different world, breathing in the smell of wealth. A&nbsp;whole walnut forest has gone into the interior, plus a herd of milk-fed calves, flayed alive, then hand-stitched by 10,000 Oompa-Loompas in Crewe. Ah, the glorious burble as 6.75 litres of twin turbo-charged V8 engine comes to life.Most powerful cars make you want to drive very fast. This one is the opposite. Never have I enjoyed 25mph so much. I pick up Andy and Jan, we drive slowly around the hood, hoodies up, hunched and shifty, classic old-skool hip-hop at 2,200 watts, soaking up the respect from the sidewalk. Evening, laydeez. Hey, I'm a role model – if I can make it, anyone can. I'm 50 flipping Cent.I can be anyone I like. I am the Queen… except I'm not because I'm in the front. I know one, though, in Oxfordshire, my queen, my mum."Oh God," she says, looking nervously up and down the street to make sure the neighbours aren't watching. I drive her to the pub for lunch, then on the way back she sits in the back with her massaging seat (dozens of miniature people sewn into the seats, I imagine) switched on and Margaret Price singing Mozart. "It's like she's here, too, singing to us," Mum says. That stereo's good.By the time we get home, Mum's converted. Now she's not only not hiding from the neighbours, but we have to give them rides as well. That's fine by me, though, because I find I'm a magnanimous Bentley driver, philanthropic even. I like the wealthy me. I'm no longer mousy, bitter and embarrassed. That has to be worth £243,325.Bentley MulsannePrice£243,325Top speed184mphAcceleration0-60mph in 5.1 secondsAverage consumption16.7mpgCO2 emissions393g/kmEco rating1/10In a wordSplendid
This isn't a long post, just a graph really. I can't name the footballer who allegedly had an affair with model Imogen Thomas. But I can publish this graph. It gives you an idea of the spike in Twitter mentions of said footballer's surname on the social media site in the late afternoon after it emerged that his legal team had launched an action against Twitter to try and restrain mentions of his name online. You can decide if it worked.That's a big spike. Left axis is number of mentions; right axis time today.
Source: Trendistic
Attempts to identify a famous footballer hiding behind a privacy injunction have spiralled into an online battle over freedom of speech, as internet users responded to high court action by repeatedly naming him on Twitter.The high court granted a search order against the US-based microblogging site on Friday as the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, warned that "modern technology was totally out of control" and called for those who "peddle lies" on the internet to be fined. The attempt to compel Twitter to identify those responsible for the breaches comes after a number of its users earlier this month purported to reveal the name of the player who allegedly had an affair with the model Imogen Thomas.The footballer's legal team began its action in London on Wednesday. There is a suspicion that a media company may be linked to the postings on Twitter, which were put up nearly two weeks ago.But the name of the footballer was spreading even more rapidly across Twitter in defiance of the court injunction, setting the stage for a confrontation between the judiciary and cyberspace.Earlier Lord Judge – welcoming a juridical report on superinjunctions – said readers placed greater trust in the content of traditional media than those "who peddle lies" on websites.He urged that ways be found to curtail the "misuse of modern technology", in the same way that those involved with online child pornography were pursued by the police."Are you really going to say that someone who has a true claim for protection perfectly well made has to be at the mercy of modern technology?" he asked.The lawsuit lists the defendants as "Twitter Inc and persons unknown".The "persons unknown" are described as those "responsible for the publication of information on the Twitter accounts".Lawyers have applied for a court order that could force Twitter to hand over the name, email address and IP address of the person behind the account, the Guardian understands.The orders – known as a Norwich Pharmacal orders – are commonly used in illegal filesharing cases.The Guardian understands that the claim form, filed to the high court by the footballer's legal team, will not be made public until next week. Earlier this month, an unknown person or individuals published on a Twitter account the names of various people who had allegedly taken out gagging orders to conceal sexual indiscretions.The account rapidly attracted more than 100,000 followers.Twitter said: "We are unable to comment." The London-based law firm representing the footballer had also not responded to a request for comment at time of publication.Twitter and other social networks were accused of making "an ass of the law" by the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, and politicians after a number of celebrities with injunctions were allegedly exposed online.The socialite Jemima Khan was among those alleged on Twitter to have obtained an injunction.Khan described as a "bloody nightmare" rumours suggesting falsely that she had obtained a gagging order to prevent publication of "intimate photos" of herself and the TV presenter Jeremy Clarkson.Twitter has in the past said that it "strive[s] not to remove tweets on the basis of their content", but that it would remove "illegal tweets and spam".Previous defamation claims against the search engine Google failed on the grounds that it is not a publisher and not responsible for the contents of the blogs and articles listed in its search results.Richard Hillgrove, the owner of Hillgrove PR, which provides advice to celebrities, said that Twitter needed to be made as accountable as any other medium."It has gone from 'the back bedroom' to mainstream medium."Celebrities are being held to account if they Tweet commercial interests. It works both ways," he said.Challenge to media, page 4
At least two people are dead and more than 10 injured following an explosion at a factory run by electronics giant Foxconn, which makes phones and tablets for Apple and other electronics companies.Police said the deaths occurred following an explosion at the company's plant in Chengdu, south-west China.A spokesman for the company said people had been injured in a fire at the plant but that it had no details. The company is best-known for producing iPhones and iPads for Apple, but other clients include Nokia, Motorola, Hewlett-Packard and Dell. Employing up to 900,000 people in all, Foxconn has repeatedly been the subject of controversy over working conditions at its vast plants. The affected one is believed to employ up to 100,000 people.A report on Chinese news portal Sina said the area had been sealed off after a blast ripped through the plant at around the time workers changed shifts. Police in Gaoxin district said they were called to the scene at 7.18pm and that the explosion seemed to have been caused by materials within the factory. A report on the China National Radio website said two were killed and 16 injured, three seriously.Edmund Ding, a spokesman for Foxconn's parent company Hon Hai, told the Guardian: "I know there has been a fire and that the accident is now under control. What caused this is still under investigation. I have learned that some people were injured on site."He said that emergency services had quickly got the situation under control following the incident at around 7.30pm, but that further details were not available at present.One report suggested that there could have been a dust explosion as fine powder used in manufacturing ignited somehow. Suggestions the affected building is involved in the manufacture of Apple's iPad 2 tablets could not be confirmed.In a statement, Apple said: "We are deeply saddened by the tragedy at Foxconn's plant in Chengdu, and our hearts go out to the victims and their families. We are working closely with Foxconn to understand what caused this terrible event."Footage said to be from the scene and posted on Friday evening on the Chinese video-sharing site Youku showed black smoke billowing from the side of a large building. Foxconn's factories are huge complexes compared by some to towns, with their own facilities and tens or hundreds of thousands of staff. Chinese media reports said the plant, which opened last year in the city's high-technology zone,cost between $2bn (£1.2bn) and $5bnto build. At the time, Foxconn promised to hire 100,000 workers, but it is not clear how many people have been taken on.Although the company does not discuss clients, the Sichuan News Network and Chengdu Economic Daily said recently that the facility was producing 1.2m iPads monthly.Foxconn came under intense scrutiny last year after astring of suicides by workers at their plant in Shenzhen, southern China.• Additional research by Han Cheng and Charles Arthur
If Codemasters' rally-driving franchise was human, it would make an ideal candidate for a TV show such as the X Factor; it has suffered some incredible slings and arrows over the years, yet has managed to emerge triumphant.Originally Colin McRae Rally, it had to overcome the tragic 2007 death of the man whose name graced it (although it had already morphed to Colin McRae: Dirt) and, more recently, reinvention was required after the appeal of the World Rally Championship, on which it was originally based, waned drastically. With Dirt 3, though, the franchise has well and truly repositioned itself in a 21st-century world characterised by social networking and extreme sports.Dirt 3's poster-boy is Ken Block, a charismatic American who, though sufficiently accomplished a rally-driver to appear in the WRC, has earned YouTube super-stardom through being the world's finest proponent of "honing" – essentially, driving like a maniac in order to entertain.Block invented a fantasy motor-sport he calls Gymkhana, which involves showing off around obstacle-encrusted courses by jumping, drifting, pulling doughnuts and smashing blocks designed to disintegrate, and Dirt 3 gives you the first chance to test your Gymkhana mettle – around a number of courses, including one set in the grounds of Battersea Power Station in London (which Codemasters set up in real life to publicise the game).Anyone who played Shift 2: Unleashed will feel their spirits sinking at the mention of drifting, but Dirt 3, thankfully, should restore their faith. Mainly because the game's underlying engine (which also powers the Formula One franchise) is so good.The cars you're given for the Gymkhana levels are considerably easier to drift than they would be in real life, which means that getting your tyres to lose adhesion becomes fun once more, rather than a chore.Dirt 3 isn't just about the Gymkhanas (although you can head to the Gymkhana courses whenever you fancy, once you unlock them). It has a beautifully structured single-player mode which encompasses proper rallying – in some of the finest machinery ever created, such as the Ford RS200, Metro 6R4 and the cut-and-shut Audi Quattro, as well as countless Subaru Imprezas and Mitsubishi Evos, plus the latest S2000 cars – rallycross, buggy-races (in imaginative surroundings such as the snow of Aspen) and head-to-head, Super Special Stage-style show-downs.It's all presented in a brash manner featuring vast amounts of branding, reminiscent of an X-Games event – which may offend beard-stroking rally-nuts, but makes great sense in the context of a video game. Put in an impressive performance, and you can upload it as a video straight to YouTube.A marvellous dance-music soundtrack impresses, as does the fact that it is simply one of the best-looking driving games ever.Initially, it pays to mess around with the driving assists. Novices will find the Intermediate difficulty rather tricky (although you do get Flashbacks, enabling you to erase mistakes by rewinding time), and the Casual setting is too easy – we selected casual then turned off most of the assists. There's a fairly standard levelling-up system in which earning Reputation points by doing well in events opens up new events and cars.Despite its fantasy-sport emphasis, it has an underlying stamp of authenticity – it still requires you to adhere to the basics of rallying, keeping things smooth, braking early and balancing the throttle to get satisfying four-wheel drifts going.Dirt 3 has come a long way from its straight-up rallying roots: it may still employ rally cars, but mostly as a means of engaging in a rather thrilling sport shot through with 21st-century attitude that would most likely see you arrested if you tried it in real life.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Rockstar has issued a joint statement with Sony, denying that either the game LA Noire or the PlayStation 3 firmware update 3.61 are responsible for the technical issues that have caused problems for a minority of console owners.On Thursday, posts on the Rockstar support pages and on other games forums  indicated that buyers of LA Noirewere finding copies of their game freezing upduring play on both the Xbox 360 and PS3 consoles.Originally, staff on Rockstar's customer support forums suggested that the problem may lie with the new PlayStation firmware update, but then Xbox owners reported similar problems. 24 hours later, and according to Rockstar as well as Sony and several industry news sources, incidences have remained low. The publisher's QA staff have allegedly been unable to replicate the errors.So what's going on? It could be that the failure rate of consoles remains at a fairly level and low rate, but that, when a major release arrives, the numbers of customers experiencing technical issues naturally rises – with the game itself appearing to be the culprit."L.A. Noire is one of the biggest releases of the year, and understandably there's a huge number of people playing it," says Chris Dring of industry newspaper MCV. "Now, as games consoles break and malfunction every day, some are going to find that there machines die whilst playing the game, and if it has happened to someone else on a forum, then they might incorrectly make the link between the game and the console breakdown."LA Noire launched in Europe on Friday and the UK game sites I have spoken to have not reported any complaints from readers. Rockstar is suggesting that if anyone does experience problems they should head to the publisher'ssupport site.
An organised gang appears to be behind a "scareware" program known as Mac Defender that downloads itself on to Apple users' machines and demands payment to "remove infections".The program, which exploits default settings in Apple's Safari and other browsers to download itself, can only run if the user allows it to be installed by providing their administrator name and password – but a significant number of users, possibly in the hundreds, have been affected.Apple support staff have been notified of the problem and were told it is "under investigation", but are being warned not to confirm whether it is malware.Ed Bott at ZDNet has been passed a copy of the advice circulated to support staffand was told the number of calls about the problem has increased substantially.Different versions of the program, variously known as Mac Defender, MacProtector and "Mac Security", have appeared online in the past fortnight. The Guardian has discovered it has been spread through advertising networks on newspapers including the Washington Post and by "poisoned" searches in Google Images.Joel Esler of the Sourcefire Vulnerability Research Team, who hasanalysed the attack, told the Guardian that when users visit a page with an infected ad or link, the download – called "mac-antivirus.zip" – is started automatically by Javascript. Because Apple's Safari defaults to a setting of "open files after download", the program – which contains an application package wrapped in a zip archive – is first unzipped and then triggers the installer program.Users are then presented with a dialog asking for their administrator name and password so the installation can proceed. If they do, the program installs itself in the /Applications folder and adds itself to the user's login items, and puts a menu item in the top right of the menu.The program then autoruns when the user logs in, and periodically claims to be "scanning" the computer, and throws up demands for credit card details. These continue whether or not people enter valid details.If the user disabled the "open files after download" setting then the installation process will not be triggered.Esler, who has analysed the program, says the addresses to which the credit card details are sent differs between different versions of the programs: "One IP was in Arizona, another was in Romania," he  said.But he also said the program does not appear to be malicious beyond its aim of extracting credit card details. "It's what I call 'ransomware'. It 'acts' like it's infecting your machine, throwing a popup ad or porn site, to make you think you are infected. It asks you to buy this anti-malware solution called "MacDefender" for the low price of '79.99'. When in reality, the software does nothing."Such "social engineering" tricks to get users to download and install scareware are common on Windows – but their emergence on Apple's Mac platform indicates criminals have now spotted weaknesses in the default setup of Mac OSX that they can exploit.The people behind the attacks have proved effective at covering their tracks. The Guardian contacted Atjeu hosting, which had unwittingly served one of the infected ads on the Washington Post, and was told there were no records of who had put it there."The owner of the server that this site was hosted on is a client of ours but they are a reseller and so they sell individual websites to end users and also to other resellers of web hosting," said the Atjeu administrator."We do not have records of the end users at all as that can often be three or four layers down from us. It appears, however, that what happened in this case was one account on the server was compromised and the hacker used that account to put the malicious site up so there would be no official records of any kind of who it actually was."• Step-by-step instructions on how to remove the MacDefender and MacProtector programs areavailable at Fixkb.com.
It was a key part in Google's attempt to organise the world's information – but the search giant has abandoned its ambitious plan to digitise hundreds of years of newspaper archives and make them available online.After scanning millions of pages frommore than 2,000 newspapers, Google has called time on its five-year-old plan, focusing instead on helping publishers make money from the internet.Google's digitisation effort began with the New York Times and Washington Post in 2006, but expanded two years later to include hundreds of newspaper partners spanningmore than 200 years.The company insisted the change of plan is not due to copyright issues."We work closely with newspaper partners on a number of initiatives, and as part of the Google News Archives digitisation programme we collaborated to make older newspapers accessible and searchable online," Google said in a statement."These have included publications such as the London Advertiser in 1895, L'Ami du Lecteur at the turn of the century, and the Milwaukee Sentinel from 1910 to 1995. Users can continue to search digitized newspapers at [Archive search], but we don't plan to introduce any further features or functionality to the Google News Archives and we are no longer accepting new microfilm or digital files for processing."The digitisation of newspaper archives has proved controversial, with James Murdoch, the deputy chief operating officer of News Corporation, last yearlaying into plans by the British Museumto digitise more than 40m pages of newspaper content spanning a decade.Google is now shifting its resources to helping publishers charge for new online content. In February, Googlelauncheda payment platform for newspaper websites, dubbed One Pass.It is not clear how many publishers plan to use Google's payment system. Its launch was prompted by Apple's rival payment plan and with online a small number of partners, including the Daily Mail publisher Associated Newspapers.
We're backing up our photos to an external hard drive. However, over the years we've used quite a few Windows programs, the main ones being Corel Photo Center (until they started to ask for payment), Kodak Gallery, Tesco photo center, Canon and Olympus camera programs, and Boots. I think they may all have duplicates held in various folders, and I'm not sure even where to find them all. This makes the deletion of duplicates a mammoth task. We were wondering if there was some sort of program (preferably free) that would sort this mess out by removing/deleting all duplicates.Susan DunnThere are lots of free duplicate file finders, and some will even find duplicates where the photos are different resolutions or sizes. However, for backup purposes, you really need to find all your photos and consolidate them in a single folder tree with lots of subdirectories.As part of this process, you should go through all the photo organisers on your hard drive, extract the photos, and uninstall the programs. In the long run, it's easier to copy or move digital photos to your PC by extracting the memory card and plugging it into a card slot or USB adaptor. Windows XP has a wizard to do the transfer, if you want.Start by creating a new folder called, perhaps, My Photos either on the C: hard drive or D: partition, if there is one. Make sure it's not in Windows' My Pictures folder, in My Documents. You can then create subfolders that meet your needs.Many people have a different folder for each year, but you could also have folders for different types of subject, such as people, places and things. (Mine are filed, oddly enough, by camera. I should fix that.) At the third level, you can create as many folders as you need to store sets of photos. These could have names such as Rome 2010, Sally's Wedding, Family or whatever. Later, you can back up, say, the whole 2011 directory to CD-Rom or DVD, depending on size.You can use Windows Explorer to find all the pictures on your hard drive. First, set the toolbar menu to show Details rather than Thumbnails or Icons etc. Next, select a suitable directory, press F3, and in the top box ("Search for files or folders named") type in *.jpg (star is Shift-8) and click the Search Now button.When it has finished, click the "In Folder" heading to sort the results by folder, then click the Folders icon on the toolbar to see your hard drive again. Finally, select the photos you want to move, hold down the right mouse button, and drag them to their destination folder in My Photos. This is easier to do than it is to describe, and it shouldn't take long to move most of your photos to their new home.I have a folder called Incoming, where I put photos I plan to sort later.Some photo programs will find all the pictures on your hard drive, and the leading free candidates are Microsoft's Windows Live Photo Gallery andGoogle's Picasa. The latest much-improved version ofWindows Live Photo Gallery 2011might be my first choice but it needs Vista or Windows 7, so you'd have to go forWindows Live Photo Gallery for Windows XP.Enter a Windows Live ID (such as a Hotmail address) when it starts because this links to 25GB of free online storage space in SkyDrive. WLPG will automatically sort all your photos by year, month and date (without moving the originals), but running either WLPG or Picasa should find any photos you have missed. They frequently find something embarrassing.As mentioned, many Windows programs will find identical files even if they have different names and dates. I've usedDoubleKillerfor some years because it's small (392K), reasonably fast, and runs from anywhere. (You don't need to install it, so you can keep a copy on your handy utility USB key.)Good alternatives include theAuslogics Duplicate File Finder, which is free for personal use, andDuplicate Cleaner, which might include a Bing toolbar (you can decline it).There are also programs that have special features for finding duplicate photos, such as VisiPics and Anti-Twin.VisiPicswill find pictures that are not quite identical because they are in different formats (jpg, gif, bmp, png etc), different resolutions, or have been edited. It shows thumbnails side by side, and moving the mouse from one to the other shows the changes.A slider from Strict to Loose lets you set the level of similarity: with a Loose setting, you can find pictures that differ because someone moved slightly between shots. VisiPics isn't pretty but it's fast for what it does, and it's extremely clever.Anti-Twinisn't as good, but it lets you compare content on a byte-by-byte basis or "compare images (pixels)" with a setting from 60% to 100%. Such comparisons take a very long time, so it's best to focus on relatively small groups of files, perhaps 250 at a time.It's a good idea to cull your photos and delete shots you don't want to keep. After that, you should keep all your originals in unedited form. If you are going to do any editing – remove redeye, change the colour balance etc – do it on a copy, and keep the "dupe" as well.When you have your digital photos consolidated and de-duped, you can copy the whole directory structure to your external hard drive. After that, you can set up a simple program to keep the two directories in sync. Microsoft's freeSyncToy 2.1will do the job, as will Jumping Bytes'PureSync. I tend to do it manually using the open sourceFreeFileSync.Remember that having all your photos on an external hard drive does not constitute a backup unless they are still on your PC, or on a CD, or on SkyDrive or whatever.Schofield's Second Law of Computingsays data doesn't really exist unless you have two copies of it. Preferably more.
Analyst firm Gartner released itslatest mobile handset sales datayesterday, including a chart ranking Android, Symbian, iPhone, BlackBerry and Windows Phone by smartphone sales to end users in the first quarter of 2011. The "sales" part of that is important, since many other reports of this kind focus purely on shipments.If Gartner's figures are on the money, then 36.3m Android smartphones were sold in Q1, with Google's OS having blazed past Symbian (27.6m), putting their market share of new sales in the quarter at 36% and 27.4% respectively. Apple's iOS takes third place with 16.9m sales and a market share of 16.8%, with BlackBerry in fourth with 13m and a 12.9% share.Gartner pegs sales of Microsoft-powered smartphones at 3.7m units for Q1, with a 3.6% market share, although the company claims that only 1.6m of those were running the new Windows Phone 7 OS, suggesting that Microsoft will have to wait for the first Nokia WP7 devices before its platform takes off.There's plenty of food for thought (and argument) for app developers there, but actually the most interesting thing about Gartner's latest research is this comment from its principal research analyst Roberta Cozza:"Every time a user downloads a native app to their smartphone or puts their data into a platform's cloud service, they are committing to a particular ecosystem and reducing the chances of switching to a new platform. This is a clear advantage for the current stronger ecosystem owners Apple and Google. As well as putting their devices in the context of a broader ecosystem, manufacturers must start to see their smartphones as part of a computing continuum."In a nutshell: apps are creating loyalty. Persuading someone to switch smartphone OS is about more than a whizzy new user interface or impressive hardware features in a new handset. It's about answering the question "Which of the apps I use now are available on your platform, and for the ones that aren't, what have you got that's better?"This is partly why the iPod touch is such an important device for Apple, acting as a gateway device to the iPhone for owners of other smartphones – and particularly for the children whose parents are buying them an iPod touch in lieu of a DS or PSP.The fact that apps create loyalty is also why Microsoft (and others, but it's being the most open about it) are fiercely courting the top iOS developers to bring their apps to its platform. Witness its soon-to-launch Must Have Games promotion on Windows Phone 7, which includes Doodle Jump, Plants Vs Zombies and Angry Birds.Creating loyalty isn't just about matching what Apple and Google have on their app stores, though. Every platform owner is keen to have unique apps and games, whether through their own features (Xbox Live being Microsoft's example), or through developers making use of their APIs to add platform-specific features. RIM wants BlackBerry developers to make "Super Apps", for example, while Microsoft wants Windows Phone 7 apps to conform to its platform's visual aesthetic.The conflict may come with developers who want to launch their apps across as many different smartphones as possible with the minimum of porting hassles. Or to put it another way, developers are focused on creating a loyal base of users for their apps, more than reworking those apps to help create loyalty to particular platforms.
A burst of eight apps for your considerationAppysnapWe wrote about UK-developed Appysnap a few weeks ago, but it's finally gone live on the App Store. The idea: a social location game based on completing photographic "missions", taking photos of places, themes or items and earning points. An intriguing idea that has the potential to go viral.MotutoMotuto claims to be the first "live mobile homework assistant app". The idea: students who need help with their homework can use the app to contact live tutors, anytime between 11am and 11pm (Pacific time) during the week. The app is free, including a 20-minute session, but afterwards it costs $4.99 per session. For now, it's only available in the US and Canada. The help takes place via a virtual white board plus chat window.NapsterNapster is making a mobile comeback in the UK this week with the release of its iPhone and Android apps, tied into a £10-a-month subscription service. Users can stream on-demand from its 15 million tracks, with offline access for the 100 last played songs, as well as specific playlists, albums and artists.Breakdance Champion Red Bull BC OneRed Bull has published a number of iOS apps in the last year, with this 3D breakdancing game the latest. It blends motion-captured dance moves with licensed music, and ties in to Apple's Game Center community.Roland-Garros 2011 - French OpenMobile operator Orange has created the official iPhone and iPad app for the French Open tennis tournament this year. It included real-time point-by-point scores from matches, video highlights and interviews, and access to the Orange Sport mobile site. French users will also be able to live-stream up to five matches at once, too.Saban's Power Rangers Samurai SmashThe Power Rangers are back, Back, BACK! Yes, the brand appears to still be going strong, with its debut appearance as an iPhone game – a side-scrolling beat 'em up.Song Exporter FreeSong Exporter Free may raise eyebrows, given the way it lets iPhone and iPad users share their music collection with any nearby computer. The app claims it can be used to backup collections on a user's own PC or Mac, or stream them to media players. However, its suggestion that users can "share them with your friends and workmates" may draw the ire of labels.Bob Books #2 - Reading Magic for iPadUS brand Bob Books aims to help children learn to read, and its first iPad app won plenty of plaudits. Now the sequel is available, drawing connections between letters and sounds, and guiding kids to sound out simple words.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of nine links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple causes 'religious' reaction in brains of fans, say neuroscientists &gt;&gt; Digital Trends"This suggests that the big tech brands have harnessed, or exploit, the brain areas that have evolved to process religion, one of the scientists says. A meeting with the Bishop of Buckingham, who reads the Bible using his Apple iPad, appeared to back up this assertion."He pointed out how the Apple store in, for example, Covent Garden has a lot of religious imagery built into it, with its stone floors, abundance of arches, and little altars (on which the products are displayed)."This must make Ellen Feiss – remember her? – the equivalent of Mary Magdalene or something.Getting Started – Google Prediction API &gt;&gt; Google Code"The Prediction API provides pattern-matching and machine learning capabilities. Given a set of data examples to train against, you can create applications that can perform the following tasks:o Given a user's past viewing habits, predict what other movies or products a user might like.o Categorize emails as spam or non-spam.o Analyze posted comments about your product to determine whether they have a positive or negative tone.o Guess how much a user might spend on a given day, given his spending history."Intriguing.Nvidia head sees Android beating Apple &gt;&gt; Reuters"Tablets using Google's Android platform could overtake Apple Inc's red-hot iPad within three years as improved versions and more applications hit the market, the head of chip designer Nvidia said."Nvidia chief executive Jen-Hsun Huang told the Reuters Technology Summit in New York on Monday that tablets using new versions of Android, including Honeycomb, would outsell iPads as developers create more games and other software to use on them."The Android phone took only two and a half years to achieve the momentum that we're talking about. I would expect the same thing on Honeycomb tablets,' said Huang."We've made a note for May 2014.BlackBerry PlayBook: 250,000 Sold So Far, Sales "Steady," Says Analyst &gt;&gt; Business InsiderBetter than the Motorola Xoom. Why? Because corporations love them. Why? Because they don't store anything – all your data sits on your BlackBerry, but gets presented on a bigger screen. Break the Bluetooth link, and nothing is left on the PlayBook.'Like' Button Follows Web Users &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Internet users tap Facebook Inc's "Like" and Twitter Inc's "Tweet" buttons to share content with friends. But these tools also let their makers collect data about the websites people are visiting."These so-called social widgets, which appear atop stories on news sites or alongside products on retail sites, notify Facebook and Twitter that a person visited those sites even when users don't click on the buttons, according to a study done for The Wall Street Journal."Apple and Android phones face tighter laws in Europe &gt;&gt; FT.com"Apple smartphones and those running on Google's Android system look set to come under tighter regulation in Europe, after an EU data protection advisory panel ruled on Wednesday that location information collected by the devices should be classed as personal data."This is likely to mean strict limits on how location data can be collected and stored by smartphone companies, telecoms operators and any businesses hoping to run location-related services on phones."Apple's retail stores turn 10: Crow for sale &gt;&gt; ZDNetInteresting: "But to really understand Apple's retail success you have to deep dive into the filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission".Which demonstrate that the retail division was profitable by year 3, by which time it had recouped the losses from year one and two.But is the key to the Apple stores that they let people stay as long as they like, or that they let people get in and out quickly?Apple to support reps: "Do not attempt to remove malware" &gt;&gt; ZDNetApple is putting its support staff in an invidious position where they "can't confirm or deny" whether any such software (as the Mac Defender scareware) has been installed. And they don't get support to remove it.Then again, it's listed as an "investigation in progress", so let's hope the support team's scripts improve radically, and soon.From 2009: why Apple will have a Mac App Store &gt;&gt; Ian BetteridgeAs he put it, months ahead of its announcement by Apple, because it would be more convenient, and more secure.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
