Nintendo is launching an upmarket version of the GBA, theGame Boy Advance SP. Does this mean it will have a more usable screen?
In San Francisco,Neil McIntoshrounds up the speculation for Guardian Online....
This is what we know for sure: Apple computer chief executive Steve Jobs will walk onto the stage of the Moscone Centre, San Francisco, at 9am (5pm GMT) today.He is likely to be wearing blue jeans, a black polo-neck top with rolled-up sleeves, and spectacles. He may have had a haircut especially for the occasion.What happens beyond that is anyone's guess - and almost everyone is having a guess.The Macworld conference floor, rumour websites and - of course - the press room, are abuzz with speculation about the new Apple goodies that Mr Jobs may introduce in his keynote speech.Speculation about the speech, to be delivered to an audience of thousands, is more intense than ever this year, because Apple's next move is not that obvious.In the background is the worst possibility of them all for the Mac gossip machine - a scenario in which Apple does not announce anything at all.Whatever happens, Mac OS Rumors (macosrumors.com) is calling this "one of the most mysterious Macworlds in recent memory".Apple carefully cultivates that mystery by refusing to comment on possible developments - or lack of them.But why should we care about what this niche player has to say? The fact is that Mr Jobs' speech remains an important event in the computer industry, carrying a weight disproportionate to Apple's modest 3% share of the worldwide personal computer market.Apple has a tendency to announce industry-leading innovations at these twice-annual shows, meaning that the PC world listens with almost as much interest as the Mac faithful.Over the years there have been plenty of surprises for them all to enjoy, from the first iMac in 1998 to the introduction of WiFi equipped laptops years ahead of the rest of the industry.So what will we see later today? Opinion is building that Apple has to announce at least one big product. Otherwise, the headlines will be dominated by the charges that the organisation is expected to levy on new versions of its previously free digital media applications.Pundits hold out most hope for a new "digital lifestyle device" - most likely a new iPod, an update to the MP3 player unveiled by Apple in late 2001.The new model, it is claimed, will have a larger colour screen and will also be able to play movies.And with Apple having just announced a new version of its iCal calendaring software and version 1.0 of its iSync synchronisation software, it seems reasonable to expect that the new iPod will also feature improved personal digital assistant (PDA) functions.Some observers - and this is where things take another step away from informed rumour and move towards wish-list fantasy - are also hoping for Bluetooth and WiFi capabilities in the new iPod, with a mobile phone built in.Analysts, it is claimed, have already been briefed on an "iPod 2", and the larger form-factor of such a device could also explain persistent recent rumours of a Mac tablet computer.We know for sure that Apple is keen on Bluetooth, the wireless way to connect devices together.The Mac OSX operating system beat Windows for built-in Bluetooth capabilities last year, and it seems likely that new Apples will soon have Bluetooth available as a built-in option in the same way that WiFi is available today.Staying on the wireless theme, Apple could also use the speech to announce an upgrade of its WiFi kit to the 802.11g technology (the current standard is 802.11b), which will lift data speeds to a whopping 54Mbps.In addition, there are strong suggestions that Apple will reveal that it is moving to the fast Firewire 2 standard to physically connect devices to its machines.But, and this is where things get contradictory, the rumour mill suggests that we should not expect new computers to be announced today.Dealers say Apple must first clear an inventory backlog: expect new Mac models, with Bluetooth, Firewire 2 and modest upgrades to specifications, to be announced later this month instead.A revamp of the company's digital media applications seems likely. Apple is set to offer enhanced versions of applications like iDVD and iMovie, but only in exchange for a fee of $50 - a move unlikely to be popular.Whatever is eventually announced, the crowds flocking to the Moscone Centre ballroom will remember this Macworld for the keen sense of anticipation, and all the speculation, surrounding it.Gossip is clearly now as much part of the Macworld experience as Mr Jobs' polo-neck and faded jeans.As one contributor to Mac OS Rumors (macosrumors.com) put it recently: "We are all running around wandering about and looking for the thing from Apple that will make us happy - but the funny thing is that what makes us happy is the fond memories we are creating in the process."&#183;A summary of Steve Jobs' speech will appear tonight on Online's weblog atonlineblog.comafter 8pm GMT. Read a full report and reaction on Guardian Unlimited tomorrow.
More on the idea of digital devices that can change colour, mentioned here onThursday. According to theNew York Times[free registration required]: "Perhaps most surprised by the Apple patent application were the engineers at Color Kinetics, a start-up company in Boston that specializes in light-emitting-diode technology. It turns out that Color Kinetics had filed an application for Patent 20020113555, for a 'lighting entertainment system,' on Dec. 20, 2000. It is intended to cover self-illuminated consumer devices that might include 'a television, a computer, a compact disc player, a stereo, a radio, a videocassette player, a DVD player, a toy, a CD-ROM drive, a film projector, a surround sound system, a Dolby sound system, a THX sound system and a tape player'." Two companies with the same idea? Not necessarily. "Neither Apple nor Color Kinetics executives would comment on the seemingly dueling patent applications. But several people close to the companies said that in 2001, Color Kinetics had worked extensively with Apple on the concept, only to have Apple back out of a deal at the last moment," says the NYT story.
The idea of using MyLifeBits software to hold all your data (and memories) came up lastNovember. Now CNet has an interestinginterview with Gordon Bell, designer of the DEC VAX mini, who is working on the idea at Microsoft's Bay Area Research Center in San Francisco. And as CNet's Paul Festa notes, correctly, it all goes back to 1945 to Vannevar Bush's idea, theMemex.
"The city of Long Beach, Calif., plans to announce on Friday that it will make free wireless Internet access available in its downtown area as part of an effort to attract visitors and companies to the business district. The city will use the increasingly popular standard known as Wi-Fi, which lets personal computers and other hand-held devices connect to the Internet without wires at high speed," says John Markoff in theNew York Times[free registration required].
Walking around San Francisco early this morning, there was no mistaking it: Macworld is coming to town.The city barely needs reminding. Macworld San Francisco, the annual gathering of Apple computer users, is one of the biggest events around these parts. Several giant billboards hang high above the city's streets sporting the distinctive Apple logo, along with pictures of the curvy, lamp-like iMac computer launched here a year ago.Downtown, near the cavernous Moscone centre, which will host the event, huge signs to direct the more than 80,000 expected attendees are in place. Stalls are being knocked together ready for the doors opening, at around 4pm UK time today.Yet, despite the warm January sunshine that will greet the Macolytes, they might still notice a slightly chilly mood surrounding this year's show. All may not be quite right in the Apple universe.You could, of course, blame the technology recession. This part of the world has been in the icy grip of the tech slowdown for more than three years now. San Francisco made more - and partied harder - when the dotcom surf was up. But that only left it with further to fall when the tide went out. In the late 1990s, employers struggled to get staff here: today, unemployment stands at 6.1%, against a US average of 5.7%.That is not all. It is also fair to say there have been some worries specific to Mac users in the run-up to this year's jamboree.For a start, Apple Computer's participation in the show was in doubt as recently as the start of November. A spat with the company which organises this event, and another Mac show on the US east coast, almost caused Apple to withdraw from both events.Yet the company's active role in MacExpo is vital. Chief executive Steve Jobs traditionally delivers a barnstorming keynote speech which brings new products, and acres of press coverage, on day one.The company also books the largest amount of floorspace at the show: without it, audiences could be expected to dwindle to a fraction of those expected this week.A truce has been called, and Apple will attend this year, with Mr Jobs delivering his keynote as planned. Nevertheless, the spat between organisers and Apple could yet mean the computer maker abandons the Macworld shows, and with them the inconvenient demands they place on Apple to come up with major new product announcements on a strict six-monthly cycle.This could be the last San Francisco Macworld, worry the old-timers, before Apple moves to a series of smaller "regional" shows run through the year.There are also fears about exactly what Apple will, or will not, announce at this year's event. Apple has been credited in recent years for opening up an advantage over old foe Microsoft by providing users with powerful but free digital media software, to handle tasks such as video editing and DVD burning. But there is speculation that Mr Jobs will unveil a costly new pricing programme for this software this week.Given last year's hostile reaction to charges imposed on the previously free .Mac online service, this is unlikely to go down well. Could Steve Jobs get a rough ride from his normally adoring keynote crowd?Finally, hopes of a new Apple-branded personal digital assistant, long hoped-for by Apple watchers and particularly touted this year in the Mac rumour mill, may be dashed too. It is noticeable that the company is refusing all requests for interviews with its senior executives during the week. This is a complete, and unprecedented, reversal of its policy in the past when it has been unveiling new products.There is nothing like a sexy new machine to get the Macworld crowd excited, so commentators assume - safely - that the lack of one could dampen things down dramatically too. After all, Mac users, by definition, rely on Apple as their sole supplier of computer kit, and such a niche player can rely only on itself to keep the buzz around itself alive.Apple is certain to attempt to accentuate the positive. They may feel they have plenty to be positive about. In particular, the new version of the Mac OS (a Unix-based system called OSX) has gone mainstream in the last year. It has proved itself robust and useful across Apple's user base, from laptops in schools to servers in commercial racks. The potentially contentious digital media software has also been praised by critics and users.But can Apple keep the hordes happy by simply restating its advances over the last year? That is unlikely, as we will see tomorrow, ahead of Mr Jobs' speech, the buzzing Mac rumour mill has created a high level of expectancy. Throw in new charging for previously free software, and things could get ugly.Even Steve Jobs, master salesman that the computer industry veteran is, will struggle to keep this show a smash hit without some decent new props.Coming up on Guardian Unlimited this week&#183;Tomorrow: Listening to the rumour mill - what are the Mac pundits predicting? And, on Wednesday, find out what Steve Jobs actually announced.&#183;Thursday and Friday: Ashley Norris reports from Las Vegas as the PC world unveils its latest hardware at the Consumer Electronics Show.
No sooner have the latest photo-messaging mobile phones been unwrapped at Christmas than experts are warning that they could become the latest method of bombarding us with spam.The problem of unsolicited online adverts has become so bad that it has recently been estimated that between a third and a half of email traffic is made up of crazy get-rich-quick schemes and porn adverts. And with the text craze on mobile phones showing no sign of abating, unscrupulous marketers have now started to spam cellphones.The worry now is that it is not a huge leap for spammers to add sound and pictures to text adverts and hijack the latest multimedia message system (MMS) phones. To make matters worse, mobile phones tend to always be at their owner's side, making spam MMS far more intrusive than email, even if it does not become as common.The public is expected to get its first taste of mass MMS marketing this Valentine's Day. Marketing companies pushing the latest technology to big brands are predicting that if, as the industry estimates, one in 20 phones are now MMS-capable, the first big campaigns will seek to turn the day of romance into a huge marketing test run.In fact, Carphone Warehouse has already sent an MMS Christmas greeting card to all its Vodafone Live! customers. Like nearly all the big brands, it did so with the recipients' permission. As with email, it is the smaller, rogue operators that could cause a spamming problem.The mobile phone industry points out, though, that in contrast to email, there are several safeguards against spam that almost inadvertently protect MMS phone owners. First, each message cost 36p and cannot be sent between networks. Different handsets also have varying screen sizes and facilities, making sending a single MMS to thousands of handsets almost impossible.However, as John Delaney, senior analyst with the telecommunications research agency Ovum, explains, the networks are working to resolve these barriers to MMS that will make the technology more appealing but at the same time open up the floodgates to spam. "They know they can make the most money out of MMS by offering interoperability, so that messages can go across networks with no restraint," he says. "They also know that at the moment they are not actively opening up to third parties sending MMS on their networks that could generate further revenue."So, it's pretty obvious to everyone that by the middle of the year at the latest, they will resolve both issues and there will be interoperability and third parties sending out MMS."This will ultimately lead to exactly what happened with SMS, though. As third parties move in, they will buy MMS in bulk so the price comes drastically down and, just as with any communications method there has ever been, you end up getting spam."The networks are quick to agree that this widening of MMS's scope will start in the coming months. "It's a top priority for us," confirms Mark Jensen, senior product manager for MMS at Vodafone Live! "We're looking at rolling out interoperability and opening up to third parties as soon as we can in the first few months of the year. We're not going to wait until everyone is on board - we'll do it a network at a time because it's too important to wait."However, according to Bernadette Lyons, managing director of the mobile messaging marketing company Mobileway, companies have grown tired of waiting for the networks to talk to one another and so have already developed their own systems for delivering MMS campaigns. "We have got our own MMS system, so we don't need to go through the networks' MMS centres," she insists."I can foresee MMS going the same way as SMS and being used by spammers, which is sad. The networks are dragging their heels with interconnect agreements so it leaves the market wide open to third parties to work out ways of getting in to their systems. That then leaves the network operators with far less control over what their subscribers receive."As if to prove the point that third parties can operate independently of the networks, web portal Lycos is opening up an MMS facility before the end of the month. Its MMS product manager, Wessel Van Rensburgh, reveals that it will be the first service to allow computer users to send an MMS to mobiles. At 36p a shot, he claims it will be too expensive for spammers, but admits Lycos is working on adding adverts to messages."There are four 'slides' with each MMS," he explains. "We're looking at having the first three for the message and then giving the fourth over to an advert or a sponsor."So regardless of whether spammers use the service, it is almost certain to feature, at the very least, messages accompanied by adverts.David Naylor, a partner at the global technology law firm Morrisson &amp; Foerster, warns that the latest MMS phones are being launched at exactly the time when laws on spamming consumers are being relaxed. "The electronic communications directive, which is required to be implemented across Europe by October, effectively allows companies to send unsolicited messages to people they can say they already have a relationship with," he says."It greatly broadens the scope for businesses to send spam to people who may not want to receive it, and objecting to being spammed isn't always as convenient or cost-free as it should be. There seem to be quite a few companies who are working outside the Data Protection Act and e-commerce regulations, either because they are not aware of the law or they are hoping not to be caught. As the law stands, every unsolicited email or text message you receive should state who the sender is and their address, but few do."For mobile phone users there is even more potential bad news. Even if MMS remains highly priced and therefore unattractive to spammers, many mobile phones and personal organisers are now being offered with email and instant-messenger facilities. Combined with MMS, these are expected to prove so popular that, according to figures from Forrester Research, they will be earning the networks more revenue than SMS within four to five years. This only increases the fear that new messaging facilities will be popular with spammers as well as users."It could get to the point where it's the equivalent of talking to your mate in the street when someone taps you on the shoulder to try to sell you double glazing," warns John Delaney of Ovum. "You probably wouldn't buy the double glazing, but it would still be annoying to be tapped on the shoulder in the first place."
The Guardian's (and Onlineblog's) Neil McIntosh is in San Francisco for theMacWorld Exposhow. His pre-show thoughts arehere.
The Merc's Dan Gillmor, writing from Apple's heartland in Silicon Valley, speculates about the oldMac-on-Intelissue in his pre-MacWorld column, while admitting that this is very unlikely to feature in Steve Jobs's MacWorld keynote tomorrow. In eWeek, Matthew Rothenberg gives some credence to theMac Tabletidea. Thevideo iPodis being most widely tipped, butCNethas a good round-up of possibilities.
Several years on from the internet revolution, the websites of many of Britain's leading public companies continue to be obscure or difficult for investors to use.An annual survey of the websites of FTSE 100 companies, published today, found that while the technical sophistication of the average site has improved, a substantial number of company websites remain "wallowing in mediocrity". One in three of the sites contained bugs or programming errors that made the sites hard to read by many users.A total of 28 FTSE company websites were rated as "very good" or "good", but the remaining 72 "vary from needing some substantial attention in one area or another, to needing a lot of urgent attention, to being irredeemably bad and in a state where they should be thrown away," according to the report.A third of FTSE companies do not list their current share price on their website's home page, and one in 10 do not provide clear directions to information for investors.The report also found that more than a third of the sites were difficult to read using software other than Microsoft internet browsers. One in 10 of FTSE 100 company websites could not be viewed using other browsers. A further 28% of sites had "significant problems" when displaying pages using non-Microsoft browsers."It is in our view indefensible that so many sites have not been constructed to the standards which people rightly expect from our top companies," said Adrian Porter, author of the research.Among the worst offenders were British Land, Rentokil, HBOS and Anglo-American.The results showed that some companies have made efforts to improve their websites during the year.Associated British Food leapt from bottom place in 2002's rankings to ninth this year. National Grid's website was the highest rated this year, up from being 54th in the previous listings.The survey's judges have applied tough standards - even the sites with the lowest ratings, such as Next and Alliance Unichem, are user-friendly compared with the majority of websites in general use.The survey was carried out by consultancy Porter Research, giving each site a mark out of 100. Each was judged on design, usability, innovation and technical proficiency.The research was commissioned by Interactive Bureau, a web strategy and design company.Pick of the clicksThe top five home pages are:1) National Grid - 86% (54th - 43.25% last year)2) Six Continents - 84.75% (1st - 80.5%)3) Kingfisher - 79.75% (3rd - 76.5%)4) Sainsbury's - 77.75% (4th - 72.5%)4) Pearson - 77.75% (73rd - 39%)The bottom five are:96) Man Group - 31% (78th - 38%)97) Severn Trent - 30.75% (37th - 47.25%)98) Schroder - 29% (26th - 49%)99) Alliance UniChem - 27.25% (n/a)100) Next - 26.75% (95th - 29.75%)The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Friday January 17 2003We may have given the impression that the research on which the report was based had found British Land among the "worst offenders" overall. In fact the research pointed only to a problem that the company was experiencing with non-Microsoft browsers which is what we intended to convey. British Land has asked us to say that it is "well advanced" in addressing this.
Tarun Tejpal is sitting amid the ruins of his office. There is not much left - a few dusty chairs, three computers and a forlorn air-conditioning unit. "We have sold virtually everything. I've even flogged the airconditioner," he says dolefully.Twenty months ago Tejpal, editor in chief oftehelka.com, an investigative website, was the most feted journalist in  India. He had just broken one of the biggest stories in the country's history - an exposÀ of corruption at the highest levels of government.His reporters, posing as arms salesmen, had bribed their way into the home of the defence minister, George Fernandes, and handed over &#163;3,000 to one of the minister's colleagues. The journalists found many other people prepared to take money - senior army officers, bureaucrats, even the president of the ruling Bharatiya Janata party, who was filmed shovelling the cash into his desk.The scandal was deeply embarrassing for the BJP prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Mr Vajpayee sacked Mr Fernandes and ordered a commission of inquiry. The scandal promoted a  mood of national catharsis, and congratulations poured in from ordinary Indians tired of official corruption. Tehelka, which had only been launched in June 2000, was receiving 30 million hits a week. But the glory did not last."I had expected a battle. But we had not anticipated its scale," Tejpal said yesterday. "The propaganda war started the next day."Nearly two years later, he has been forced to lay off all but four of his 120 staff. He has got deeply into debt, sold the office furniture and scrounged money from friends. "They drop by for dinner and leave a cheque behind."The website, which once boasted sites on news, literature, sport and erotica, is "virtually  defunct". George Fernandes, meanwhile, is again the defence minister.The saga is a depressing example of how the Kafkaesque weight of government can be used to crush those who challenge its methods.In the aftermath of the scandal, the Hindu nationalist-led government "unleashed" the inland revenue, the enforcement directorate and the intelligence bureau, India's answer to MI5, on Tehelka's office in suburban south Delhi.They did not find anything. Frustrated, the officials started tearing apart the website's investors. Tehelka's financial backer, Shanker Sharma, was thrown in jail without charge.Detectives also held Aniruddha Bahal, the reporter who carried out the exposÀ, and a  colleague, Kumar Badal. Badal is still in prison."It got to the stage that I used to count the number of booze bottles in my house to make sure there wasn't one more than the legal quota," Tejpal recalls.The government commission set up to investigate Operation West-End, Tehelka's sting,  meanwhile, started behaving very strangely. "The commission didn't cross-examine a single person found guilty of corruption. It was astonishing," said Tejpal. Instead, it spent its days rubbishing Tehelka's journalistic methods.The official campaign of vilification against the website has attracted protests from a few of India's prominent liberal commentators, such as the veteran diplomat Kuldip Nayar and the respected columnist Tavleen Singh. Tehelka's literary supporters, who include Salman Rushdie, Amitav Ghosh and VS Naipaul, have also expressed their outrage. But in general, India's civil society has reacted with awkwardness and embarrassment to the website's plight."I read all of Franz Kafka when I was 19 and 20, but I only understand him now," Tejpal wrote in a recent essay in the magazine Seminar. "He accurately intuited that all power is essentially implacable and malign."The treatment of the website's investors has scared away anybody else from pumping money into Tehelka. The company owes £620,000. Mr Vajpayee's rightwing government has bounced back from the scandal and is expected to win the next general election in 2004. Last month, it won a landslide victory in elections in the riot-hit western state of Gujarat after campaigning on a virtually fascist anti-Muslim platform.The murky world of arms dealing goes on. Tony Blair and his ministers are still trying to persuade the Indian government to buy 66 Britishmade Hawk jet trainers, but the billion-pound deal remains mysteriously stuck over the price.Tehelka's exposÀ was not about "individuals", but about "systemic corruption", Tejpal insists. He admits that his sting operation would have gone down badly with any government, but says that the BJP's response was venomous. "The degree of pettiness has been extraordinary. They have a crude understanding of power and a lot of that stems from the fact they are in power for the first time. Our struggle is emblematic of a wider issue: can media organisations be killed off when they criticise governments?".The gloomy answer appears to be yes. Last night Balbir Punj, a leading BJP member of parliament, claimed the government had nothing to do with the website's collapse. "Just because you do a story exposing the government doesn't mean the gods make you immortal,"  he said. "Many other &#91;internet&#93; portals have closed down. The boom is over."
A squad of former KGB operatives will emerge this month at the forefront of the battle against music piracy with the launch of a new technology which "watermarks" digital content.Internet experts reckon the music industry is losing far more money through internet piracy than it is making from its own online distribution channels.Although online music is seen as a big factor in the attractiveness of broadband services to consumers, music companies are wary of putting a significant proportion of their catalogues online because of the pirates.This month, music distributor Apex Entertainment Group will introduce watermarking technology developed by former Russian spies in St Petersburg, in the hope of attracting more music companies on to the web."At the moment the music companies are protecting their copyright by saying to people 'you cannot use it' or allowing people to access only a small portion of their catalogue," said Apex boss Harry Maloney. "What we are saying is 'you can access anything because it can be watermarked'."The former KGB agents work for Mazur Media, which North London-based Apex bought last year for several million pounds.During the cold war the 40-strong St Petersburg team developed sensitive snooping equipment, encryption technology and tracking systems for tanks and MiG aircraft.Following the collapse of communism the former spies started working with the music industry, digitally remastering old recordings using technology developed to spy on the west.Having amassed a considerable catalogue of new digital recordings, the encryption experts developed a unique watermarking system to protect their new asset.This watermark is woven into the digital data so, even if music is downloaded from the internet and then "burnt" on to a new CD, its origins can be traced.Apex plans to introduce the system at the Midem music industry trade show in Cannes and is in talks with a number of telecoms companies which can provide the extensive web-hosting infrastructure needed for a full-scale offering of the service to the music industry.
BusinessWeekhas drawn attention to the slowdown in AOL's growth and its implications. Basically, it's losing customers -- like all ISPs -- but is running out of newbies to replace them.
The major content providers -- Hollywood, for short -- have been trampling consumer concerns underfoot in the rush to Digital Rights Management control in the US. Now it seems theBusiness Software Alliance-- best-known for its efforts to get people fined or jailed for software piracy -- is lobbying in the other direction. "They hope to convince Congress that strict copy-protection legislation setting technological mandates would stifle innovation, harm consumers and threaten an already-suffering tech industry," says the Merc in a piece headedTech industry to launch new Washington lobbying effort. The BSA's backers include Microsoft, Intel, and PC makers such as Hewlett-Packard. OK, guys and gals, you can make copies of Harry Potter movies but not Microsoft Office. Got that?
Bill Thompsonponders on the BBC News site.
The BHR-1 robot developed at the Beijing University of Science and Engineering under China's High and New Technology Research and Development Programme can doT'ai-chi(sorry, it doesn't say whether that's classical Yang or Wu style), which sounds a good way of demonstrating the movement of its 32 joints. It can also walk with 33cm steps at a speed of 1kph.
Trendy CDs are having vinyl-style imperfections added, reports theLA Times[free registration required], though as the article points out, it's a very old idea. Most people probably have a favourite example, though mine is a different kind of trick -- the clicking sound, like a scratched record, at the start of Kraftwerk's LP, Radio Activity. In that case, you only got the full effect the first time you played the LP, and it doesn't make sense on CD.
In 1946 the Marx Brothers decided to make an independent feature film entitled  A Night in Casablanca.It seems that Chico, who had a serious gambling habit, was hard up. The production was initially conceived as a spoof of the Warner Brothers' 1942 classic,  Casablanca (it even had a character called Humphrey Bogus), but in production the script broadened its focus and became a general parody of wartime melodramas.IMHO (as they abbreviate 'in my humble opinion' on the net), the spoof is immeasurably superior to the original. Groucho plays the manager of the Hotel Casablanca, whose predecessors have been murdered by an escaped Nazi war criminal played by Sig Ruman. Chico and Harpo team up to protect Groucho, who runs the hotel in his own distinctive style.Groucho &amp; Co received letters threatening legal action from Warner Brothers, who regarded the title as infringing their rights to  Casablanca. Groucho responded with hilarious letters to Warners' lawyers.'I just don't understand your attitude,' he wrote. 'Even if you plan on re-releasing your picture, I am sure that the average movie fan could learn in time to distinguish between Ingrid Bergman and Harpo. I don't know whether I could, but I certainly would like to try.'He went on: 'You claim you own Casablanca and that no-one else can use that name without your permission.   What about "Warner Brothers"? Do you own that, too? You probably have the right to use the name Warner, but what about Brothers?'Professionally, we were brothers long before you were. We were touring the sticks as the Marx Brothers when Vitaphone was still a gleam in the inventor's eye, and even before us there had been other brothers - the Smith Brothers;  The Brothers Karamazov; Dan Brothers, an outfielder with Detroit; and  Brother, Can You Spare a Dime? (This was originally  Brothers, Can You Spare a Dime? but this was spreading a dime pretty thin, so they threw out one brother, gave all the money to the other one and whittled it down to  Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?)'.There was a lot more (for the full text see  The Oxford Book of Letters, edited by Frank and Anita Kermode) and no more was heard about the threatened proceedings.Why am I telling you all this? Because over in Seattle a Very Large Company is claiming that it owns the word 'Windows'.Last December Microsoft filed a complaint against Lindows.com, a start-up distributing a version of the (free) Linux operating system. Microsoft accused Lindows founder Michael Robertson of trademark infringement, trademark dilution and unfair competition - all of this only five months after Lindows.com was founded and before it had a product on the market.The Microsoft case may make sense to a trademark lawyer, but it is preposterous in both computer-science and common-sense terms. As far as computing is concerned, Microsoft was a late comer on the windows technology scene - in the sense of resizable rectangular frames   displayed on a bit mapped screen.Douglas Engelbart had a windows system in the mid-Sixties at his Stanford Research Institute lab, and Xerox Parc had computers running 'windows' in 1972.By 1984 Apple was marketing a windows-based interface in the shape of the Macintosh and the trade press was speculating that eventually Microsoft would get around to 'doing windows' - which it did in 1985 in the shape of Windows 1.0, a turkey disguised as a computer program (the first usable Microsoft windowing program, Windows 3.0, was not released until 1990).In common-sense terms, the Microsoft claim is even dafter.What about Uncle Joe, who traded as a window-cleaner in the 1950s with the innovative slogan 'We Do Windows!? Or those 1940s newsreels entitled 'Windows on the World'? And so on.From past experience, we can be sure that Bill Gates &amp; Co will not be deterred by ridicule.For what's really bugging them is the temerity of a start-up company aiming to take some of their business. Lindows, you see, is a consumer-friendly version of Linux. It functions much like Microsoft Windows and - more importantly - is being sold pre-installed on dirt-cheap PCs marketed by Wal-Mart in the US (and by Evesham in the UK).Up to now, Microsoft has been unable to do anything about the Linux movement - because it's headless and distributed free. But Lindows provides a tangible target, which is why it's been selected for extermination. Where are you, Groucho, when we need you?john.naughton@observer.co.uk
CNetreckons Apple will announce "at the Macworld Expo in San Francisco Tuesday that consumers will have to pay for new versions of iDVD, iPhoto and iMovie, which will be sold together as a bundle." Apple has already started charging for its formerly-free .Mac service, and charged users $129 for its last upgrade to the Unix-based OS X operating system that is replacing Mac OS. Comment: lots of companies give simple apps away free and charge for enhanced versions as a way of winning business. However, they don't usually have Apple's 100% monopoly market control, which allows it to bundle apps with all its proprietary hardware, regardless of any third-party competition.
Infoworld has interviewed former Carnegie Mellon profRick Rashid, head of Microsoft Research.
Microsoft leads the world in one respect: the cluelessness of the majority of stuff written about it. Adam Barr, former Microsoft developer and occasional Microsoft pundit, has avoided the ignorant journalist factor by interviewing himself atKuro5hin. Essential reading. (This doesn't mean it's all necessarily correct, only that it provides a lot more insight into the reality of Microsoft than most of the junk that gets published.)
There's speculation that Apple will announce avideo versionof its popular bathroom-styled iPod handheld MP3 player at the MacWorld show. However, since a 20GB iPod costs £400, it is unlikely to be cheap. Archos was first with a disk-based MP3 player and first with a multimedia version, and the 20GB MPEG4-playingJukebox Multimedia 20costs £390. (Plus, you have to add £31.14 for the fastUSB2.0 interface cable.) The20GB Archos MP3 playeris £270, so if Apple keeps the ratios about the same, the 20GB iPod video player should cost £575. However, £598.99 or more won't be a surprise, especially if it has a decent-sized colour LCD screen.
Tomorrows' World programmes form perhaps the most vivid TV-related memories I have from my childhood. The BBC's science and technology institution provided me with first sightings of floppy disks (the presenter flexed them to show how very floppy they were) or Compact Disks (they covered them in jam and trampled them underfoot to show how they were... umm... indestructible) while I was growing up in the (then) apparently technology-free west of Scotland. Back in the 1980s, when Judith Hann was presenting, I was one of ten million viewers who tuned in (helpfully, it was also scheduled next to pop institution Top of the Pops, as I recall). But it probably says something that my memories are all from then: I can't remember the last time I watched, and the BBCreports todaythat the programme has been cancelled, after the audience slumped to three million for the last series. The "brand", 40 years old, will live on, but the studio-based show that gave us the first glimpse of stuff we now take for granted is no more.
Nick Dentoncertainly has an eye for what hits the net's sweet spot. He's looking for someone to write about sex, for another of his niche-serving commercial weblogs. Could this become the most over-subscribed vacancy in the net's history? ;-)"I'm looking for a writer for a new blog media title, covering online porn and erotica. Think of Nerve, with all the literary pretensions removed, and add a dash of Boing Boing. Subject matter: retro porn, computer-generated imagery, erotic art, Taschen, slash fiction, Hobbit sex. Anything quirky and erotic. This is a part-time writing job, paying $1,000 a month. For the editor, this needs to be a labor of love, um, lust. Email me."
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current topic:Another great year has come and gone here at the NewsRoom. Which do you think were the most important news events of the last 12 months? Who were the major newsmakers of 2002? Nominate your favourites here.Pashmina:any new years resalutions Broncocapitalistpiglet:It's got to be SaddamBronco:yes next year im gonna remember to put a bucket by me bedjenni@boughtledger:I'm still jenni from the blockHost_Chris2:Saddam Hussein is an obvious choice of course, but what about people from earlier this year?Bronco:like michael jackson throwin his baby out the windowPashmina:I forgot about that!!*LadeezMan has entered the NewsRoom*capitalistpiglet:what about the launch of the euro?LadeezMan:hiHost_Chris2:I was thinking of Stephen ByersBronco:whoPashmina:your just sayin that cos u look like him chris2. Hi ladeezman hows ujenni@boughtledger:I'm still jenni from the blockLadeezMan:I just woke up. What day is itHost_Chris2:I'll admit I have a personal interest, but I still think Stephen Byers was one of the big stories of 2002Bronco:its thrusdayPashmina:did u have a heavy new years ladeezmanBronco:thursday evencapitalistpiglet:bigger than Cherie and the conman?Pashmina:I forgot about that too!!LadeezMan:why is my kitchen full of waterOsama_bin_laden:I nominate myselfPashmina:Osama u been lurking again!mullah'omar:I second thatHost_Chris2:I think Byers is the story everyone will rememberOsama_bin_laden:cheers omarmullah'omar:no problemo osamacapitalistpiglet:Byers? Are you serious? Do you honestly think Byers was a bigger story than Iraq? Bigger than Bali? Than the firemen's strike?Bronco:bigger than j.lo's bottomjenni@boughtledger:I'm still jenni from the blockLadeezMan:how long has it been rainingOsama_bin_Laden:Bronco r u being blasphemousBronco:no I was last night but I feel alright nowLadeezMan:Im going back to bedjenni@boughtledger:I'm still jenni from the blockPashmina:bye ladeezmanOsama_bin_laden:death to america&gt;connection to server has been terminated
One obvious problem withthislist of banished words and phrases: it's much too short.
Time for net to grow upRe The web needs its own police (Online, 19 December) by Victor Keegan: thank you for your column. The default voice in cyberspace seems to be that of the libertarian. But the net is not inherently some lawless land where society must reverse generations of progress towards a world structured by justice rather than appetite.We need to grow out of our adolescent fascination with anarchy and recognise that networks are participative entities. We're all responsible for the shape, content and power of the net, and we need to stand up to that responsibility, however fraught, disputatious and wearisome that responsibility is.Paul Maypaul.may@verista.comI strongly agree with Victor Keegan in his response to the Australian Court decision on the Dow Jones libel case (The web needs its own police, Dec 19th). Surely the internet is rather more than a forum where people can say exactly what they like with impunity.The most telling point was that made by Dow Jones: that they would have to "consider libel law from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe before posting anything". Presumably their belief is that they should be allowed to say what they like about Afghanistan and Zimbabwe because nobody will sue.Is it not time that the internet community grew up and started to look beyond its own private interests? What is needed is some kind of organisation not under the control of commercial interests that can set standards, and generally ensure that the best interests of all users are looked after. A few of us are in the early stages of setting up such an organisation. If anyone is interested in getting involved, they are welcome to contact me at chrisjager@boltblue.com.Chris Jagerchrisjager@boltblue.comPerils of hosptial ITThe NHS commissioned an in house project to develop a comprehensive computer system 10 to 15 years ago, led by Wessex Health Authority and with input from potential users in regional health authorities around the country (I drew one of the short straws in the North West).The project collapsed in failure, amid much recrimination and allegations of mismanagement. It was the most expensive computer project failure the NHS had experienced and cost the taxpayer many millions of pounds.I fully agree with Yoav Tzabar (Feedback, 19 December) that commercial products for whole hospital information systems have been equally disastrous.One of the main problems seems to be the sheer complexity of   hospital, and primary referral systems, where no one person, or small efficient working party can efficiently manipulate the myriad data relationships that are required to be catered for in the NHS.The most successful systems I have seen are those confined to single departments e.g. Pathology, Operating Theatre - where there is a wealth of knowledge from departmental managers regarding the precise requirements of such a system and who can feed these requirements to the programmers.Perhaps the way forward is to insist that these smaller independent systems be written in a common operating environment and then - over time - be linked together; thus tackling what is still one of the major headaches of hospital systems: getting them to communicate and exchange/ retrieve data in a realistic time.Bernard Mathewsbernard@mathews-wayside.freeserve.co.ukiCal's apple of my eyeNot only is iCal excellent for sharing schedules with friends andcolleagues (Working the web, December 19), it is also spawning great sites such asiCalSharewhere you can download informational calendars (which automatically import into iCal) covering a wide range of subject matter, from basic week numbers and UK holidays through to specific themes based on news, music and sports - I would shamelessly point any Formula One followers towards my F1 2003 calendar, which is linked to from there. Using the "events" themselves to hold stats, facts and links means that a simple calendar can also become an immensely useful reference tool.iCal is a perfect example of a great Apple idea that is also so beautifully simple that "the rest of us" can build for it and share around it. I should point out that there is also a basic selection of calendars for download from Apple's own website too.Gareth Bouchgareth@smallcreep.comNo laughing matterSix of the best comic sites (Online, 19 December)? Well at least the number was right. The sites you mentioned are, by and large, sales sites for publishing houses. To truly represent the best six it must include Scott McCloud's site atwww.scottmccloud.com, which along with some fantastic and free online comics discusses the future of comics on the web.Mr McCloud is surely a pioneer as well as a leading voice in the debate about why and what comics are.Stephen Connellstephen@ghn.org.uk
It's20 yearssince Internet networking changed to the Internet Protocol, TCP/IP. Vint Cerf, the Father of the Internet as we know it, looks back.....
Mercury journalistMike Langbergtried it, and didn't like it.
Yahoo Newsis now running a story from MacCentral about Apple applying to patent a system for changing the colour of computer cases on the fly, presumably in a different way to the common old PC case mods where users put lights inside fancy cases. (Or perhaps not -- the US Patent Office is famous for its incompetence.) The story was debated at length onSlashdotlast year, and various Mac sites. However, the Slashdot dicussion included a delightful piece of Slashdot hypocrisy pseudocode (Score:5, Insightful) from duffbeer703:if ( $org within ("Microsoft"|"Amazon"|"Intel") &amp;&amp; $topic == "patent" ) { post.story("Patents are evil, Linux r0x0rZ!"); } elsif ($org within ("Apple"|"Transmeta"|"VA") &amp;&amp; $topic == "patent" ) { post.story("Feature xxx is cool! $org r0x0rZ!"); } else { ignore.story(); }
Make no mistake about it, "weapons of mass destruction", "must-see", "branding" and "material breach" are on Lake Superior State University's annual list of words that should be banished for "mis-use, over-use and general uselessness".The smallest public university in Michigan, US, with slightly more than 3,000 students, has been compiling the list since 1976, choosing from nominations sent from around the world. This year, words and phrases were pulled from a record 3,000 nominations, most of them sent through the school's website.Word-watchers pull nominations throughout the year from everyday speech, as well as from the news, fields of education, technology, advertising and politics. A committee gathers the entries and chooses the "best" to be released on New Year's Day.On this year's list are:Material breach: "Suggests an obstetrical complication that pulls a physician off the golf course," says a nominator from Washington, DCmust-see TV: "Must find remote. Must change channel," laments Nan Heflin from Colorado Springs, Coloradountimely death: "Has anyone yet died a timely death?" asks Donald Burgess of South Pasadena, Californiaon the ground: "Especially annoying during the presidential election recount, but still shows up in major news stories," Robert Prince, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. "Where else would you be?" Ken Finkel, Dundas, Ontarioweapons of mass destruction: In danger of becoming a push-button buzzword. Many nominators point out that any weapon, used effectively, does a lot of destruction. "A few thousand machetes in the hands of an army in Africa can lead to mass genocide," writes Howard Stacy of Atlanta, Georgiamake no mistake about it: "Generally used instead of 'don't underestimate' or 'understand'," says John O'Connell of San Jose, California. Are listeners really going to mistake what the questioner is saying?homeland security: A new and improved buzzword. "What happened to the department of defense?" asks Rick Miller of Champaign, Illinoisextreme: This over-used word in advertising and marketing drew the ire of citizens throughout North America, from coast to coast. "Extreme sports, extreme cars, extreme soft drinks...I'm tired of hearing it." Doug Hagen, Newton, North Carolina. "I saw a church billboard advertising 'Extreme Adventures' at their vacation bible school. What the heck does that mean?" Cheril Lin D. Abeel, Detroit, Michigannow, more than ever: Matthew Lowe of Kew Gardens, New Jersey, summed it up for the many who nominated this tiresome phrase: "It has become over-used since the terrorist attacks...from warnings to be safe, to stores having sales...It has to go!"branding: "This word, once properly associated with marking livestock to prove ownership, has been co-opted by the MBA crowd and now seems to refer to any activity that supports a company's desire to clearly define its products and/or services. Can't we just say 'promotions and PR?' Nancy Hicks, Fairfax, Virginiahaving said that / that said: Nominated by many for over-use, especially in the news media. "I heard you the first time," said David Patrick of Lafayette, Indianachallenge: "No one has problems anymore, they only face 'challenges.' Sonia Jaffe Robbins, New York, New Yorkas per"As per a conversation I had with a co-worker and 'as per' common decency to your fellow human beings, please substitute 'according to.' If I hear 'as per' ever again, I will need to take some 'asperin'." Greg Gibson, Tucson, Arizonareverse discrimination: "Discrimination is discrimination, regardless of who is being discriminated against." Kristen of St. Paul, Minnesotathere is no score: "It is inaccurate and misleading. There IS a score. It is 0-0." Paul Jertson, Christmas Valley, Oregongot game: "I hear this phrase used by sportscasters trying to be hip: 'He's got game tonight!' They mean he's playing well." Scott Tolentino, Garden City, Utahmental mistake: "Used often in the sporting world," says Paul DeCarlo of Helena, Alabama. "What mistake is not mental?"frozen tundra: "Tundra means a frozen land," points out Michael Pittman of Cincinnati, Ohio. Usually used by sportscasters to describe the home field of the Green Bay Packersundisclosed, secret location: Redundant stacking of adjectives often used to describe vice-president Cheney's whereabouts. "If it's a secret, it's pretty undisclosed, and if it's undisclosed, it's a secret," says Bill Lodholz of Davis, California.Lake Superior State University accepts nominations for the Word Banishment list throughout the year. To submit your nomination for the 2004 list, visit itswebsite.
It is possible to make a few reasonably safe predictions for 2003. Third generation (3G) mobile phones will finally arrive, now the networks are built, most of the technical problems resolved and - a few - handsets are manufactured. High-speed broadband will continue its spread. Corporate and public sector IT will continue its rapid, sometimes painful, process of evolution. But   there has been plenty of excitement away from the corporate announcements and big-budget launches.In the past year we have seen the grassroots of the technology world exposed by the receding of venture capital and the bursting of the tech bubble. And some of the most interesting developments in technology have, in the last 12 months, continued to come from individuals and small connected communities.We look forward to more of the same. Today Online offers its survival guide for 2003: the 25 technologies and notions we think hold most promise over the next year. From the evolutionary to the revolutionary, the trivial to the very serious, these are 25 of the trends we'll be watching closely over the next 12 months.At homeMobile gamesPrepare for an avalanche of downloadable games using the cross-platform Java software now built in to most new phones. There will be lots of recycled favourites like Space Invaders, followed by cutdown versions of console classics like Tomb Raider and the start of serious location-based gaming.VKMobile photosAfter a slow start (today they are too expensive and don't easily work between operators) camera phones will boom in 2003. Prices will drop as operators try to encourage us to send photos to friends. Equally addictive is taking photos of people, places and events to create your own visual diary. Don't leave home without one.VKOnline consolesWith Xbox Live already available on limited release here and the PlayStation 2 service earmarked for March, the next round of consoles battles will be fought online. The official release of Xbox Live is scheduled for Spring 2003 at an annual fee of &#163;39.99 for a closed network service via broadband. PS2 will have a slower open connection and requires an external hard drive. The release of GameCube online will require similar technology to the PS2, but no official release has been confirmed for the UK yet.RPDoom III (PC/Xbox)The title the PC gaming world can't get enough of. This third installment of the series, which started back in 1993, uses the latest stunning visual technology and combines it with superb gameplay physics to assure that this survival horror game will have the same massive impact as the original.RPHome networksTo rephrase an old quip, the home of the future is always likely to    remain just that. But, away from the glossy visions of the big consumer electronics firms, people are quietly getting on with building modest home networks. Broadband to the home, easily created wireless networks and a tonne of digital entertainment - from MP3 music files to homemade digital videos - on PCs all mean we're beginning to see benefits in having the net linked to our computer, our living room TV, and to our hi-fi. Just don't bet on your microwave joining the party any time soon.NMWorkBluetoothOnce again, it will be the year of Bluetooth - after several false starts. You don't need to lift up your office phone or don clunky headphones: Bluetooth will divert calls to your mobile with wireless connection to an earpiece. Forget about buying a clunky personal digital assistant (PDA) with phone attached. You can use Bluetooth and your mobile to access the web and email from a PDA. Eventually all the wires to printers and computers could become redundant.VKMicrocontentThe web browser is increasingly frustrating for many designers working on web applications. Expect 2003 to see whole loads of applications that deal with websites in an interesting way, but which aren't traditional browsers. Although the actual workings will still be out there on the internet some place, the user interface will be local to your machine, and much more usable.BHMyLifeBitsBloggers now refer to their weblogs as "outboard brains", meaning, among other things, that their blogs help them keep track of what they were doing/thinking at a particular time. Taking this idea a lot further,    Microsoft'sMyLifeBitsaims to let you turn the stuff of your everyday life (notes, emails, sites you browsed, telephone calls, photos, home movies) into a searchable database. Currently in development at its Media Presence lab in San Francisco, the project will improve on the imprecision of individual memory, they say. But though it may appeal to info-age anal retentives, do you really want buggy Bill Gates to be responsible for keeping your own personal past private and secure?JMInteraction anxietyInformation anxiety we all know about - that feeling that you need to find just one more bit of data to feel like you really know what's happening. But that's over, according to design theorist Fabio Sergio, who says that always connected devices will make us comfortable with not knowing everything. Instead, we're about to succumb to interaction anxiety - a worry about managing interactions with people, content and devices, a fear of being cut off from the Network. An intriguing notion -read more atwww.freegorifero.com. l - though weren't geeks always supposed to suffer from interaction anxiety - at least where people were concerned?JMPaying for contentInformation wants to be free. But many of its creators would really rather they were paid. The subscription-only shutters are already coming up on newspaper archives and "premium" services, like usable email, on the big portals. As webmasters discover it's much more profitable to have 20,000 paying customers than 2 million freeloaders, expect to subscribe to at least one online service by the end of the year.NMIdeasSocial SoftwareAfter a decade dominated by the web, essentially a one-to-many thing, we're now seeing the return of interest in programs that permit two-way communication/many to many interactions, aka social software. In other words, get ready for the return of the whole virtual community idea that kicked off the net hype back in the early nineties. Think of the way weblogs are developing - they're no longer just tools for publishing one person's thoughts, but ways for groups of like minds to network around ideas, via tools like Trackback on blogs created with Movable Type.JMBlogs as newsgroupsUsenet newsgroups were rendered worse than useless by wayward discussion and wall-to-wall spam. Now, according to some web theorists, blogs are bringing back the newsgroup idea, albeit by the backdoor. The idea is that, on blogs that let readers discuss links and    find out where similar ideas are being discussed elsewhere on the web, we're seeing the rise of a kind of twenty first century Usenet - more focused, more responsive, more integrated into the rest of the online world.JMWi-FiThere's nothing new about wireless networks, but WiFi (or 802.11b, to give it its full name) is set to become pervasive this year. From paid-for hotspots in coffeeshops to free-for-all data "clouds" covering town centres, high-speed wireless access is likely to become the laptop-toters accessory of choice. It might even offer 3G mobiles an early boost: once surfers get used to wireless broadband via WiFi, 3G is much more attractive for keeping the information flowing outside WiFi areas - if the price is right.NMTotal information awarenessWhat happens when a government succumbs to information anxiety? You get something like Total Information Awareness (www.darpa.mil/iao/TIASystems.htm) a new initiative from the US Government to collect/analyse vast amounts of personal information with a view to spotting suspicious patterns and avoiding future terrorist outrages like 9/11. Championed by Admiral John Poindexter (Ronald Reagan's National Security adviser during the Iran/Contra scandal), TIA is just an idea at the moment, but privacy activists are already up in arms. Expect the fuss to grow.JMThe return of William GibsonThe most influential SF writer of the last two decades, his ideas have come to change the way we think about computers and networks. But William Gibson has always been unhappy with the future visionary tag. SF is actually about the present has been his mantra. Pattern Recognition, his new novel (his first for three years) does something he's always threatened. It's set in the present, not the future, in London, and follows a trend-watching heroine who's over-sensitive to    corporate logos and obsessed with tracking a "garage Kubrick" who is releasing fragments of an art film on to the net. It's published here by Penguin in April.JMWebsitesGooglewordsGoggling at Google is a popular online pursuit, with many web types suggesting that the search site has become a universal interface for    the net. One sign of Google's cultural influence is the number of jokey tools now built on its service. Example -Googlismwhich lets you find out what Google thinks of you,GoogleFightwhich lets you pit search terms against each other (e.g. McDonalds and Burger King). And while "google" became a verb a while back, people are now talking    about "googleshare" as a term to cover how much a particular person is associated with a particular word/idea on Google - find out more atwww.stevenberlinjohnson.comandhttp://ed.suppose.co.uk/google share.php.JMWatch your languageOnline translation services are difficult. Step forward the WorldWide Lexicon. The system monitors when its users - real people fluent in the right languages - are idle at their computer.  A window asks the user to translate a few phrases which, when compared with other people's answers, builds a large, accurate dictionary - and by offering programmers an interface to this dictionary, everyone can benefit.BHhttp://picto.weblogger.comClay ShirkyThanks to the dotcom crash, net gurus and visionaries are now ten a penny. One of the few worth    keeping track of is the New York-based Clay Shirky. A specialist in P2P and social software, Shirky goes to the code-face and comes back with sensible thoughts about how people actually use technology, all the while avoiding the techno-determinism and the second hand gonzo-isms of the ClueTrain posse.www.shirky.com.JMGossip sitesOnline gossip gained new notoriety when, late last year, David Beckham was forced to issue a statement denying unfounded rumours circulating online. But sites likePopbitchand the satirical technology newsletterNeed to Knowhave previously circulated more substantial whisperings about celebs, and broken big stories first. Gossip is in our blood, spin can't hide everything and these guys are watching.RPE-governmentFebruary 17 will be the day many Londoners will get their first taste of e-government atwww.cclondon.com- Transport for London's website for the controversial congestion charge. Drivers will be able to pay up to 90 days in advance. But however good the website is, few will be happy about using it.AA  Words Clog (to)The art of snapping someone in a compromising position in a pub or wherever with your camera phone and emailing it to a web site.VKMoblogging2003 is the year of the mobile data device. 3G phones and wifi-enabled PDAs are all here: and what will people do with them? Blog, of course. It's already happening: the Danger Hiptop, launched in the US this autumn and here in a few weeks, has seen people using its camera and wireless capabilities to blog from bars, shops, even the middle of the Houston Marathon.BHAmIDeep down, everyone knows that artificial intelligence that renders us humans completely obsolete, is not going to happen for a long while, if ever. So perhaps we need to put to one side the AI acronym and focus instead on AmI, aka ambient intelligence. We're already starting to see the arrival of objects with a low-level connected intelligence (smartifacts, if you like). Over the next few years, they'll become a part of our world.JMWhuffieIt's the great conundrum of the web. Why do so many people do so much for free? What do people get out of it? Whuffie - that's what. Coined by writer Cory Doctorow for his novel Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom, Whuffie embodies respect, karma, mad-props; call it what you will, the web runs on it.BHGoogle and BlogIn 2002 both became verbs. In 2003 they may enter the dictionaries, so we'll all have to move on.VK&#183;Tell us what you think - emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Happy New Year, everyone. It's a Thursday (I'm told) so, naturally, it's/a&gt;Onlineday. For your entertainment we decided to take a light-ish look at25 of the concepts we think will be big in 2003. From Bluetooth to Whuffie, I think it makes for an interesting read, but then I would. And we should probably brace ourselves for a deluge of mails pointing out, in some detail, all those ideas we missed out... can I just say "sorry" now so we can all move on? :-)
The New York Times [free registration required] reports that joseph turow, a professor at the annenberg school for communication at the university of pennsylvania, has started a campaign to get theInternet de-capitalised. "I think the moment is right," he said, to treat the Internet "the way we refer to television, radio and the telephone." If the report is accurate, that seems to provide a conclusive demonstration of the fact that prof turow doesn't have a clue what he is talking about. Actually, no one reckons that "online communications" or "personal computer" should be capitalised unless they are part of tade names. Even if his comparison made sense (which it doesn't), it would be like confusing the sea with the Pacific Ocean. Anybody who can be bothered to do a few minutes research will be able to find out that the Internet is not just any old communications system but a trademarked term for a specific network of networks looked after by theInternet Society, theInternet Engineering Task Forceand similar bodies. The Internet has just as much right to its capital as, say, the University of Pennsylvania, or the Pacific Ocean, and such correctness is not affected by ignorant and/or sloppy usage, no matter how common it becomes.
PocketPC Addictreports that the Digital Rights Management software protecting Microsoft e-books can be downgraded. British programmerDan Jacksonis offering the download.
Flyguy
Our old friend Professor Hans Moravec at Carnegie Mellon University has developed a three dimensionalrobotic vision system.
IDC is tipping Linux to overtake the Mac as the second most popular paid-for desktop operating system after Windows, reportsZD Net, though this should really be number 3 after Windows NT-based and DOS/Windows (which are entirely different operating sytems). The "paid for" note is important since IDC has no way of tracking how many copies of Linux are installed from downloads or by the re-use of paid-for software on multiple PCs. (Nor does it track the multiple pirate copies of Windows, of course. It's only with proprietary systems like the Mac that anyone has an accurate number.)
Getting a lot of linkage in the last day or two isWhere is Raed?, a weblog supposedly coming atcha live from Baghdad. An interesting read, although theMefi crowdare still trying to decide if it's for real.
Not often Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates does interviews these days, but Japan'sNikkei Businessgot one. Gates doesn't get anything like a grilling, but -- unusually -- he does mention pricing. "Particularly in Microsoft's case, we price our products so low that unless we get extremely high volume, we lose money. That's the way we spend so much money on R&amp;D and yet, we sell an operating system for US$50 and we sell our office software for way less than just the spreadsheet cost. When 1-2-3 came out, it costs US$495," says Gates. Historically, Microsoft low-balled all its rivals on price, and continued to cut prices even after it dominated the market. It was pretty hard to compete if you were Borland, WordStar, Lotus, or whoever, with a $395-$595 product, and Microsoft launched something with more features at $99. Which Microsoft could do because it had (a) billions in the bank; (b) a steady stream of profits from DOS; and (c) a massive distribution network. It also helps that the gross margins on software are very high, though Microsoft's margins are actually about average for the industry. (As I pointed outbelowon November 20, Adobe's gross profit margin has slumped recently from 96.8% to 93.6%. Autodesk has just reported a gross profit margin of 89.5%. Microsoft's most recent gross profit margin was 88.4%.)
USA Today reports on the new phenomenon,blogging. "New software makes it a snap to air opinions, share items found trolling the Net, and link up with like-minded bloggers," writes Dale Dallabrida of the Gannett News Service. Presumably he means "trawling".
A week from now I'll have swapped the gloom of a London winter for - I hope - the rather warmer climes of California. I'll be going to the San Francisco MacWorld, the largest of the Mac gatherings, to cover it for Online - watch our for regular updates onGuardian Unlimitedand, of course, here. There are rumours, reported byWired News, that this could be the last such show.
Poorly-designed government websites are failing to attract visitors such as pensioners who are most in need of the information they provide, research has found.Although two-thirds of Britons now have some form of access to the internet, fewer than 3% of the population regularly use the web to find details of government services, while only one in three has ever done so.The research was carried out by ICM on behalf of IT consulting firm Hedra, which is involved in advising the government on the internet.Not a single person over the age of 65 or from lower social groups questioned in the survey said they regularly accessed government websites.People on social security benefit are among those who would benefit most from being able to reach information on the internet.Half those questioned said they would make more use of government websites if they were easier to use.A spokesman for Hedra said: "The government websites could turn out to be a series of online Millennium Domes with just a few visitors unless sites are better designed."It is not the first time the £5 billion e-government programme has come under fire.Two months ago, an independent study by the Interactive Bureau reported that hundreds of official websites were experiencing "serious problems" and that 20 flagship sites needed "immediate attention", with the prime minister's own pages among the worst offenders.Ministers have two years to meet their target of making all services available online by 2005. 
Andrew Pinder, the Government's "e-envoy", said: "We recognise that British citizens and businesses are not yet using government services online in the numbers that match the best in the world."We need to ensure that the most popular services are made available as soon as possible to maximise the impact of e-government."A spokeswoman for Mr Pinder added: "It is a tough target to meet but we're confident we will do it."She said there were already several initiatives to help the less web-savvy members of society. They included internet buses stopping at places such as supermarket car parks with computers and staff to help people get online.
Fancy one of Scotland's most venerable aristocratic titles? There is no need for any Scottish name or residency, just &#163;1m in cash.The barony of MacDonald of the Isle of Skye is up for sale on the internet, complete with an estate and ruined castle. However, it is the prestige that the 800-year-old title bestows, rather than its accoutrements, that you would pay for.Scottish titles are usually associated with land, and the previous record, &#163;250,000 for   the earldom of Arran, came with several thousand acres.But the firm auctioning the MacDonald title, Baronytitles.com, hopes the name alone will fetch the asking price."The title is unique," said Brian Hamilton of Baronytitles.com. "The historical provenance and name are impeccable. Ask anyone anywhere in the world to think of a Scottish name, and the chances are they will come up with the name MacDonald. But I think the truth is, we simply do not know how much it is worth; no one does."The present holder, Sir Iain Noble, wants to raise cash for business ventures, including a distillery, on Skye. He acquired the title by accident.In the 1970s the MacDonald family sold off much of its land on southern Skye to pay death duties. Sir Iain, a merchant banker, believed he was buying a hotel and 23,000 acres, but, thanks to a lawyer's mistake, other land and titles were included in the deal.The MacDonald estates were compensated when the error came to light in the 1980s, but the sum was far less than &#163;1m.The present Lord Macdonald and chief of the Clan Donald - known as Godfrey - runs Kinloch Lodge hotel on Skye with his wife, the cookery writer Claire Macdonald. He said Sir Iain had told him of the sale in advance."I think everyone is rather amazed at the price. But such is life," he said. "It would be nice if the title went to a member of Clan Donald."At the very least, I hope the buyer will use the name and title in the best interests of the name of our great clan and of Skye."
A small town in Northern California has been sold for nearly $1.8m (£1.1m) on the internet auction site eBay.If the deal goes through as expected, 82 acres of Bridgeville will go to an unidentified buyer who put in a bid for $1,777,877 just
seconds before the internet auction closed on Friday.Joe Lapple, who owns Bridgeville along with his wife Elizabeth, said he hopes the new owner will renovate the town, which dates back to
the 19th century.Bridgeville is the first town to be sold on the website, said eBay spokesman Kevin Pursglove. Almost 250 bids were cast during the
town's month on the electronic auction block."I would say that's above average. That's a pretty heavy level of bidding activity," he said.The town, which Elizabeth Lapple acknowledged needs renovating, comes complete with a post office, a mile and a half of river bank, a
cemetery and more than a dozen cabins and houses. "Your own zip code will now be 95526," the eBay description reads.Bidding started at $5,000 on November 27 and went well beyond the asking price of $775,000.Bridgeville is located 260 miles north of San Francisco in rural Humboldt County. The Lapples have
owned the town since 1985.After conventional means of selling proved unsuccessful, the couple decided to try their luck on eBay. They say they put the town up
for auction because they couldn't afford the estimated cost of renovating it - about $200,000.The Lapples are moving to a new home in Fortuna, about 25 miles away."We were just waiting to sell this town and pack up all our stuff and be gone," said Joe Lapple.The highest bid was more than he expected."A million and a half, I figured that was the right price," he said.But final bids for real estate posted on eBay are not binding."It's up to the seller and the high bidder to negotiate how they are going to consummate the deal" after bidding ends, Mr Pursglove said. "They'll close the deal offline."Denise Stuart, the estate agent who placed the listing, said she has received calls from people around the world since bidding closed.
Some have offered to buy the property for $2m.But the Lapples will stick with the eBay bidder, who comes from outside the area who wanted to let the purchase "sink in" before coming
forward publicly, Ms Stuart said. She expects the deal to be completed within 60 days.Although there has been interest in the property over the years, no one ever met the asking price - much less offered more than twice that
price - until it was posted on eBay.
Violent computer games are to be regulated by a film-style classification system that will warn parents about graphic sex or horrific images.The move comes after complaints about the content of games such as Hooligans: Storm over Europe, State of Emergency and Carmaggedon, which show graphic images of fighting, death and reckless driving.From April all computer games sold in the EU will carry the new classifications. Those with no violent content or sex will be rated 3+, indicating the age from which they can be played. There will also be classifications of 7+, 12+, 16+ and 18+.Computer games which are so violent they fall outside the new code will be regulated by the British Board of Film Classification and could be banned. Selling a banned game will lead to unlimited fines and possible imprisonment.The games industry responded after EU member states, including Britain, demanded action. Although there is a voluntary code in operation, many games fall outside it and experts say it is seen as inadequate to control an industry that is not bound by international  borders.'It is only fitting that an industry exerting increasing influence on people displays an enhanced sense of social responsibility,' said Patrice Chazerand, secretary-general of the Interactive Software Federation of Europe, which will oversee the code.Production of computer games is Europe's fastest-growing industry. Last year it was worth over £4 billion, a figure that will rise to £6bn next year.The industry hopes the code will allow parents to control the number of 'splatter games' now being played by young children. In State of Emergency mini-skirted girls in jackboots run around shopping malls decapitating victims. Hooligans shows men storming pitches, fighting other gangs, looting shops and attacking police. Part of the game involves 'fuelling your troops' on alcohol and drugs.Critics say that although such games could once be dismissed as 'cartoon violence', better technology means that they now look highly realistic and are accompanied by bad language and the groans and wails of the victims.Evidence of a direct link between computer violence  and aggression among children is disputed. Research in Japan found that the parts of the brain that control aggressive behaviour were less developed in children who played violent video games.Studies at Middlesex University found that children became more aggressive the longer they played violent computer games. Children as young as four often play games which, if the images were in a film or video, would be against the law.But other research, including that by the Home Office, said there was no direct link between computer violence and increased aggressive behaviour among children.Scientists have also discovered that limited playing of computer games can increase IQ levels because it demands a degree of concentration and hand-eye co-ordination.
Gamespothas published its annual awards list, including the Best Game No One Played (on the PC, it's MoonBase Commander). The General category is cross-platform and there's also aReaders' Choicesection if you fancy voting.
Congratulations toGuardian Unlimited Filmwhich is one of Yahoo UK's tentop websites of the year. Others include a favourite in our house:Cat Hospital, starring Frank the cat.
Charles River Media plans to publish a quarterlyJournal of Game Developmentstarting next year, reports AP.
