Larry Page, Google's co-founder, is taking over the reins at the search engine giant from long-time chief Eric Schmidt.In a surprise move Schmidt delivered the news as the company announced fourth-quarter profits that were far better than analysts had expected. "Day-to-day adult supervision no longer needed!" he tweeted as the results were released.Google reported a profit of $2.54bn (£1.59bn), up from $1.97bn a year earlier, far better than expected. Schmidt said it had been a "great privilege" to lead the company and he looked forward to working with his "literally best friends and partners Larry and Sergey."The company said Page would take over from 4 April when Schmidt will become executive chairman, "focusing externally on deals, partnerships, customers and broader business relationships".Schmidt has led the company since 2001 alongside Page and his co-founder Sergey Brin. Page said: "Eric has clearly done an outstanding job leading Google for the last decade. The results speak for themselves. There is no other CEO in the world that could have kept such headstrong founders so deeply involved and still run the business so brilliantly."Eric is a tremendous leader and I have learned innumerable lessons from him. His advice and efforts will be invaluable to me as I start in this new role. Google still has such incredible opportunity – we are only at the beginning and I can't wait to get started."Schmidt said the three had been taking decisions together but it had been a slow process. "By clarifying our individual roles we'll create clearer responsibility and accountability at the top of the company. In my clear opinion, Larry is ready to lead and I'm excited about working with both him and Sergey for a long time to come," he said.Brin would devote his energy to "strategic projects, in particular working on new products," Google said in a statement.Google continues to dominate search and online advertising but has suffered setbacks in social media in recent months. Despite its enormous financial success in search and the rapid growth of the Android mobile operating system, Facebook and Apple have stolen the limelight from Google.Last year Facebook ousted Google to become the most visited website on the planet. According to analyst eMarketer, Google accounted for 13.4% of total US display ad revenues in 2010, up from 4.7% in 2009. Meanwhile, Facebook accounted for 13.6% display revenues last year, up from 7.3% in 2009.In a conference call Brin said there was plenty more that Google could do in social media and only the "tip of the iceberg" had been seen so far.Last year Schmidt and Brin clashed over censorship and security in China. Google threatened to withdraw from the country after what it called a "highly sophisticated and targeted attack on our corporate infrastructure originating from China."Schmidt and Brin had clashed over how to deal with China. Internally Brin is seen as the champion of Google's "Don't be evil" motto.Colin Gillis, analyst at BGC Financial in New York, said the tension that the row engendered may have added to the reshuffle. But he said it was clear Google wanted to use Schmidt's political connections to the full."They need government outreach, officials in Washington and Europe are all taking a closer look at Google," he said. Gillis said that the wider issue may stem from inside the company.While Google has bought and successfully integrated companies including YouTube, Android and ad firm DoubleClick, its recent record of internal innovation has been less impressive. Two attempts at social media, Google Wave and Buzz, have flopped. In part Gillis said the decision to put Page in charge may be an attempt to focus on that issue.The news overshadowed an impressive set of results. Sales for the company, based in Mountain View, California, rose 26% to $8.4bn as they benefited from booming online sales over Christmas. According to comScore the holiday season was the best for online shopping since 2006, up 12% over last year.Those sales and the growth of mobile pushed Google's net income in the fourth quarter to $2.5bn, up 29% from a year earlier.
Larry Page, Google's co-founder, is taking over the reins at the internet giant from long time chief executive Eric Schmidt in an unexpected move.Schmidt dropped made the surprise announcement as the company announced revenues of $8.44bn for the last quarter of 2010, far better than expected."Day-to-day adult supervision no longer needed!"he tweeted as the results were released.The company said Page would take over from 4 April when Schmidt will become executive chairman "focusing externally on deals, partnerships, customers and broader business relationships".Schmidt has led the company since 2001 alongside Page and his co-founder Sergey Brin. Page said: "Eric has clearly done an outstanding job leading Google for the last decade. The results speak for themselves. There is no other CEO in the world that could have kept such headstrong founders so deeply involved and still run the business so brilliantly."Eric is a tremendous leader and I have learned innumerable lessons from him. His advice and efforts will be invaluable to me as I start in this new role. Google still has such incredible opportunity – we are only at the beginning and I can't wait to get started."The company said that Brin would devote his energy to "strategic projects, in particular working on new products."Google has lost its edge in recent times and suffered setbacks in social media. Despite its enormous financial success in search and the rapid growth of the Android mobile operating system, Facebook and Apple have stolen the limelight from Google. Last year Facebook ousted Google to become the most visited web site on the planet.Schmidt said the three had been talking about how best to simplify management structure and speed up decision making. "By clarifying our individual roles we'll create clearer responsibility and accountability at the top of the company. In my clear opinion, Larry is ready to lead and I'm excited about working with both him and Sergey for a long time to come," he said.Colin Gillis, analyst at BGC Financial in New York said it Google faced growing regulatory issues and it was a good move for Schmidt to focus on that area.Sales for the Mountain View, California, company rose 26% to $8.4bn. Google's net income in the fourth quarter rose to $2.5bn, up 29% from a year earlier.The results included a one-off charge of 94c per share. Without the charges, Google said it earned $8.76 per share. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had forecast earnings of $8.10 per share.Schmidt said mobile and display advertising, new areas for Google has propelled the results alongside the "rapidly growing digital economy."
Today'sIFPI digital music reportis jam-packed with statistics, some of them quite staggering: despite digital revenues growing by 1,000% in seven years, the value of the entire recorded music industry has dropped 31%. It also served to dispel some of the myths.The live music sector, branding and other non-recording revenue sources will save the music industryThe main reason for the rise in live revenue in the past few years (though box office sales for the world's top 50 tours dropped by 12% last year) is the increase in ticket prices – the number of tickets sold actually declined.The top five grossing live acts of 2010 were Bon Jovi, AC/DC, U2, Lady Gaga and Metallica. Apart from Gaga – who spends so much on her live show that it's been said she barely breaks even – these acts built their careers at a time when record labels gladly supplied tour support to enable artists to promote the albums, as they would make that money back in revenue from sales.Last year Imogen Heap, who doesn't have the advantage of tour support,declared that she may have to stop touringas she couldn't afford to continue .Gaining a significant income from branding and merchandise is usually reliant on the artist being established enough to actually be a brand themselves.The loss in recorded music revenue is not due to piracyIFPI estimates that the cumulative retail revenue lost to piracy will be €240bn (£203bn) between 2008 and 2015.No one knows for sure how many illegally downloaded tracks would've been bought legally, if they weren't available for free. The IFPI chief executive, Frances Moore, calculates losses on the basis that one in every 10 illegal downloads is a lost sale.It's also true that some of the loss can be attributed to the advent of a la carte services like iTunes, which allow music fans to cherry pick tracks instead of buying whole albums. But if we compare countries with a high frequency of piracy – and little effort to tackle it – with those with lower rates of piracy a telling picture emerges.Spain, who along with Brazil has the highest rate (45%) of internet users getting their music from illegal sites, has seen overall music sales fall by around 55% in the past five years (last year alone it declined by 22%). In contrast South Korea, whose government has taken action against illegal downloading, is one of the few countries seeing an overall growth in revenue for recorded music by 10% in the first half of 2010.Illegal is only bad for major labels – it doesn't affect artists and independent labelsIt appears the new local acts have suffered the biggest setback from Spain's recording industry bottoming out. In 2004, local acts accounted for nearly 80% of all sales. That share has now shrunk to 40%. The steep decline in revenue has seen label investment in new acts drying up. In the past two years, not a single new Spanish artist has featured in the country's top 50 selling albums, compared to 10 in 2003.Max Hole, the chief operating officer of Universal Music Group International, says the label stopped investing in A&amp;R and development of new artists in South Korea, as the country had a massive problem with illegal downloading. "Now we're back, due to their government implementing graduated response," he says, adding that the label doesn't want to cut A&amp;R investment, as successful new artists are crucial to the labels future.Independent labels are often seen as incubators for emerging artists. But many indies are finding it hard to survive in the current climate. "We can't downsize [like the major labels]," says the president of Sugar Music, one of Italy's largest indies. "We can only close."Luis San Martin, who runs Mexican indie Multimusic, says the amount he's able to invest in artists have fallen by around 80% in just two years, resulting in the label focusing on compilations rather than developing new artists. Mexicans, incidentally, illegally downloaded an estimated 5.1bn tracks in 2009.Hole says he's seen a significant number of Japanese indies fold (50%, in his estimation), and that the country's record industry now pretty much consists of Sony, Universal and Apex.The IFPI report highlights that there are now more than 400 licensed digital services worldwide (the UK has the highest number of them in the world), but for these services to survive and prosper they can't, in the long run, compete with the "unlimited, free" pirate sites.We can all have different views on what, if anything, should be done about piracy (the IFPI thinks internet service providers need to play a more significant role in fighting it).But the fact is, as the IFPI report confirms, if no one pays for music, there will be no investment in new artists and labels will take less risks.The result? More The X Factor-type shows and a more homogenised music industry with a few mainstream artists dominating the music scene all over the world. Come to think of it – we're already halfway there.
It's being hailed as the device that will bring 3D entertainment to the masses, but it would appear there's a dimension to the forthcoming Nintendo 3DS console that parents should be aware of. Optometrists are warning that children under six should not use the glasses-free device, which employs a technology known as "parallax barrier" – essentially, two screens on top of each other – to create a 3D view.Speaking after Nintendo's announcement of the European launch date of the 3DS, Karen Sparrow, from the Association of Optometrists, said: "Children need a clear, sharp image in each eye in order for their vision to develop properly. If anything upsets that balance (natural or artificial) it could affect the visual development resulting in 'amblyopia' (lazy eye) or a squint."This can be a problem when viewing 3D if you have a weaker eye. If a child spends excessive time using a device such as the 3DS, it could effectively act as a negative exercise, as opposed to strengthening the eye, and it can leave it underdeveloped, causing a 'lazy eye'."It is a problem that Nintendo itself has addressed. In December, the company posted a warning on its Japanese website suggesting that children of six or under should not play 3D games on the 3DS; 2D games are unaffected.Of course, these problems are not confined to the 3DS. Watching 3D movies or 3D TV may represent similar risks for immature eyes. However, Sparrow has suggested that the handheld nature of the 3DS may be an exacerbating factor."The close proximity of the device could place more stress on eyesight than looking at a television set, meaning that eyes have to focus harder, and it is more likely to be used by children for longer periods."As for those of us over the age of six, it's suggested that gamers take a five-minute rest every hour – though that might not be a cure-all. After the Japanese press event for the 3DS earlier this year, a magazine claimed that large numbers of attendees were suffering from discomforts such as dizziness and nausea after sampling the hardware. There seem to have been few such complaints from the Amsterdam event.It's not the first time Nintendo has faced the prospect of inadvertently sickening its gamers. In 1995, the company launched the Virtual Boy – a head-mounted games console, complete with a simple stereoscopic display, which could only display red graphics. The expensive contraption gave many users splitting headaches and it was eventually canned.At least this time, Nintendo has had the vision to provide a slider which switches off the 3D effect, and selection of parental controls which allow 3D to be blocked. Whether they'll need to protect themselves against stereoscopic nausea is another matter.
After replacing my work laptop, I had to reinstall Windows 7 notonce but several times. (The PC was replaced under warranty and seemsOK now.) Given the time taken to install Windows, Microsoft Office anda load of specialised stuff I use for work, I wonder if I should becloning the whole hard drive on a regular basis. To give it a chance,I would use the same make (WD) and their software. Is this completelybrainless?Andrew WhitehouseThere are two ways to back up Windows and other operating systems. The traditional way is to copy all the files to a separate hard drive, and the slightly newer method is to make a bit-by-bit copy or "clone" of the whole hard drive. Copying could cause problems because Windows would lock and refuse to copy any of the files it was using, and when Norton Ghost appeared shortly after Windows 95, this provided a simple and very quick way for users to clone and restore their drives. Later, Acronis software became popular for the same purpose. It's somewhat easier to clone Windows if you do it under the control of a different operating system, typically Linux, or a separate server.Today, many large companies have their own Windows "disk images", which they copy to new PCs. This enables them to get Windows and all their corporate software installed in the time it takes to copy the image to the hard drive. The same idea is used by many cybercafes and some libraries and schools: instead of trying to clean up an operating system that may have been compromised or abused, they simply start each day with a fresh image. Microsoft provides freeWindows Steady Statesoftware for this purpose, but there are commercial alternatives such as Faronics'Deep Freezeand Fortres'Clean Slate.The "disk image" or snapshot approach is ideal if you want to return a system to a known state. As well as being useful for schools and libraries, it's good for journalists who test a lot of software or work with malware, and I'm sure at least a few home users do the same thing with the computers their kids use. For most users, periodic or continuous file-based back-ups are probably still the best approach. However, the trend is towards back-up software that does both.If you're paying for software,Acronis True Image Home 2011is probably still the system of choice. The latest version can do disk imaging. file backups, and full, incremental and differential backups. There is also a free version for your Western Digital hard drive:Acronis True Image WD Edition Software.There are also some good free disk clone programs includingParagon Backup and Recovery FreeandPING (Partimage Is Not Ghost). (Perhaps I should confess to usingClonezillafrom a GParted Live Linux CD, but if you don't already know about this program, you probably shouldn't be using it.)Since you are fortunate enough to be using Windows 7, however, you can use the built-inWindows Backup and Restoreprogram. This is not the most sophisticated software, but it seems to be reliable and it is very easy to use. If you take the brain-free option of letting it do whatever it likes, it will make both a file-level copy and a clone of your hard drive. The minor limitations are that it will always back up the system partition whether you like it or not, and that it only works with NTFS drives.If you have a few PCs, you could also consider buying aWindows Home Server. This is sold as a network storage (NAS) device and a media server, but it will also automatically back up several Windows PCs and Macs.
Today we're announcingGuardian Hacks SXSW, which will kick off with a two-day hack event at the Guardian's base in London on Saturday 12 and Sunday 13 February. We're inviting 100 developers from across the UK and Europe to join us and build a collaborative toolbox of hacks that help explore SXSW.Music Hack Day's newspaper. Photo bythomasbonteon Flickr.Some rights reservedHow do you create a space for innovation? News organisations recognise that should be a priority, but it's near impossible to make time for something as amorphous and elusive as innovation in the pressurised, hard-pumping environment of a business that, almost by definition, lives in the here and now. Time to play, to explore and experiment is a rare luxury.It's also absolutely vital if these organisations are to stand any chance of plotting an informed course through an unpredictable and risky landscape. To extend the analogy further, it's a chance to imagine the course that we want to pursue - to explore ideas and opportunities that will allow that to happen. The future's not predetermined, after all.With that in mind, the Guardian Hacks SXSW project will give us a window of time and opportunity for experimentation and play. Our hackers will help define the challenges they want to solve, but these are some starting points:• What would a collaborative publishing platform look like?• Is there a visual way to navigate related content?• What's the best way to aggregate video and audio? Is a video form of Wordle possible?• What's the best way to aggregate and curate the best coverage of the event from across the web?• How can the tone and mood of an article be represented visually?• How can comments and backchannels for discussion be represented visually?• Can you tap the new nostalgia for print? Can you hack for print? How can the personalised, location-aware and breaking news of the web be represented in print, and how can that be combined with the best elements of long-form, deliciously tangible printed newspapers?The developers, designers and journalists that join us in February will have their own distinct ideas about how online editorial could be deconstructed, redesigned and rebuilt. That's where the fun begins.Hacking with cardboard at last year's Science Hack Day. Or you could even hack with the internet! Photo byadactioon Flickr.Some rights reservedThis isn't about creating hacks for the Guardian; we could have held an internal hack if we'd wanted to do that. But we've invited developers from across the UK and some of the best news organisations in Europe to come and work together on these ideas, and the results are for anyone and everyone to use and benefit from.Before you reach for the 'filter out SXSW' switch - this isn't an obsession with SXSW. The intensity of the conference, the delegates and the subject matter - as well as the unusual mix of art, culture, tech and lite-business - certainly make for fertile playing fields. But what we really want is to leave Austin with a starter kit for some tools that work for certain types of coverage, perhaps some seeds of ideas that will inform how to cover major events differently and a better understanding of what's possible and practical when developers and journalists work together.If you'd like to join us,sign up here.The hack event is sponsored by Google, which means that we can offer the winning dev  flights, hotel and a platinum pass for the whole SXSW festival from 11 to 20 March.Science Hack Night. Photo byWordRiddenon Flickr.Some rights reserved
Nintendo possesses an endearingly old-school quality, which clearly manifested itself in the press conference kicking off its big 3DS unveiling in Amsterdam, whose general shambolicness was summed up when compere Jonathan Ross read a chunk of autocue text earmarked for delivery by Nintendo Europe general manager Satoru Shibata.Because of the need for widespread Japanese-English translation, many of the 3DS's most interesting aspects barely had their surfaces scratched and, shamefully, Shibata-san completely copped out of delivering the one piece of information that everyone wanted to know: the machine's price (saying, to audible groans, that we'd have to ask the retailers). But none of that mattered a jot.The price issue was easily resolved once I'd caught up with Nintendo UK's managing director, David Yarnton – a thoroughly engaging, plain-speaking Aussie who never has any truck with sophistry (for the record, it will be either £219.99 or £229.99 – essentially, the supermarkets will be the retailers lopping off an extra tenner).And more importantly, there were plenty of hands-on opportunities on offer after the press conference – more than sufficient to confirm that the 3DS is such an astonishingly seductive box of tricks that it may well be Nintendo's best piece of hardware ever. No Virtual Boy, this.Games galoreThe roster of games on offer during the 3DS's launch window is pretty impressive, and third-party developers and publishers have obviously embraced it with enthusiasm. If you were in the mood to carp, you might argue that it seems to be long on rehashes of familiar franchises. But that is to be expected in the early stages of a new console – development is much quicker when it makes use of existing assets and big franchises are more or less guaranteed to sell well.And even those rehashed, familiar classics were impressive to behold on the 3DS – not just because they popped out of the screen thanks to the stereoscopic 3D, but also because of the console's 3D graphics accelerator chip, which is way more powerful than anything Nintendo has previously put into a handheld and for the first time, naturally, can display proper 3D (as distinct from stereoscopic 3D) graphics.Graphically, it's at least on a par with the Wii. So all those franchises that, even on the DSi, had to make do with 2D graphics made to look three-dimensional, or top-down perspectives, now operate in their full glory. Super Street Fighter IV, Pro Evolution Soccer, The Legend of Zelda: The Ocarina of Time, Driver, Super Monkey Ball and Resident Evil Mercenaries were all impressive to behold for a handheld, even if you turned off the stereoscopic 3D.You could see the first stirrings of how the stereoscopic 3D could be used to enhance gameplay: its added perspective really helps you aim over long distances (which would be handy, for instance, in games involving sniping). Some of the games on show experimented with unusual camera-angles in an attempt to capitalise on that. Super Street fighter IV lets you switch on an over-the-shoulder view (which we were a bit equivocal about, although that could be due to sheer familiarity with the original perspective), and Pro Evolution Soccer boasts a player's perspective view which worked well.Super Monkey Ball 3D is one of the 3DS launch gamesResident Evil Mercenaries – a sort of compilation of the best bits of Resident Evil 4 and 5, although an original take on the franchise, Resident Evil Revelations, is in the pipeline – broke with tradition by dropping into a first-person view when you aimed your gun (aiming, as any Ressie fan knows, removes your ability to walk around).Super Monkey Ball really made sense on the 3DS, with the added perspective enabling you to manipulate your ball with extra precision (plus, it made use of the 3DS's orientation-sensing gyroscope). The stereoscopic 3D also added new atmosphere to familiar scenes – running through a 3D forest in Ocarina of Time, for example, felt twice as immersive as the original.Impressive new abilitiesAt this stage of the 3DS's development, one thing that remains unclear is how developers will employ its unique abilities to bring about new forms of gameplay, although there were plenty of indicators towards an innovative future. The machine's twin cameras, which let it shoot video in 3D, generate some genuinely exciting possibilities as far as Augmented Reality (AR) games are concerned – AR has long been more of a buzz-phrase than anything tangible but the 3DS, you sense, has the power finally to redress that balance.Its best manifestation came in the form of a mini-game called Face Raiders, which will be pre-loaded on the 3DS. Although a mere mini-game, it's an act of genius, which clearly deserves to be expanded into a full game.You begin by carefully positioning yourself so it can scan your face, which it then morphs in a variety of grotesque manners, before inserting it in yellow balls which you have to shoot. Meanwhile, aiming is taken care of by the gyroscope so, with a sight in the middle of the screen, you physical move the 3DS left, right, up and down, before firing with the A button. All the while, the 3D cameras are operational, so the background to the proceedings (which is progressively shattered by your bullets) is provided by whatever is around you. And eventually, it transforms your face into a boss, who must be knocked out of invulnerability by timing your shots so that they knock purple balls into him.My first 3D TVThe fact that the 3DS can display 3D TV, somewhat glossed over during the press conference, is hugely significant, given its up-to-the-minute Wi-Fi capabilities. Yarnton confirmed that Nintendo has already struck deals with Eurosport and Sky, which will deliver short-form, compilation-type programmes in stereoscopic 3D for download.We can safely assume this will include things such as Premier League goals and truncated sporting highlights programmes, and probably cartoons and episodes of short TV programmes. Ironically, Sony must be rubbing its hands in glee at this, hoping that it drives consumer enthusiasm for 3D TV. Although whether they will settle for viewing 3D TV via glasses is a moot point.If the 3DS is a massive hit, it will undoubtedly accelerate the process of driving down the cost of bigger glasses-free 3D screens via economies of scale. Given Sony's evangelistic approach to 3D TV, it will be interesting to see what sort of 3D screen the PSP2 has.The location-based Street Pass system, which lets 3DS owners exchange gaming information and the like when they walk past each other, is also intriguing, although we didn't manage to avail ourselves of any sort of demo.The 3DS Street Pass lets 3DS owners exchange gaming informationUbisoft president Yves Guillemot made an interesting point, though, asserting that it will support Facebook-style games in which you spend time at home building up the abilities of characters, and can then take them out into the wild to fight random people, or a group of similarly inclined friends at a specific location.Street pass seems to offer an opportunity for accessory manufacturers, since the only built-in way in which it alerts you of the proximity of another DS owner is by changing the colour of a flashing LED, and you wouldn't imagine 3DS owners would want to wander around everywhere clutching their precious machines.Overall impressionsThe 3DS may look like any other handheld console, but it has an unbelievable technological depth to it which throws up an almost bewildering welter of possibilities. Some, undoubtedly, will prove more seductive than others, but if you thought the original DS, with its touchscreen, was revolutionary, prepare to be absolutely blown away on 25 March. We certainly can't wait to get our hands on one.
There are plenty of odd things film goers are prepared to see atSundance. But amid the shoe-gazing neo-neorealist indie flicks and dolefully sincere documentaries about out-of-work rodeo riders, few would expect an area dedicated to interactive story-telling. Or games, as we like to call them.For the second year running, however, the festival will includeNew Frontiers, "a large-scale exhibition highlighting work that pushes the boundaries of storytelling and the moving image, and celebrating the convergence of film, art, and new media technologies as a hotbed for cinematic innovation."Okay, so we're not talking about Sonic the Hedgehog here, it's more an attempt to include emerging areas such as alternative reality, interactive art and urban gaming into the festival's remit. Among the featured works are Pandemic 1.0, a transmedia experience that, inthe words of the Sundance website, "unites film, mobile and online technologies, props, social gaming, and data visualization, enabling audiences to step into the shoes of the pandemic protagonists anytime during the day." There's also the rather beautiful Moony from Japanese artists Takehisa Mashimo, Akio Kamisato and Satoshi Shibata which projects digital images of butterflies into a vat of steam – plunge your hands in, and the butterflies flutter away.And from the UK, art collectiveBlast Theorywill be showing off its latest genre-bending work,A Machine to See With, a sort of interactive ARG thriller. As the press release explains:"Sign up in advance online and enter your mobile phone number. When you arrive at your designated street corner your phone rings. A man's voice leads you through the city and into a 45 minute heist movie; you are the protagonist, you must deal with a bank robbery and it's aftermath. The work mixes thriller clichés with the reality of the urban environment and explores the tyranny of choice and the financial crisis."Of course, this sort of location-based urban gaming experience has been around for a while now, but Blast Theory, alongside the more ludicHide&amp;Seek, is one of the agenda setters in the area. Also, the collective's ideas on what constitutes art and interactivity are slowing gaining mainstream traction as smartphone apps introduce more and more of us to notions of location-based entertainment. The Nintendo 3DS, with its StreetPass feature, which allows the consoles to communicate with each other automatically as they pass in the street, is the perfect commercial platform for the sorts of concepts Blast Theory explores.Right now they're confined to a leftfield movie festival. Tomorrow, the world.And if you're interested in offbeat game design and new concepts in interactivity, make sure you check out theWorld of Loveconference, taking place in London on January 28. We'll be there!
If adoration guaranteed success, Tim Schafer would doubtless be a multi-millionaire by now. Gamers who loved the Monkey Island adventures, Grim Fandango and Psychonauts have practically deified him. In person, he is self-effacing, smart and funny. He loves games, he believes in them. He called Bobby Kotick a prick.He also has ideas such as this: in the midst of development hell on Brutal Legend, and inspired by the improvisational movie-making tactics of Chinese director, Wong Kar-wai, Schafer split his workforce at Double Fine into small groups and got them all to prototype small-scale games.It was meant as a team-building exercise, but when Brutal Legend 2 fell through, he returned to the interesting ideas his staff came up with and spied a new production model: contained, digitally distributed titles, which could be pitched as cheaper, more risky prospects to the right publishers. So they pitched four of them and sold them all. The first out was Costume Quest, designed by ex-Pixar animator Tasha Harris, the next will be Stacking, an adventure puzzler like no other.The setup is typically Schaferian. Charlie Blackmore is a teeny Russian doll whose family has been kidnapped by an evil industrialist who has put them to despicable work around his empire. But little Charlie isn't helpless, he has the ability to pop himself into progressively larger Russian dolls, taking on the abilities of each host. Cut adrift in a world that partly resembles a Victorian theatre and partly the set of a silent movie, he must use this gift to track down his siblings.But although this sounds like typical Schafer, the concept came from Lee Petty, the art lead on Brutal Legend. "I was really interested in doing something in the adventure game genre, but I didn't want it to be a retro throwback," he says. "The things I focused on were story, ideas, being able to play the game at your own pace, logic puzzles. But I also wanted it to be more immediate, I wanted there to be a momentum to the gameplay. I saw my daughter playing with a stack of Russian dolls, and I thought, wow, that could really work, because rather than having an inventory of objects, each of the dolls could BE the objects. And stacking the dolls is fun in itself."But it couldn't have been an easy sell, surely? During the Amnesia Fortnight process, how did he inspire other members of Double Fine to join his group? "At the end of my presentation, I had this list of reasons to join the Stacking team," he explains. "The top one was alcohol at every meeting. And there were no other reasons, I ran out of ideas."And it was a lie," adds Schafer.Stacking begins in a cavernous railway station, where a noisy strike is in full swing. Charlie must coax four members of the mighty train guild out of their gentlemen's club to meet with the picketers and get the trains running again. But how will a lowly urchin do that? Subterfuge. With the setup established, you can freely wander the beautifully ornate station, "talking" to other dolls (which will usually elicit a daft speech bubble, or a useful clue) or stacking inside them. Once in he can access the unique special ability of the utmost doll – one plays the violin, one can burp, one farts, and one slaps passers-by with a white-gloved hand. It doesn't sound useful, but remember, this is a Double Fine game.Indeed, these abilities are needed to complete the challenge areas, where Charlie is given a significant puzzle to solve. To access the gentlemen's club he needs to distract the doorman, but does he do it by inhabiting a doll whose scream demands the help and attention of all gentlemen? Or perhaps by popping in an attractive blonde whose skill is simply named, 'seduce'. In fact, he could do either – in Stacking, every puzzle has multiple solutions, and if you like, you can try to find them all. A handy guide in the pause menu shows how many are available for each challenge.What immediately captures your attention, though, is the beautiful set design. From cardboard cut-out animals, to steam ship decks made out of lollipop sticks, the effect is part proscenium arch theatre, part model village. At the beginning of every challenge, there's a flickering silent film cut-scene, filled with visual gags that trade off the burly, pompous looks of the doll characters. It's so watchable and delightful.Later, when the strike is broken, the trains become available, and each one leads to another area of the industrialist's empire and another family member to rescue. In our demo, we head to a steamship, where Charlie's sister is being employed to clean out the vast steam funnels with a toothbrush. There's a lovely puzzle in which the player needs to cause chaos at an onboard safari exhibition. One method is to break into the big game hunter's cabin, stack into his stuffed bear and run out to alarm the passengers – who leave piles of sawdust in their terrified wake.While you're not solving the key challenges, there are other activities. Players can earn bonuses for stacking into matching sets of dolls. There's an illusionist family, whose smallest member is a dog doll – stack into him and you can do tricks like dragging your bottom half across the floor. (The team has teased an amazing amount of animative depth from a bunch of limbless dolls in two bulbous halves.)You're also able to engage in hijinks, a range of daft mini-challenges which employ the special abilities of selected dolls. When Schafer demos the game to us, he shows off a task in which the white-gloved doll has to slap 10 other characters – their affronted yelps and screams make it all the more enjoyable.For Schafer the appeal of the game is obvious. "I started out working on adventure games with characters, stories and puzzles, games that moved at a certain pace and that I could play with my family. This isn't a throwback, but it has the fun part of those games, placed into a completely new mechanic."Meanwhile, he's also overseeing the other two titles from that fortnight of experimentation, and then there's a burgeoning collaboration with an old LucasArts colleague. "Ron Gilbert and I are meeting regularly in our office to discuss a top secret project he has," teases Schafer. "It's something very new ... and very cool."•Stacking will be released on Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation Network on 31 March
Once upon a time, wrestling games were funny, easy to play, and appealed to those of us who wouldn't know Randy Savage from Randy Newman. Gradually, though, they began to lose their crossover comedy appeal in favour of connecting with hardcore fans.WWE All Starslooks to be an admirable reverse of that process, taking the genre back to its 16-bit heyday by referencing intuitive, twitch-based titles like WWF Royal Rumble and WWF Raw. Like EA's NBA Jam and Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit it's all about getting to the core of the 'brand'. And that core is, well, utter lunacy.There's a huge roster of wrestlers in All Stars, matching modern day giants such as Sheamus, Big Show and Kofi Kingston against old-school legends like Hulk Hogan, Stone Cold Steve Austin and Andre the Giant. The roster is split into four types, all with their own characteristics and moves. Brawlers are brutes with lots of juggle moves and a devastating charged strike attack; grapplers are more technical; acrobats are fast, wiry and tend to rely on aerial strikes from the turnbuckles; and big men are, well, lumbering beasts.The highly stylised visuals, which have the same slightly accentuated physicality and subtle cell-shading as Street Fighter IV, exaggerate the visual differences between the types – so put Big Show in the ring with the acrobatic Rey Mysterio and the later is comically dwarfed. It turns out Capcom's rejuvenated fighting game has been an inspiration. "We've combined our favourite elements from wrestling games and other fighting games," says producer Mike McTyre. "There are a lot of fans of Street Fighter IV in the office, it was highly influential in developing our product."And as with SFIV, the real fun is in the highly adaptive combat mechanism. The emphasis is on swift, successive moves, so the face buttons are assigned to basic "strong strike", "quick strike", "strong grapple" and "quick grapple" options – a simple set-up that allows newcomers to almost immediately string together pounding attacks. Beyond this, however, there's a branching combo system which lets players build their own chained sequences, often culminating in gory pounding sessions in which wrestlers are pinned to the floor – or ropes – and repeatedly kneed or elbowed in the face. It's guiltily hilarious stuff, but at the same time rather complex face-offs can evolve out of the counter and reversal options, which chuck a fighter's moves back at him. And as in Street Fighter, even counters can be countered, so you get these rapidly escalating rock, scissor, paper showdowns."We didn't want to go as heavily into the memorisation of button sequences as, say, Soul Calibur," says McTyre. "So you will see that with the brawlers, for example – the first three hits in the brawler chain can be spammed on the button pad; there are different branches, of course, but whether you hit X-Y-X or X-X-X, for example, you access the chained moves. But if you want to go deeper into the chain for further damage or additional abilities such as charged attacks and extreme moves, which can't be countered, those do require skill. You'll have to time them out based on the impact of the hits."Like Street Fighter, WWE All Stars is also an endlessly active and reactive title, in which no more is ever safely accomplished until your opponent is lying dazed on the canvas. "At any given point you have about five or six options to try and defeat your opponent, " says McTyre. "That could mean interrupting his incoming attack with a faster attack of your own, running away, countering the incoming attack, reversing the attack or, if he reverses you, reversing the reversal. On top of that, there's the reversal blocker, where the attacker can time his move to stop a reversal from happening – at all times you are active in the game, there's no point of just pressing a button and waiting for your opponent to do something, you have to remember your opponent's moves and your own."Every character has a set of four signature moves, which are highly choreographed slow-mo pain fests, usually involving great leaps into the air onto someone's head. "We looked through each wrestler's real-life move sets, from throughout their entire careers," says McTyre. "We had multiple designers scouring the internet, finding YouTube videos proving the wrestlers had done these moves, even if they haven't performed them recently. But we also wanted to amplify the characters – these are the idealised versions of the wrestlers." Indeed, when the development team started work on the game, they say they pictured an ardent wrestling fan watching a cool move at a real match then explaining it to a friend – the action on screen represents this re-telling and the inevitable exaggeration.Back to the action, though, and it's also possible to Irish-whip opponents in the ropes before following up with a pulverising kick, punch or throw. The energy meter needs to be topped up to access these, and that requires landing a sequence of varied moves rather than relying on one or two staples. There's also a finishing metre, powered either by successful attacks or by taunting your foe via the D-pad – a daftly satisfying activity, especially in two-player.And really, this looks to be very much a social experience. In my games, players were making stomach-churning turnbuckle leaps at every opportunity, or simply sliding out of the ring and chasing each other around the parameter. It's also possible to delve underneath the canvas and pick up chairs and other weapons, though there's an escalating chance of being disqualified for using these.With only one arena open during our demo, and lots of fighters still to be unveiled, there's a lot more to find out about All Stars. I'm also interested to see if there's a decent range of single-player modes and options. But right now, this looks to be a genuinely amusing and challenging new spin on the WWE series, which flatters button-jamming noobs, while providing ample combo firepower for more advanced grapplers.The transition between moves is impressively smooth, as are the reversal animations, providing a genuine fluidity often missing from UFC and wrestling titles. All Stars is probably not going to turn absolute non-believers into WWE fanatics, but it might remind a lot of veteran gamers why they loved these titles during the Mega Drive years.• WWE All Stars will be released on 29 March for the PS2 and on 1 April for the PS3, PSP, Wii and Xbox 360
Amazon today took full control of DVD rental and online video company Lovefilm, in a deal to buy the 58% of the business that it does not already own for an undisclosed sum.The world's largest online retailer has been gearing up to bid for a full stake in Lovefilm for some time, and today's deal is thought to value the business at about £200m.Amazon bought a 42% stake in Lovefilm in 2008."Lovefilm has been innovating on behalf of movie rental customers across Europe for many years and with the advent of the Lovefilm player, they are further delighting customers by streaming digital movies for their immediate enjoyment," said Amazon's vice-president of European retail, Greg Greeley. "Lovefilm and Amazon have enjoyed a strong working relationship since Lovefilm acquired Amazon Europe's DVD rental business in 2008, and we look forward to a productive and innovative future."Lovefilm remains a leading player in DVD rentals since launching in the UK in 2004, and has 1.4 million subscribers across Europe. The company tripled its sales in 2009 to almost £100m, and in March last year launched its digital streaming service, enabling viewers to rent and watch movies over the internet.The acquisition will be subject to European regulatory approvals, and is expected to close in the first quarter of 2011.The Lovefilm chief executive, Simon Calver, said: "The deal is a winner for the members who love Lovefilm because of its value, choice, convenience and innovation in home entertainment"With Amazon's unequivocal support we can significantly enhance our members' experience across Europe."Within the past 12 months, Lovefilm has stepped up its movie streaming business, while leaving its physical DVD rental service to continue its growth. In 2009, Lovefilm declared that online was now its "primary" business – despite online rentals representing a 10th of DVD and Blu-ray rentals.Lovefilm customers can now also stream films over a number of internet-connected living room devices, including Sony and Samsung TV sets, and the PS3 games console.Takeover talks between the companies are understood to have been hastened when Lovefilm was reported to be nearing an initial public offering. Investers in Lovefilm include European venture capital firms DFJ Esprit, Balderton Capital, Arts Alliance Media, and Index Ventures.Dharmarsh Mistry, a partner at Balderdon Capital, today said the acquisition was a "great deal" for both companies. "Lovefilm is the Netflix of Europe and it will be central to Amazon's European and global strategy."The rise and rise of US movie rentals firm Netflix – which has a market capital of $9.97bn (£6.23bn) – is thought to be another chief reason for Amazon's move. Netflix has announced its intention to expand globally, with Europe and the UK a natural next step. Netflix's movie library is thought to be almost twice the size of Lovefilm's.Lovefilm was formed by the merger of two European DVD rental firms, Arts Alliance Media and Video Island, in 2006. Two years later, the privately held Lovefilm acquired Amazon's UK and German movie rental business, with the online retail giant taking a stake in the business as part of the deal.The company now operates in five European countries: the UK, Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Norway.Saul Klein, a partner at Index Ventures and the co-founder of Video Island, said the deal opens the door to a range of "mouthwatering" integration opportunities with Amazon's existing assets, including the movie database IMDB."When you get to the scale of business of Lovefilm – doing £100m in revenue, being profitable and growing, not just in the UK – you end up having a lot of [future business] choices," Klein said."Amazon, being one of the best ecommerce companies in the world has an incredible platform, including IMDB, to take Lovefilm to the next level and accelerate its growth."The great thing about Lovefilm is that it's got a stable and growing core business in DVD by post, and however fast [internet] streaming arrives most people would say there's still a pretty good long-term business in sending people DVDs through the post.""It's the customers who decide whether to go for digital or physical rentals – that's why we're developing a hybrid proposition," Calver told the Guardian. "We see no change in our strategy or approach, the fundamental thing will be accelerating growth. There's lots of opportunities, but it's still early days so there's no concrete plans and both companies see opportunities."Calver said Lovefilm has seen "very, very strong" uptake in streaming from games consoles, which it introduced in March last year, but that physical rentals were also performing "confidently" and "continuing at pace".Amazon's initial plan for Lovefilm is to continue to expand its presence on internet-connected devices, Greeley said, with Lovefilm's European base complementing Amazon's existing US-only video on demand (VOD) offering.Physical DVD rentals will remain an important part of Lovefilm's service under its new owner, he told the Guardian: "As long as we're offering a service across three fronts [streaming through game consoles, physical rentals and internet viewing], we're not concerned about cannibalisation."
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Android FTW. But will it in the software patent battles? Photo bylwallensteinon Flickr.Some rights reservedThis postoriginally appeared on Florian Mueller's FOSSPatents blog, which covers software patents news and issues with a particular focus on the competitiveness of free and open source software (FOSS). He's been writing it since January 2010.About a week ago, IFI CLAIMS Patent Services published itsnew ranking of the 50 companies awarded the most US patents in 2010. Microsoft is still the number three patentee with 3,094 new patents, Apple is a rising star with 563 new patents (+94%, a greater gain over the previous year than anyone else on the list), but Google isn't even on that list.I ran a couple of queries on the USPTO'spatent database. Last year, Google was granted282 US patentsand – at the time of writing this – owns 576 in total.While Google has ramped up its patenting activity in recent years, the gap in portfolio strength between the Android developer and its mobile operating system competitors actually appears to be widening.Quite often I talk to people who vastly "misoverestimate" :-) the power of Google's portfolio. There's a popular belief that all major high tech companies own tons of patents, and many consider Google fairly innovative. But its patent portfolio is dwarfed by those of its competitors. Microsoft's portfolio, for instance, is 25 to 30 times larger (and, as I'll explain further below, much more diversified).When I point out those facts, many people are just as surprised as I was when I learned a long time ago that Australia has almost the size of the "lower 48" states of the United States but only about 5% the number of inhabitants. Counterintuitive facts are nevertheless facts.Android is a "suit magnet"The number one patent-related trend in 2010 was, beyond all doubt, the flood of infringement suits that swept over the smartphone industry and that I expect to further intensify this year. Prior to 2010, there were a few cases, most notablyNTP v RIM, which had the US BlackBerry service on the verge of a shutdown and resulted in a $612.5 million settlement, and Qualcomm's fights with Nokia and Broadcom, which also raised antitrust questions. But what's going on now is far bigger, and potentially far more devastating.The operating system that is the target of more infringement action than any other is Google's Android. When one of those many suits was filed, I already quoted Maureen O'Gara, whonotedthat "[t]he freebie operating system is proving to be quite a little suit magnet." That's a funny metaphor, and by now it would be an understatement.Here's a list of Android-related disputes that started in 2010 (in chronological order):• Apple v HTC (seethis overview of "Apple vs. Android")• Oracle v Google (five months later, Google stillhasn't been able to countersue Oracle)• Interval Licensing v Google and others (analysis of amended complaint)• Microsoft v Motorola (overview of state of affairs at end of 2010)• Apple v Motorola (seethis overview of "Apple vs. Android")• Gemalto v Google, Samsung, Motorola and HTC (analysis)• Vertical Computer Systems v Samsung and LG (analysis)• Helferich Patent Licensing v Huawei (themid-November complaintlisted 24 licensees including Apple, Microsoft and HTC, but Chinese device maker Huawei apparently refused to pay)• Multimedia Patent Trust (Alcatel-Lucent) v LG and others (analysis)• Hybrid Audio v HTC, Dell and others (analysis)• Hopewell Culture &amp; Design v Motorola, Samsung, HTC, LG and others (analysis)• Sony v LG (complaint; this is the first such suit of one Android adopter against another)That's a dozen already, and I have no doubt there will be more. Ten of the disputes listed above started just last quarter. Some of those suits also target Apple (which has aclash of titans going on with Nokia), but fewer than Android although it would be economically more attractive; a small number of cases involve BlackBerry or other platforms. I'm not aware of any suit accusing a Windows Phone 7 device at this stage, although Microsoft is frequently sought out by patent holders.Google can't solve Android's problems through cross-licensingThere is indeed a connection between the rampant enforcement of patents against Android and Google's weak patent portfolio. Only a few of the litigants are non-practicing entities while most of the plaintiffs, especially the ones asserting large numbers of relatively strong patents, sell products of their own. Those who actually have products on the market would have to think (at least) twice before attacking Android if they might need access to some of Google's patents.Cross-licenses are the way most patent disputes between large companies are resolved. If there is parity in terms of how much each party needs the other company's patents, the deal may be done without money changing hands. In most cases, however, one company will have the upper hand and make a payment to compensate for the difference in portfolio value. Still, such payments tend to be much lower than the cost incurred by a "have-not" who needs a license from a powerhouse. In a price-sensitive, highly competitive market such as smartphones, the cost of patent licensing is eminently important.No matter how influential Google may be on the World Wide Web, its patents apparently didn't deter Oracle from suing. I'm sure Oracle took a close look at Google's portfolio and determined that there was no risk of a serious counterstrike, or of any at all. If you look at myvisualizationsof other smartphone patent disputes involving major players on both sides (Apple v Nokia, Apple v Android, Microsoft v Motorola), you can see how they escalate and involve ever larger numbers of patents. By contrast, Oracle still doesn't face any infringement allegations.If Google could countersue, it might already have a favourable settlement with Oracle in its hands. Since it can't, it will either have to fend off all seven patents asserted by Oracle (plus any others that Oracle could assert in a second suit), in each case by taking the patent down or proving that there's no infringement, or it will have to come up with some theory that it was entitled to a license of some sort. Otherwise, Oracle will prevail and the vast majority of Android applications would presumably have to be rewritten. So chances are this will cost Google (and possibly the Android ecosystem at large) dearly.Even the 576 patents Google owns are a significant number and set it apart from many others who have even less. But when you're competing in a highly litigious environment in which a diversity of patents is required to build a solid product, that's too little. In Google's case, it's not just weakness in numbers. There's also a lack of diversification. I've looked at a random sample of Google patents, and most of them relate either directly to search or to closely related technologies such as location-based services.Such a narrowly focused portfolio just can't frighten players like Apple, Microsoft or Oracle, all of whom innovate in a variety of fields of technology. I'm not saying that Google isn't innovative. It's just not innovative in the way that gets rewarded by the patent system with a sizable and diversified portfolio.Google leaves its partners in the lurchIt's quite possible that even some device makers who adopted Android overrated Google's ability to defend Android against patent threats. Now they see that many patent holders seek royalty payments from makers of Android-based devices, and roughly a dozen have already gone to court with infringement allegations directed at Android.Google probably doesn't have any contractual obligations. It puts out Android on open source terms. If things work out well, Google reaps most of the rewards. If things go wrong, others bear the brunt of the patent litigation (only three of the twelve suits I listed name Google among the defendants).Obviously, those device makers knew all along that Google could benefit from Android, but they felt they could still benefit from selling the hardware. Patent issues may turn Android-based devices into an unprofitable business at some point, regardless of consumer demand, and at that point it will be hard for anyone other than Google to make any money with Android.I also think thatSony v LGmay only be the first of a number of suits in which one maker of an Android-based device tries to get rid of a competitor. I don't want to name names but I could see some Android device makers trying the same kind of cannibalization.The Android patent situation would definitely be different – fundamentally different – if Google had a stronger portfolio and could show some authority. At a rate of a couple hundred new patents per year, and without much diversification, Google won't become a major force in this game anytime soon.The patent weakness I described is also going to be a serious problem for Google's WebM codec. That's a slightly different but related subject that I'vecovered separately last June– and plan to address again.If you'd like to be updated on Florian Mueller's take on the smartphone patent disputes and other intellectual property matters he covers,subscribe to his RSS feedand/orfollow him on Twitter @FOSSpatentsFlorian Mueller is an intellectual property activist with 25 years of software industry expertise spanning across different market segments (games, education, productivity and infrastructure software), diverse business models (proprietary software, free and open source software, advertising- and subscription-based online services) and a variety of technical and commercial areas of responsibility.
Nokia has pulled its X7 smartphone from sale in the US ahead of an expected launch on AT&amp;T in February. The decision, which Nokiatold the Wall Street Journalwas its own, not AT&amp;T's, means that the company is still no closer to breaking into the smartphone segment in one of the biggest markets for those devices.According toPocketNow, which seems to have the only details about the phone (Nokia's own site turns up a blank), the X7 would have had an 8MP camera and stereo speakers. And, presumably, the S^3 operating system.Nokia sources told the WSJ that they were concerned that AT&amp;T wouldn't give it sufficient marketing and subsidy support.That's quite likely, given that Nokia's latest range of smartphone don't seem to have figured highly in the reports for any of the bigger western markets. The release of the Nokia N8, the flagship smartphone, did... er.. OK,according to Patrick Standaert of Morgan Stanley, who in November suggested that a survey of 150 phone shops in Europe found an N8 sell-through of one N8 for every six iPhones sold. That would suggest 2.5m N8s for the just-ended quarter and 9m in 2011.Just as a reminder, Carphone Warehousesaid late on Tuesdaythat smartphones made up 75% of its Christmas quarter sale, and that at some point in 2010 Android overtook every other operating platform" for sales. Interesting that, because that implies pushing out Symbian, which Nokia uses, as well.Given that there are only really four mobile OSs in wide use in the UK - Android, Apple, RIM, Symbian - that suggests that Android got more than 25% (in the US, it was up to 40%), obviously pushing Apple down. And if you then allow that the Nokia numbers follow in line, then the N8 and related Nokia smartphones likely only had single-digit market shares.In that situation, AT&amp;T - seeing what was happening in Europe - might indeed have intimated to Nokia that it wasn't going to be putting a lot of money behind the X7. And Nokia might have decided that it was better to bide its time. Will MeeGo fill the gap? And if so, when?Nokia did provide anofficial comment to AllThingsD: "We are working hard with our U.S. carrier partners to bring meaningful smartphone solutions to market that are compelling consumer experiences, have strong operator support and a thriving ecosystem. As in any business, plans can change and deliberate decisions must be made to enable clear focus on bringing the right products to market at the right time."• In other Nokia-related news, the company isbeing sued by Apple in Londonover claims that one of the Finnish company's patent claims, relating to scrolling on a touchscreen handset, is invalid.The lawsuit, filed yesterday in the High Court in London, challenges one of seven Nokia patents asserted against Apple in a September 2010 lawsuit in Dusseldorf. Nokia is suing Apple over a number of technologies in the iPhone which it says it has patented.
Stereoscopic 3D may finally be poised to shed its image as an expensive curiosity thanks to the imminent arrival of Nintendo's 3DS, a handheld games console with a 3D screen that does not require glasses.At an Amsterdam event today, hosted by Jonathan Ross, Nintendo announced that the 3DS will reach UK shops on 25 March, priced between £219 and £229. That may sound a hefty for a handheld console, but the 3DS has potential to be a game-changer.As well as running 3D takes on some of the best-loved games franchises, it will take photographs in 3D, run 3D video, let users engage in proximity-based social networking and could bring augmented reality (AR) to the mainstream. Some industry experts are describing it as a contender for must-have gadget of the year.Gamers will find its charms hard to resist, despite the high price – partly explained by a 3D screen that is essentially one screen on top of another, and the use of the most powerful graphics chip ever fitted to a Nintendo handheld console.Nintendo said that, between the launch and June, 25 3DS games will go on sale. These will include favourite franchises such as Pro Evolution Soccer, Nintendogs (this time including cats), Resident Evil, Metal Gear Solid, Driver, Ridge Racer, Splinter Cell, The Legend of Zelda and Super Street Fighter.Yves Guillemot, the president of the games publisher Ubisoft, admitted that many 3DS games will be pricier than existing DS games (which typically cost £29.99), but not all. "It depends on how big your game is," he said. "For the small ones, they will be the same as the DS. But if you go with lots of video, then the cartridges will need more storage so the games will become more expensive."Price issues notwithstanding, Guillemot added: "We expect it will sell a lot faster than the DS, because the DS brought a number of new customers to the industry, like young girls who had not played before and older people via games like Dr Kawashima's Brain Training, and they will want the 3DS."Concerns have been raised that very young children playing on the console could develop eyesight issues due to their sight not being fully formed. David Yarnton, the managing director of Nintendo UK, said: "We recommend that for under-six-year-olds, it's not advisable to play in 3D."With any product, when you're looking at a screen on a prolonged basis, you should have a break. And there's a parental lock, so parents can force it to play in 2D."The console will also come with a number of AR cards which, when photographed, will activate mini-games.Yarnton believes "it will be our most successful launch ever".
The Nintendo 3DS will hit European stores on 25 March, and retailers haveconfirmedthat the UK price will be between £219 and £229. The system will be available in two colours: cosmos black and aqua blue.Most of Nintendo's Amsterdam press event confirmed details we already knew, both from the E3 unveiling and the recent Japanese press day. The 3DS comes with two screens, the top display providing glasses-free stereoscopic 3D, the bottom standard 2D images and touchscreen functionality. On the left of the bottom screen is an analogue controller, replacing the Nintendo DS d-pad enabling more precise sensitive direction controls. There are also built in motion and gyro sensors for tilt controls.The console also has two cameras on the front so users can take 3D photos. Taking advantage of this feature are a collection of apps, including a set of six AR cards which, when viewed through the camera, show various creatures popping up out of the card – a familiar augmented reality feature. There's also Face Raiders, a simple shooter game that lets you fire at silly photos of your own face."Nintendo 3DS is not just about being able to watch and play in 3D without glasses – it also offers unique social experiences," said Laurent Fischer, managing director of marketing at Nintendo Europe. "In the way Wii brought families together, Nintendo 3DS will appeal to a broad range of people." He was referring to the two new wireless internet features. StreetPass allows different Nintendo 3DS systems to communicate with each other as their owners pass in the street. In this way, strangers will be able to swap game data and items, and even have their Street Fighter IV characters engaging in automatic fights. This concept has been explored before, notably in an old Japanese dating gadget, which would alert users if they passed by other owners who shared the same interests.Also revealed was SpotPass, which will allow 3DS owners to automatically download game updates and content as they pass by Wi-Fi hotspots.And to continue the fitness focus that has proved so successful on Wii, the Nintendo 3DS can act as a pedometer when put into Sleep Mode. Users can then earn "play coins" for going for a walk, and these can then be traded in for additional content in compatible games and apps. By accessing the Activity Log, users are able to check how many steps they've taken.Elsewhere, Nintendo revealed the Mii Maker app, which will allow users to create their own avatars based on photos of themselves. These can then be imported onto memory cards and used as profile images on social networking sites such as FaceBook. Nintendo's online store, or eShop, will also be updated to offer new versions of classic games as well as mini downloadable 3D titles.There were also a couple of partner announcements. Eurosport will be supplying 3D sports content on the system, while Aardman Animations is to provide a series of new Shaun the Sheep short movies in 3D. Nintendo has also partnered with BSkyB to attain shortform content from Sky 3D.So, a wide array of functionality and some neat mainstream-friendly ideas. What was lacking from the announcements, was a selection of new games. Only Lego Star Wars III Clone Wars 3D and Crush 3D added to the list of games already mentioned at the Japanese event. Nintendo will also need to get out there and put the 3DS into the hands of skeptical consumers –at the unveiling of the handheld console at E3 last summer, nothing compared to actuallyseeingit working.The question is, are YOU pre-ordering one?• UK launch: 25 March; £219-£229
There's an international flavour to this week's programme.  We startoff by hearing from Evgeny Morozov, the Stanford scholar who doubtswhether the web can bring about democratic change.  Despite reportsnoting the importance of Facebook in the current Tunisian protests,and the 2009 Twitter revolution in Iran, Evgeny thinks the newtechnology could end up posing many more problems than it solves.Charles Arthur finds out from this cyber-sceptic that the everyday tools weuse for shopping and personalisation could end up restricting theinternet in authoritarian states.And although Aleks is away this week, she's still been busy – speaking to Indian business blogger Nikhil Pahwa fromMediaNama.com.  He's the firstinterviewee from her recent trip to the country, and sets the scene,explaining what the digital sector is like in the country,  whatopportunities there are for British businesses in India, and how themobile internet is the next big hope.Jemima Kiss presents the show, and there's also this week'stechnology headlines with news on Steve Jobs'latest health problems, a Facebook flotation that flopped, and howNokia doesn't Come With Music any more.Don't forget to ...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
LittleBigPlanet was a landmark release back in 2008 – not least for being the first original IP to make the PS3 look anything but overpriced. Now, having loved the original so much that it bought the developer, Sony needs this difficult second album to succeed.And luckily, LBP 2 knows better than to mess with a hit formula, retuning almost every aspect of the game while maintaining the same bog-standard platform gameplay, freely borrowing from every genre classic from Donkey Kong Country to Sonic the Hedgehog. Despite spending little effort on actual storytelling, the game's main Story Mode takes you through eight themed worlds and around 30 levels, punctuated by bonus levels aping other game styles.It's a shortish campaign, although as with the original this is only the tip of the iceberg. Playing in co-op mode opens up not just new areas of existing levels, but whole new ones that cannot be played alone. Yes, the camera occasionally struggles to make the experience equally satisfying to both players, but when it does work it's supremely satisfying.Once you've exhausted the levels provided, the serious business of creating your own begins. How deep you delve into the new and improved level editor is up to you, as adding basic structures and characters to preset templates is relatively easy but mastering the physics and AI across three planes will at first seems like a vertical learning curve. Still, given there are already millions of original LBP levels to download, you can afford to wait while the community gets to grips with all the new editing options. It'll be worth keeping an eye on the website to see how quickly original user content starts appearing.So, take it for granted that LBP2 will be massive, but is it massively better than the original? Undoubtedly, the surreal brilliance of the concept is less pronounced the second time around and Stephen Fry voiceovers are beginning to sound like twee self parody, no matter where you hear them. Most disappointingly, for all the worlds he visits or challenges he overcomes, Sackboy never really develops past his minimal original powers, meaning LBP2 retains its two-button gameplay from start to finish. Given the sheer freedom you're given to customise, design or improve almost every other aspect of the game – including an endlessly changeable appearance – would it really have hurt to give him an occasional special power or two?In spite of all this, it's hard to dislike a game that both encourages and rewards every effort with more and more content. If this is where the bar has been set for 2011, it'll be fun seeing who can beat it.• Game reviewed on PS3
You can blame Toy Story 3. Not only was the film superb, but the game was too. Tangled isn't close to Woody, Buzz and co's gaming adventures but it is polished and playable appealing to young fans of the film. The plot of the game – essentially Rapunzel with a Shrek-style makeover – follows the film and is depicted in a cute hand-drawn storybook style. Players guide Rapunzel and her bungling thief rescuer Flynn around a map before diving into levels full of elementary platforming, puzzles and cooperation.The action is reminiscent of the Lego games, with lots of shiny collectables and a regular need to juggle the characters' skills to make progress. So, Rapunzel can use her golden locks to swing across chasms or twirl it to grow flowers. Flynn can hack through obstacles and is more effective against enemies. Nothing like a stereotype then. The target audience probably won't care though and players can swap characters at any time to solve puzzles. However, the game is best played cooperatively with players/parents able to drop in at any time and help out their little princess. The game does this seamlessly with split screens forming if players move too far apart. Even the most hardcore gaming dad will find himself enjoying helping his child through some cliched yet enjoyable fantasy locales. If frustration takes over – yours or your child's – then you can always use the neat "hand hold" option which sees one player controlling both characters.The game itself mixes in mini-games too, and the difficulty level is pitched perfectly at the young age group. It is always obvious what to do next too, but parents with young children will be probably be familiar with the way kids generally like to replay the same levels again and again. The only upside of this on Tangled is you get spared the lengthy and regular loading times that blight the game. Other downers include the relative brevity of the title and the fact the game only saves at the end of a level. While this fine for grownup games it does seem odd for a game aimed at less skilled players (parents or kids).It lacks the depth of Toy Story 3 but Tangled on the Wii certainly won't disappoint the young audience it is aimed at. Parents will enjoy helping out, and for what it is, Tangled is definitely worth a look.• Game reviewed on Wii
Google Earth, Picasa and Chrome will be available for download in Iran for the first time from today after the technology firm was granted a communications trade licence by the US government.Photo byHamed Saberon Flickr.Some rights reservedSanctions imposed by the UN and by the US, first introduced under Ronald Reagan's administration in 1984, limit trade with Iran. Although web-based services have been accessible to internet users in Iran, offering product downloads has been restricted until now.Google will offer Picasa, its photo-hosting service, the Chrome browser and the mapping tool Google Earth, though to be compliant with the licence, downloads will be blocked for IP addresses within the Iranian government.Rubin said Google had decided not to make downloads of Google Talk available in Iran because it may have security implications if dissidents used it to communicate. "We're not confident with the security we could provide to keep those conversations private," he said. "Any government that wants to might be able to get into those conversations, and we wouldn't want to provide a tool with the illusion of privacy if it wasn't completely secure."Picasa, Earth and Chrome, by comparison, are not direct communication tools. Google Gmail, along with YouTube, is already available in the country, though YouTube has been blocked by Iranian authorities since thepolitical unrestduringelectionsin June 2009. Protestors across Iran had been postingfootage of demonstrationsand there was outrage after philosophy studentNeda Agha-Soltanwas shot and killed.Scott Rubin, Google's head of public policy and communications for Europe, Middle East and Africa, said it had taken a year to secure an export licence for Google's downloadable products. Of the four countries are subject to strict US trade sanctions – Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Cuba – only Iran had the right conditions for a trade licence, Rubin explained.Tributes to Neda Agha-Soltan in Tehran. Photo byburidanon Flickr.Some rights reserved"We had to figure out how to realease these downloads in a way that gives security to users. There's no foolproof solution but we believe the strongest possibilities are for these three products."Rubin dismissed claims by Stanford Univeristy scholarEvgeny Morozovthat Silicon Valley's big technology firms were last month visited by FBI director Robert Mueller and asked to install 'back doors' to information on their customers, or that the US government may have had an interest in expanding Google's technology into internet activity in Iran."I've had no information on any other conversations with other organisations or with the government – that's entirely unrelated," said Rubin. "These tools, like Chrome, are about allowing people to access information. Chrome is the most secure browser out there, but also serves globally accessible information."Rubin also insisted that Google's objective is not commercial. "Sanctions are still very restrictive, so we are simply offering access to infomation through Chrome, Picasa and Google Earth," he said.Rubin pointed to the use of Google Earth in Sudan, where layers had been added to show areas of unrest through its satellite imagery during elections. "Those are critical events in a mostly unconnected country. If people want to build map layers to help people connect, that's a great example of the potential for free expression. The possibilities are limitless."Photo byindigoprimeon Flickr.Some rights reserved• This article was amended on 2 June 2011. The original said Neda Soltani was shot during a demonstration in Iran. That is the name of a different individual. This has been corrected.
Mud. Does Google's VP8 strategy bear any resemblance? Photo bySidPixon Flickr.Some rights reservedOn Monday I tried todisentangle the implications of Google's announcement that it is dropping support for the H.264 video codecfrom its Chrome browser. The comments were a highlight (especially @artistryand, in opposition,@AdamWill) which pointed to lots more questions that needed to be asked.So I asked some, of Google's PR team, who went off and asked within the company. The obvious starting point: if the patent-encumbered H.264 is so awful, and the open source WebM/VP8 so wonderful, when is YouTube, that other big Google property, going to follow suit, and stop encoding in H.264 (which it presently does, so that it can output it to HTML5 browsers for content inside a &lt;video&gt; tag) and go exclusively to WebM/VP8?Google replied:"This change is related to Chrome rather than YouTube. YouTube currently supports multiple formats, including WebM."Q:When you say it "supports" that, do you mean on output or input? Can I upload in WebM? Does YouTube output in WebM?Google:"Yes, you can upload and output in WebM on YouTube. See theYouTube HTML5 pagefor more info."OK, let's have a look at that page. It begins: "This is an opt-in trial of HTML5 video on YouTube. If you are using a supported browser, you can choose to use the HTML5 player instead of the Flash player for most videos."And it continues:"We support browsers that support both the video tag in HTML5 andeither the h.264 video codec or the WebM format (with VP8 codec)[emphasis added]. These include:"• Firefox 4 (WebM,Beta available here)• Google Chrome (WebM and h.264)• Opera 10.6+ (WebM,Available here)• Apple Safari (h.264, version 4+)• Microsoft Internet Explorer 9 (h.264,Beta available here)• Microsoft Internet Explorer 6, 7, or 8 with Google Chrome Frame installed (GetGoogle Chrome Frame)The page doesn't have a "last changed" date, though digging around in the source gives the string "body class="date-20110118 en_US ltr is-english" dir="ltr"" - which seems to imply (given that I was looking at the page on 19 January) that it was generated on 18 January, ie someone inside Google tweaked it recently.The reason for the added emphasis is that that page says it supports both H.264 and WebM. So clearly,YouTube isn't out of love with H.264. That's telling: it indicates that the decision to drop support for H.264 by the Chrome team isn't being implemented by the YouTube team. If the WebM/VP8 move had been directed from above by Eric Schmidt rubbing his hands together, laughing an evil laugh and stroking a cat (OK, might be hard to do all at once) then you'd expect a concerted plan. None such exists, because here's the crux question:Q:does the Chrome browser team's move mean YouTube is dropping support for providing H.264 video content for the &lt;video&gt; tag, and will it only supply it within the Flash wrapper (in which case it isn't HTML5-compliant)? How will YouTube serve content within a &lt;video&gt; tag? That's the basic question.Google:"TheYouTube HTML5guide [same page as above] will answer most of your questions about this."So that tells us, again, that H.264 is going to continue, open-ended, at YouTube. The point being that if this were an idea that had been handed down from on high - a strategic one - then you'd expect that YouTube would be following suit within some clear timeframe. The fact that it isn't suggests to me more than ever that this is a decision by the Chrome engineering team which the YouTube team will look at and evaluate in their own time. Remember, Google is run by its engineers, from the bottom up.So the next question has to be what Google thinks is going to happen to WebM, especially on the mobile side. Why does that matter? Because mobile HTML5 viewing is big. Apple said last night that there are 160m iOS (iPhone, iPod Touch, iPad) devices in the market as of the end of 2010. That's a lot of HTML5 mobile browsing.Q:Over what timescale does Google think that WebM/VP8 will become the predominant format for serving mobile web video? (I emphasis the mobile side because obviously on the desktop it's going to remain Flash, via YouTube. Unless you have something more you want to tell me there.) Two years? Three? Or is a ten-year timescale, say, for most mobile web video to be in WebM/VP8?Google:"The changes announced in the blog post only relate to Chrome; we don't have any comment about mobile at this stage."Q:That doesn't make sense, because mobile *is* where HTML5 happens at present. It is how a big chunk of YouTube's viewing on Apple iOS will be happening (likely all); mobile viewing on other devices - well, you tell me what it is. The whole debate about the WebM/VP8 v H.264 thing is that it *directly* affects mobile much sooner than the desktop. Google therefore needs to clarify what its intentions are towards mobile.Google:"The announcement is only about the way video is handled within the Chrome browser. It does not affect YouTube or Android."Indicating that Android isn't going to be dropping H.264 hardware acceleration any time soon either. (And for those Samsung Galaxy S users stuck on Android 2.1, they might be happy of that.)A final point: what about hardware? @artistry commented:"H.264 can be decoded on the processor in smartphones and tablets, which means better battery life. WebM can't (at the moment) which means that whether it's played as-is, or through Flash, it will cause significant power consumption issues."To which @AdamWill remarked:"[@artistry's] argument about existing device support is true as far as it goes, but overplayed. People who make this argument like to make it sound as if H.264 has been around just for*ever* and it's incredibly entrenched in everything. It's really not true. H.264 has only existed since 2003 and has only been getting hardware encoding/decoding support, and widespread use (at first it was mainly used for porn and anime, like all video codecs since time immemorial...) since some time after that. It's hardly the Rock of Ages. We've been through H.262 (MPEG-2 video) and H.263, and before that, MPEG-1 video. Contrary to the implication of the 'but...but...look at all the existing hardware!!!' argument, all industries involved have shown themselves perfectly capable of shifting between video formats, and supporting multiple ones, with really not too much bother; it can happen again."Then again, 2003? That's a long time in the computing world. YouTube didn't exist in 2003: itwasn't founded until February 2005.Still, I asked Google about hardware.Q:Does Google have any plans to develop chips or encourage chip makers to build chips with WebM/VP8 acceleration? How will it do that?Google:"More than two dozen hardware vendors have already committed to supporting the WebM standard (you cansee a list here), and we expect the first chips supporting WebM hardware acceleration to hit the market in the first half of 2011."To save you the trouble, hardware makers on that list include: AMD, ARM, Broadcom, DSP Group, Freescale [the Motorola chip spinoff], NVidia, Logitech, Qualcomm, Texas Instruments. (In all there are 27.) There are also 17 "video platforms and publishers", of whom I have to admit I've only heard of one - YouTube.It's notable that Intel isn't in that list of hardware companies, but then again ARM, TI, Qualcomm and NVidia make a formidable list. The next challenge will be whether WebM (or more precisely VP8, the video codec) can make progress both in terms of its encoding quality and processing speeds to make it worth the effort for the chipmakers of writing it in silicon.To sum up:• YouTube isn't giving up H.264. At all. You can, if you're determined, get WebM/VP8 content on YouTube (both to contribute and download). There's the possibility that it is re-encoding all its content into WebM -just as it did to H.264 in June 2007, when the iPhone was about to arrive. That took something like three or four months to do. The library is bigger now, but so is Google's processing power.• The lack of any date, or inclination, on the part of YouTube indicates that this is purely a decision made by the Chrome team to push things along.• this isn't going to affect the mobile side - so iPhones, iPads, iPod Touches are not going to go dark.• hardware to decode VP8 might be on the horizon - but Google can't do much to push it along except improve the codec, and do things like, well, drop H.264 support in its browser. (Pretty much everyone will see no difference, because the H.264 decoding will be handed off to the operating system.) I asked how many people are working on improving the VP8 codec, since that's sometimes helpful to know: is it a priority? But Google didn't want to discuss team sizes. Hm.In short? It remains one to watch - the effectscouldbe far-ranging, but they're still some way off. And it confirms, if you needed it confirming, that Google is a bottom-up organisation, driven by its engineers.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Grey market iPad on sale in Nairobi. Photo bysmagdalion Flickr.Some rights reservedTo those who reckoned that netbooks were going to be a feature of computing life for ever and ever: bad news. Acer, theworld's second-largest PC maker in 2010, is dumping them.Instead it plans to start selling "two or three" tablet computers in the first half of this year,according to a company sales manager talking to Computerworld."The tablet launches will begin a gradual replacement of Acer's small laptop-style netbook computers, in line with market demands, Taiwan sales manager Lu Bing-hsian said."'They are aimed at phasing out netbooks,' he said. 'That's the direction of the market.'"It will make fewer netbooks, because it sees tablets gaining in popularity. Interestingly, the Acer tablets, running Android, will not be based on ARM chips - as pretty much every other extant Andrdoid tablet is - but instead use Intel Sandy Bridge four-core CPUs. The biggest will have a 10-inch screen.Acer tried before with tablets: remember its 12-inch product early last year? No, hardly anyone else does either - it sold around 250 per month and was quietly killed in July.But now Apple has validated the market, selling 7.33m iPads in the past quarter alone - which means that in 2010 it sold a total of 14.8m of the devices. (Read about its record financial quarter.) Many of the most recent ones sold seem to have been 3G versions, judging by details given out in the analyst call with Apple's earnings on Tuesday night which said that the average iPad selling price was $600.Of course we've seen from CES that there are dozens of companies ready to leap into the tablet market, though there are only a few which look like they might do something dramatic. The 10-inch Motorola Xoom, which will run Android Honeycomb (3.0) looks good, but don't believe anyone who says they have had a hands-on: no journalist has yet tried a Xoom running Honeycomb, because it simply isn't ready. Asus also hopes to have a Honeycomb tablet, but it doesn't know when the software is ready.All of which led Tim Cook, Apple's chief operating officer, and the man in charge of the house while Steve Jobs is on indefinite medical leave, to sniff that with the 7" tablets now flooding the market "you wind up having a size of tablet that's less than what we believe is reasonable or would provide a real tablet experience." Much as you've heard or read Steve Jobs say.But Cook also took a swipe at the Honeycomb tablets, and HP and RIM, who have promised much but not allowed anything you'd call a hands-on: "the next generation of tablets - there's nothing shipping yet, so I don't know. They lack performance specs, pricing, timing - today, they're vapour. We will assess them when they come out."So much, by the way, for RIM co-CEO Jim Balsillie's claim during RIM's earnings call that enterprise customers were putting off any deployment of iPads andwaiting instead for RIM's PlayBookto come out. Cook took some pleasure from listing Fortune 100 companies that are testing or deploying them, and noted that it is being "deployed or tested" in 80% of the US Fortune 100 companies (up from 65% at the last earnings calls), and 60% of FTSE 100 companies.And if - if - you were to include iPads as computers (something that companies like Gartner and IDC decline to do),points out TechFlash, then Apple would have been the second-biggest computer maker in the world in the fourth quarter.Think that sounds extreme? Things are changing in the computing world. The Wall Street Journal reckons that "the era of the personal computer is drawing to a close" - with Gartner calculating that by 2013 the number of smartphones will pass the number of PCs, by 1.82bn to 1.78bn. And that's leaving out the tablets. The article is definitely worth reading.• IBMreported its quarterly results last nighttoo. It had record revenues, of $29.02bn, and record profits - $5.3bn. And IBM is the world's largest IT company in terms of sales.• For comparison: Apple's quarterly revenues were $26.74bn (a record; previous quarter $20.34bn), profits $6bn (a record; previous quarter $4.3bn).• Microsoft will report its latest quarterly earnings on 27 January (8m Kinects sold! Make a date!). For each of the last three quarters its revenues have been smaller than Apple's (ranging from $14.5bn to $16.2bn) but its profits have been bigger ($5.1bn to $7.1bn). Take a bow, Windows and Office.So expect that 2011 is going to be the year of the tablet. At one point Cook was asked if he didn't worry that computer sales were being cannibalised by tablet sales. "The other guys [PC makers] lose a lot more than us, and we have a lot more to win, because we're underrepresented in that [PC] market. Cannibalisation isn't something we are spending one minute on here."It might be something for Acer - and all the other computer manufacturers - to think about though.
Apple tonight reported record revenues for the second quarter in a row, with profits of $6bn and revenues of $26.74bn – up 77.5% and 70.5% respectively.Shares had fallen at the start of today during early trading in New York, when stock markets reopened following Monday's holiday and investors digested the news that Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, was taking anotheropen-ended period of medical leave. The break is his third since being diagnosed with a rare form of pancreatic cancer in 2004.However, shares increased by 4% in after-hours trading, and the company announced that during the Christmas quarter it sold 7.3m iPads – as many as it sold in the previous two quarters – taking the total sold to 14.5m copies since its introduction in April. The iPhone also saw strong growth, with 16.24m sold in the most recent quarter – its best ever.In a statement, Jobs said: "We had a phenomenal holiday quarter, with record Mac, iPhone and iPad sales. We are firing on all cylinders and we've got some exciting things in the pipeline for this year, including iPhone 4 on Verizon."The results were announced after markets closed, with Apple's stock finishing the day down 2%, having earlier fallen by 4.1% to $334 in early trading.Investors, meanwhile, are wondering about plans for a successor if Jobs is unable to return to the company, despite saying in his email to staff on Monday thathe would continue as chief executive and be involved in major strategic decisions.Tim Cook, the chief operations officer who stands in for Jobs during his absence, has been in the company since March 1998 and is viewed by Wall Street as a safe pair of hands. He ran the company for most of 2009 when Jobs received a liver transplant.But questions are expected on whether Apple has enough new products and innovation in the pipeline to stimulate further growth. Though the iPad was designed and completed while Jobs was away, he is understood to have been closely involved in its development.Richard Windsor, global technology specialist at Nomura, said: "Steve Jobs is seen by the market to be a major force in Apple's strategic direction. If his pancreatic cancer has returned, one could be quite worried."Apple's market value means that shifts in its stock price can pull down or lift the market. "The market's reaction to Steve Jobs's surprise medical leave from Apple today will underscore the importance of the tech sector on the S&amp;P 500 … What happens next to Apple will therefore dominate what happens in the sector," said Bryan McCormick, analyst at optionMonster.com.Without new products, Apple's growth would likely stall: sales of the iPod  – that led Apple's rapid growth in 2004 – are already in decline. Apple differs from Microsoft, which is able to rely on regular, substantial income from its Windows and Office monopolies to fund new ventures.Despite the announcement about Jobs, analysts such as Kaufman Bros and Thinkequity raised their long-term forecasts for the share price, to $415 (up $10) and to $390 (up $15) respectively. Most analysts reckon the stock could still head towards $390, which would put it close to Exxon's world-leading $392bn market capitalisation.Observers have focused on an apparent rivalry in the mobile market between Apple's iPhone and Google's Android mobile operating system. But the signs are that Android is not weakening Apple; instead the two are taking market share in the US, particularly from RIM, the Canadian maker of the BlackBerry. Apple passed RIM for the number of phones sold in the US in the third quarter, and RIM is struggling to maintain market share.The iPhone, meanwhile, is expected to receive a sales boost in the US after Verizon, the largest US mobile network, with 93.2m subscribers, announced last week it would begin selling Apple's phones from the end of this month. That will be in addition to AT&amp;T, with 89.8m subscribers, which has sold the device since its inception in June 2007.In a conference call in 2009, Cook summed up Apple's strategy: "We believe we're on the face of the Earth to make great products, and that's not changing. We believe in saying no to thousands of projects so that we can really focus on the few that are truly important and meaningful to us … Frankly, we don't settle for anything less than excellence in every group in the company, and we have the self-honesty to admit when we're wrong and the courage to change. And I think, regardless of who is in what job, those values are so embedded in this company that Apple will do extremely well."But questions remain over who would provide a strategic focus for the company without Jobs. The iPad and iPhone are viewed as being products of his vision. He is also seen as having been essential to the company's success, notably in negotiating contracts with content providers such as record labels and film companies.
The time may have come for those irate avians and thieving pigs to cease hostilities and join forces against a new and even less likely enemy.Angry Birds, the time-wasting phenomenon that has ruled the smartphone roost for the last year, has finally been vanquished by a 14-year-old boy and the game he devised with the help of his mum and the local library.On paper, Robert Nay'sBubble Ball– described as a "fun, new physics puzzle game" – does not look quite as thrilling as Angry Birds, which ushers players into an inexplicable realm where they can catapult feathered missiles into a variety of structures that shelter the green pigs who have stolen their eggs.But the Utah wonderboy's brainchild has now been downloaded more than 2m times and last week knocked Angry Birds off its perch at the top of thefree games in Apple's iTunes store.And whereas the bird bombardment was devised by the 17-strong team at the Finnish game-making company Rovio, Bubble Ball was the result of little more than peer pressure and some serious after-school dedication."Since [his friends] know Robert's good with computers, they suggested that he should make one," Nay's mother, Kari, toldABC News.The teenager accepted their challenge and went to the public library to investigate programs that would help him build his game.Even with a little design help from his mum, however, it was not easy. "There were some times when I felt like, 'Can people seriously do this?' It seemed impossible," said Nay. "But then there were times when things just worked and I would be like: 'Maybe I can actually do this'."Eventually, after more than a month and 4,000 lines of code, he cracked it, and Bubble Ball – which "will test your ingenuity and thinking skills to get the bubble to the goal" – was born.On 29 December last year, his company,Nay Games, launched an Apple-compatible version of the app. Within a fortnight, the game had caught the eye of the industry.According to Carlos Icaza – the co-founder ofAnsca Mobile, the company which makes the software developer's kit that Nay used, Bubble Ball quickly "brought the entire staff to a halt".The key, he told ABC, was the game's apparent straightforwardness. "Because it's so simple, I think I can beat it," he said. "You go 'yeah right', and then you realise there's a lot of little tricks to make this actually work."Ten days ago, Ansca chose Bubble Ball as its app of the week and it began creeping up the apps ladder.Having dispatched the Angry Birds with vulpine ferocity, Nay is now giving some thought to his future.Not surprisingly, he is keen to work in computing and is thinking of ways to make money from his talent. The next download, he said, would probably be one that smartphone users had to pay for. But when asked for more detail on how he might outdo the success, and addictiveness, of Bubble Ball, he remained cagey: "It's a secret for now."
"The cult of the chief executive exists, although whether or not it is overblown depends on the chief executive. But in Steve Jobs's case, he really is a genius."So says one Wall Street analyst when asked to sum up the man who founded Apple, achieved mythical status in the computer world, got ousted from his own company, then returned to become widely acknowledged as a legend.So as Jobs once again steps aside from the iPod and iPhone-maker because of health reasons – which last time caused a 10% drop in the company's share price – what next for the booming technology group? Can it prosper without its visionary leader?Avi Greengart, an analyst with Current Analysis added: "All of Apple's executives are competent. Steve's approach has been institutionalised. The problem is: Steve Jobs has a remarkable track record – not just of making bold moves but of getting them right. So even if his replacements do exactly what Steve Jobs would have done, it's still not Steve Jobs."Tim Cook, Apple's chief operations officer, is the man tasked with standing in for Jobs and is viewed as his most likely successor. He has been at the company since March 1998, has a reputation on Wall Street as a safe pair of hands, and ran the company for most of 2009 when Jobs was on medical leave and received a liver transplant.Still, it is an unenviable task stepping in for a man with such a huge name – especially in an age obsessed with the cult of the chief executive. But is it a media invention? In their 2003 paper, Believing One's Own Press: the Causes and Consequences of CEO Celebrity, academic Matthew Hayward and colleagues argued: "By glorifying CEOs and exaggerating their efficacy, journalists direct the public's expectations, interactions, and aspirations towards CEOs and away from other people who also contribute their talent and efforts in deciding upon and implementing firm action."It begs the question: how many chief executives are truly indispensable?Joseph Lampel, a professor of strategy at Cass Business School, said: "During the past 20 years shareholder value has been the measure of a great CEO. But Enron was hailed as a great company purely on shareholder value. Lord Browne of BP the same. In retrospect we have serious doubts about that. A great CEO is exceptional not only in terms of [share] performance but also in terms of new products, entering new markets, transforming the organisation and enthusing it with attitude."Microsoft's Bill Gates, IBM's Louis Gerstner and General Electric's Jack Welch may fit into that category. Gerstner is largely credited with turning around IBM's fortunes and his reforms have stuck – the shares have almost doubled since he stood down as chief executive in 2002, outperforming most benchmarks as well. Microsoft shares have performed less well since Gates took a back seat, although some market watchers continue to believe the company is progressing. "The financials have done exceptionally well [since Gates stepped down]," said one Wall Street analyst. "Every aspect [has done well] except the share price."In the UK, chief executive watchers are less than enthused about identifying a great British business leader. Tesco's Sir Terry Leahy? "A fine CEO not a great CEO," says one analyst. Sir Richard Branson? "Was great, now a brand ambassador." Sir James Dyson? "The jury's out." Lord [Arnold] Weinstock, perhaps? "Hmm. We may have to go back that far," said another analyst.Still, by some measures even Weinstock fails to achieve greatness as his succession planning was less than perfect.His successor focused the company on IT and communications, renaming it Marconi. It became one of the City's most memorable dotcom disasters and Weinstock's contemporary Lord Hanson was moved to observe: "It will surprise no one that he died of a broken heart when, after retirement, he realised he had made the one mistake of his brilliant career in turning over his company to a bunch of total incompetents."
Two hackers who exposed a serious flaw in the security of phone network AT&amp;T by obtaining thousands of email addresses belonging to iPad users – including top politicians, company executives and military officials – have been arrested and charged with fraud and conspiracy to access a computer.Daniel Spitler, 26 and Andrew Auernheimer, 25, were due to appear in courts in New Jersey and Arkansas  later today .Auernheimer was arrested while already at court in Fayetteville on unrelated drugs charges.  The pair are accused of having masterminded a breach of the US network's servers last June that compromised the personal email data of up to 120,000 iPad users. The hacking escapade was a huge embarrassment both for AT&amp;T and for Apple, coming just two months after the launch of the iPad.The accused have yet to present their defence. They are understood to bemembers of Goatse Security, the hacker group that carried out the attack on the iPad.One possible line of defence is that they informed AT&amp;T of the breach, allowing the telecoms company to close the hole and secure its servers.The same hacker group had previously exposed weaknesses in the Firefox and Safari web browsers.Valleywag, the Gawker-owned site carrying news and gossip on Silicon Valley, was given access to some of Goatse Security's hacked information at the time of the breach, and reported that several high-profile figures had had their email addresses compromised. They included Rahm Emanuel, then chief of staff at the White House, New York Times chief executive Janet Robinson, ABC news presenter Diane Sawyer, New York mayor Michael Bloomberg and William Eldredge, a bomber commander in the US Air Force.The breach affected several big banks, including Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan, and media organisations such as Time Warner and News Corporation. A number of members of Congress and Nasa employees also had their names and email addresses exposed.It is not known what Goatse Security has done with the information it obtained.The flaw applied only to the 3G models of iPad that have internet connectivity through mobile link and not just through wireless access. The hackers gained access to the database of emails by using the so-called ICC-IDS, the identifier used to attach an individual subscriber to their SIM card.Goatse Security guessed the ICC-IDS of a large number of iPad subscribers by comparing how the identifier was framed for users whose details they already knew. They then sent huge sequences of the ICC-IDS to AT&amp;T and through them obtained the email addresses attached to the accounts.The charge sheet released today says that the prosecution has records of internet chats between the two accused that demonstrate they were responsible for the data breach. It alleges they did so in order to damage AT&amp;T and to promote Goatse Security and themselves.Before the incident Auernheimer had described his activities to the NewYork Times: "I hack, I ruin, I make piles of money."
Apple shares fell by 4.1% to $334 in early trading in New York today  when stock markets reopened following Monday's holiday and investors digested the news that the chief executive, Steve Jobs, was taking anotheropen-ended period of medical leave. The break is his third since being diagnosed with a rare form of pancreatic cancer in 2004.Investors and analysts were also preparing for the company to announce its latest figures for the quarter ended 31 December, due tonight. Analysts reckoned the company could report more than $21bn in revenue and $4.6bn in earnings. In the third quarter it reported a record $20.3bn revenues and $4.3bn in profit.Investors will be wondering about plans for a succession if Jobs is unable to return to the company, despite saying in his email to staff on Monday he would continue as CEO and be involved in major strategic decisions for the company. Tim Cook, the chief operations officer who stands in for Jobs during his absence, has been at the company since March 1998 and is viewed by Wall Street as a safe pair of hands. He ran the company for most of 2009 when Jobs was on medical leave and received a liver transplant.But questions are expected about whether the company has enough new products and innovation in the pipeline to stimulate further growth. Though the iPad was designed and completed while Jobs was away, he is understood to have been closely involved in its development.Richard Windsor, global technology specialist at Nomura, said: "Steve Jobs is seen by the market to be a major force in Apple's strategic direction. If his pancreatic cancer has returned, one could be quite worried."Apple's market value mean that shifts  in its stock price can pull down or lift the market. "The market's reaction to Steve Jobs' surprise medical leave from Apple today will underscore the importance of the tech sector on the S&amp;P 500 … What happens next to Apple will therefore dominate what happens in the sector and the S&amp;P as well," said Bryan McCormick, analyst at optionMonster.com.Without new products, Apple's growth would stall: sales of the iPod music player that led its spurt of rapid growth in 2004 are already in decline. In that sense it is unlike Microsoft, which is able to rely on regular, substantial income from its Windows and Office monopolies to fund new ventures.Despite the announcement about Jobs, analysts such as Kaufman Bros and Thinkequity raised their long-term forecasts for the share price, to $415 (up $10) and to $390 (up $15) respectively. Most analysts reckon the stock could still head towards $390, which would put it close to Exxon's world-leading $392bn market capitalisation.Apple is expected to report strong growth in sales of iPhones and iPads, both of which have proved extraordinarily profitable and popular. Analysts estimated ahead of the earnings announcements that Apple sold 6.5m iPads in its fourth quarter, compared with 4.3m in the previous period, although the company ran vigorous promotions on the products through mobile networks before Christmas which may have boosted sales.Observers have focused on an apparent rivalry in the mobile market between Apple's iPhone and Google's Android mobile operating system. But the signs are that Android is not weakening Apple; instead the two are taking market share in the US particularly from RIM, the Canadian maker of the BlackBerry. Apple passed RIM for the number of phones sold in the US in the third quarter, and RIM is struggling to maintain market share.The iPhone meanwhile is expected to receive a sales boost in the US after Verizon, the largest US mobile network, with 93.2m subscribers, announced last week it would begin selling Apple's phones from the end of this month. That will be in addition to AT&amp;T, with 89.8m subscribers, which has sold the device since its inception in June 2007.In a call with analysts in 2009, Cook summed up Apple's strategy: "We believe that we're on the face of the Earth to make great products, and that's not changing. We believe in saying no to thousands of projects so that we can really focus on the few that are truly important and meaningful to us … frankly, we don't settle for anything less than excellence in every group in the company, and we have the self-honesty to admit when we're wrong and the courage to change. And I think, regardless of who is in what job, those values are so embedded in this company that Apple will do extremely well."But questions remain over who would provide a strategic focus for the company without Jobs. The iPad and iPhone are viewed as being products of his vision. He is also seen as having been essential to the company's success, notably in negotiating contracts with content providers such as record labels and film companies.
The latest versions of Mass Effect and Deus Ex look hugely promising but the RPG I'm looking forward to most  this year isElder Scrolls V: Skyrim. Released this November – over five, gulp, years after Oblivion wowedXbox 360 owners – the next game in the classic RPG series will follow the template set by previous titles.So think exploration, questing, combat and gawping at wonder vistas.The latter is key to me. As good as the new Fallout games were, I never got the same sense of place or explorative wonder as I got in Oblivion. Trudging over the next bit of apocalyptic wasteland just wasn't as exciting as climbing a mountain inCyrodiil. Away from the graphics, let's just hope the voice acting is even half-decent this time. After all, the Mass Effect generation would expect nothing less. Oh, and we can do without those godawfulOblivion gatestoo. Yes, the story needs to be pushed along, but let's hope it is done in a less jarring way than before.The 'world leveling with you' process needs to be fixed too. Still, I've got very high hopes for Skyrim and developer Bethesda arecertainly talking a goodgame.Bethesda's Todd Howard has been speaking to Game Informer about the tech behind Skyrim. Tech? Yes, this is a sign of how excited I am about this game. Howard first talks about the graphics and specifically the draw distance, a key component of those previously mentioned vistas."The big things for us were to draw a lot of stuff in the distance so we have a really sophisticated level of detail, more so than what we've had in the past for how things stream in and how detail gets added to them as they get closer to the camera."The lighting too is key for Howard:"Because our worlds are so big all of the lighting has to be dynamic, that's something we had a little bit of in the past with shadowing,  but not on everything. Now we have it on everything. It just makes the whole thing a lot more believable when you're there."Howard also talks about foliage and weather, both of which help that sense of immersion that the series is famed for. Moving away from the graphical environment Howard then touches on the AI side. Players of Oblivion will remember that the NPC (non-player characters) in the game had fairly basic routines. Apparently not any more, as the article suggests."The improved Radiant AI technology is also more aware of how a citizen should react to your actions. As you perform tasks for them or terrorize them by ransacking their home, the NPCs develop feelings about you. If you're good friends with a particular NPC and barge into his house during the middle of the night, he may offer you lodging rather than demand you leave the premises."Character animations were one thing that Oblivion will not be rememberedfor. Awkward is a polite way of describing other characters moved or how your character moved when in third person. Again, this is now been updated, and everything should be more fluid - it couldn't be worse, of course. There will also be a benefit on character interaction as the article explains."The increased animation fidelity and diversity has enabled Bethesda to ditch the awkward dialogue camera perspective that paused the game and presented you with an extreme closeup of the person with whom you were speaking. Now camera stays in the same perspective used during combat and exploration, and players are free to look around while engaging in conversation. Rather than drop their activities to give you their undivided attention, the NPCs continue to go about their business while in discussion. For instance, a barkeep may continue to clean cups while talking, and even move from behind the counter to a seat. A mill worker chopping wood may engage in conversation without turning away from his duties, only occasionally glancing toward you during the exchange."And then are the the dragons..."Bethesda has worked meticulously to make sure the beasts look powerful and menacing when banking, flapping their wings, gaining altitude before making another strafing run, and breathing fire on their hapless victims. None of the dragons' actions are scripted, and Behavior helps make the movements look non-mechanical, even when the dragons are speaking/shouting."The last element is the questing. Again it looks like Bethesda have made things more fluid and natural. Todd Howard explains the impact onassassination quests."Traditionally in an assassination quest, we would pick someone of interest and have you assassinate them. Now there is a template for an assassination mission and the game can conditionalize all the roles – where it happens, under what conditions does it take place, who wants someone assassinated, and who they want assassinated. All this can be generated based on where the character is, who he's met. They can conditionalize that someone who you've done a quest for before wants someone assassinated, and the target could be someone with whom you've spent a lot of time before."Elsewhere there are random wilderness quests and just generally moreflexibility on how you receive and complete your challenges.Thewhole articleis worth a read but what do you think so far? Excited by Skyrim?
UNCLAS JAKARTA 000186SIPDISDEPARTMENT FOR R/PPR, IIP/EAP, EAP/PDINFO FOR PA, PA/OBS, EAP/MTS, S/P FOR JARED COHEN, IIP FOR DAN SREEBNYNSC FOR PRADEEP RAMAMURTHY WHITE HOUSE FOR KATIE LILLIEE.O.12958: N/ATAGS:PGOV, KPAO, ID, XCSUBJECT:MISSION INDONESIA FUNDING REQUEST TO AMPLIFY SOCIAL MEDIA EFFORT IN TIME FOR MARCH POTUS VISITREF: Jakarta 00651. Action/funding request in paragraph 5. 2. Summary: Mission Indonesia requests immediate additional funding to use new media and social networking tools maximize online outreach for the POTUS visit scheduled for late March, 2010. Already the leading U.S. Mission in the world on Facebook with nearly 50,000 "fans," and one of the leading Missions using Twitter, YouTube and engaging local bloggers to promote USG messages and information, we are uniquely positioned to use these tools to amplify key topics and themes to support the upcoming visit by President Obama. We request $100,000 in funding from R to boost our Facebook fan page membership to 1 million, and can accomplish this in 30 days. End Summary. Proven PD 2.0 Expertise3. U.S. Mission Indonesia is on the forefront of Public Diplomacy 2.0. With over 50,000 fans the most of any diplomatic mission worldwide, are gaining traction using social media in Indonesia for PD. Our efforts were recently cited in an article on CNET Asia, as "a great example of social media interaction in Indonesia," prompting the author to wonder "how long will it take for other organizations and businesses to do the same?" We also have our own YouTube channel with over 300 videos, almost 1,000 followers on Twitter, and -- for the last two years -- engaged positively with thousands of country's most influential bloggers.Indonesia's New Media Environment4. Indonesia's internet community is emerging, but recently has become a powerful political force for reform (reftel). With roughly 10% of the population able to access the internet at least monthly, this represents over 25 million people, nearly half of whom are on Facebook. In the seventh-largest and one of the fastest-growing Facebook markets in the world, we will directly reach a young, urban population which does not rely on traditional media as information sources. In addition, Indonesians' special connection to the 44th President means that interest in the visit is incredibly high. Our Facebook post announcing the visit had interactions and comments from over 1,000 people in less than two weeks, and stories about the visit appeared in the media every day since the official announcement.5. By actively connecting the POTUS visit to our new media efforts, we have a unique chance to build a sustainable online platform to engage Indonesians on USG issues and messages long after the visit. With enough funding to properly amplify and build on past our successes, Mission Indonesia requests $100,000 immediately in order reach a goal of 1 million Facebook fans in just 30 days -- just before POTUS visit.Action Plan and Implementation6. This money would be used in three areas. First, it would increase direct advertising via Facebook. Currently, Embassy Jakarta spends less than $25 per day on advertising, and nets between 300-400 new fans daily. Increasing this tenfold over 30 days, results in a gain of 100,000 to 120,000 fans. The funds would also be used to promote the visit and our fan page as the place to learn more by extensively advertising on Indonesian online portals, banner ads, YouTube, Twitter, and other promotional efforts, including embedding bloggers, contests and giveaways, and using SMS technology. With over 100 million mobile phone users in Indonesia, texting is a powerful way to include a huge audience. Partnering with a major telecom provider, we can encourage Indonesians to sign up for real-time updates via their cell phone -- a great way to reach those not yet online about the visit. Cost: $60,000.7. Another key promotion strategy to generate interest will be offering a "golden ticket" via Facebook. We propose making a dream come true for one lucky Indonesian, by providing an opportunity to meet POTUS during his visit. If the White House approves, we could invite fans to post why they should meet President Obama, and in doing so, use our social media platform to connect fans to the visit, as well as build excitement beforehand and follow-up coverage afterwards. In addition, we could partner with a local TV station to have a "finalist" show and increase coverage. RSO would ensure any winner(s) are vetted for security issues. If the White House would not agree to this, an alternate "dream prize" might be an educational trip to the U.S. Cost: $15,000.8. Third, in order to implement these ideas in this limited time-frame, we need short-term expert help on this promotion in the form of a qualified local digital marketing agency, who could assist the Embassy's new media team (currently one officer and three FSNs working on it part-time). Cost: $25,000.OSIUS
Facebook has disabled the API that shares users' mobile phone and address details with developers in response to a wave of what it is calling 'feedback', and what I'd call justified concern.A carefully worded statement on theFacebook Developer Bloglisted the possible advantages of using this data in apps - speeding up the checkout process on a shopping website, for example, or allowing Groupon-type deals to be sent straight to your phone. And, the post says, users need to give permission to every app that might use that data, it won't share friends' details and there's an application dashboard where every user can control how their information is used.Photo byandymangoldon Flickr.Some rights reservedDespite those precautions and the benefits... Facebook now admits "that we could make people more clearly aware of when they are granting access to this data"."We are making changes to help ensure you only share this information when you intend to do so," said Douglas Purdy in the official post. "We'll be working to launch these updates as soon as possible, and will be temporarily disabling this feature until those changes are ready. We look forward to re-enabling this improved feature in the next few weeks."Facebook's 'seek forgiveness not permission' strategy is a risky but ultimately successful one. On one hand, it means a steady stream of what could be perceived as 'controversies' as some of the more privacy-related features are rolled out, reacted to, retracted and rolled out again in some modified form.But that's the nature of iterating in an innovative business. That strategy also means that in relation to the total number of features being rolled out, the number of problematic launches is very small.Facebook's incredibly rapid development and growth has much to do with this process, and these kind of 'adjustments' are a sign of a company continually pushing its own business forward. The tension arises where  that business overlaps with our sense of what is public and what is private - an area where Facebook is on the front line, redefining what privacy means to us.
It's good to know that despite the passing of the years, some things never change. In 2011, then, 'Best of' has got off to a typical start, arriving a fortnight late – very much my fault this time.Luckily, with topics such as 'going to the dentist' and 'stylish tennis players' on the agenda, it was at least going to be of the same high quality we have come to expect from Gamesblog's discussion forum. Also, if you enjoy elongated school metaphors, you're in for a particular treat...Monday January 3rdIn the form of a Haiku:Bank Holiday boxDizzy heights of fifteen postsNone worth repeating.TuesdayIf there is anything that will get in the way of a serious session of gaming, then it is coming back to work after a long holiday. There are serious amounts of Fallout New Vegas left unexplored by BarryEans, corpses left dying on the battlefields of, well, Battlefield, Nurburgrings with grass growing through the track... Steam's Christmas sale has filled up hard drives around the country, and both Android and Apple app stores have taken a beating. However, a word of warning about January Sales madness, from timthemonkey:"In a rum-soaked internet shop, I may have overpaid for Detective Comics 66. Oops."Comics aren't games, Tim, you're doing it wrong!Initially, it seemed that pdmalcolm had suffered the most miserable New Years Eve, by watching Scott Pilgrim vs The World and then climbing into bed by 10PM. However, considering he had just got engaged, being in bed early was possibly not the worst way to see in the New Year.Returning to work seemed have hit the Chatterbox crowd hard. Uncle3en was reduced to mumbling about, "The horror, the horror…", whereas WilliamCobblers was, "… off for a little lie down in the car park." FistofFun blamed his lateness to work on his sleeping patterns. RustyJames said it best, "I was hoping some of you had turned over a new leaf."Sorry, Rusty, seemingly not.It then came time for the Chatterboxers to reveal their New Year Resolutions (at least the ones that hadn't already fallen by the wayside three days into the new year). Really, only St00 made any effort to change from last year: "I've made resolutions this year and I'm sticking to them. I can't tell you what they are as they mostly include latexwear and crossdressing."Speaking of dressing up, Limni announced the second annual Chatterbox Awards, and you could hear the chatterverse sitting up straight, trying to press down that unironed late-'80s christian-rock T-shirt and licking their palms to flatten their once-too-often-dyed hair. It does no good really, because finally, here's an awards ceremony that doesn't rely on good looks and presentation skills. It will be held on the 5th of February in London, checkthe wikifor details of how to vote, where the event is being held, and more importantly, where to rent a suit for the night in Soho.Of course, there are other meat-ups for gamesbloggers – Manchester and Birmingham have enough bloggers to make bad karaoke choices as London does - and I hear the ale is cheaper too. In fact, I hear the North is a bit like the new Tron movie – not quite as good as the '80s version. That movie seemed to stir up a few bloggers too; Timthemonkey, tried to defend the neon computer world, EnglishRed was quick to see through Tim's reviewing skills, as sadly he won't be replacing Jonathon Ross on Film 2011. Lazybones, being Lazybones and having no opinion of his own, just followed the crowd and agreed that Tron was abysmal. And ready to spoil it all, and take the side of the underdog, Chubster2010 really enjoyed Tron – says it all really.I'm going to go and watch it in IMAX 3D.Quote of the day:"I thought that was a joke about the Police and Facebook. I give it three days before they start using Twitter. If there are no charges bought within a month; expect an iphone app."RustyJames tackles law and (social) order.Wednesday...on the aptly named 'hump day', the blog began by lurching slowly and painfully, grasping at nothing like Quasimodo trying to pick up a chicken[What?! - Keef]. You know it's not good when the first point of interest starts with "Dentist Query", but Scamander's troublesome tooth brought out myriad views. Some suggested a root canal, others said, on no account get a root canal, yet more advised antibiotics. But Seren typically went for the safe and boring option asking, "Have you seen the youtube clip of the kid, his tooth, a string, a rocket and his mental dad? I think it could solve your tooth problems."After an ill-advised conversation comparing a certain German dictator with Mola Ram, the evil priest from Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, talk naturally turned to, 'names you don't see very often nowadays'. Herod, Elvis, Judas and Myra were all on the list, although Killerbee testifies to having met a Ptolemy. Nice.I am skipping past the 'brilliant' game of 'guess Humofevil's age' just to spare getting everyone too excited again and I'm going to do something I haven't seen done in a Best of before and just let you bask in the glory of a De-lurk of reference quality:"So, you're all ****s.Weapon: two pool balls and a rugby sock.If Tony's about, my mother is voluptuous and dusky."Enough to bring a tear to your eye. Ottawhat, take a bow son, take a bow.Quotes of the day"I ran round the park a few times last year. I even stopped and did press-ups, a bit like Rocky"Marathon preparation, the Lazybones way"I pay, they drive. That way they can't get on the bevvy and start giving you brain damage."Hayers channelling the wisdom of Sir Jim.ThursdaySettle down at the back, it's time to take the Gamesblog back to school. There are a few things you shower are in need of learning. Todays lessons are brought to you from the classrooms of the 1970s, when chucking a chalk duster at a young boys head was the norm, try doing that with an 'interactive' white board.Our first lesson is modern languages:"She's a teacher... She no longer wants to be a teacher, which is just as well as there isn't a single Modern Languages job currently advertised in Scotland."pdmalcolm moves north of the border to aid marital communication.Moving on to European culture…"Had a German pork stew for dinner last night."It's good that you've done your homework, SageSmith, but your failure was in eating all of it before handing it in for marking! Back of the class.Speaking of things from the back of the class... "I blame my inability to speak French or German on inept tuition," protested RobLindsay. "My French teacher in particular was 'old school'... and I spent too much time wondering what she would look like in lacy underwear." Get out of my class and go straight to the principle's office. Mr Arthur will deal with you.To help with our other language skills, RustyJames will be bringing his au-pair to class to help: "I was always more of a Kristin Scott-Thomas fan. Especially when she is speaking French." It's impossible to study language without an appreciation of punctuation, however. Sadly, it seems that Sheep2 has been in the teacher's drawer and stolen all of the asterisks:"W*lv*sTremendous result.V*ll*Tremendous resultW*lv*s might yet keep themselves up. A bit of fighting spirit."…Put your headphones away now and take out your maths books. "Anyone seen the Back to the Future episodic game?" asked Bobbobob. "It's £16.99 for ep1 of 5! Doing the maths, it seems this will cost upwards of £200 for all five. This is taking it seriously."Prompted by this, RobLindsay got out his abacus: "I spy a maths fail – 16.99 x 5 = £84.95. Still a lot though"Let's see your working out then bobbobob: "It's easy, look. £16.99 x 5 = 1x5+6x5.9x5+9x5 = 213 = upwards of £200. What's all the fuss?"CountGinula was reminded of an incident from 2010: "I think we need maths oracle Alexp to clear up this rather ugly situation."Rob, anything more to say? "No we don't! how hard is it?!Five items at £17 costs a total of £85, the most basic of mathematics... If I have four beans and add this bean what do I have? Some beans."For homework, I want you all to bring me in a three-sided dice.OK, time now for PE. A quick game of Blood Bowl, all the children with pointy ears on this side, and all those who can't afford private dental care, on this side. I'm off for a fag in the teachers' lounge, last kid standing come and get me after lunch.Stunning, I knew it would be your miserable face to come and interrupt my sleep.This afternoon, I will be mostly sleeping with my feet up on the desk. So we'll have an arts class – I want you all to make up posters, of say, something only the weirdest mind could imagine, like that table in the pub with those invaders from space. By the time I wake up, I want you all to have come up with some computer game-related posters.WeeCooper stuck up his posters using pages from Your Sinclair. RustyJames decorated with Lara Croft, CatZilla had the blogs actor-most-likely-to-play-tony-hayers-in-the-movie-of-his-life, Mel Gibson, on his walls. Elquesodiablo, obviously from the wrong side of the tracks, used pages from Commodore Format, SerenVikity used pages from Playboy (honestly headmaster, I only read it for the articles).Fegbarr had a suspicious old man with a monocle on his wall, oh wait a second, not Henry Pootle, but Patrick Moore as Gamesmaster. Silverfox is reported to have posters of Martin O'Neil, HereComesTreble had Good Morning Vietnam and Gazza in a rangers shirt - think I would have preferred agent orange myself. Pokemon used a poster of Emma Thompson, which he seems to have ripped out of his Shakespeare homework book - Pokemon, go join RobLindsay at the headmasters office.St00 used a poster of Betty Boo and a semi-nude Danni Minogue and seasonedcynic used copies of Grand Theft Auto to attempt to hide the fact that he had spent the afternoon putting the teacher's car up on concrete blocks.I know it's obvious now, but this lot are just like the Bash Street Kids.Quote of the day"Top 5 sitcom characters:JoeyChandlerMonicaRachelPhoebe"Cunningstunt has listblog down to a tee.FridayAnd so an epic(?) week of chat was brought to an end by the black hole of productivity that is Friday.The day began uneventfully with civilised chat about shooty-shooty games from the night before and some stick and ball competition in which the "mighty" Ingerlund won the burnt corpse of WG Grace in a tiny jar (true fact).Whilst describing his joyous breakfast of a Ginster's meat slice and some homemade banana loaf, Wee Cooper came over all prophetic — "It can only go downhill from here."And sure enough it did, quickly. Interspersed between sensible chat about stylish tennis players and the TV for idiots that is Famous and Fearless was extensive chat about an incident involving 'a friend' of PdMalcolm. What was the incident? Let's play safe and just state that it involved an inappropriate act on a dancefloor with another person.Would Uncleb3n's request for advice on how to handle a '70s themed fancy dress party full of school teachers raise the tone? Would it heck. The advice ranged from unhelpful ("Get a pair of flares, pull out the pockets, and ask birthday girl if she'd like to see a 1970s elephant." – Alimantado) to strangely appropriate ("Just hide behind a potted plant. Works for you in all FPS games." – SuperSmashin). After that, another extended bout of speculation over Timthemonkey's private life seemed like a high point.At 6.19pm (or "aboot lunchtime" over in Her Majesty's Canadia) Ottawhat showed delicious ignorance by asking, "Does nobody work nights anymore? Where's Chatters?" 740 comments, Ottawhat – we clearly don't work days either.End gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'Thirteen' by Big Star[excellent choice! – Keef]Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's 'Best of' was written by onedaveofmany, Smellavision, Tjvs and Foolsgold. It was edited by SerenVikity."Be always at war with your vices, at peace with your neighbours, and let each New Year find you a better man." Benjamin Franklin
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Age:2.Appearance:The iPhone's annoyingly popular little sister.So what's this Android then?It's amobile operating system.Like dial-a-surgeon?That's not a thing, so no. Android is Google's challenger to the iPhone, a multi-platform operating system used primarily for mobile phones.A challenger to the iPhone? The uber-cool Goliath of the smartphone world? I assume it's been roundly thrashed.Not exactly. Despite being launched later than Apple's game-changing handset, and never really being hailed as cool at all, Google's upstart alternative now looks set to emerge victorious. Like the unassuming, utilitarian tortoise to iPhone's flashy touch-screen hare, sales of phones using Android have now overtaken sales of the iPhone.Blasphemy! Not the iPhone! Not the birthplace ofAngry Birds– the most addictive and pointless game ever?That's the one.But I read the Guardian. I worship the iPhone. You'll be telling me Twitter's not the apogee of human progress next.The problem, in a nutshell, is that Apple's mobile operating system  is a lot like Henry Ford's Model T.You have to start it up with a hand-crank?You can have any colour you want, so long as it's Apple. Android,  on the other hand, gives you the touch-screen, apps and neat little rows of icons that iPhone users drool over,  but can be run on dozens of different handsets from dozens of different companies.Just like with Macs and PCs.Exactly. You can buy a PC from Toshiba, Dell  or Hewlett-Packard. With a Mac,  you're bound to Apple and Apple alone. As one commentator put it, "The big deal is: Android is free software, and handsets that can run it  are getting super-cheap."So maybe Apple just needs to start giving away iPhones?Which is why there's a free iPhone for every reader  in tomorrow's G2!Really?No.Do say:"Switching to Android was the best decision I ever made."Don't say:"Downloading Angry Birds was the last decision I ever made."
Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, who has survived a rare pancreatic cancer, is taking a medical leave of absence from the company almost exactly two years after he took a similar one, during which he received a liver transplant.The news was announced when US stock markets were closed for a public holiday, almost certainly saving the company's stock from a precipitous fall. In after-hours trading in Frankfurt on Monday it fell $22, or 9%. When Jobs took a similar leave of absence in 2009, the stock was briefly suspended after falling 10% on the US market.Apple's remaining executives are sure to face a grilling on Wednesday night when announce the company's quarterly results – though those are expected to report booming numbers from its Christmas quarter, with its iPhone and iPad products, as well as its Macintosh computers, all forecast to have sold well.The the company's chief operating officer, Tim Cook, who has been at the company since March 1998, will take over the day-to-day operations of the company – though in an email to staff Jobs said that he will "continue as CEO and be involved in major strategic decisions for the company". He added: "I love Apple so much and hope to be back as soon as I can. In the meantime, my family and I would deeply appreciate respect for our privacy."Apple executives in Europe declined to provide any further detail on the reason for Jobs's absence or its expected length.Many investors and analysts see Apple as Jobs's creation – and him as the engine of its progress. He is cited as the person through whom final design decisions flow, and in whom the "DNA" of the company resides. Every new product that comes out of Apple has Jobs's fingerprints on it – usually literally. In March 2010,Barron's attempted to estimate Jobs's value to Apple, and came up with a figure of $25bn – though that will be now be substantially higher.Jobs was diagnosed with islet cell neuroendocrine cancer of the pancreas in 2004 – a rare, and treatable form of the disease. After some delay, he was treated in summer 2004 and seemed to make a full recovery. But in January 2009 he took medical leave, and in April 2009 received a liver transplant.But Professor John Neoptolemos, a pancreatic cancer specialist from Liverpool University, said on Monday night that for most patients in those circumstances a liver transplant is a mistake, because it requires the use of immunosuppressant drugs to prevent tissue rejection – and that can in turn allow the cancer to return in the transplanted liver and other parts of the body. There are treatments available, including radiotherapy and new drugs produced by Pfizer, which he said "should help stabilise" a patient in that situation.Professor Neoptolemos emphasised that he has not seen any of Jobs's medical details, and that the medical literature is unclear about survival rates following liver transplants in the wake of islet cell cancer.During Jobs's absence, Apple will be run by Tim Cook, his chief operating officer, who ran the company in 2009 while Jobs was away for six months due to the transplant.Carolina Milanesi, vice-president of mobile devices for the research company Gartner, said that Jobs's absence need not mean the end of Apple. "The timing of the announcement [when markets were closed] shows that timing is part of being good at your job. I think that this time around, compared to 2009, people know that Tim Cook can do a good job. As a consumer, I don't care who's running the company – I just care about the products I can buy."She added: "It's true that Jobs is the captain of the ship. And if you lose the captain for a period, then you are lost for a while. But then there are other people who can steer the ship to a safe harbour."Apple has firmly resisted attempts to set out how it will find a chief executive to succeed Jobs. In aregulatory filing earlier this monthsetting out plans for its shareholders' meeting on 23 February, the directors recommend voting "against the shareholder proposal entitled 'Amend the company's corporate governance guidelines to adopt and disclose a written CEO succession planning policy'".That recommendation will have a particular poignancy at the meeting next month – and may even find shareholders abruptly seeking clarification on precisely those lines.The signoff in the email sent to all employees contrasts with the wording of his 2009 email, when Jobs signed off saying that he would "look forward to seeing you all this summer". He returned in June. This one is more open-ended.
Apple's chief operations officer joined the company in March 1998, having been lured there by Steve Jobs from PC maker Compaq, then one of the biggest forces in Windows PCs, and before that at IBM. His specialism was in getting supply chains – the process of getting the right materials to the right place at the right time – to work correctly.Now aged 50, Cook graduated from Auburn University with a degree in industrial engineering in 1982, and followed it with an MBA. Then he went into the computer-making business.Arriving at Apple, he found a company whose supply chains were falling apart through a confusion of models, incompatible parts, and bad organisation. Cook shook them by the neck and tightened them up until Apple rivalled Dell, then the most efficient PC-making machine in the business, for minimal stock levels.Yet this has been done without rancour. The story is told of one of his first meetings at Apple, where as the newly appointed senior vice-president for worldwide operations he observed that there were serious problems with a manufacturing plant. "This is really bad," Cook said. "Someone should be in China driving this." Half an hour later he looked at the operations chief, who was also in the meeting, and asked plainly: "Why are you still here?"Born in Alabama, he loves the outdoors – notably cycling – Cook is not a showman; he has none of the magician's tricks of the reveal that Jobs employs. In fact, in all his time there, he has never lifted the cover off a new Apple product, be it software or hardware, in front of an audience, although he has led plenty of earnings calls with analysts, and kicked off some presentations to the press.The question that remains is whether he could be Apple's chief executive. Cook's specialism is in making the day-to-day business work. But Apple is a company that needs someone with a grand vision at its helm. Cook has done everything else – but he has not so far shown a sign of being able to do that.
The news that Steve Jobs is taking a second open-ended leave of medical absence broke as the US stock markets were closed for Martin Luther King day – saving Apple's stock from what would have almost certainly been a precipitous fall in other circumstances.In Germany, the stock dipped by 8.3% in after-hours trading, an indicator of how keenly Jobs's presence is felt at the company he co-founded in 1976.When he made asimilar announcement in 2009, the stock was briefly suspended after falling more than 10% in the hours after he announced his leave of absence. Yet it recovered even during his six-month break, continuing an upward path that has continued undiminished, leaving Apple now as the second-largest by market capitalisation in the world.Many investors and analysts see Apple as Jobs's creation – and him as the engine of its progress. He is cited as the person that final design decisions flow through, and in who the "DNA" of the company resides. Every new product that comes out of Apple has Jobs's fingerprints on it – usually literally. In March 2010, financial magazine Barron's attempted toestimate Jobs's value to Apple, and came up with a figure of $25bn (£15.7bn). The company's present capitalisation is $319.7bn.The company's executives will certainly face tough questioning on Wednesday night when they release its latest quarterly results. Though Tim Cook, the chief operating officer who has taken charge before when Jobs has had needed medical leave, excels at managing the company from day to day, he does not have the showman's ability that ignites the passions of Apple's many fans – and it is not clear whether he has driven any of its design products.Yet for someone else such as the charismatic head of marketing Phil Schiller to be promoted over Cook's head might create internal tensions.The question is who could possibly follow Jobs if the worst happens. His request for medical leave is almost certainly connected to the islet cell neuroendocrine cancer of the pancreas (a rare, survivable form) that he was treated for in 2004, and the consequent liver transplant he received in April 2009.Apple has firmly resisted attempts to set out how it will find a chief executive to succeed Jobs. In aregulatory filing earlier this monthsetting out plans for its shareholders' meeting on 23 February, the directors recommend voting "AGAINST the shareholder proposal entitled 'Amend the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines to adopt and disclose a written CEO succession planning policy'".That recommendation will have a particular poignancy at the meeting next month – and may even find shareholders abruptly seeking clarification on precisely those lines.
Apple chief executive Steve Jobs, who has survived pancreatic cancer, is taking a medical leave of absence from the company almost two years after he took a similar one, during which he received a liver transplant.The announcement by Apple today will rekindle speculation about long-term survival prospects for Jobs, 55, following his treatment for cancer in 2004.In an email sent to all Apple employees this morning, Jobs said: "At my request, the board of directors has granted me a medical leave of absence so I can focus on my health. I will continue as CEO and be involved in major strategic decisions for the company."I have asked Tim Cook to be responsible for all of Apple's day to day operations. I have great confidence that Tim and the rest of the executive management team will do a terrific job executing the exciting plans we have in place for 2011."I love Apple so much and hope to be back as soon as I can. In the meantime, my family and I would deeply appreciate respect for our privacy."The move mirrors the arrangements Apple made in 2009 when Jobs took a six-month leave of absence. Cook, Apple's chief operating officer, took over the day-to-day running then as well.Jobs received treatment for a rare, and survivable, form of pancreatic cancer in 2004. He returned to the company later that year, but made few public appearances until 2006.In mid-2008 speculation about his apparent loss of weight led to Apple denying that there had been any after-effects from his surgery, which used a method called the "Whipple procedure", which removes sections of the duodenum.It was after that that Jobs eventually had to take his first bout of medical leave, leading to a liver transplant in April 2009.
Nokia is pulling the plug on its free music downloads service for mobile phones, Ovi Music Unlimited, in the UK and 26 other countries.The world's largest mobile phone manufacturer is to stop offering the service, which allows customers to buy a Nokia handset and receive free, unlimited music downloads, in all but six countries by the end of the year.Nokia will only continue to offer the service, formerly Comes With Music, as a 12-month subscription model in China, India and Indonesia. In Brazil, Turkey and South Africa it will continue to operate on a six-month subscription basis.Nokia said it planned to look at alternatives, adding that the move does not affect its Ovi Music Store, a separate service that allows Nokia device owners to purchase DRM-free music from an online store. The Ovi Music Store is available in 38 markets."We are currently working with our partners to deliver new, innovative music services as part of the Ovi experience during 2011," said a spokesman for Nokia. "As we focus on delivering these ... we have ceased producing Ovi Music Unlimited-edition devices as of the end of 2010."The major music labels – Universal Music, EMI, Warner Music and Sony Music – all backed the service, which aimed to be a competitor to Apple's iTunes.Takeup of Nokia's Ovi Music Unlimited service is thought to have been slow for reasons including digital rights management policies which meant that music downloads could not be shared, or accessed, on different devices.
Do you publish your home address online? In managing our online lives, many of us quite advisedly draw the line the line at our home address. But if you've ever spent an hour polishing your Facebook profile and compulsively filledeverybox – you might remember putting your home address.Photo byjason.mundyon Flickr.Some rights reservedThat's useful for friends that want to post you a birthday present perhaps, but Facebook has caused no small amount of concern by quietly opening this data field to developers. Apost on Saturdayby Jeff Bowen in Facebook's developer support team explained that users' addresses and mobile phone numbers are being made available on the development platform through a number of APIs.Users would have to accept a new app and allow it access to personal information. Contact details of friends would not be accessible unless they too accepted the app.But the primary concern, as neatly summarised byGraham Cluley on the Sophos blog, is that rogue app developers could efficiently harvest this very valuable information by developing apps that scrape this contact information and use it for spam or cold-calling."Facebook is already plagued by rogue applications that post spam links to users' walls, and point users to survey scams that earn them commission – and even sometimes trick users into handing over their cellphone numbers to sign them up for a premium rate service," he wrote last night. "You have to ask yourself – is Facebook putting the safety of its 500+ million users as a top priority with this move?"Facebook's latest API allows developers access to users' address and mobile numberThis is clearly the downside of Facebook's open apps policy, though it's extremely unlikely Facebook would reverse that and head down the Apple road of approving apps – which has a whole set of different problems. Cluley suggests developers should only be granted access to this information if it proven to be a valid use, or that users should be asked to approve sharing this data.Perhaps a halfway "traffic light system" of data might be better? Green for odes to your favourite shampoo (ka-ching!), amber for photos of your baby and red for your home address. Use of code red data would need to be approved by Facebook and would be highlighted when users are faced with the allow/don't allow dialogue box that they nearly always allow anyway.Facebook's future – if it is to meet the increasingly inflated aspirations of its "incentivised" investors – is to use a combination of its scale and the acres of intimate information it holds about all of us to find the real money in targeted advertising. The strategy is to gradually open our personal data more and more, making open information the norm, desensitising us to any uncomfortable feelings we might have had about our personal data being released into the wild. In a few years, we'll have no qualms at all about getting our home address out there. Perhaps.Until that point, review the information you have on your profile:facebook.com / profile / edit profile / contact information.• Update:Facebook reminds us that there's a difference between rogue applications and apps with a genuine reason for accessing your address or phone number. A spokesperson gave the example of an airline's e-commerce app that could be more useful if it could notify users about last minute flight changes."On Facebook you have absolute control over what information you share, who you share it with and when you want to remove it. Developers can now request permission to access a person's address and mobile phone number to make applications built on Facebook more useful and efficient. You need to explicitly choose to share your data before any app or website can access it and no private information is shared without your permission. As an additional step for this new feature, you're not able to share your friends' address or mobile information."
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 15 JanuaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (3)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (35)Wii (10)PC (3)102 (1)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (36)Wii (6)DS (6)163 (2)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)144 (5)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)595 (10)Kinect Sports(12+)Xbox 360 (100)106 (4)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (44)Wii (5)PC (1)97 (6)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)98 (7)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)89 (8)Fallout: New Vegas(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (36)PC (10)1310 (–)Dc Universe Online(12+)PS3 (81)PC (19)1UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
My gaming weekend saw me - possibly inspired by our recent Guardiangame of the year award- revist Red Dead Redemption. Stunning vistas and superb online co-op made for an excellent return. Elsewhere there was an outing for WoW - the Worgen starter area is a great playground - as well as more Lara Croft on iPad. But what about you? How was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Google announced last week that it is axing support for the H.264 video codec from its Chrome browser. (Only the one it distributes for desktops, at the moment; but it's not clear whether the Android browser includes an H.264 codec. We'll come to it.)The ripples from this are still spreading around the web, and their echoes coming back. The questions are twofold: why, precisely, did Google do this? And who is going to win and lose from it?Let's set the scene.• Adobe's Flash is the dominant method by which video is viewed in desktop/laptop browsers.• Google's Chrome browser is raising its share steadily, through advertising around the web and physically. (It's now ahead of Apple's Safari, for example.)• The patent-encumbered H.264 video codec is the dominant method at present by which mobile video is viewed, because Apple's iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad dominate mobile viewing, and they don't do Flash (because of stability, security, CPU usage and control of platform direction). Because of this Google's YouTube has re-encoded pretty much everything into H.264, in parallel with the Flash version for desktops and for Android and other phones (the latter a growing share of mobile browsing).And now Google is going big on WebM. The move had been expected ever since Google announced it was going to open source the VP8 video codec after it bought On2. That was last May - described here then as "Google leads WebM fightback against H.264 video".The idea then was that"Google is combining with Mozilla (Firefox) and Opera in the WebM project to create a Matroska file format using VP8 and the Ogg Vorbis open source audio codec. It should enable any HTML5 web browser and any video player to play video."Mozilla (aka Firefox) and Opera didn't like the H.264 codec, which is licensed via a patent pool in which the last item doesn't expire until 2038. (Some have already expired, but the pool lives on until the last one goes.)Using H.264 involves paying money - for Google, a growing amount of money. The licensing cost can be raised by 10% every year (on agreements that are renewed every five years), and the amount payable is due annually.Might Google's objection to H.264 be because of the cost? Unlikely. Florian Mueller (who is absolutely no fan of software patents)noted last Junethat MPEG-LA (which looks after the patents) already has a $6.5m cap on licensing (from 2011-2015), which will next be reviewed in 2016. That covers everything - encoders and decoders. (Read the terms[PDF]).So Google has a motive there to go open source, even if WebM (as we'll see) isn't as efficient or fast as H.264. But more importantly, don't forget thatGoogle is run by its engineers. It's driven by their decisions. Certainly someone higher up will have approved the decision, but this will fundamentally have been a decision that was done becausea Google engineering team thought it was the right one in principle. Not because they thought it would screw up Apple. Nor because they thought it would strengthen Adobe. Nor even necessarily because they're against H.264 and software patents (though those would be things they don't like).Announcing the move on the Chromium blog at the start of last week, Mike Jazayeri, the Chrome product manager, said that open-sourcing VP8 has meant performance improvements, "broad adoption by browser, tools and hardware vendors" and "independent (yet compatible) implementations".But, he continues, at Google they"are focusing our investments in those technologies that are developed and licensed based on open web principles. To that end, we are changing Chrome's HTML5 &lt;video&gt; support to make it consistent with the codecs already supported by the open Chromium project. Specifically, we are supporting the WebM (VP8) and Theora video codecs, and will consider adding support for other high-quality open codecs in the future. Though H.264 plays an important role in video, as our goal is to enable open innovation, support for the codec will be removed and our resources directed towards completely open codec technologies."In other words, Google is taking H.264 for a walk out the back and only one of them is returning. Support will be dropped in forthcoming (at some point) versions of Chrome.Before we move on, let's just ask what those performance improvements Jazayeri refers to are. Thelinked page in his post saysthat compared to the May 2010 release, it's 20-40% faster at decoding, and 7% improvement in best-quality encoding. Real-time encoding speed: not great, it seems, or not good enough yet for videoconferencing, going by the comments.Performance is not something that has been mentioned much before over WebM. Atest from last summer (before those performance improvements)of H.264 and VP8 found that VP8 often did well - sometimes even better - than H.264.But there's a catch: "When comparing VP8 and x264, VP8 also shows 5-25 times lower encoding speed with 20-30% lower quality at average. For example x264 High-Speed preset is faster and has higher quality than any of VP8 presets at average."Which means there's some way to go before VP8 is as good as H.264, even with those performance improvements mentioned.Which means Google's decision is about the open source thing.In afollowup post on the Chromium blog on Friday, Jazayeri points out that Firefox (the second-biggest browser) and Chrome and Opera support WebM (because it's open) and Internet Explorer (the biggest browser) and Safari (in all its forms, including - and this is important - mobile) support H.264. Microsoft has said it won't have native support for WebM in Internet Explorer 9.Jazayeri:"We acknowledge that H.264 has broader support in the publisher, developer, and hardware community today (though support across the ecosystem for WebM is growing rapidly). However, as stated above, there will not be agreement to make it the baseline in the HTML video standard due to its licensing requirements."He argues that to Google, it's not a lot of money, but "to the next great video startup and those in emerging markets these fees stifle innovation."Next, the killer question:Won't this decision force publishers to create multiple copies of their videos?Which is a very big question indeed. But the key thing about this question is that it's a very big question forHTML5video - not for what you might call the HTML4 generation, which is most likely the device you're using now: a desktop or laptop.Here's where Jazayeri gets rather sneaky. "Firefox and Opera have never supported H.264 due to its licensing requirements, they both support WebM and Ogg Theora." True. "Therefore, unless publishers and developers using the HTML &lt;video&gt; tag don't plan to support the large portion of the desktop and mobile web that use these browsers, they will have to support a format other than H.264 anyway".Ummm. That's tricky. Opera is very widely used, it's true: it's on lots of Nokia phones. But they are not used for the majority ofmobile videoviewing. That's done by MobileSafari - Apple's browser - which dominates for HTML5 video viewing. (Android phones don't use the &lt;video&gt; content: they use Adobe Flash in a plugin. For the purposes of this evaluation, they simply don't have an effect - yet.)So we come to Jazayeri's closing remarks:"Bottom line, we are at an impasse in the evolution of HTML video. Having no baseline codec in the HTML specification is far from ideal. This is why we're joining others in the community to invest in WebM and encouraging every browser vendor to adopt it for the emerging HTML video platform (the WebM Project team will soon release plugins that enable WebM support in Safari and IE9 via the HTML standard &lt;video&gt; tag)."Which is the point that nobody who wants this to be a riotous catfight seems to have noticed: if Apple wants, it can write a WebM plugin for MobileSafari. That's if H.264 availability starts to fall off.Which, if you think about it, it might well do. Google owns YouTube, the world's biggest video sharing site. It wouldn't be the most enormous shock to see a similar announcement come out of YouTube - that it's going to be encoding content in Flash (perhaps H.264 in a wrapper) and WebM.That could theoretically create a problem for Apple - except it's a company which has written the occasional bit of software, includingstuff using open source- MobileSafari is based on WebKit which is open source.How about Microsoft? It might have the most to lose from not including a WebM plugin in Internet Explorer 9 (if you assume that IE9 won't ramp up in use as quickly as others have, and that IE generally will continue to lose share). Indeed, asarcastic blogpostfrom Tim Sneath, a Windows and web evangelist at Microsoft, suggests the WebM move makes as much sense as declaring that everyone should now speakEsperanto(the "universal" language that barely anyone speaks): "Though English plays an important role in speech today, as our goal is to enable open innovation, its further use as a form of communication in this country will be prohibited and our resources directed towards languages that are untainted by real-world usage".Sneath may simply be making fun, though. Google shifting the video goalposts like this, despite the small share of Chrome, matters - because Firefox 4, the next version of the most popular browser, willhave support for WebM. And of course Firefox is the second-largest browser. It won't support H.264. It will support Flash (and Apple's Quicktime and Microsoft's Silverlight) plugins. There, it's not about the open source thing. It's about the money thing.We're nearly at the end, but WebM isn't quite out of the woods yet. Expect that the lingering threats of patent lawsuits -Steve Jobs hinted at them last May- will be brought to bear.More importantly, the difficult trick will be getting WebM's performance improved. Video codec programming is a really specialist niche, and Google's apparently slow progress so far in improving WebM suggests that it's going to have to put some effort in - or bring in some specialists - to push things along. Otherwise, those video producers aren't going to be pleased at the idea that they've been forced to give up video quality so that Google can promote an open web.So let's sum up.Google:winner. It gets to decide direction of HTML5 video codecs. If WebM somehow bizarrely fails, it can easily afford to pay for H.264.Expect YouTube to make an announcement, if/when WebM encoding improves enough, that it's going to be using WebM for HTML5 video in future.Adobe: winner now, possible long-term loser. It's still ensconced on the desktop, and on Android phones - though might Google dump it for WebM on its Android phones in the future because (a) WebM is its own (b) Flash might have security issues? (And you should expect that Android phones will begin to make up a very large share of smartphones in the next few years.) The question for Adobe is whether people will keep making content in Flash if WebM catches on as the HTML &lt;video&gt; codec. But there's nothing to stop it being able to use WebM, just as it already uses H.264.Big-on-the-desktop Firefox (and teeny-on-the-desktop Opera): winners. They will have WebM plugins, so sites could move to WebM rather than Flash encoding and get the benefit of one-time encoding, and these browsers won't frustrate users.Apple: short-term inconvenience, not necessarily a loser. Having to shift to WebM would be a pain, and Steve Jobs will mightily curse Google and all its doings, but this is software, and it's video. Apple pretty much invented that back in the day with Quicktime. It's a software update if YouTube shifts to WebM.Notice how different this is from Apple's relationship with Flash: Adobe, not Apple, writes the Flash plugin, which is what frustrates Apple. But here Apple would choose to write the WebM plugin (assuming Google is going to open source it, which it says it is. The cat will be among the pigeons if this is an Android - apparently open but actually with some secrets hidden inside the Googleplex.)Meanwhile Apple will continue using H.264 all over the place, such as for iChat video, device video (it givesdevelopers an encoding system), video output encoding... and Steve Jobs may try to corral content producers to lobby Google/YouTube on the basis that WebM is a big hassle, and the quality isn't as good. It's hard to know how that will play at Google's engineer-driven base though.You and me: slightly confused neither-winner-nor-loser. Neither of us is paying H.264 licensing fees. Neither of us greatly cares whether our smartphone gets served WebM or H.264 video - unless the quality and/or bandwidth required is noticeably worse/greater with WebM. In that latter case, we become losers - viewing on a mobile will use more bandwidth/look worse, meaning we'll have been sacrificed on Google's engineers' altar ofit seems like a good idea in principle.In fact, this is the sort of thing that in the end doesn't matter to users as much as the noise around it makes it feel. Yes, WebM is open source, and that's a good thing generally. Its performance isn't great, and that's a bad thing. The question is whether Google can tie the two together and improve it without getting slammed by patent lawsuits that could cost it a hell of a lot more than just licensing H.264 until 2038 would ever have done.But then, some things are best done on principle.
Military "cyber weaponry" will become commonplace this century, but it will be unlikely to deter attacks by "hacktivists" and criminal gangs, and could easily be used for state-sponsored cyber attacks instead, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development warns.The British authors of the study, which is released today, also caution that "lurid language" and lobbying by technology firms distort the government's plans to protect Britain against cyber attacks.Professor Peter Sommer of the LSE and Dr Ian Brown of Oxford University's internet institute were commissioned by the OECD for one of a series of investigations into potential "future global shocks".Their report comes at a time of heightened awareness of online attacks following hacking protests against companies caught up in the WikiLeaks controversy.In response to other hacking attacks from groups inside China and Russia, military preparations have begun to gather pace, the study says. But it also warns: "It is not too difficult for nation states to set up covert cyber attack units. Any agency that researches, for defensive purposes, the nature of cyber attacks has all the knowledge needed to originate attacks, and disguise the fact they are doing so."Little capital investment … is required [since] nearly all cyber attacks use hijacked, innocent zombie machines."Brown says state-supported cyberwar is likely to become more common because "cyber weaponry will play a key role alongside more conventional and psychological attacks by nation states in future warfare". However, the report warns: "A largely military [response] to cyber security is a mistake. Most targets in the critical national infrastructure of communications, energy, finance, food, government, health, transport, and water are in the private sector. Because it is often difficult to be certain who is attacking you from cyberspace, defence by deterrence does not work."The authors suggests that "lean, just-in-time delivery systems" that supply supermarkets and manufacturers expose them to severe disruption if major computer networks go down."More effective is increasing the resilience and robustness of critical systems, and societies in general … Adding redundancy to systems allows some service to be continued while damaged components are isolated, repaired and replaced. Public panic buying can quickly magnify these disruptions. During the 2000 fuel protests in the UK, some food stores introduced rationing."Nato has set up a centre of excellence in cyber defence in Estonia, and last year the US appointed its first cyber warfare general."The UK [has created] the office of cyber security and information assurance (Ocsia) and also a cyber security operations centre. At a European level there is Enisa, the European network and information security agency," the report says.Ocsia has about 20 people working for it, bringing together experts from the military, police and intelligence services. It is the lead agency co-ordinating the £650m cyber security programme announced by the coalition government last October.Sommer added: "We don't help ourselves using 'cyberwar' to describe espionage or hacktivist blockading or defacing of websites, as recently seen in reaction to WikiLeaks. Nor is it helpful to group trivially avoidable incidents like viruses and frauds with determined attempts to disrupt national infrastructure."Cyber warfare strategies and weapons include: unauthorised access to systems [hacking], viruses and worms that spread across the internet, trojans, distributed denial of service attacks using botnets, root-kits, and the use of social engineering.
The chances of a military strike against Iran this year are receding because of the success of a joint Israeli-US cyberattack on the country's nuclear facilities, according to officials and analysts with knowledge of the clandestine operation.The New York Times reported today that Israel, with US help, had set up a model of the Iranian nuclear process at Dimona, the Israeli nuclear arms development centre in the Negev desert, to test a sophisticated destructive programme.A computer worm, Stuxnet, was known last year to have been inserted into the Iranian nuclear operation and Iran admitted its programme had been delayed.What is new is the role of Dimona, where the Israelis are reported to have been spinning nuclear centrifuges virtually identical to Iran's nuclear plant at Natanz, and the extent of involvement by US researchers and intelligence agencies. The centrifuges are used to enrich uranium.Last year, rumours of military action began to be heard louder round Washington, with diplomats and officials warning that this year would be the year of decision on whether to launch a military strike. But the mood has changed.An official told the Guardian that the military option is now less likely, citing not only the cyberattack, but also the synchronised assassination last year of two Iranian nuclear scientists, attributed to Israel.A leading analyst, Avner Cohen, the Washington-based author of Israel and the Bomb and Worst-Kept Secret: Israel's Bargain with the Bomb, also told this newspaper: "In the short term, it surely makes military action less likely. In fact, I do not see any military action against Iran anytime soon. It takes the pressure off. It does not mean military action is off the table, but it is not a short-term concern."Cohen, from the Monterey Institute of International Studies, said he believed reports about testing the Stuxnet on centrifuges at Dimona and the involvement of the US were largely accurate."It makes good sense to me. It fits what I heard and knew," Cohen said.The work at Dimona was carried out over the last two years, though neither Israel nor the US has admitted this.The Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, said last November that malicious software had created problems in some of Iran's centrifuges, though he insisted the problems had been solved.Meir Dagan, head of the Mossad, the Israeli overseas intelligence agency, gave an unusually upbeat assessment of progress on Iran in a report earlier this month, on the eve of his retirement. He said Iran's nuclear programme had been delayed by at least a year. The US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, echoed this but she attributed the delay to economic sanctions.According to the New York Times, the Stuxnet worm included one component designed to send Iran's centrifuges spinning out of control and another to record normal operations at the nuclear plant and then play them back so that everything would appear normal while the centrifuges were tearing themselves apart.If true, it would be the biggest cyberattack yet launched anywhere in the world, outstripping those attributed to Russia and China.The idea may have developed from work at the Idaho National Laboratory, part of the US energy department that deals with nuclear arms, which teamed up with international companies such as the German company Siemens to look at the risk from cyberattack.Cohen attributed the close co-operation between Israel and the US to Dagan, who insisted that on the Iranian nuclear issues Israel must co-operate with intelligence organisations such as the CIA and MI6.President George Bush, before leaving office in 2009, approved $300m (£189m) on joint covert projects aimed at Iran, and the Stuxnet was apparently a priority. It may have been responsible for destroying more than 900 centrifuges at Natanz.The combination of the apparent intelligence successes and economic sanctions has increased western diplomats' confidence in talks with Iran this week, which have in the past invariably ended in deadlock.Cohen said: "For the long run, while it is impossible to predict, my gut feeling is that Iran will not have the full bomb.The only thing that would push Iran to the bomb would be an attack on Iran. I think Iran would ultimately emerge smart enough to avoid confrontation with the world but would insist to keep themselves very close to the bomb, still within the NPT (Non-Proliferation Treaty) claiming the right to a fuel cycle. Whether the west and Israel would be able to live with that, I don't know."A pre-emptive strike on Iran's nuclear sites by the US would likely provoke retaliatory attacks by Iranian "sleepers".The London-based thinktank the Legatum Institute, in a report published today, warns that a military strike against Iran could result in retaliation. "In any strike, Iran would likely retaliate against US soldiers and assets in Afghanistan and Iraq, and might activate sleeper cells to launch al-Qaida-like attacks against the US homeland and in Europe."
Google will this week challenge a Spanish demand to remove links to articles in newspapers, including El País, and official gazettes, that the subjects have complained breach their privacy.The technology giant has been ordered to remove almost 100 online articles from its search listings by Spain's data protection authority, which Google warns would have a "profound, chilling effect" on freedom of expression.Google will challenge the orders in a Madrid court on Wednesday, the outcome of which could set a controversial new precedent for internet publishing in Spain.An injunction against search engines is the only way to block access to sensitive material published by these sites, the Spanish authority argues, as newspapers in the country can legally refuse to comply with more informal requests.However, Google says it acts only as an intermediary, and therefore it cannot be held responsible for all content on the internet.Peter Barron, Google's director of external relations for Europe, told the Guardian: "We are disappointed by the actions of the Spanish privacy regulator. Spanish and European law rightly hold the publisher of the material responsible for its content."Requiring intermediaries like search engines to censor material published by others would have a profound, chilling effect on free expression without protecting people's privacy."Cases covering five disputed articles will reach the Madrid magistrates' court this week. Google will be ordered to remove the articles from its search results if its court challenge is unsuccessful. However, the articles would still be available on the newspaper websites should Google lose.The demands follow a burgeoning public debate in Spain about "the right to be forgotten" – or the right for people to delete their internet "data trails". Complaints from the public about their representation online have jumped 75% year on year, the country's privacy regulator said in June last year.Padraig Reidy, news editor at Index on Censorship, said the ruling would have "massive ramifications" for freedom of expression. "What's worrying is why they should go to Google, rather than the people who are putting up this content – some of which is legally bound."It encroaches on privacy law, and has massive ramifications on freedom of expression and how the internet works. If Spain is punishing search engines for indexing content how can there be freedom of expression? It looks like a plan by people who don't know how the internet works."Spain's Agencia Española de Protección de Datos – the national data protection agency – declined to comment.• This article's headline and first paragraph were amended on 17 January 2011 to reflect the fact that the complaints against Google are about invasion of privacy, rather than libel, as previously stated
A growing number of tech experts are predicting that the iPhone is in danger of losing the "smart phone wars" to an upstart operating system from Google, in a dramatic reversal of fortune for one of the world's coolest hi-tech products.For many people the iPhone is still the last word in digital chic. Its sleek style and touch screen changed the way many used their mobile phones.Next month Apple's device will be launched on a second phone network in the US, making it available to millions more customers. The news has created a huge buzz and some have whispered that Apple might one day become the first trillion-dollar company in the world. So this should be a great time for Apple's irascible chief executive Steve Jobs. Or it would be if not for the growing commerical clout of Google's Android."Too late for the iPhone," read one headline last week in a Daily Beast column by tech writer Dan Lyons. Many experts agreed. "Android has taken over from what I can see," said Will Sullivan, founder of the website Journerdism, which is studying the mobile technology industry. Some commercial statistics bear that out. Android phones are now outselling iPhones in the US.  Latest figures from the US showthe Android and iPhone neck and neck in market share– but with 40.8% of new smart phone sales in the six months to November going to Android and 26.9% to iPhones.Critics say that the iPhone's launch on the Verizon network is too late and that it relied too long on the patchy service provided by AT&amp;T. That has allowed Android to take off at such a speed that it has left the once cutting-edge iPhone in its wake. "It was almost comical how much people said they hated AT&amp;T," said Rob Jackson, editor of Phandroid, a tech website that tracks the Android market.But the greater problem lies with the real differences between iPhones and Android. While the iPhone is the whole package of network, technology and phone, Android is an operating system that many different phone models can use. That gives users of Androids a huge variety of choices about how complex (or not) they want their phone to be. Meanwhile, iPhone users are essentially bound to what Apple alone allows them to do and buy."Personally, I prefer Android. I like to change things around to suit my needs. But if I was recommending my mom to have a phone I would recommend an iPhone," Sullivan said. In his article for the Daily Beast, Lyons was even more succinct about the limitations of the iPhone. "[It] is a bit like the situation you had with Henry Ford's Model T, where you could have any colour you wanted as long as it was black," Lyons wrote.Indeed the iPhone has always had critics. Mark Zuckerberg,  founder of Facebook, last year took to his own Facebook page to slam the device for having a poor battery and dropping phone calls. "I got four chargers so I can keep it charged everywhere I go and a landline so I can actually make phone calls," he posted.But not everyone is writing Apple off. Verizon will open the iPhone to 100 million new customers in the US. There is also no doubting the excitement that many people get from products created by Apple. "It arguably has the strongest brand in tech. It is cool. It stands for more than just a phone. It is a fashion statement. It is a lifestyle," said Jackson.That is important. For one of the great ironies of the development of the smart phone market is that  making phone calls on the devices has been supplanted by email, instant message and chat. A vast business ecology of "apps" has also grown up allowing smart phones to do anything from checking the weather to  picking out a local restaurant. In this new world of mobile communications many think it would be foolish to make  firm predictions. "So much can change again in five years that I just don't know what will happen," Jackson said.
Alvin Toffler, the prophet of the digital revolution, wrote in his seminal bookFuture Shockin 1970: "Dealing with the future, it is more important to be imaginative and insightful than to be 100% right."Toffler compared the futurologist's role to that of the ancient mapmakers, approximating the danger and promise of an unknown world.As technology redefines and remaps our world virtually, the consumer firms driving its development are the new mapmakers. Companies like Facebook are feverishly searching the potential of interaction on the web. So far, that has primarily meant entering text into a search box – dipping into a pool for the fish we know we want. Google, which has a 90% share of the UK search market, has already built a $197bn business on the back of advertising related to those text searches.So far, so profitable. But the next generation of the web, so Facebook wants us to believe, will be navigated through our social graph, our network of contacts and friends; it will be their recommendations that will prompt us to dip into the water. Though the social web is well established, the business model around it is not. This is the new horizon. And the volume and reach of data produced by Facebook's users – and the promise of the future of the social web – has investors so excited that they have just valued the company at $50bn. Toffler was on to something.Where is Facebook taking us? For now its priority is to keep growing its nascent advertising revenues ($2bn last year, by one estimate) and its user numbers, put at 633 million monthly users globally for October, according to comScore. But it is also laying the foundations for some powerful ways of extending the site. Last August it introduced Places, which allows users to share their location with friends, and in December announced that photo uploads would soon be scanned with facial recognition technology.Already, one-third of Facebook's traffic is generated by mobile, and as these devices become ubiquitous we will become less reliant on a fixed screen. Often described as the next generation of the web, mobile's real breakthrough has been the success of apps in the past two-and-a-half-years. Not only are these devices always on and always with us, but they offer more forms of interaction than desktop computers, including movement sensitivity, camera and a web connection.These location features provide the platform and possibility of a world that, not so long ago would have belonged in an ambitious work of science fiction. Augmented reality (AR) is a technique of overlaying information on an image of the real world, usually through our phone's camera. Despite the current clunky incarnations, augmented reality may well become the principal way that the digital world is presented to us. Freed from screens, information will float, contextually, accompanying the user and imparting – probably via a pair of augmented reality glasses – the time of the next bus, messages from a friend in a nearby pub, or a local match from your dating site. Everything you do now at your desktop will be superimposed in real time in the world around&nbsp;you.Claire Boonstra, co-founder of the Netherlands-based augmented reality mobile app Layar, believes this type of interaction between the real world and the world of information will become a mass medium. "Augmented reality is in a similar position to the earliest years of television, where shows were just radio with an image attached," she said. "By 2015 augmented reality glasses will be mass market, so you won't walk around holding your phone up to things. With one gesture, you could show that you like a pair of shoes you see someone wearing and could buy them online. And you could switch on the sun on a rainy day. It's totally immersive."Layar's general manager, Maarten Lens-FitzGerald, says that ultimately this technology will become invisible, and suggests our own vision could be augmented. "The computer at Bletchley Park [Tommy Flowers's Colossus computer] was the size of a room, yet now there are computers in every hotel room door. It shows how far we have to explore. Brainwaves are interpretable, but that is far off. Instead, next year there could be an iPad with a binary interface; you don't have to touch to turn the page, you just have to think about it."Lens-FitzGerald anticipates Facebook moving into the AR space, though Layar already enables this by integrating with Facebook Places. Where AR meets commerce, he says, "every moment could be turned into a buying moment", with everything we see potentially one gesture away from a purchase, every note of enthusiasm or disdain recorded by a marketing database and every street pre-loaded with a thousand opportunities to advertise something we've recently searched for, looked at or even thought about. Facebook already holds swaths of that information about us and serving discreet targeted ads at the side of our profiles is just the beginning.Whether Facebook will be the company to fully exploit that future is up for debate. Lens-FitzGerald believes the company is at its peak and that its greatest period of innovation is over. "Like Google five years ago and Microsoft at the end of the 90s, Facebook is coming close to the point where they have too much to protect to truly innovate. It's a natural progression for monolithic companies," he said. "The next thing will be more about location, context and time – a service that helps you navigate their information."Spencer Hyman won't call time on Facebook yet. He spent three years wrangling with music recommendation as chief operating officer at music site Last.fm, and left in 2009 for ArtFinder, a visual recognition tool for artworks that is to launch soon. Facebook's power, he says, lies in tips from friends and contacts. "We haven't seen the start of what recommendation can do. Searching Google tells you what you already know you want. And automated recommendation, like Amazon, is accurate but not that compelling, because you don't know who's recommended it. And then there's personal recommendation – the most powerful recommendation you can have. We're 8-10 times more likely to buy based on personal recommendation, yet Facebook has barely switched on those tools yet."Hyman thinks gaming will play an important role in exploring the potential of technologies like augmented reality, building interest in the medium while mapping out what is possible and popular. The commercial applications come later, as needs emerge. Already, one app for the visually impaired in the US uses optical recognition to help people identify the value of different dollar bills, which are all the same size. Facial recognition, which is being rolled out by Facebook to identify the 8.1 million photographs uploaded every hour, will seem uncomfortable to many – especially, as Hyman points out, when border police can assess whether you spend time with anyone on a wanted list.Late last year the FBI director, Robert Mueller, toured Silicon Valley's big name firms to ask them to install back doors in their software to aid intelligence gathering and law enforcement. As Stanford University visiting scholar Evgeny Morozov recently explained, that appears to vindicate the decision by Russian prime minister Vladimir Putin to require all public institutions to replace proprietary software with open-source alternatives by 2015.The more mainstream the web becomes, the harder it will be to disguise anything, or hide anything. This has profound implications for a generation growing up online, where every youthful indiscretion will be catalogued and recalled on demand. But it is expected that we will become more sophisticated in how we prioritise and manage information and will also take advantage of powerful tools that help us filter and process everything from email to electronic bank statements and travel plans.Conversely, as technology permeates every aspect of our lives, disconnecting will become a luxury. Boutique hotels already proudly advertise their lack of Wi-Fi; the brave new connected world could offer weeks in a technology dead zone, no hyper-targeted visualised advertising, no voice connection – not one glowing, hovering reminder of our dwindling bank balance as we slump over the hotel bar. If we are wise, those dead zones will extend to areas of our schools, homes and workplaces dedicated to focused thought and reflection, or long-form writing, free from digital&nbsp;detritus.Ten years ago, many of us were uncomfortable being overheard on a mobile phone. In another 10 years we will have overcome our sensitivity to video calling in public, or talking to an automated service. There are clear practical benefits in using voice instead of text entry – not least while walking – but voice recognition has wider implications.Amit Singal, a Google fellow, has been following the development of the web for 20 years. He talks breathlessly about the potential for the developing world, where mobile is already well established as the primary means of accessing the web. Voice search and translate means an African could access information on malaria or an Indian could find information about agriculture – but by using their voice and their native language, and having the results translated back to them in near real time. "From a device they can pull out of their pocket, every citizen in the world can access the power of hundreds of thousands of computers in the cloud. That's incredibly exciting."Aided by tools like search and the mobile revolution that happened in parallel, the web has become an endlessly open channel where people share ideas and information," he said. "That has the power to enrich people's lives and I'm very excited about where this world is&nbsp;headed."
I see that the Winklevoss twins (or the Winklevii, as Mark Zuckerberg calls them) were back in court last Tuesday. For readers to whom this means nothing, I should explain that they are the two Harvard alumni (and Olympic oarsmen) who claim that they created Facebook only to have Zuckerberg steal it from under their noses. Some years ago, in company with Divya Narendra, another Harvard alumnus who had worked with them on the original concept, they launched a lawsuit against the Facebook founder that resulted in two things: a $65m legal settlement in which the Winklevii got $20m in cash and $45m-worth of Facebook shares; and a major Hollywood movie –The Social Network– which tells the story in colourful terms.Facebook was quite a phenomenon when the settlement was reached in 2008. But since then it has gone ballistic, to the point where apparently sane men in suits, or at any rate employees of Goldman Sachs, say it is worth $50bn. And as they tracked its rise, the Winklevii came to the conclusion that they had been taken for a ride.Their case was that the number of Facebook shares they acquired was based on a false valuation: they thought the shares were worth $35 apiece, whereas internal Facebook deliberations put them closer to $9. So the actual value of the stock they were offered was closer to $11m than $45m.Accordingly, in 2010 the Winklevii went back to court under the age-old banner "we wuz robbed". They asked a judge to unwind the 2008 settlement on the grounds that they were given fewer shares than they were entitled to. The judge refused. So the boys appealed, which is how they came to be facing a trio of appeal judges on Tuesday.If the exchanges in the courtroom are anything to go by, the Winklevii face an uphill task. One of the judges observed, for example, that the twins were sophisticated enough to understand the deal they had settled for. "The founders are pretty smart people themselves," he observed. "They also had five lawyers from two firms sitting there with them. The twins also have a father from Wharton school, who is very bright. It wasn't like an individual without help. If you have all of those people there to advise you, isn't it a little difficult to say this is one of those things in which they were taken advantage of?" The twins' lawyer, Jerome Falk, appeared to concur with this. "I agree," he said, "that my clients were not behind the barn door when brains were passed out."So my guess is that the Winklevii will have to be content with their 2008 settlement. But their case raises an intriguing question: what would have happened if they had never heard of Zuckerberg? They had had the idea for a social networking site called Harvard Connection and had enlisted a fellow student, Sanjay Mavinkurve, to build the site. But when he left to join Google, and the next programmer they enlisted also quit, they were stuck – which is how Zuckerberg came to be involved, on the basis of an oral agreement.But suppose that Mavinkurve had stayed with the project, and built the site. Would we now be looking at a social networking service with 600&nbsp;million users? My hunch is no: we'd be looking at something more like MySpace, for which Rupert Murdoch paid $580m in 2005 and which last week laid off 500 workers and had only 54.4 million users in November. In other words, a neat idea that rose and fell because its owners lacked the imagination to make it sustainable.The Winklevii were not stupid, but as putative internet entrepreneurs they laboured under two crippling disadvantages. The first is that they are conventional – people who are good at creating businesses in established sectors but who find it hard to operate in arenas where there are no rules.Their second disadvantage was even more critical: the Winklevii weren't techies, and so had no real insight into the technology and its possibilities. They would have been less likely to spot the importance of allowing Facebook to become a software platform on which other people could run applications – and make their own fortunes.There arenow more than 2.5&nbsp;million developers such as Zynga writing apps for the platform. The big question is thus not whether the Winklevii could have built a serious company (they could, just as the founders of MySpace did), but whether they would have seeded a software ecosystem that would one day change the world.
