We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room for in print. So here are the ones from which we chosethis week's printed letters. Click through to read in full..VIRUS FREEI am absolutely staggered by the statement that a) you don't have any viruses and b) you don't have any virus scanning software, surely logic would dictate that you can't know that you do not have any viruses for sure without having a tool to tell you this much. Yes, firewalls are a good way to prevent viruses being pushed at your computer across the Internet but they don't stop actions which are driven by the user, i.e. accidentally visiting malicious web sites which perform drive-by installations due to programming flaws in web browsers, opening pictures of the European storm surges which come through the firewall as part of your email s/w. Viruses these days do not drag down performance of PCs as they are now the tool of choice for professional criminals. And those criminals do not want you to know your PC is being used. I truly hope you do not have any rootkits or keyloggers pumping out information over port 80 (HTTP), securing your identity for someone else to use. I have been responsible for my company's anti-virus protection for the last 7 years, and when I say anti-virus protection, I'm not just referring to scanning, we have firewalls, we have IDS which also runs alongside the scanning and still the users manage to get infected, but at least I know about it because our scanning software reports this. The only true way of protecting any Internet connected PC is a multi-tiered multi-vendor approach, firewall, intrusion detection and scanning and even then you may not be safe. Don't forget about the iPods which were delivered with their very own Windows computer virus, does your firewall block the USB connections or is it just IP based? I hope none of the nefarious people on the Internet read your article because you have just set them a challenge. I think you ought to update your article and attend some I.T. security seminars. Simon Woodward, Manager - Global Client Technologies, CNH I.S. Services Management, BasildonI agree with Andrew Brown's article where he discusses how the anti-virus industry scares people to buy over-priced, subscription paid antivirus software. However, it is ridiculous to state that firewalls and windows security updates are sufficient to protect a PC. Numerous flaws are found in Microsoft products on a monthly basis and there are whole armies of hackers, script-kiddies what ever you want to call them out there trying to exploit our PCs and turn them in zombie PCs, steal our info or do whatever they like. It often takes Microsoft weeks to come up with a patch to fix the holes in their software. Infections don't always come through emails or floppies. The cat and mouse game of virus distribution is highly dynamic, with Microsoft constantly fire-fighting, not preventing these flaws by producing a decent product in the first place. There are web pages out there that people choose to go to (therefore bypassing the firewall) that will infect your PC. I recently went to the web-page of a reputable British shop that had been hacked and my PC was infected with a virus. I know this as my antivirus warned me. Had I not have an antivirus program on my PC, then I would still be infected. Indeed, infections may be key-stroke loggers and other software that choose to remain hidden on the breached computer, passing on personal information such as 16 digit numbers, passwords, etc. How does he know that he is virus free? Not all viruses are going to pop up and make a sound telling you your system has been breached. Similar to how STDs in the UK are on an exponential rise because of (a) societies increasingly sexually liberal attitudes and (b) no-one thinks that they're harbouring any STD, Andy's liberal attitudes, if followed by any of the Guardian's normally well-informed readers, would leave people prone to infection. And by the way, free software is a classic way to get an infection. If in doubt, it is recommendable to scan anything you download. Any person who knows anything about IT will know that there are a whole host of free and credible anti-virus products out there, with one of the most popular being AVG, by Grisoft. There are daily updates and I've and many of my friends and colleagues who also use it, have never had a problem with it. Obviously, nothing is infallible, but the more layers of defence you have, the better protected you are. I can't believe I'm writing in to have to explain what anyone who knows half a thing about IT can tell you. I hope that not all the Guardian-reading technophobes who rely on this normally top-notch web-site are going to leave their PCs open to attack. I do have better things to do than whinge about such issues but Andrew's "advice" was exceptionally poor. Perhaps the article was written to produce this type of angry response? If not, are all your correspondents similarly ignorant, e.g. does your motoring correspondent have a driving license? Check out AVG, its one of the best free anti-virus programs out there. Get a decent malware cleaner (e.g. Spybot) and use a firewall. And beware of any pop-up that tells you that you are infected and to download their "bona fide" virus cleaner. However, sometimes by that point it may already be too late. Kindest regards from an inflamed reader who works in IT having to sort out the very problems created by misinformed "ID:10T"s like Andrew. Anton Humphrey (no post town given)I agree completely with Andrew Brown's criticisms of anti-virus software. I purchased my current machine just over a year ago and downloaded McAfee's virus checker as protection. However, when the free version expired and I decided to pay for it I found I wasn't receiving updates. I ended up getting locked into a cycle of not being able to download updates because the system claimed I hadn't subscribed when I had, and not being able to sort out the problem because something somewhere else had registered my subscription and thought everything was working normally. Using their online tech support service also rapidly proved fruitless and with no local telephone support line on offer I soon gave up and wrote off the money. If I'd read Andrew's article then I wouldn't have been scared into thinking that I needed the additional software. My machine sits behind three firewalls - the Windows XP software firewall (pretty useless but not as annoying as initial reports claimed); the surprisingly good hardware firewall on my Nvidia graphics card; and a Mac firewall on a shared wireless router. I also use a couple of common free anti-spyware and anti-adware programs, online e-mail accounts in place of Outlook, and Firefox instead of Internet Exploder. So far my machine has yet to contract anything - although writing this e-mail is probably the kiss of death to that. Whilst it's probably dangerous to suggest everyone else does the same, if people are aware of what their PCs are downloading at any one time firewalls are a much easier, and in my experience cheaper but equally effective, means of virus protection. Keith Baker, LeicesterAndrew brown in his article in the Technology Guardian 8th Feb says "It is common sense not to use Internet Explorer or Outlook Express except when you absolutely have to"; since these are probably two of the most used Windows programs, did he mean to say it? and if so can he suggest alternatives? Grateful for any response. Michael Stanhope (no post town given) [Thunderbird for email, Firefox for browsing - Tech Ed; seemozilla.org]I don't buy any anti-virus software either, but in my case it's because I use Linux. I'm not a computer science geek, I'm not going to rave about Bill Gate's evil empire, spell it Micro$oft or make disparaging remarks about Windoze, I just stumbled across Linux a few years ago, tried it and liked it. It takes a little getting used to but then so did Windows at first. Most Linux distributions give you an operating system and a fantastic range of free software. Phil Thane, LlangollenI would like to add just one point to Andrew Brown's article, which is that journalists, as well as ordinary computer users, too often fall for antivirus companies' scare stories. I've lost count of the number of times I've read in newspapers about a Dangerous New Trend or Worrying Change Of Tactic by virus writers. Invariably, the story is based on a "survey" published by a company selling AV software, and the journalist fails to point out the obvious vested interest. BTW, may I be the first smug ******* to point out that my PC has never been infected, because it runs a proper OS/Distro: Ubuntu/Linux. Alex Zeffertt (no post town given)QUANTUM COMPUTINGI read with dismay your article regarding D-Wave's "breakthrough". There are a number of egregious errors in your article, including your statement that "Orion solves a theoretical magnetic field problem, called the two-dimensional Ising model, which would take exponential amounts of time on a normal computer". Unfortunately adiabatic quantum computation does not provide a way of solving this problem any faster (see "How powerful is adiabatic quantum computation" by van Dam, Mosca and Vazirani, Proceedings of the Symposium on the Foundations of Computer Science, 2001, and "Limits on Quantum Adiabatic Optimization", van Dam and Vazirani, QIP 2003). Indeed, on its web site, D-Wave claimed a quadratic speedup, not an exponential one. However, even this modest speedup appeared to be based on a misunderstanding of our 2001 paper above, where we showed such a quadratic speedup for unstructured search. For technical reasons (that I would be happy to go into if you are interested) the same speedup does not apply to finding the ground state of the two-dimensional Ising system. Another issue was your equating "designed to collapse" as synonymous with an "adiabatic" process. You confuse the fact that the quantum state evolves towards the answer (the ground state of the final hamiltonian) with collapse. This is completely incorrect. And indeed Geordie Rose's claim that noise helps this process (as cited by you in the following statement) has no basis in fact. All in all, I am afraid that by and large, your article uncritically echoes the PR put out by D-Wave, and despite the occasional note of scepticism it creates a largely misleading picture of their accomplishments. Umesh Vazirani, Berkeley Quantum Computing Center, CaliforniaI am intrigued to know how the demonstration is going to work, if, as Peter Judge writes, 'they literally stop working if you look at them.' In this respect they differ crucially from better understood 'classical' humans who stop working if you don't look at them. Philip Diamond, Institute of Physics, LondonCONSOLE BUNDLESContrary to what's suggested in the article, I contended the bundling of new consoles with a minimum number of titles is beneficial to gamers. The larger capital investment required by including the cost of extra controllers and at least a couple of games (things keen gamers are going to purchase anyway) discourages the purchasing of consoles by the those looking to make a fast buck on eBay and at the same time also discourages posers who are after consoles as a fashion accessory or for bragging rights, rather than because they'd actually like to buy and play games on it. Ultimately, increasing the barrier to entry in this way increases the chance of a new console actually going to someone who want's to use it to it's fullest - which, given the shortage of consoles typically available at launches, is something I welcome. Contrary to what's suggested, and what might reasonably be assumed without looking into it, rather than being bundled with "the detritus of the launch line-up" most retailers who do bundles typically have deals that allow you to choose from a range of titles, not just the turkeys (though of course launch line ups are usually slim pickings in any case). Iain CollinsNHS COMPUTERISATIONWhy does it take so long? Companies like Amazon, ebay or any other on- line trader can set up and be in business within a few months. Security on the internet is good if using the right technologies. And what about my personal access to my records? For example here in Greece? Looks to me like an expensive shambles. The approach seems to be let's put the paper work into a computer. This is not the right way to go. Computers offer much better ways of doing things. Of course you need to get everybody, including me, on side to do this. But any decent ad-agency could do that Antony WattsFREE OUR DATA, MINISTER&gt;&gt; Ultimately, I think that this boils down to the government focussing on the T at the expense of the I in IT. It's concerned about shiny new identity cards, biometrics, scanners etc etc rather than why they exist in the first place: to make effective use of information.http://fishnchippapers.typepad.com/tomorrow_fish_n_chip_pape/2007/02/missing_the_woo.htmlSCO VS LINUX: ENDGAME?You state "Novell then sold the remaining rights and the rest of its Unix business to SCO." That's certainly what SCO would like you to think - Novell disagrees and points out that 100% of the UNIX royalties are remitted to it with 5% then being handed back to SCO. Novell is clear that SCO is a UNIX distributor with some small rights and that Novell remains the owner of UNIX; the facts appear to be on its side. Alan Milnes, GlenrothesYour article on the presumed impending demise of The SCO Group contained one small factual error: It was Unix System Laboratories (USL), the division of AT&amp;T that handled Unix prior to the sale of that part of AT&amp;T's business to Novell, which started the lawsuit against BSDI (a company involved in commercial support and distribution of BSD) and the University of California at Berkeley (the originators of BSD). Novell only inherited the suit when they bought USL, and it appears they were pretty eager to get rid of it. Ray Noorda, CEO of Novell at the time, publicly stated that his company "would rather compete in the marketplace than in court." Jeff Rollin (no post town given)The one error noted is phrase ..."Novell bought the rights to "Unix" from AT&amp;T, and sued BSD". One cannot sue a software application. The suit was against the University of California at Berkeley and its Regents, who created the BSD UNIX-like operating system. Keep reporting on these "important" technology issues that effect many aspects of our lives. Wendell Anderson, Hamburg, New JerseyWasn't it AT&amp;T (instead of Novell) that sued BSD in the eighties? Stephan van den Akker, Nijmegen, the NetherlandsI'd like to congratulate Wendy M Grossman on her Thursday February 8, 2007 article, "A Dickens of a copyright case at last approaches its endgame". One minor nitpick, though. In the eighth paragraph she wrote, "Then the networking company Novell bought the rights to 'Unix' from AT&amp;T, and sued BSD." This is incorrect. Instead, the complaint in Unix System Laboratories, Inc. (USL) v. Berkeley Systems Design, Inc. (BSDi) (Civil Action No. 92-1667 (DRD)), filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, is dated April 20, 1992. See a copy of this complaint at:http://sco.tuxrocks.com/Docs/USL/920420.complaintor at:http://cm.bell-labs.com/cm/cs/who/dmr/bsdi/920420.complaint.txtIt wasn't until eight months later, on December 20, 1992, that AT&amp;T and Novell signed a letter of intent for Novell's purchase of AT&amp;T's UNIX System Labs, and it wasn't until February 16, 1993 that the two companies announced they had signed a definitive purchase agreement. See:http://web.archive.org/web/20051215194047/www.att.com/news/0293/930216.ula.htmlNovell's purchase wasn't complete until June 14, 1993. See:http://web.archive.org/web/20050209110146/www.att.com/news/0693/930614.ulb.htmlThus, Novell did not initiate the lawsuit against BSDi, as Ms. Grossman's article incorrectly claims. Other than that, though, and maybe one or two other little teensy details, it's a good article. Again, congratulations. A history this complicated isn't easy, and overall, Ms. Grossman's article seems more or less roughly accurate. Ned Ulbricht (no post town given)MYSPACE COMPETITIONMyspace has a real competitor on the social networking battleground: Facebook. It has come from behind to constitute a serious challenge to Myspace using the simple logic of having a simple system that works. The same can't be said of Myspace: it is woefully prone to page load failures, users getting accounts hacked by spambots, and users overloading their pages with content. Facebook however benefits from tighter, cleverer design, and appears to be enjoying the same boom in users that Myspace was enjoying at the peak of it's notoriety. To use two crude performance measures: in the next couple of weeks the number of 'friends' I have on Facebook should overtake the equivalent amount on Myspace, despite the latter having a nine month head start, and far more time is spent (or should I say wasted?) on Facebook. Mark Muldoon, ManchesterI'm starting to get slightly depressed by the entire 'MySpace' thing. Yes, I'll admit to owning one and I have a huge amount of friends but I often ask myself - Why!? If somebody said to us 10 years ago that in a decade's time we'd all have a huge network of online friends and we'd be desperately aiming to gain their approval at every opportunity, I think we'd all have been a little depressed. I hope to delete my account one day (I have deleted it numerous times in the past, but it's such a great way to communicate for free), but I do also think it's a fad and today my generation are all hooked on MySpace, tomorrow the next generation will be hooked on a completely different weird fad. However, in my opinion the best thing about MySpace is the fact that any band/singer/author/film-maker etc. can simply set up a MySpace and with the ability to upload multimedia they can get their work out to a simply massive audience! Some of the biggest bands of 2006 were made through MySpace. Thom Holliday, PlymouthVictor Keegan raises an interesting point (Will MySpace ever lose its monopoly? February 8) that although we are a very sharing culture when it comes to online communities, as soon as money is involved we can become very protective of what is ours and aware of what rights we have. How many users of the 'free' services such as MySpace, YouTube and Bebo, actually read the terms and conditions of use? Many of these sites state that even though you retain all of your ownership rights, the site retains the right to create offshoots of your work, as do other users. The site owns the copyright of any material submitted and you grant them that license as soon as you hit submit. Commercialisation is already ruining the idea that sharing can be fun and free. As online community rules and laws are still a grey area, it makes sense that to protect and retain full copyright of your material you should host it yourself. This way you can network on any social community site you wish and direct others to your own site, whilst maintaining control over what happens to your content. If anyone should make money from your content, why shouldn't it be you? Mark Beyer, Director, 123-regTECHNOBILE (M6)This column is usually worth a wry smile on a Thursday morning but today's is just pathetic (and not in a good way). Maybe this particular barrel has been scraped down to the wood now? Ian Tunnacliffe, BurnhamFLICKR VS YAHOOI left Flickr the day it was bought by Yahoo…. Eric Vivas, LuxembourgPHOTOGRAPHIC INVOICES (CONT'D)I, in line with many other photographic professionals have been surprised at some of the responses that GNL (Technology Guardian) has received from readers in response to this (well researched) article. The big agencies have not been targeting only small businesses in recouping their losses from theft as has been suggested. As theft of this kind is indefensible they have indeed acted with zero tolerance; bigger companies with their own legal advisers generally put their hands up and settle as quickly as they can. As for professional web developers who do not know the value of good photography, and through ignorance or bullishness 'steal' images, what can one say? In this world, and in especially in professional photography, you generally get what you pay for. True professional photographers work for their clients, and want them to be happy. If one doesn't like Corbis rates, and don't want your image used by thousands of others (micro sites) then talk to an editorial professional. There are plenty of us around (look on the Internet), and I can guarantee that you can get a fair deal for all (client and photographer), or as was suggested by Pixalo.com in theletters for 8 February. I got my digital camera in the first place so that I could take pictures myself and not have to worry about licensing fees. As has been famously quoted before, 'If you think a professional photographer is expensive, you should try using an amateur'. I could design my own web site, but I don't because a professional will do it better. That is why people use professional photographers. It is unprofessional to steal. New York has zero tolerance for crime, supermarkets always prosecute; professional photographers deserve no less respect. Pete Jenkins, Vice Chair, Photographers Sub Committee, National Union of Journalists, NottinghamYour article on image copyright highlighted the cost of traditional stock photography, yet failed to mention the new-yet-growing-rapidly segment of companies who sell stock photos online for amounts as low as US$1, such aswww.istock.com. I have used them for numerous web sites, and have submitted video (which sells for $20). Great company to work with. James SmithCAPPED BROADBANDMan alive, your article, 'Re: What does 'unlimited' mean?' has solved a puzzle for me. I live in Swansea, use NTL for broadband, and pay for a 4Meg connection. Last week I noticed my download speed drop by around half. It was working perfectly one day then the next it was complete rubbish. The day before I had downloaded several Linux LiveCD distribution ISO files to burn to CDR. Big downloads like this are a rare occurrence for me, so I really don't download a great deal at all. Now the annoying part is that I realised this was happening only through NTL's transparent cache as I tried other NTL proxies and full speed was restored. But without forcing a proxy my downloads were halved. So I phoned NTL to report a fault on their side, and after three quarters of an hour, at MY expense (10p per minute), the 'level 2 technician' tried telling me that my PC was the problem. I told the tech that I didn't have a problem, as I could connect okay, and the problem was there's, but he insisted I dismantle my setup (remove router) and restore DHCP under Windows, and then he told me my ethernet card was broken. After I almost an hour I suspect, and checking through varies proxies, he finally decided that it was something to do with the transparent cache but it wasn't a fault, and he couldn't do anything for me. "Use a proxy for 2 weeks, and phone back in two weeks if you still have the problem". He told me that I wouldn't be contacted about it. Not once did he mention this shaping/capping business, and for my troubles I end up paying NTL £5 in support calls. Your article has been most illuminating. I feel I have been deceived by NTL, and to add insult to injury, they not only cut my connection speed but unnecessarily cost me around £5 in support calls...I already pay £300 a year for the connection. Perhaps it's time to look elsewhere. Simon Blake, SwanseaI'm writing in response to theletter from Dave Eyre on Thursday 8th Februaryand wanted to respond on behalf of PlusNet. Dave is correct - we don't accept inbound email for customer support. Instead, we provide a secure messaging system at our website. You log-in before sending a message which helps you to track responses and it is more accountable. We were one of the first companies to use this system 7 years ago at our website and most banks now use a similar system. We provide a 0845 lo-call number for times when you can't access our website. Average wait time at the moment is just 4 minutes and 8 seconds. Dave may have called last year when waiting times were longer than our usual high standards, but I'm confident he will notice a great improvement next time he needs to contact us. Phil Sheard, Emarketing manager, PlusNet, SheffieldRichard Gregory (8.2.2007), like most ISPs unfortunately, fails to distinguish between unlimited and uncapped. Assuming a 1Mbps connection, then the theoretical maximum throughput per day is (24 x 60 x 60 = 86.4Gb =) 10.8GB, so that any ISP which doesn't enforce a throughput limit of less than 10.8GB per Mbps per day (or an equivalent for different time periods/speeds) is offering an uncapped service. It would be better if they said so and didn't excite the naïve 'laptop-toting person on the Clapham omnibus'. As to fair use policy, the concept is simple: download hogs shouldn't have an adverse affect on the normal activity of the overwhelming majority of an ISP's residential customer base. If their hogging is not having an adverse affect on others then they won't suffer any short-term throttle, so scheduling the pirate DVD downloads for the early hours of the morning or some other non-peak time gets round the problem. As the majority of capped users cope well enough with a monthly limit of 2GB - 40GB then one wonders why someone with a 4Mbps service would need a daily throughput of more than everyone else's monthly limit. The alternative is to allow a free-for-all and suffer the bleatings of the download hogs who are being out-hogged by other download hogs. And, while many of us would have little sympathy for the ping freak gamers, the prospect of Granny having to go to bed before the photo of the grandchildren downloads or of little Johnny not being able to do his homework may evoke more pity. John Haggerty, WirralI have now been without my broadband connection since the sixteenth of November... Yes, you read that right. From reading the tech sec in the Guardian, I think my story is probably not as rare as I would like to think. My connection went down while I was sitting at the PC. Oh well, It happens, I'll just hit Re-connect. Nope, no dial tone....... I have been on the phone to Orange almost every day since that time (at 3.75ppmin) and still am no further forward. Tech supp. are only trained to do the most rudimentary of line checks. When faced with an unexpected result they are snookered... Various other teams are on hand though, there's the Special Provisioning Team (no help), the Escalations Team (no help) and the highest of the high, the Customer Action Team (sadly, inevitably, no help). Oh, and you can't actually speak to any of them as "It's against company policy"... I don't think I've ever spoken to anyone who was the slightest bit interested in helping me, mainly because it may have required some effort. Customer Services isn't really customer services, it's billing enquiries only there, I'm afraid.... No email address on the website either..... This is a communications company...... I have been promised about fifty callbacks to discuss progress and actually got one... (I nearly fell over when i realised it was them. I still think of that day fondly). I was ensured by dozens of tech support bods that they would "personally take charge of my problem and sort it out within 24 hours".........um, no. I have been promised a modem in the post "just in case" about a dozen times. Number of new modems actually received...... zero. Several operators told me that the problem was at the BT exchange (probably) and that they would get on to the BT engineers. This, I was assured, would be done within five working days. I have never managed to verify this with any of the teams concerned (see above). I am unable to contact BT either because I'm not their customer. I am stunned by the incompetence and uncooperative nature of all but a few of the staff that I have spoken to these last few months. Yesterday a young lady promised me that her colleague from the Escalations Team would call me back. When I laughed and said that I didn't believe her, she became very abrupt. When I asked who her boss was, I was told "He's not part of this conversation so I cant give you his name". I replied that I didn't want his name, necessarily, but would like to speak to him. This is............ you guessed it.......... against company policy. Oh, and her colleague didn't ring me back either! All in all then a complete nightmare from start to finish. Customer Services have promised to refund against down time, but I can't get a straight answer about refunding for phone calls or for the time spent on (Chinese water torture) dial up. I am (you may have guessed) at the end of my tether. Is there anything, anything you guys know about that could help me? Sorry to rattle on. Paul O'Neill, Bideford
A couple of weeks ago, I bloggedFrom text to Web 2.0 in five minutes, a litle YouTube video created by Michael Wesch, Assistant Professor of Cultural Anthropology at Kansas State University. Now John Battelle's Searchblog hasA Brief Interview with Michael Wesch, and he's also answering questions posed in comments.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
As predicted byLinden LabCTO Cory Ondrejka atTerra Novain his annual crystal ball gazing, a US Presidential Candidatehas landedin virtual world Second Life. OK, it's not an official visit (yet) because it's been developed by aJohn Edwardssupporter (can we call them "fans"?), but it reminds us virtual world watchers that the trend for these synthetic spaces has (cautiously) landed in the mainstream.From/.:Jerimee Richir, whose avatar is called Jose Rote, paid-for and developed Edwards' virtual headquarters, and, on a voluntary basis, is managing the in-world campaign. Considering that Second Life's user numbers are much smaller than other social networks, such as MySpace and Facebook -- aside from generating press coverage -- will campaigning in Second Life actually win many votes? Rote says yes, and that 'Second Life users are a unique audience, in that, they are first adopters. It is a smaller community, but I would argue it is a more influential community.'While this is exciting news, there are two flaws with Rote's argument.First, it's appropriate that a presidential candidate land in Second Life rather than somewhere like MySpace because the population who resides in there is able to vote. Many MySpacers are still languishing in the ineffectual emo teenage years, whereas the average age of SL Residents is 32. There would be no point in any of the candidates wasting their time with developing a (technologically prehistoric) MySpace page because they'd be (mostly) preaching to people who, in the framework of the high cost-benefit analysis of political activity, aren't important. (Does anyone have any knowledge of how the different demographicsuseMySpace? Do kids tend to surf more than the adults who use it? Who goes out of their way to make the most friends?)Facebook is a different story.The average age is between 18-24, and using the networking capabilities of a site generated in US college campuses (i.e., amongst people whocan vote in US presidential elections), would be an effective use of campaign time and cash. Probably more effective, in fact, than using Second Life.Why? Well, my second argument is that SL Residents are not universally an influential community as suggested by Rote.Over half of usare fromoutsidethe US and can't do anything about the direction the US voters decide to take in 2008. We're as emasculated at the MySpacers.Also, and I'm going out on a limb here (based upon who I've met in the virtual world and thoughts on the demographics of technological early adopters (this link, for example)), but this population is more likely to vote liberal than conservative. Ultimately, this move may a be another example of a cool offline something going into the virtual world and grabbing headlines in real-world papers (er, like this one). But it's also an example of preaching to the converted.These are pretty hefty disincentives, which may be why this move has been made by a fan rather than the official campaign itself.
Lim Hong Kiat from Malaysia (Happy New Year!) has blogged a list of13 Computer keyboards you've never seen before, with pictures. Actually, I've seen several of them, and you may have too, but it's a good reminder that there have been plenty of attempts to innovate in keyboard hardware, even if they haven't caught on.I've also covered a few other devices that could take the number up to 20. One is theAbKey, from Singapore, whichI wrote about in Online. Another is Howard Hui'sCubeboard, from Hong Kong, which lets you swap the keys around. (The original site is now spam.)Two that I've blogged here previously areHP's interesting gesture keyboardand theAngel Kitty keyboardwhich, perhaps uniquely, is available in different bust sizes.Another two I'd like to throw in are theCombimouseand the amazingWolfking Warrior FPS Keypad, for gamers.Sadly I never met Lilian Malt, but I did try aMaltron(photo at top) in the early 1980s. I didn't get on with it....
Tim Berners-Lee gave a keynote speech at the 3GSM conference on The Mobile Web. You can read ithere.It's basically a plea for open standards to an audience that generally prefers to control its own walled gardens. He also distinguishes between foundation technologies and ceiling technologies:There is a very important difference in attitude between a foundation technology and -- well -- let's call it aceiling technology. A foundation technology is designed to enable innovation, to be the base which will support other even more powerful things to come. A ceiling technology is not. It is designed to provide a value, and for its provider to cash in and cash out. Proprietary music download systems are ceiling technologies to the extent that the technologists design to be also being the only store in town, rather than creating an open market. Though putting a lid on further innovation, they are still providing a service, and making sure they profit from it.
Skoda Roomster&pound;10,505Miles per gallon:41Seats:5Good for:Space savingBad for:Face savingHaving spent years providing the punchline to dozens of motoring jokes, Skoda was rescued in 1991 by Volkswagen, which set about turning the Czech car builder into a totally serious, world-beating manufacturer whose outstanding cars attract awards and followers as effortlessly as Tony Blair sheds voters. In fact, it was only a few months ago that the 10 millionth Skoda rolled off the production line. But Skoda has clearly had enough of being the straight man - the Ernie Wise of the road - and so has decided to return to its funny old ways, and has knocked out a laughable-looking car that even boasts a silly name - the Roomster.The Roomster is actually two cars: the front end, which the PR guff refers to as the 'driving room', and the back half, which they call the 'living room'. The designers, in fact, say that they were inspired by the nose of an aeroplane (the long bonnet easing into the wraparound windscreen) and a child's drawing of a house (a square with big windows). And, here's another funny thing, the Roomster does really look like two disparate parts that have been wedged together. Each half works perfectly well on its own, but together they somehow become less than the sum of their parts, with the purposeful mismatching of the window line looking bodged rather than hip.The driving room is exactly as you would imagine, and it is just like the front end of almost any other small car you can think of - sensible and workmanlike, if a little dull. The living room, however, is much more successful. The doors, with their cleverly concealed handles, open out almost at right-angles, making access a doddle, and the rear triple seat can be slid forwards and backwards, removed altogether and flipped up and down into as many configurations as there are yoga positions. That combined with the car's flat floor means the over-arching impression is of space. And with its panoramic glass roof and arched ceiling it feels like a light-filled, open-plan loft on wheels - well, almost.Through its ad campaign Skoda has been keen to stress the split personality of its newest family member, which now joins the well-established model trio of the Fabia, Octavia and Superb. But the bipolar nature of the Roomster left me in two minds. On the one hand, the marque should be applauded for daring to break the mould. It's so refreshing to look at a mini-MPV which doesn't share the swollen aubergine look of almost every other people carrier on the road. On the other hand, it's a strange wee beastie that's going to take some getting used to. Even after a week-long test drive I couldn't quite make up my mind. My wife, on the other hand, loved it. Part of my indecision, I have to say, comes from the fact that the engine the Roomster has been gifted is rather mundane, so the drive and handling don't live up to the car's forward-thinking billing.As to the name ... well, next up from Skoda is a compact three-door vehicle, the Joyster. Hilarious! Let's look forward to the Hipster, the Spinster, and maybe even the Shyster.&#183;martin.love@observer.co.uk
Police are failing to investigate thousands of people who are suspected of accessing paedophile websites because of lack of resources, say child protection experts.The growing mass of information provided to Britain by intelligence agencies, police forces and credit card companies around the world is understood to have astonished investigators tackling the growing threat of pay-per-view online child pornography sites.Last night, Britain's most senior expert on online paedophiles admitted there was a need for greater resources to tackle the problem. 'Are we under pressure with the volumes? Of course we are; I'm not going to lie,' said Jim Gamble, head of the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (CEOP), a government-backed body set up to tackle the growing threat of online child abuse. The huge number of leads provided to the centre is placing severe pressures on manpower. 'The volumes of data are massive,' Gamble said. In a typical month the centre receives around 400 intelligence reports, each one capable of producing hundreds of names. Gamble said. 'One line of inquiry can lead to identifying a paedophile ring that can identify thousands of lines of investigation.'The continuing threat of internet paedophiles was highlighted earlier this month when European investigators, acting on a tip off from Austrian police, uncovered the details of more than 2,300 people, including 72 potential British suspects, who were accessing illegal sites based in Russia.Experts say the sheer numbers of people living in Britain accessing child pornography has meant police are now increasingly reluctant to publicise information identifying those who have visited the illegal sites.In 2002, the police launched Operation Ore, an investigation into more than 7,200 people living in the UK whose names appeared on a list compiled by the FBI investigating a Texas-based company that disseminated child pornography over the internet.But The Observer understands that, since Ore, the police have been inundated with tens of thousands more names of suspected offenders. The backlog has prompted police to change tack, according to experts.'There was no doubt the British police were knocked sideways by Ore,' said John Carr, who advises the children's charity NCH on such issues. 'They don't want a repeat of that.'The credit card processing companies, Visa and Mastercard, have handed police lists containing the names of thousands of people living in the UK who are suspected of paying to access online child pornography sites.In 2003, German prosecutors launched Operation Marcy which netted the names of 26,500 people in 166 countries, including Britain, who were part of a major international child pornography ring. There have been several similar operations involving European police forces since Marcy which have been shared with British investigators, according to senior police sources.The European Commission has become so concerned about the growth in online child pornography that it has set up special hotlines for members of the public to report illegal content on the internet.In response to the growing threat of online paedophiles, the government established CEOP which has had several high profile successes in targeting Britons accessing pay-per-view child pornography sites. Gamble said the centre now had to prioritise. 'We focus on those areas which present the greatest risk to a child, that's why I believe we're really making a difference,' Gamble said.But he admitted there was now a need for the government to wake up to the scale of the problem. Gamble asked: 'Do I need more people? Yes, of course I do.'
People will be whispering behind their hands when the relaunched Honda CR-V goes by. Here's a car that has clearly (to use the acceptable, gossipy euphemism) "had some work done". More than just some, in fact. Teeth, hair, stomach, lips - you name it, Honda has surgically altered it.In its old form, with its Jeep-like square haunches and its spare wheel riding pillion on the back door, the CR-V hinted that it might be auditioning for a role with a United Nations peacekeeping mission. In fact, the closest any CR-V was likely to come to active service was a tricky hunt for space in a crowded multistorey car park above Waitrose, but somehow that didn't stop it dressing as if for battle.Just look at it now, though, with its sloping roof-line, its fancy rear windows, its tail-gate and ultra-smooth bumpers. The CR-V's days in make-believe combat trousers are over. It's got its mind set on rubbing shoulders with well turned-out, haughty civilian vehicles made by the likes of Mercedes and Volvo. It's grown into a fully-fledged Chelsea tractor, in other words, but with less emphasis on the tractor, and a little more on the Chelsea.And I guess, as with any cosmetic enhancement, it's nice if you like that kind of thing. Because it's a compact SUV, the CR-V will at least earn its owner fewer filthy looks than would, say, a pavement-eating BMW X5 - but, as a result of this ritzy makeover, not that many fewer.Still, you will be comfortably aloft in the broad-shouldered cabin by then, enjoying the easy-going suspension and handling, and also the fruits of Honda's continuing and pioneering exploration of in-car CCTV. Shift the CR-V into reverse, and the generously sized screen on the dash instantly begins beaming full-colour coverage, live from the region directly to your rear. The age-old method of parking - by easing the car gently backwards in ignorance until you hear a crump - is thus officially rendered obsolete. Now you can see exactly what it is you are crumping, before, during and after the crump. And in full colour.The new CR-V combines this magnificent visual aid with the now traditional audio assistance provided by sensors, whose panicked bleeping mounts as alien objects draw near, before dramatically flat-lining in the single unbroken tone familiar from television hospital dramas. "Relax," you want to say. "I'm only trying to park."Confronted by the car's mesmeric ability to be its own ears and eyes in this way, the more insecure driver could easily begin to feel surplus to requirements during these taxing manoeuvres. The day cannot be far away, you may soon come to feel, when you will simply abandon your CR-V in the middle of the road and leave it to park itself.Then we'll all be wondering, how did people reverse in the old days, before bumper-mounted cameras and heat-reactive probes? It's one of those crafts that will soon be all but lost to us, like horse-drawn ploughing and forming hay into stooks. Not long hence, people wanting to reverse a car unassisted will have to join societies and practise in fields at weekends. We're going to miss it, you know. But that's progress.Honda CR-V 2.2 i-CTDiPrice&#163;19,900Top speed116mphAcceleration0-62 in 10.3 secondsConsumption43.5 mpg (combined)Eco rating6/10At the wheelDavid GestTop gadgetIn-house CCTVIn a wordMade-over
Macrovision Corporation's chief executive and president Fred Amoroso has now responded to Thoughts on Music, from Apple's iPresident Steve Jobs with an open letterTo Steve Jobs and the Digital Entertainment Industry.Macrovision, founded in 1983, is the company that provides the copy protection system used for VHS tapes and most DVD movies, so it would not win any popularity contests. Also, since it makes its money out of DRM (digital rights management), there's no doubt about its ambitions: the more DRM there is, and the more DRM Macrovision controls, the more money it stands to make. If you don't like DRM (and which of us does?), then Macrovision is DRM's Public Enemy Number 1.All this makes Amoroso's letter pathetically easy to bash, so if you think it's fun to watch people shooting fish in a barrel, there are plenty of sites doing it. Cory Doctorow does a very fine job at Boing Boing withMacrovision sends pretty lies to Steve Jobs, a post that is both brief and to the point. Also, Doctorow has the huge virtue thathe actually practices what he preaches.But if you bear in mind that Amoroso is just a capitalist out to make a buck, he does score a couple of hits. He is, for example, exactly right in pointing out that "DRM is broader than just music" -- it can't be restricted to the little box that suits Steve Jobs and his apologists.He also says that "DRM needs to be interoperable and open," and neatly skewers Steve Jobs by claiming:Truly interoperable DRM will hasten the shift to the electronic distribution of content and make it easier for consumers to manage and share content in the home - and it will enable it in an open environment where their content is portable across a number of devices, not held hostage to just one company's products.This is not, of course, to say that Macrovision is either interoperable or open. Hence Amoroso, unlike Doctorow, is easily hoist with his own petard, and that provides a cheap but effective way to distract attention from the point. But that doesn't make Amoroso wrong. In fact, as long as content ownersrequireDRM, he's dead right.As I pointed out here last June,Interoperability and DRM are NOT mutually exclusive. There are already several groups working on interoperable DRM, includingCoraland theDigital Media Project.Indeed, the Coral Consortium also published an overlookedLetter to Steve Jobsinviting him to join them. It says:We think that your engineers will find it very straightforward to integrate this framework into your iTunes service. This technology would enable you to interoperate immediately with Microsoft based Janus devices and services, and with OMA (Open Mobile Alliance) based devices and services. Of course the secrets in Fairplay remain safe -- adopting the Coral technology does not require you to share them with anyone else.Macrovision offers another solution, which is that Jobs should just sell or license Apple's DRM, called FairPlay, to Macrovision. Jobs claims that Apple isn't technically capable of protecting, licensing and maintaining FairPlay (which Microsoft seems to manage perfectly well with its own DRM), so Macrovision will fill the breach. Amoroso says:Should you desire, we would also assume responsibility for FairPlay as a part of our evolving DRM offering and enable it to interoperate across other DRMs, thus increasing consumer choice and driving commonality across devices.Shuffling off the DRM burden would free Apple from the odium of being one of the world's biggest suppliers of DRM (Macrovision can apparently absorb odium in unlimited amounts) and would also get European consumer councils and competition departments off Apple's back. Apple would also make money from licensing fees without doing any work. What's to lose?Well, maybe Apple would lose control of the anti-competitive lock in that helps it restrict competition in a market where it has a monopoly share, through the closed proprietary chain of the iTunes Music Store, iTunes software and iPods. And just maybe that's what Apple cares about.I'm certain that Apple's fans will argue that the sheer superiority of its offerings would enable Apple to maintain or even increase market share even if it stopped artificially restricting competition -- and of course I believe them. Why not prove it?So how will Steve Jobs respond? Is he going to open up or not?Regardless of logic or financial or consumer benefits, 32 years of ultimate control freakery says not.
AFP has a funny story. It seems a group of Polish poets, Grupa Mlodych Artstow I Literatow (Group of Young Artists and Writers) ownshttp://www.gmail.pl/and Google wants it. So it's using its lawyers to try to get it, rather than admit its own incompetence and just offer to buy it.Izabela Krawczyk of GMAiL told AFP: "We bought the name legally, with our own money. Nobody gave it to us for free. We refuse to be deprived of what we consider is our property."Krawczyk, a poet and IT fan based in the central Polish city of Lodz, said that at the end of last year her group was surprised to discover that www.gmail.pl was available.They decided to buy the rights to the domain name in order to raise the profile of GMAiL, which publicises the works of young unknowns who have not yet found a conventional editor."Our site has a use. There's no financial gain involved. And we're not competing with the US company," she said.So is the message that after three years of beta testing Gmail, and stashing many billions in the bank, the droids at the Googleplex either have not yet heard of Poland or still can't figure out how to buy a Polish domain name? No problem! They may not be able to figure out how to spend $10 on a domain name, but they can easily afford $100,000 worth of lawyers.What was that bullshit about "Don't be evil" again?Hat tip toProfy.
Dell has done something brilliant: it's launched anIdeaStormsite that enables users to make suggestions so that other people can "digg" them. At the moment, there are 141 idea proposals, 1,632 diggs and 146 comments. The two top ideas (there are duplicates) are that Dell should provide the option of a crap-free installation (ie without the junk paid for by Google* and assorted anti-virus vendors), and that Dell should "own" green the way Apple "owns" pretty. Not only is Dell tapping into the zeitgeist, it's getting feedback and some good market research.Dell has also launched a StudioDell video site where there's a button that allows users toupload their own video testimonials. There's anintroductory video from Michael Dell, explaining IdeaStorm and StudioDell.StudioDell has sections for Home, Small Business and IT Pros, and includes advertising promotions (likeVista v XP), news, tech tips, case studies and lots of podcasts.Dell is already into blogging atDirect2Delland podcasting, so now it's into digging and YouTubing as well. Having been one of the leaders in build-to-order, selling PCs over the net, building "green" machines and recycling, Dell is now one of the first big computer companies to embrace Web 2.0.* Whichever idiot at Google decided pre-installing software people don't want was a good idea should be taken out and toasted over a hot fire. It just makes Google look like a useless bunch of marketing trolls, like Symantec or McAfee. Come on, guys, people know where Google is. If they want your buggy toolbar, they can get it.Charles Arthur adds:I'm only surprised that nobody has suggested theyshut it down and give the money back to the shareholders. Or possibly they were ready for that and have made it impossible to suggest...
Super Monkey Ball: Banana BlitzWii, Nintendo, &pound;40The allure of tilting monkeys trapped in transparent balls around precarious, suspended mazes remains undimmed six years after it came out on GameCube. Aside from inclining the Wii remote to steer your monkey, Banana Blitz also adds a jump button and boss fights at the end of each of its eight worlds. While technically impressive, as you work through Monkey Ball's levels, there's a pain threshold reached when the game's tolerance for error falls below yours, at which point only mini-games remain. The 50 here, unlike the half dozen in the GameCube's Monkey Ball titles, are largely pointless, and what they lack in quality isn't made better by arriving mob handed. Your just left wondering why so much effort has been poured into such scant entertainment. Overall this is above average at best.Nintendo virtual consoleFamed for its wacky control method, Wii's other departure from Nintendo's well-trodden path is its ability to connect to the internet. This lets your avatar - that's your Mii - and anyone else's created on your console "mingle" with those of your friends. It also means you can download an expanding selection of old games for the 8-bit NES and PC-Engine (a console that never made it to the UK); the 16-bit SNES and Mega Drive and the 64-bit Nintendo 64. Virtual Console titles are sold for Nintendo Points, obfuscating their actual cost.Donkey KongNES, 500 Points (&pound;3.50)Not Nintendo's classic arcade game - like a lot of Virtual Console titles - this is the version ported to the dear old NES and is severely limited as a result. Featuring only Donkey Kong's first level repeated ad nauseam, you can't help but wonder what it's even doing here.GradiusNES, 500 Points (&pound;3.50)Accomplished 2D shoot-'em-up that also suffers a little from rose-tinted memory syndrome, especially when compared to the PC Engine's R*Type. As with other NES games, it works perfectly using the Wii-mote held horizontally in the traditional manner of joypads.Super Mario BrothersNES, 500 Points (&pound;3.50)The birth of platform games for a measly &pound;3.50? You would be a complete fool not to take up such an offer. As addictive as it was the day you last played it on the breezeblock-styled NES, this is simple, exhilarating and, like its older brother (see Super Mario 64), still great.Bomber Man '93PC-Engine, 800 Points (&pound;5.60)The multiplayer classic has lost none of its considerable charm over the decade and a bit since its incipience. With two or more controllers, the mechanic of blowing up walls to find power-ups before blowing up your friends remains exquisitely accessible.R*TypePC-Engine, 800 Points (&pound;5.60)Surprisingly pretty even now, and more murderously difficult than you would ever imagine possible, R*Type holds up as a defining arcade experience if not quite as a long term play option given its brutally unforgiving learning curve and limited continues.Super Mario 64Nintendo 64, 1,000 Points (&pound;7)The mother of all 3D platform games and a work of staggeringly subtle genius that shines to this day. You'll need a Wiii Classic Pad to take full advantage of this one, but it's still a damn sight easier than digging through the attic in a vain attempt to find your old N64.
SundayHalo 3 shots leakedIndie shooters ruleMondayPerplex sortedFree Bond with PS3Wii is the new MystTuesndayAdvertising to avatars IIA call out to citizen journalists regarding PS3Mobile game stuff from 3GSM360 on WatchdogPS3: difficult storiesWednesday"Avatar" pushes boundariesNo PSP development in UKThursdayReviews, etcVideogame mag ABCsClover seeds new studioFridayForming community in online gamesDriver gets cool Wii controls - re-postTimes reports on GT crashPlaying this weekend
So what are you playing this weekend? Supreme Commander (PC) and Excite Truck (Wii) are worth a look if you fancy splashing some cash on a new release - Fusion Frenzy 2 is barely worth a mention, let alone 30 quid - but Okami is still the most interesting game of February. Me? I'm planning to spend some time with Crackdown (360) - the GTA style game that looks a whole lot better than I originally thought. And it has a decent co-op - hurrah. What are you planning to play this weekend?
The Timeshas reportedon a fatal car crash caused by a driver who had previously stopped to play Gran Turismo on his PlayStation, seemingly plugged into an in-car LCD monitor. The teenage motorist later span out of control, hitting the car of a pensioner driving in the opposite direction. 79-year-old Phylis Williams died at the scene.A tragic story, which asks questions, however valid or realistic, about the availability of any offputting media in cars. But at the end of the report is this box-out:Killer gamesManhuntPlayers earn points for killing people in a horrific manner. Implicated in the 2004 murder of Stefan Pakeerah, 14CarmaggedonRacing game where players can run over pedestrians. Was initially refused a certificate by the censor in BritainCanis Canem(sic) Players are encouraged to torment homeless people and be violent and abusive to vulnerable youngstersThe connection between Manhunt and the murder of Stefan Pakeerah has beenwidely discreditedand officially denied by police investigating the case.The tormenting of the homeless man in Canis Canem Edit, an accusation firstput forwardby The National Youth Council of Ireland, has been discredited. Asthis articlepoints out the player befriends the homeless character and learns combat moves from him. Also, it's possible to earn a bonus item by giving money to the homeless.True, Carmageddon was originally refused a certification, but publisher SCi made a successful appeal to the Video Appeals Committee under the European Convention on Human Rights. (Read morehere).Do these stories provide legitimate context? I'm not sure. I was divided over whether to blog on this - someone has died and debating the rights and wrongs of reporting on videogames hardly seems relevant. But accuracy, surely, is vital in these situations, isn't it?
Nearly the weekend folks, so time to get down and dirty with this week'sFriday Afternoon Question.But first I'd like to award last week's prize - on the question of "what would you ban" to Benedict, who wanted to get rid of the noise of computers. "When every thing is turned off you notice the silence. I'm sure all the whizzy and buzzing is making me go a little loopy". Clearly somebody in need of a helping hand before tinnitus sets in. (PS a note to everyone who has won in the last few weeks, I'll be in contact soon).Anyway, I'm going to take a slightly different direction this week, because I want to find some inspiration online. So I'm asking you to point out some of your favourite websites, blogs and services that the rest of us might not know about.What's your best kept secret on the web?It can be about anything, for anything - perhaps it's that service you can't do without that nobody else seems to have heard of, or a blog that stays under the radar despite being hugely interesting. Or maybe it's a site that's been around for yonks but is remarkably low profile. Whatever it is, let us know. The ones that stick will be rewarded next week!
If you haven't changed the passwords on your home router, get fiddling. According to Symantec, hackers could use a piece of Javascript to change the settings and send you to fake websites.Here's the CNet story:The researchers found that it is possible to change the DNS, or Domain Name System, settings of a router if the owner uses a connected PC to view a Web page with the JavaScript code. This DNS change lets the attacker divert all the Net traffic going through the router. For example, if the victim types in "www.mybank.com," the request could be sent to a similar-looking fake page created to steal sensitive data.So essentially it turns your router into a phisher's dream - and the researcher in question says the hack has already been tried and tested on Linksys, D-Link and Netgear routers. Change those passwords, people!
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Last week I posted about the forthcoming Wii translation of Driver Parallel Lines, due out on March 30. I used a quote from the developer, but accidentally posted an un-edited version of the text, provided by Ubisoft's French office. Here's a proper version, with some of the French-to-English errors removed. It's being developed by Ubisoft's studio in Barcelona and they've come up with an interesting control mechanism for the game."On the Wii version, the control mechanic is completely new compared with other platforms (PS2, Xbox). As you know, the controllers provide new avenues for creativity; for instance using the Wii Remote to select the target, master the weapon and shoot. The Nunchuk, meanwhile, will be used to drive, adjust the speed, and control the character and his gestures..."We have also implemented a new controller concept; there is no auto-target; so the player will be able to point and shoot everywhere on the screen. We have changed the camera to an OTS (over the shoulder) view; the advantage is that the experience is similar to a FPS; so it's more fun as well."Last week, Motorstorm producer, Simon Benson wastalking abouthow games that combine driving and shooting would probably become extinct as the control system has never worked. Perhaps Wii has the answer...
Terra Nova guest author Jen Dorman argues in awell-thought out postthat interaction in Massively Multiplayer Online Games cannot replace the unique group experience that arises from physically, proximate shared ritual. Of course it can't replace it completely, but to suggest that there is an inherent difference in brain chemistry produced between face to face and virtual ritual is to suggest that any kind of disproximate interaction is somehow inferior to real-world interaction.I disagree.First, this standpoint suggests that community, bound by shared experience or ritual or whatever you want to call it, can only be situated in aphysical space. Sociologists likeErving Goffmanandenvironmental psychologistslike Harold Proshansky counter that contention, encouraging the idea that there is an emotional component to belonging which makes, for example, a house a home, or give a place or group a shared identity. If place is such an important part of it, surely it's possible to have community arise out of the shared experiences within a non-physical environment. Then the community experiences are tied to the joint representations of it.Second, there's a whole lot of evidence which suggests that technologically-mediated communication is an effective means ofextending social networks(Barry Wellmanin particular). In the days even before the telephone, communities of practice, of worship, of ritual and of experience grew out of the tap-tap-tap oftelegraph lines.Third, this argument ignores the unspoken rituals that are in-place in online communities that incorporate the norms of the population who exists there. Entrance rituals, like being told what to do by an older member. Going from n00b to experienced. Rising through the ranks. Exit rituals. How to deal with common enemies (if you're interested in this aspect,read this paper).This can't be a binary yes-it-does-no-it-doesn't argument. In this increasingly disproximate world, people are finding social experiences that form significant communities, strengthen bonds and generate trust via online interaction. These are new rituals with new rules. To suggest they are somehow inferior is to limit your view about virtual interaction. Which ultimately is rather ironic for a new media site like Terra Nova.
More than 1.3m people have signed an online petition against road-pricing - part of the objection to it being that it would require the government to track all vehicle journeys. But police forces have been tracking motorists for a decade - and are in the process of joining up their systems nationally.In 1997, the City of London Police introduced automatic number-plate recognition (ANPR) cameras on roads at the edge of the City. These cameras are now used by police nationwide, both in vehicles and at fixed locations. Forces use ANPR for anti-terrorism work and it is also used to enforce London's congestion charge.The National ANPR Data Centre, run by the Association of Chief Police Officers with funding from the Home Office, will centralise all ANPR data from the 43 forces in England and Wales - although not from the London congestion charge - and the system is set to go live in stages between April and July.Checks on numberplatesIt will draw on several thousand cameras, according to John Dean, the association's national co-ordinator on ANPR. Individual forces already run real-time checks on every plate read. The City of London police use 20 fixed ANPR sites and three mobile units: "We're reasonably content that everything gets covered in the City," says chief superintendent Alex Robertson of around 100,000 daily vehicle movements. Registrations are checked against hotlists from the Police National Computer, including vehicles of interest to the police for crimes such as burglary or theft of petrol. The check takes four seconds. "If we get a match, that comes back to our control room," says Robertson. "We assess it, and decide if it's a priority at that time."The data is also stored for later analysis: if a vehicle is used for a crime in the City, the force should have an image of it entering the area, which may also show the driver and passenger. Robertson says this can help both include and exclude people and vehicles from an inquiry.Given the way ANPR works, the national centre will not know about every vehicle journey from start to finish, and those that do not pass a camera will not be traced. What it will have is around 9m sightings a day initially, with the capacity for 50m a day. The details will be kept for two years, both at the data centre and by the force concerned.The central system uses an Oracle database, with data for analysis extracted to a Postgres database to avoid affecting core performance, and custom-written Java software with specific police networks rather than the internet used to send and receive data.For every sighting, a "plate patch" - a photo of the numberplate - is also stored as a check: the technology aims to be 95% reliable for UK plates, although this falls slightly in adverse conditions and with foreign plates. Plate patches can be used as corroborative evidence in court.The national centre will allow analysis that has been difficult to do across police force boundaries. Dean gives the example of three similar crimes that have been committed within one force's area, all of which took place near ANPR cameras. The police checked the vehicles scanned around the times of the crimes and were compared: "There were two vehicles that were seen in the vicinity at those times," Dean says, adding: "One was responsible for that crime."It will also carry out automated data-mining, including a search for cloned vehicles: these can result in an innocent person receiving speeding fines or worse. The software will look for impossibly quick journeys: if the same plate is read in London, then 10 minutes later in Liverpool, it will be added immediately to a hotlist. "The clone will be identified even before an innocent person is targeted, we hope," says Peter Wilson, assistant national ANPR co-ordinator.Edmund King, executive director of motoring research group the RAC Foundation, says one of the main uses for ANPR cameras - spotting uninsured and unregistered drivers through use of hotlists - is welcome. However, he adds that this requires vehicle insurance databases to be up to date, and says traffic police officers might find it difficult to take advantage of hotlist matches: "Anecdotally, you hear [the checking system] is going ping, ping, ping, and they turn it off."Peter Sommer, a research fellow at the London School of Economics and an expert witness, says that he has not seen ANPR evidence used, although he adds that major cases such as terrorist or murder trials often take at least a year to come to court. .But Sommer says, "I can see ANPR being ideal as evidence, as it's cheaper and easier to manage" than mobile-phone tracking, which provides approximate rather than precise locations and has to be retrieved from network operators.What about privacy? ANPR material is treated as personal data under the Data Protection Act. The data is subject to other controls; after 90 days, it can be accessed only for tackling serious crime."We have no problem with ANPR being used to locate vehicles whose owners the police firmly suspect of having committed an offence," says James Welch, legal director of civil rights group Liberty. "But it shouldn't be used as a tool of mass surveillance, or to target people that the police have a hunch are up to no good." According to Dean, special approval is required if the cameras are to be used to look for an individual.Intelligence camerasAlthough a string of ANPR cameras in known locations could be used to calculate a vehicle's speed, Dean says the cameras are not type-approved for such work. "These cameras are most definitely not enforcement cameras or speeding cameras," he says. Their function is to provide police forces with intelligence for further action."We only ever use the information for the investigation of crime," says Robertson. The force would provide it under a court order, although he adds that this has not yet happened. "We wouldn't give information to solicitors for a divorce case."He adds that the results justify the scheme: "We've consistently had 650 arrests [annually] from the ANPR system," he says. "The crime-fighting capability has been huge to the City of London."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
PlayReady or notMicrosoft has announced PlayReady, a digital rights management (DRM) system to protect music, videos, games, ringtones etc in the mobile phone industry. It is compatible with Windows Media DRM (PlaysForSure).microsoft.comMobile goddessHTC has unveiled the Athena mobile phone with a 5-inch VGA screen and clip-on keyboard as a "powerful mobile office".seehtc.comGooglemail availableGooglemail, the UK version of Google's Gmail, is now available to all. It currently offers almost 3GB of free space.googlemail.comNokia has an ENokia has three new E-series phones - the E61i, E65 and E90 Communicator - aimed at business professionals.nokia.co.ukTanks for the memoriesAtari has launched a version of BattleZone, with four-player Wi-Fi mode, for the PlayStation Portable.uk.atari.comCold war revisitedThe National Cold War Exhibition has opened at the Royal Air Force Museum in Cosford, Shropshire, and onlinenationalcoldwarexhibition.org.ukHD for all!HDforAll is campaigning for the introduction of free-to-air high-definition TV channels (HDTV) via Freeview.hdforall.org.ukDate a silver surferDigital Unite says it will be holding its sixth annual Silver Surfers' Day on May 25, in partnership with Ofcom.silversurfersday.org
In about eight to 10 years, according to Intel, which has just announced "the Era of Tera" at the annual Integrated Solid State Circuits Conference in San Francisco. In this case, Tera is short for teraflops, or trillions of floating point operations per second.The novelty is that Intel's factory in Ireland has managed to fabricate an 80-core chip "not much larger than the size of a fingernail while using less electricity than most of today's home appliances" - just 62 Watts when running at 3.2GHz. Most of today's users are still moving to dual-core and quad-core processors, while the Xbox 360 games console is a triple-core design.For comparison, Intel cites the first teraflop machine at the Sandia National Laboratory in the US. That used almost 10,000 Pentium Pro chips and consumed over 500 kilowatts. Parallel processing supercomputers are mainly used for scientific simulations, such as simulating global warming or atomic bombs going off, predicting the weather and other applications that depend on processing vast amounts of data. They're not particularly useful to someone who is typing text into Word.However, they might be useful for an artificial intelligence-based speech recognition system that is converting a conversation into text. In other words, this is the sort of thing that Intel used two very dangerous four-letter words to describe: Star and Trek.But Intel readily admits that it is never going to put this prototype chip, codenamed Polaris, into production. Even if it did, there is no general-purpose software that could take advantage of it. So while you might be able to buy a PC with an 80-core chip in the next decade, you might have to wait a bit longer for an operating system and some really useful applications.This problem has bedevilled many earlier attempts at parallel processing machines including the once-famous Transputer from Britain's Inmos, and it may well do down the IBM Cell processor used in Sony's PlayStation 3 games console. Anybody can design a "fast" chip. What's trickier is designing a chip that will run 25 years of DOS, Windows and Unix software dramatically faster.What is more likely is that the Polaris development will help Intel as it moves from chips with two, four or eight cores to 32 or 64 cores. And that is the way chip development is going. Intel co-founder Gordon Moore once observed that the company could double the number of circuits on a chip every year, and this turned into "Moore's Law". The industry has more or less kept pace with the version that suggests you get double the performance for the same price every 18 months. Since the early 1970s, that has meant doubling the performance of the processor. Today it means putting more processors on a chip.Programmers are only now starting to get serious about finding ways to exploit multi-threaded multi-core processors, with Sun's Solaris version of Unix being a focus of attention. Solaris on Polaris? Now there's a thought.
Every day, mariners stake their lives on the quality of data produced by the UK Hydrographic Office. Last week, the publisher of Admiralty charts (nowadays usually in electronic form) had its future thrown into uncertainty.Derek Twigg, undersecretary of state for defence, announced that a review will consider privatising the office as an alternative to running it as a trading fund, a body owned by the government but funded through the sale of products. The review may set a precedent for reviews at other trading funds, such as the Meteorological Office and Ordnance Survey. Trading funds have emerged as one of the most contentious issues in the Free Our Data campaign, which proposes that raw data collected at the taxpayers' expense should be available freely to stimulate the knowledge economy.Under the current system, trading funds both produce raw data and market-refined products such as maps. This brings them into competition with private companies whose business models depend on raw data from the same trading fund. Allegations of unfairness abound.Locus, a pressure group set up last year to fight for business users of public-sector information, welcomed the review of the Hydrographic Office. Michael Nicholson, Locus's chairman, called for the review to take into account the needs of value-added resellers as well as users."This is an important marketplace for public information and, whatever the outcome of the minister's review, a level competitive playing field should be ensured," Nicholson said, and he called on other government departments to recognise the "challenges" that trading funds face.The Hydrographic Office itself promised that the quality of its data would not be compromised. "Whatever the outcome, we will ensure that the service we provide to our defence and government customers is protected," said chief executive Mike Robinson.Technology Guardian is not so sanguine. Worryingly, the review announcement lists only two "principal options" for the office: to maintain it as a trading fund, or to convert it into a company owned in whole or in part by the Ministry of Defence. As the review coincides with a squeeze in spending, ministers may be tempted by any injection of cash that could be raised by a share sale.For free data, this could be an even worse outcome than the present state of affairs. The perils of creating a jointly owned company were illustrated last week by the Department of Health, which found itself criticised by auditors over the way it set up a joint venture with a commercial business, Dr Foster.We believe that the Hydrographic Office review should include at least one further option: that of direct government funding for the collection of raw hydrographic data, which should be freely available to all comers. At a time when information about coastlines and seabeds is of vital environmental importance, this would be in keeping with the spirit of the European Inspire directive on the exchange of geophysical information. It would also maintain a British tradition of international cooperation, regardless of politics, in matters of maritime safety.One objection, of course, is that this policy would force the Ministry of Defence to choose between funding hydrographic surveys and giving soldiers on the front line decent body armour. It would be a courageous minister who favoured the former. The solution would be to take responsibility for hydrographic information away from the Ministry of Defence and make it part of a national geospatial data strategy. Proposals for a national strategy are with environment ministers at the moment. We presume that the Ministry of Defence has read them?&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Hurry along tooscartorrents.com, a site with a twist: it's an effort to show what the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences of America, the organisation that votes on and awards the Oscars, could be doing to embrace the digital era. The site lists nominees in every category, with a synopsis of each movie and, most important, a link to where the movie might be downloaded. You can also vote.For an industry that makes its living predicting the tastes of moviegoers, Hollywood has been remarkably slow to adapt. As Sweden-based oscartorrents.com points out: "Some people have to be dragged kicking and screaming into the future."Torrents are the most recent version of file-sharing, and the one that is most frequently targeted by the Motion Picture Association of America. First you download one of any number of programs - BitTorrent, uTorrent, BitLord. You then look around the Web for a pointer file (ending in .torrent) that tells it where to find the file you want to download.The key to torrents' popularity is that you can download simultaneously from many different sources (while you upload the pieces you already have to other computers). The more popular a download is, the faster it downloads. It's a measure of the obscurity of some of the Oscar nominees that they have no torrents and quite a few more download slowly. If you want a fast download, go for Borat.It's been obvious for a long time that the best way the industry could kill illegal file-sharing is to create legal, cheap, reliable services of its own. Adding free downloads and voting to the official Oscars site, plus a live video feed of the event, would be the best marketing it could have. Awards are more fun to watch if you have a rooting interest. If anyone knows that, it ought to be Hollywood.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Moshe Einat has a question about printing. It's this: "Why is an inkjet printer so slow in comparison to an LCD screen?" It's a good question to ask for anyone who's ever fumed over a slow printer. Although inkjets have become much faster and cheaper down the years, 20 pages per minute is still typical for a home model - and that's mono documents, not colour digital pictures.Overcoming that very obvious limitation has led Einat, a lecturer and researcher at the College of Judea and Samaria in Israel, to design a revolutionary JeTrix technology for a 1,000 pages-per-minute inkjet printer. And that invention might one day see personalised newspapers and print-on-demand books.Big gap"There is a big gap between these technologies [of print and screen]. They do very much the same - they give a picture to users. One is an electronic picture and the other is printed," says Einat, who is working with a colleague, Nissim Einat. "Today's printers are limited by speed due to the ink delivery system. We are going to take off the limitation."While the number of nozzles per inkjet print head has risen to around 1,000 in advanced printers, this falls far short of the million or so pixels on a typical LCD screen. A conventional inkjet print head also tracks across moving paper to form the printed image, while an LCD screen refreshes almost instantly.Trying to make larger print heads using existing inkjet technology - which relies on a connected series of nozzles - has hit technical problems with the pressure of the ink supply and the ejection rate of ink drops. Einat reckons that that method is close to its limits, and improvements in printing speeds using those technologies can be expected only in short steps. His answer: think big, taking the ubiquitous LCD screen as his model but replacing the pixels with ink drops. Instead of emitting light, his idea is to emit ink. "We found a way to make a huge print head. If the print head is the size of the media, there is no scanning any more," says Einat.When Einat says huge, he's really talking about nozzle numbers rather than physical dimensions. His prototype print head measures a modest 12cm by 12cm but contains an impressive 57,600 ink nozzles - think pixels on your LCD screen - for drop-on-demand delivery. The head is made from silicon wafers forming small micro-reservoirs for ink which each feed four normal inkjet nozzles by capillary action. Grouping the nozzles into four overcomes the flow problems with conventional series designs. Laboratory experiments show a large head the size of a piece of paper could be practical.The advantage of his system is that one page could be printed instantly, with hundreds more pages following in a few seconds. All you'd need to do is move the paper into position, print the whole image at once, and move the paper out again - rather like a simple printing press.Einat suggests that the first users to benefit would be the commercial print houses, followed by law offices. But he also reckons some entirely new applications could emerge, such as personalised newspapers and in-store book printing. You can envisage bookshops printing on demand, avoiding the problems of unsold books. And newspapers could be personalised with news stories and advertisements aimed at the individual.A third prototype of the new print head is now being designed for a fuller demonstration. Einat says that interest from leading printer manufacturers has been enormous. The simplicity that comes from the lack of a moving printer head means that Einat has other ideas in mind too."I can integrate a small printer - like they integrate a camera into a cell [mobile] phone," says Einat. So a piece of paper placed inside a slot in the phone would be printed - images or text messages you wanted to keep - although whether you'd be happy with a tiny reservoir of ink in a warm pocket remains to be seen.Dr Graham Martin, director of the Inkjet Research Centre at the University of Cambridge, has spent 25 years in the inkjet industry. He points out that increasing the number of inkjet nozzles or fitting conventional print heads side by side has been used to create higher print speeds in commercial printers. Large roll-fed continuous inkjet systems from companies such as Kodak can already yield an impressive 2,000 pages per minute.But there's a good case for improving printer speeds at home, too. Inkjets have already increased in resolution and print speed in the past few years - giving us superb colour results. They might be cheap to buy (except for the overpriced refills) but they're far from quick. Given the rising popularity of digital cameras, a speed increase might be welcome.Next step"Clearly, the next step in terms of a desktop printer is to get rid of the fact that you're shuttling the head back and forth and replace it with a single strip that's maybe a combination of smaller arrays," says Martin. "It would certainly be more efficient in terms of using the capacity of an inkjet nozzle to print at a reasonably high rate."While this suggestion may provide more opportunities for consumer printers in terms of speed and quality, Martin also thinks that the full-size JeTrix technology is an imaginative proposition. However, his big concern is data volumes - just how do you send data to a single print head quickly enough to support speeds of 1,000 pages per minute? It's just one challenge - along with issues like full colour printing - that Einat will have to overcome.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I don't know who invented the typewriter with its QWERTYUIOP layout, but I'm pretty confident that when they sent their salesmen (they all were men then) out to demonstrate how you could type TYPEWRITER using just the top line that they didn't, two weeks later, send them back out with a slightly different layout where the T was on the second row and the Q on the bottom right.Because that would have been stupid. It would have been unnecessarily confusing on a system designed already to be confusing. So why is it that mobile phone designers - well, specifically, Sony Ericsson's ones - keep doing precisely this? In a world where your mobile is as essential as a typewriter once was, they keep moving the keys around.I've got a long history with Sony Ericsson phones; I leapt at the chance of the T68i, the tiny svelte thing with Bluetooth (I liked the fact it could sync with my computer, and bid adieu to Nokia). Then that broke or I got upgraded to another SE model (still on the same network) and found I had to relearn various things. There was a weird button that wanted you to connect to its data downloads. There was another on the side that took you to another menu - which wasn't data downloads; and then there was something else that did stuff with the camera. (Hey, a camera!)Then that broke, or I got upgraded, and I got another SE model, from the same family (they're all in the hundreds), which had moved various of the buttons about. Item: the camera could no longer be triggered by pressing the joystick. You had to find a button down on the right-hand side of the phone and press that. Pressing the joystick swapped the camera to movie mode. I took a lot of accidental movies.Using the new button entailed moving your hand from where it was happy, grasping the phone with the thumb over the keypad, to awkwardly cradling it, palm towards you. And someone thought this was better than the previous method involving the joystick? Clearly that someone got fired, because the more recent model lets you, yes, take pictures by pressing the joystick.At which point I really began to wonder about Sony Ericsson's designers. Are these men (they're surely men) driven insane by their task? Or is there a streak of malice a metre wide running down the centre of their laboratory? Which of these is it that drives them to keep tinkering with stuff that ain't broken? They can't standardise on battery shapes, nor even the transformer plugs that go into the bottom of the phones - though the dock underneath has remained the same for years.Perhaps it's some insane thinking that standards will mean the end of the world, because then rivals can make them too. I expect someone thought that when they decided to settle on the QWERTYUIOP layout. It'll never catch on, he said.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Just a quick one: several of the big names behindClover, the hugely creative studio shut down by Capcom last year, have banded together to form a new developer named Seeds. The roster includes Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami, Atsushi 'Viewtiful Joe' Inaba and Hideki 'Devil May Cry' Kamiya. They've set up awebsitealready and are right now probably brainstorming a vampire skateboard sim with a graphics style based on 17th century Ukiyo-e art.In other start-up news, fashion designer Marc Ecko, who previously lent his name to the graffiti sim, Marc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure, has set up his own studio - Marc Ecko Entertainment. "Our goal is to expand creativity in videogames - we want to try brand new things," Ecko told reporters. I wonder how many new studiosdon'thave that aim when they start out?Via:CVGandGamesindustry.biz
BBC News has reported thatMusic execs criticise DRM systems, based on a Jupiter Research survey of attitudes to Digital Rights Management (DRM) systems in European music firms.The study revealed that about 54% of those executives questioned thought that current DRM systems were too restrictive. Also, 62% believed that dropping DRM and releasing music files that can be enjoyed on any MP3 player would boost the take-up of digital music generally.Among all those questioned, 70% believed that the future of downloadable music lay in making tracks play on as many different players as possible. But 40% believed it would take concerted government or consumer action to bring this about.But this isn't necessarily good news. The story says:"Despite everything that has been happening the record labels are not about to drop DRM," said Mr Mulligan. "Even though all they are doing is making themselves look even less compelling by using it."There's also a significant observation in the version of the story atInformation Week. It says:It's worth noting that Apple's FairPlay DRM is far more effective at preventing competitors from making devices that interoperate with the iPod and iTunes -- thanks to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act -- than it is in preventing iTunes customers from copying songs they've bought online.
Billing attack?For about a week I have been getting a new window opening up just after I start my PC. It is from a company called MBS Billing from PO Box 185 in Leeds, and claims that I visited one of its clients' websites, that by doing so I am being billed, and that this is legally enforceable. I use Windows XP Pro SP2 with Norton Internet Security 2007 installed as well as Spybot S&amp;D, AVG Anti-Spyware, and Sophos anti-rootkit, none of which have picked this up.Ted KenyonJack Schofield says:Micro Bill Systems is "a provider of bespoke payment and debt management security software". It looks like a legitimate company, so it would not normally be targeted by anti-malware companies such as Norton and Sophos. According to theMBS websiteyou should go to the subscriptions section: "This will give details of the sites you are a member of, the date you joined and the subscription details. It will also show you the terms and conditions for that site."It seems that MBS is used by sites that offer things like gambling and pornography, which typically have problems collecting money; hence the strong-arm tactics. If you have not visited a site that uses MBS (including someone else using your PC), or believe you were deceived into signing up, or think you were a victim of a "drive-by download" or whatever, you should take this up with MBS. We'll be interested to hear the results, and will also see if we can find out more. In the meantime, removal techniques have been discussed on thePC Advisor magazine forum.Source of SpybotI recently downloaded a newer "free" version of Spybot. It scanned my disk and found 129 things to get rid of. But, when I asked it to remove them it said I had to buy the software to do that!John MingersJS:Spybot is and remains free. You must have downloaded a rogue version from a scam site with a similar name, and you should now remove it. You can download the real Spybot fromsafer-networking.org.Vista and AV softwareIf I buy a PC with Vista, is it still advisable to install a separate antivirus program?Philip PlowdenJS:Yes! Windows Vista does include Windows Defender, but that looks for Trojans and spyware, not viruses. Vista has dramatically more built-in security and code-hardening than XP, but that does not make it invulnerable, and the bad guys are not going to give up.Drive uncleanerI bought and installed DriveCleaner as certain sites seemed to pick up where I live and I thought this was evidence of an invasion of my PC. Norton AntiVirus advises me to delete it.Derek ParkerJS:Symantec, which owns Norton,says:"DriveCleaner is a misleading application, which gives exaggerated reports of security and privacy risks on a computer. The program then prompts the user to purchase a registered version of the software in order to remove the reported risks". All programs that do this are considered malware and should be removed. Otherwise, lots of websites try to guess where you live using techniques known asgeolocation.Autumn as artMy wife, a watercolour artist, has painted a picture of autumn inspired by the Windows XP desktop. Her art class colleagues would like to have a go at this. How can I find it to print it?Roy BennettJS:The image is called autumn.jpg so go to C: in Windows Explorer, press F3 and search for it. If it is not found, you may need to go to the advanced options and click Search hidden files and folders. On my machine, the picture is in the C:\WINDOWS\Web\Wallpaper folder.Backchat&middot;Last week, Rich Emmerson asked about disposing of an old monitor. Two suggestions on the Ask Jack blog wereComputer AidandJunkkYard.
Keep taking the antiviralsHow does Andrew Brown know he is virus-free (Read me first, February 8)? It's similar to how STDs are on an exponential rise because of (a) increasingly liberal attitudes and (b) no-one thinks that they're habouring any STDs.Anton Humphrey&middot;My machine sits behind three firewalls. I also use free anti-spyware and anti-adware programs, online email accounts in place of Outlook, and Firefox instead of Internet Explorer. So far my machine has yet to contract anything - although writing this email is probably the kiss of death to that.Keith BakerLeicester&middot;Andrew Brown says: "It is common sense not to use IE or Outlook Express except when you absolutely have to." Can he suggest alternatives?Michael StanhopeTG replies: Thunderbird for email, Firefox for browsing&middot;I don't buy antivirus software either, but in my case it's because I use Linux.Phil ThaneLlangollenBetter than humansI am intrigued to know how the demonstration is going to work, if, as Peter Judge writes, the computers "literally stop working if you look at them". (Computers take a quantum leap, February 8). In this respect they differ crucially from better-understood "classical" humans who stop working if you don't look at them.Philip DiamondLondonNHS needs a boosterWhy does it take so long (NHS data project that everybody loves, February 8)? Online traders like Amazon or eBay can be up and running in a few months.Antony WattsPlusNet gets back to DaveDave Eyre (Letters and blogs, February 8) is correct - we don't accept email for customer support. We provide a secure messaging system at our website which helps you to track responses and it is more accountable. We provide an 0845 number for when you can't access our website. Average wait time at the moment is just over four minutes. Dave may have called last year when waiting times were longer, but I'm confident he will notice a great improvement next time he needs to contact us.Phil SheardPlusNet, SheffieldFace up to FacebookMySpace (Victor Keegan, February 8) has a real competitor on the social networking battleground: Facebook.Mark MuldoonManchesterThe bigger pictureAgencies have not been targeting only small businesses (A picture paints a thousand invoices, February 1). Bigger companies generally put their hands up and settle as quickly as they can. As for professional web developers who do not know the value of good photography, and through ignorance or bullishness steal images, what can one say?Pete JenkinsNational Union of Journalists, NottinghamThat explains it allYour article, What does "unlimited" mean?' (February 1) has solved a puzzle for me. I live in Swansea, use NTL and pay for a 4MB connection. Last week I noticed my download speed drop by around half. It was working perfectly one day then the next it was complete rubbish. The day before I had downloaded several Linux distribution ISO files. I phoned NTL to report a fault on their side, and after three-quarters of an hour, at 10p per minute, the technician tried telling me that my PC was the problem. He insisted I dismantle my setup and restore DHCP under Windows, and then he told me my Ethernet card was broken. Not once did he mention this shaping/capping business, and I ended up paying &pound;5 in support calls.Simon BlakeSwansea&#183;Send your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, and please include your address and telephone number.
MaelstromPC, &pound;29.99, cert 12+KDV/Codemasters, 3/5You can count on Codemasters for a new twist to a game, and Maelstrom is no exception. This time it's scenery you can manipulate, controllable weather conditions and hero units that can be directed in first person - all of which add an interesting dimension to a genre that ran out of inspiration some time ago. With three different factions to choose from and dozens of technologies to try, Maelstrom is an action-packed and absorbing ride, although not a complete success. Occasional glitches can be patched, but skipping between first- and third-person perspectives never works as well as the developers intended. It's also easy to get lost, thanks to a featureless and fiddly mini-map. However, once you get used to the hit-and-run tactics, there's bags of gameplay here and the graphics are undeniably top-notch.Mike AnderieszOkamiPlayStation 2, &pound;39.99, cert 12+Capcom, 4/5Next-gen consoles may be hogging the limelight, but the humble PS2 is by no means a spent force. If ever there were a riposte to those who allege that games are violent and braindead, Okami is it. Endowed with an astonishingly beautiful Japanese brushpainting visual style, this action-RPG casts you as Amaterasu, a white wolf who is also the god of nature. His quest sees him restore the natural beauty of a land cursed by demons, with the aid of the Celestial Brush's mystical powers. So you find yourself, for example, drawing the sun on to dark skies, batting back fruit at hostile trees and launching fearsome attacks on demons, all by drawing with a brush. Okami's gameplay constantly evolves and never feels anything but fresh, and the Japanese mythology storyline, supporting characters and glorious art style add up to a truly charming and original experience.Steve BoxerFusion Frenzy 2Xbox 360, &pound;39.99, cert 3+Hudson/Microsoft, 2/5Shooting, driving and adventuring, the Xbox 360 has it all. But multiplayer party games? Not a chance. However, 360 owners need fret no longer: button-bashing madness is now available. With 43 minigames - ranging from bashing opponents with a hammer to throwing grenades at amoebas - there is plenty to do. Sadly, quantity beats quality, with most of the games needlessly complex and all cursed with basic graphics and ludicrous presentation. The TV show setting offers little incentive to play unless you really want to earn those Xbox Live gamerpoints. Multiplayer is key, then, but Fusion Frenzy requires some arcade skill as well as trial and error and so is likely to appeal to a more experienced audience than most party videogames. A casual game for hardcore players, Fusion Frenzy 2 is a confusing mess.Greg Howson
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Gamesindustry.bizhasthe latest circulation figures fromABC(the auditing watchdog, not the eighties synth pop group). In brief, Official PlayStation 2 is down to 76,351, Official Nintendo up to 43,000 and Official Xbox 360 has leapt to 56,000.The independent PlayStation mags are faring less well. "PSW is down from nearly 34,500 to just over 26,000 copies, while Imagine-published Play is in the lead with 29,000 - despite a 37.5 per cent drop in readership compared to a year ago. Circulation for Imagine's Powerstation was down to 15,171 from 22,288 in February 2006. Future-published rival PSM2, currently transitioning to become PSM3, saw a drop of more than 25 per cent over the past six months to hit just over 26,500."Over in the Xbox camp, Future's Xbox World held steady at 23,000, while Imagine's X360 went up to 28,000. And on PC, PC Zone is down to 27,000, while PC Gamer dropped slightly to 43,600.In these uncertain times, multiformat mags are doing well:"Games Master's readership is now hovering around the 54,000 mark following a small increase in sales, while circulation for Imagine's Games TM still stands at just over 20,000. Once again, Edge faired better than many of Future's publications - readership is up from 33,597 to 35,145, a rise of more than 4 per cent."So what does it all mean?There are three key factors working on these figures:1. The rise of internet news sites, which provide fast, free access to videogame information. The wide availability of broadband has also worked in the favour of Gamespot, Ign, etc, allowing them to develop rich media strands, from basic game trailers to podcasts and even TV-style downloadable shows.2. Uncertainty in the market. 2006 was a limbo year for the industry, with current-gen formats fading fast and next-gen not quite ready to take up the baton. Multiformat mags are best placed to take advantage in these situations as they can examine each new hardware platform.3. A crowded market. PlayStation fans can choose from Official PlayStation 2, Official PlayStation Magazine, PSM3, PSW and Play. Xbox owners face shelves groaning under the weight of the Official mag, Xbox 360 World, X360, 360 and 360 Gamer. Have you looked at the Xbox area in your local newsagent? It's almost impossible to tell these mags apart as most go with a massive '360' on the cover and are usually bagged up.Importantly, there are drops in circulation across the consumer publishing market -especially in the mens sectorwith Loaded, FHM and especially Arena all shipping readers.So what is doing well? OK is on 624,091, while Closer is now selling 614,141.That's it you see. Videogame magazines don't spend enough time badgering female celebrities into self-loathing. The Xbox 360 magazine that goes with 'Charlotte Church gets fat playing Halo 3' on its cover can expect a considerable upturn in fortune.
Thereviewsare in this week. My advice? Don't bother with Fusion Frenzy 2, the new "party" game for the 360. Only go near if you are a serious gamerpoint addict - the achievements are pretty easy - and can bear a fiddly, frustrating and tedious experience. Luckily the other two games reviewed have more to offer, particularly Okami the gorgeous new Capcom game that I would have given 5/5. The last review is Maelstrom, the new Euro RTS which is apparently pretty good but is a game I will probably never get round to playing - life is generally too short for RTS games.Elsewhere Aleksgets an unwelcome visitorin Second Life. Talking of virtual words for grown-ups,Myst Online: Uru Live has relaunched. Originally binned after the original 3D offline game tanked, Uru promises puzzles and conundrums rather than rat-killing and loot. I'll be staying in Azeroth thanks but have got a sneaky feeling this could do well. Unlike Fusion Frenzy 2, of course, which will hopefully sink without a trace.
Sony is trying to salvage its chip division by outsourcing production of the Cell processor, used in the PlayStation 3. According to aReuters report: "Sony Executive Deputy President Yutaka Nakagawa told reporters that investment in chips would come down significantly from the 460 billion yen ($3.8 billion) allocated over the three business years since April 2004."Sony is already producing the cell chips, dubbed "supercomputer on a chip", using 90- and 65-nanometre circuitry for the PS3, and plans to move onto the 45-nanometre variety by 2009. A nanometre is one billionth of a metre.The Cell is a huge chip -- around 221 sq mm to begin with, compared with 83 sq mm for a Pentium M -- and thus very expensive to make. Reaching a 45nm process will lead to a much smaller die and means Cell chips will be very much cheaper to make. But 2009 is a long way away, especially if you are sitting in a $3.8 billion black hole.Sony explains:"When we first offered the PS2, there were no semiconductor companies that were able to make chips for the machine, so we did it ourselves. But now, there are companies that specialise in chip production," Nakagawa said. "They are aggressively investing in cutting-edge technology. Our basic understanding is that we probably won't need to do everything by ourselves for next-generation chips."Well, sort of. The first 90nm chips were made by IBM. Also, according to the hype behind the Cell, it was going to be used in every sort of electronics device from TV sets to supercomputers, so having a high-volume Cell production line would be a license to print money.I guess that idea has been put to sleep for a while, if not forever.Meanwhile, queues still form for the Nintendo Wii -- a souped up GameCube that is so cheap to make it could be sold for $150 -- while Sony PlayStation 3 games consoles are sitting unsold on the shelves.Sure, the PS3 hardware would be a bargain at $1,000, as it's a cheap way to get a Cell (you can run Linux on it!) and a Blu-ray movie player. But it's a very expensive way to run games that have already been played to death on the much cheaper Xbox 360.
It is getting to the stage when I may need an accountant to help me understand my monthly telephone bill. This is not necessarily the fault of the operators. Our bills are starting to reflect the increasing complexity of the industry as its tectonic plates shift from the fixed line invented by Alexander Graham Bell 130 years ago to mobile phones, wireless connections and the revolutionary prospect - welcomed by consumers but dreaded by the industry - of free calls through the internet for everyone with a broadband connection.My latest phone bill was so puzzling I rang up customer service to decode it. First, there had been a policy change: it didn't have the number of my phone on the first page and I was curious why. The adviser said after a pause: "I don't really know why, it's quite bizarre."I took the opportunity to get him to steer me through the elements of my account including BT Together Option1: &pound;11 a month for normal telephone calls (including VAT), plus &pound;21.27 (excluding VAT) for BT Total Broadband for internet connectivity. There was a third element enabling you to phone for nothing between 6pm and 6am and more cheaply during the day but it needs a special handset to plug into your broadband router. I learned that I have already been allocated an extra phone number in preparation for the day when I buy an extra web telephone set. Nice to know.The name of the game is for telcos such as BT to keep traditional revenues as long as they can until they have to bow to the inevitable and give free internet calls as part of the broadband rental in the hope that they can make money by charging extra for premium services.But "free" calls won't necessarily sweep all before them, as I learned from papers presented to a recent Westminster eForum Seminar on the future of telephones. One contributor pointed out that 30% of all mobile calls are made within reach of a (cheaper) fixed line, but users are prepared to pay the extra because of the flexibility of a mobile - including its address book. It was pointed out that in trendsetting Asian markets, the total spent on telephones had been static over 20 years with mobile calls compensating for a decline in fixed revenues. On this model, if free internet calls become the norm, the revenue gap will be filled by users spending more on gaming, music downloads and other mobile content.But will the nirvana of universally free internet calls ever arrive? You can make free calls over the internet now from your computer or mobile, but it won't take off big time until everyone is on the same system. At the moment it looks like the wild west. Skype is the acknowledged world leader but it is proprietary. If you use Skype you can only phone other Skype users. Skype wants to be the Microsoft of the internet telephony age so the whole world uses its standard. But you can't call anyone on competing systems.Skype uses SIP (session initiation protocol), an open standard which much of the world has adopted and which really ought to be the way forward. It could do for internet telephony what the adoption of GSM as a common standard did in Europe for mobiles. This move gave it a lead of several years over America in mobile technology.That isn't going to happen quickly as long as Skype is incompatible with the rest and as long as both fixed-line telcos and mobile operators are (understandably) reluctant to lose revenues. Getting back to my telephone bill, if I were to tell BT I no longer wanted to pay for normal telephone calls as I just wanted to use the internet service I would be told they were inextricably linked (even though they need not be). Those of us waiting for the nirvana of free telephone calls are going to have to go hungry for quite a while longer.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
For about a week I have been getting a new window opening up just after I start my PC. It is from a company called MBS Billing from PO Box 185 in Leeds, and claims that I visited one of its clients' websites, that by doing so I am being billed, and that this is legally enforceable. I use Windows XP Pro SP2 with Norton Internet Security 2007 installed as well as Spybot S&amp;D, AVG Anti-Spyware, and Sophos anti-rootkit, none of which have picked this up. Ted KenyonMicro Bill Systems is "a provider of bespoke payment and debt management security software". It looks like a legitimate company, so it would not normally be targeted by anti-malware companies such as Norton and Sophos. According to theMBS websiteyou should go to the subscriptions section: "This will give details of the sites you are a member of, the date you joined and the subscription details. It will also show you the terms and conditions for that site."It seems that MBS is used by sites that offer things like gambling and pornography, which typically have problems collecting money; hence the strong-arm tactics. If you have not visited a site that uses MBS (including someone else using your PC), or believe you were deceived into signing up, or think you were a victim of a "drive-by download" or whatever, you should take this up with MBS. We'll be interested to hear the results, and will also see if we can find out more.In the meantime, removal techniques have been discussed on thePC Advisor magazine forum.
I recently downloaded a newer "free" version of Spybot. It scanned my disk and found 129 things to get rid of. But when I asked it to remove them it said I had to buy the software to do that! John MingersSpybot is and remains free. You must have downloaded a rogue version from a scam site with a similar name, and you should now remove it. You can download the real Spybot fromhttp://www.safer-networking.org/.
If I buy a PC with Vista, is it still advisable to install a separate antivirus program? Philip PlowdenYes! Windows Vista does include Windows Defender, but that looks for Trojans and spyware, not viruses. Vista has dramatically more built-in security and code-hardening than XP, but that does not make it invulnerable, and the bad guys are not going to give up.
I bought and installed DriveCleaner as certain sites seemed to pick up where I live and I thought this was evidence of an invasion of my PC. Norton AntiVirus advises me to delete it. Derek ParkerJS: Symantec, which owns Norton,says: "DriveCleaner is a misleading application, which gives exaggerated reports of security and privacy risks on a computer. The program then prompts the user to purchase a registered version of the software in order to remove the reported risks". All programs that do this are considered malware and should be removed.Otherwise, lots of websites try to guess where you live using techniques known as geolocation. Seehttp://www.dnsstuff.com/info/geolocation.htm
My wife, a watercolour artist, has painted a picture of autumn inspired by the Windows XP desktop. Her art class colleagues would like to have a go at this. How can I find it to print it? Roy BennettThe image is called autumn.jpg so go to C: in Windows Explorer, press F3 and search for it. If it is not found, you may need to go to the advanced options and click Search hidden files and folders. On my machine, the picture is in the C:\WINDOWS\Web\Wallpaper folder.
Years of exposure to science fiction films and TV futurism should by now have convinced us that, eventually, we will all talk to one another using videophones. However, companies have spent the best part of 40 years trying to sell them to us, and so far, they have not succeeded.Commendably, BT keeps trying. A dozen years ago, we had a couple of its videophones on trial in the Guardian office - they were sold in pairs, otherwise you'd never find anyone else to videocall. Now it has just launched two new models, the Videophone 1000 (&pound;150) and 2000 (&pound;200, with Wi-Fi), which should be available in the high street.Videophones have come a long way since they were first demonstrated at the World's Fair in Montreal in 1967. Early developers had to work with old-fashioned handsets with dials, and their video displays were small TV sets, so naturally they look clunky today.But videophones got smaller and digital and prices came down. In 2004, Amstrad founder Alan Sugar even had a go at the mass market with a &pound;99 videophone version of his e-M@iler. You may even know someone who bought one. How often it's used for videocalls is another matter.To try to get a handle on sales, I called GfK, a market research company. But Aaron Rattue, speaking from the GSM exhibition in Cannes, had to confess: "We don't track them: we don't have any stats." No one's interested, apparently.Rattue did point out that "videocalling is a lot more available on mobile phones than it is in the home, but it hasn't really taken off. 3 brought it into the mainstream, but videocalling is way down the list when it comes to mobile usage."Today, the story has taken a new twist: millions of people are now videocalling one another! Lovers are bridging continents. Grandparents are bridging the generation gap. But they are doing it with webcams and personal computers, over the net, using instant messaging programs or Skype. And they are not paying BT call charges.This market is likely to grow. When I reviewed Sony's PCG-C1 mini-notebook in 1999, one innovation was the rotatable video camera built into the lid. Today putting a video camera into a notebook or desktop screen is beyond obvious, and no-one minds that we've lost the Sony device's ability to swivel the lens 180 degrees. Videotalking is the primary application.So what's the difference? When we do videocalls via a webcam, we're usually talking to people we know: family and friends, colleagues or net buddies. That's different from the telephony market, where anyone can call you at random, and lots of calls come from people you don't want to know. The prospect of getting that sort of call in video is not going to fly.But BT and other companies are not going to give in, and videophones are now starting to work via broadband instead of the voice network. Indeed, that's what distinguishes BT's new videophones from the ones it released more than a decade ago. One day it will work, you'll see.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Apple co-founder Steve Jobs caused a stir this month by publishing Thoughts on Music, a 1,900-word essay on digital rights management (DRM). Apparently he's against it, and so are we. However, there has been a backlash, with people suggesting Jobs start practising what he preaches. At the Inquirer, for example, Charlie Demerjian called Jobs "the lowest form of hypocrite", pointing out that "the Mac, the iPod and the upcoming iPhone all are DRMed to the gills".Actually, it seems Jobs was simply reacting to pressure from Europe, particularly from Norway, France and Germany. Last summer, Forbrukerradet, Norway's consumer council, lodged acomplaintwith the Consumer Ombudsman against iTunes Music Store Norge, and last month got a ruling in its favour.Torgeir Waterhouse of Forbrukerradet told the Outlaw.com website: "FairPlay is an illegal technology whose main purpose is to lock the consumers to the total package provided by Apple by blocking interoperability."FairPlay, Apple's relatively liberal DRM, prevents people from playing songs they've bought from the iTunes Music Store on other music players, while the iPod cannot play DRM-encumbered songs bought from rival online music stores.Note: this is not the same as complaining that you can't run a PlayStation 2 title on your Nintendo, because each version of a game has to be created for a specific machine. With music files, the DRM plays no part in the music's or the file's creation: it is simply added later.There are two separate issues here, as Edgar Bronfman, chief executive of Warner Music Group, was quick to point out: copy protection and interoperability. All four music majors insist on copy protection, which is implemented by DRM. However, they also want interoperability, because they think this would lead to a bigger market and because it might also reduce Apple's power. In particular, they want to vary prices so that some songs are expensive while others are cheap. Jobs won't let them.There are three obvious ways to achieve both interoperability and DRM. The simplest and quickest is for everyone to adopt the system that dominates the market. But Apple would have to license its proprietary FairPlay DRM to other companies, and it won't.An alternative would be for everyone to agree on an open industry standard DRM. That isn't likely because it would take a long time to implement, and because everybody wants to make money out of DRM. The third option is for companies to work together on interoperability, so that when songs are transcoded from one format to another, the DRM is preserved. Jobs doesn't even mention this idea.He specifically rejects licensing FairPlay because he says its secrets will leak out if it's spread around, and it will be hard to patch when many companies use it. But he may be exaggerating. Microsoft's proprietary but openly licensed DRM has been cracked less often than FairPlay, even though it's licensed to dozens of companies. Is Jobs saying Microsoft can do this but Apple can't?Apple does have a real problem. It is perceived to be operating anti-competitively by some European governments and by some consumer councils. The best solution for consumers and, says Jobs, for Apple, would be for the music majors to abandon DRM altogether. Since I boycott all forms of music DRM, I'd prefer that, too. But until it happens, the pressure on Apple is only likely to get stronger.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Hackers target the home frontCriminals are trying to gain access to banks' computer networks via the weakest link in the security chain: executives who work at home, says Pete Warren.Will the videophone ever come of age?They have come a long way in 40 years and BT is among those trying hard to make the concept fly. Jack Schofield reports.Free Our Data:Hydrographic Office runs into dangerous watersThe body that publishes charts for mariners could be privatised.Salesmen with no manners are not welcomeAleks Krotoski: I was hanging out in my virtual library when a new Second Life resident flew in through the hole in the roof.GamesMaelstrom | Okami | Fusion Frenzy 2Newly Asked Questions:How can I vote on the Oscars?Hurry along to oscartorrents.com, a site with a twist, writes Wendy M Grossman. It's an effort to show what the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences of America could be doing to embrace the digital era.When will I be able to have my own supercomputer?In about eight to 10 years, according to Intel, which has just announced 'the Era of Tera' at the annual Integrated Solid State Circuits Conference in San Francisco, says Jack Schofield.Read me firstSeth Finkelstein: Blogs are no longer free from everyday commercial pressures.Telecoms nirvana put on holdIt is getting to the stage when I may need an accountant to help me understand my monthly telephone bill, writes Victor Keegan.TechnobileThe guys who design phone controls must think we all have the attention span of a gnat on a bad day, says Charles Arthur.Worried about being watched? You already areObjections to road pricing include fears about privacy. But number-plate recognition is in use now. SA Mathieson reports.Why Steve isn't going to upset the DRM Apple cartApple co-founder Steve Jobs cause a stir this month by publishing Thoughts on Music, a 1,900-word essay on digital rights management (DRM). Apparently he's against it, and so are we, says Jack Schofield.A revolutionary rethink of the humble inkjet printerFed up with waiting for pages to churn out? Scientists reckon a new chip could result in speeds of 1,000 pages a minute, says Michael Pollitt.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesPlayReady or not | Mobile goddess | Googlemail available | Nokia has an E | Tanks for the memories | Cold war revisited | HD for all! | Date a silver surferLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
I was hanging out in my virtual library when a new Second Life resident flew in through the hole in the roof. I knew he was new because he plonked himself down in the middle of the room and, without any apparent concern for the discussion a friend and I were having, barged straight into the conversation.Pardon? You wouldn't waltz into someone's house in meatspace and interrupt a conversation by throwing yourself on to the sofa. Just like in the so-called real world, there are rules in digital life which uphold common courtesy. Knock first, and then enter. But he was new. I was willing to give him the benefit of the doubt.At least until he told me he was a salesman. And guess what - did he have a great deal for me! You have got to be kidding. Virtual door-to-door salesmen? What happened to my digital Utopia?Before Christmas it was offline organisations buying cheap real-world headlines by announcing their move into the Second Life universe. The result is that the online world is now full of husks of PR frenzy. These groups didn't stay long enough give something back to the community, so the community has had nothing to do with them.This month it seems that the next step towards integrating 3D webspace with our corporeal existence is to place hired representatives on our virtual doorsteps, forcing us to listen to them push real-world services. This is as welcome as the clap. And ultimately it has serious implications for the success of the virtual community.There is an important difference between the real and the online worlds: if people don't get a good first impression of something in cyberspace, they're quicker to reject it and are less likely to return. In the early 1990s, as the web was gaining a foothold in the public consciousness, internet service providers who placed advertising ahead of other services soon found themselves shut out, replaced by ISPs who didn't charge for content or throw ad banners on to users' screens.In Second Life, there is an online version of slamming a door in someone's face. You can mute offenders from conversation or ban them from your land. But what will happen when digital salesmen are ejected from most properties? Will they leave quietly or will gangs of them, desperate for commission, descend vulture-like upon the Welcome Areas, havens of initiation for new residents, marring first glimpses of this promising virtual environment with pushy pitches?I do hope this is a short-lived trend. It would be a terrible shame if new blood, with its myriad ideas and inspiring innovations, didn't get further than the first ad.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The appearance of companies that pay bloggers to write about advertisers' products has created an uproar, pitting those who have been called the "sidewalk hookers of the blogosphere" against A-listers who might be termed the blog world's "executive escorts". The debate tends to follow a well-worn path concerning advertising versus integrity, and when disclosing a payment from an interested party is required or sufficient.But the discussion of best practices for disclosure, or credibility, utterly misses the most important aspect of the article purchases - the purchased popularity is not necessarily to the readership of a blog, but to the scoring algorithms of a search engine. Online publications have not just readers, but links. And links carry influence, as in Google's famous PageRank system, which calculates a page's position in search results based in part on weighing links to that page.Critically, the effects of PageRank selling and link buying are completely independent of blogger (or journalistic) ethics. That is, when an advertiser buys a link, carrying its associated PageRank, the audience reached by the blog article itself may be the smallest aspect of the purchase. It is the indirect influence of accumulated links that can be the main return on investment. If an advertiser's product is vaulted to a top position in search results, virtually none of the users who see that high search ranking (and, confusing popularity with authority, the irrational endorsement it seems to convey) will even be aware of the paid links that produced the result.While in theory links are supposed to be made based on interest, anything that has commercial value spurs ways to buy it (or steal it, as in spamming links to open comment areas). Search engines try to find ways to penalise those who engage in such transactions, which then drives further attempts to make the placements look legitimate - for example, finding ways to embed the marketing within conversation.But this method of monetising blog postings is simply one means among many of commodifying social relationships. In a way, influence is being disintermediated from an elite few BigHeads at the top of an attention hierarchy, and then re-intermediated in an advertising agency which acts as a middleman. It's ironic to believe that old ways of doing business in terms of directing attention are immune to disruption. The same marketing money that would pay a single A-lister's travel expenses to an expensive conference can be used to supplement the budget of many hungry students. And the ability of Internet communication to facilitate outsourcing and freelancing makes such a strategy switch very efficient. Which leads to a type of class warfare between the white-collar A-list jet-set and blue-collar blog writers.There's an old joke: Billionaire to woman: "Would you have sex with me for $1m?" Woman: "Well, yes." Billionaire to woman: "Would you have sex with me for $10?" Woman: "What kind of a girl do you think I am?" Billionaire: "We've already determined that. Now we're just arguing over the price."The humour depends on two aspects: commerce and amount. The obvious part of the joke plays off two categories of interaction, commercial and social. Ideally, it's thought these should not overlap, whatever the amount. A less often remarked facet is that there is indeed a "class" division between high-priced commercial and low-priced commercial.So we have perhaps the blog marketing version of that joke - Company to blogger: "Would you write about me for advisory board membership? Blogger: "Well, yes" Company to blogger: "Would you write about me for $10?" Blogger: "What kind of a flack do you think I am?" Company: "We've already determined that. Now we're just arguing over the price."There's a class division, where membership is exclusive and expensive, while payment is common and cheap. But both are monetisation of attention. If we want there to be areas of human interaction which have some protection against commercial pressures, blogs stopped qualifying long ago. Now we're just arguing over the price.&#183;sethf.com/infothought/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the UK's leading banks has been forced to admit that organised hacking gangs have been targeting its executives. For the past year, Royal Bank of Scotland has been fighting systematic attempts to break into its computer systems from hackers who have sent personalised emails containing keyloggers to its senior management. This has included executives up to board level and is now the subject of a separate investigation by the Serious and Organised Crime Agency.The hackers are homing in on the trend for people to work from home. The hackers make the assumption that the computers being used outside the work environment are more vulnerable than those protected by a corporate IT department.Growing threatFor companies it is a growing threat as home working increases: a recent survey from the Equal Opportunities Commission found that more than 60% of the UK's population wants the option of flexible working.And the hackers are employing increasingly sophisticated techniques. Each email they send is meticulously built to make it attractive to its target, who the criminals have carefully researched by trawling the internet for information. Once the email is composed, the malware is just as carefully designed: it is often modified to avoid detection by security software.The keylogger contained in the email installs itself automatically and then collects details of logins and passwords from the unsuspecting user. This means that hackers can, using the usernames and passwords stolen by the keyloggers, connect to VPNs, or Virtual Private Networks, which many companies use to create an encrypted pathway into their networks.Once inside a bank's network, the hackers can communicate directly with computers holding account information and manipulate funds.Has this actually happened? In some cases sources claim that the login details of VPNs have been obtained and used though there has been no confirmation that any losses have occurred as a result. The attacks are not believed to have focused on RBS but to have been across the whole of the banking industry.Royal Bank of Scotland said that the bank had suffered no losses as a result of the attacks and added: "RBS has extremely robust processes in place in order to protect our systems from fraud. Trojan email attacks are an industry-wide issue and are not isolated to a particular area or a particular bank."The first indication that banks had become the target of such sophisticated attacks emerged two years ago when police foiled an attempt by hackers to steal $420m (&pound;210m) from a London branch of Sumitomo, a Japanese bank. According to reports, the attack on Sumitomo involved the use of both hardware and software keyloggers.It is not just banks that have been targets. Last year attempts were made to steal information from the Houses of Parliament using malicious email. Messagelabs, the company responsible for monitoring much of the email traffic of the government and big business for suspect software, said at the beginning of the year that criminals have been evolving more sophisticated techniques to attack corporate networks.According to Mark Sunner, chief technology officer of Messagelabs, the number of malicious emails targeted at individuals has been increasing. Two and half years ago they were being seen once every two months, but now they are seeing one or two a day. This has been accompanied by an increase in quality in the creation of Trojans and spyware."The hackers are now aiming to take over computers, particularly those of home users. Some of the malicious software that we are routinely seeing for that purpose will have its own antivirus system built into it so that they can kill off the programs of their competitors."The criminal gangs, believed to be based in Russia and Asia, routinely use software deployed by legitimate businesses and adapt it to gather information on individuals. "The gangs are taking the lists of addresses from people's machines and they are performing their own mail merges to create databases of names and addresses," says Sunner.According to Sunner, as well as the usual tactic of hijacking a PC for use as part of a spam network, hackers also mine computers for information on the individual and their contacts. This information can then be used help build a database of personal information that can be used to construct targeted criminal emails.Social networking sites are also being mined, according to Sunner. These are not just the preserve of MySpace and Bebo-using teens; professional social networks such as Plaxo and LinkedIn are also being plundered. Sunner adds: "If someone contacts you from LinkedIn and you don't know them and they ask you to join their network, you essentially tell them the names of everyone you know if you are a member of either group. There are a lot of people who will answer those requests without thinking."Aamir Butt, UK chief executive of Giritech, a Danish company that produces secure links for home-working, says: "We work with a range of customers including those in the financial industry and it was mentioned to us that the login details for VPN networks were a weakness that people were concerned about."Increased vigilanceTony Neate, the head of Get Safe Online, a government-funded organisation set up to raise awareness among UK businesses of computer criminals, says: "There is now an attempt to target individuals within UK businesses - including the banking sector. What is happening is that crime is doing what it always does, which is look for the weakest link. Home working is where they perceive a weakness."This points to a need for increased vigilance and security by those working from home and by those responsible for letting them work from home. For home working to be effective, security needs to be as effective as if working in an office."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
An anonymous UK developer, writing in the comments section of,this Gamesblog posthas provided a scathing assesment of the PSP's future. "There are virtually no PSP games being developed in the UK," he claims, citing comparatively high development costs and small userbase as key explanations."At a GDC conference in Brighton last year, everyone walked away from the PSP. Developers had to budget for PS2 content on a handheld with a tiny userbase. Its not cost effective, (especially when the alternative DS has a massive userbase and is cheap to develop for).At the same time, Nintendo had sent Wiimotes that plug into Gamecube devkits to all registered developers. Instead of forking out thousands of quid to Sony for devkits that they still weren't releasing, studios were coming up with innovative Wii ideas. Instead of training coders to program the world's most complicated Cell processor, the Gamecube team just switched to the Wii."A quick look at the PSP release schedule shows a flurry of activity heading into mid-March (just in time for Easter), but things thin out afterwards. Stalwarts like SOCOM and Metal Gear Solid should prop things up, but in terms of true Triple A titles coming from British developers, there's really only Manhunt 2, plus Sumo Digital's conversions of Virtua Tennis and Driver 76.It could be argued, of course, that major UK-developed DS titles are just as rare. Diddy Kong Racing DS, perhaps. What else? Britain has never really been a major force in the handheld market, with publishers usually outsourcing portable conversions to smaller third-party studios, which are often given just six months to port console code across to handheld platforms.Look at Metacritic'sreview scores for Nintendo DS games. As far as I can tell, only two of the top 20 - Metroid Prime Hunters and Tony Hawk's American Sk8land - were developed outside of Japan. This is in stark contrast to the console development market where the West has a growing share of the Triple A segment. Interestingly, at least 12 of thePSP top 20are Western releases (although only a couple of them originated in the UK).In Japan, there are loads of cool little developers likeTose,HAL LaboratoriesandAlphaDream, bashing out colourful imaginative handheld titles. The UK has the excellentSumo Digital, of course, but considering the fact that the DS is cheap to code for - why aren't there many, many more? Britain is stuffed with small studios - Scotland might well have more mobile game developers than any other country outside of the Far East. What's preventing them from embracing handheld?This isn't about opportunity, it's about psychology. There is no Western equivalent of kawaii - studios just don'tgetcute. I've been in dozens of them and the cultural references are always similar: Blade Runner, Lord of the Rings, Aliens, Frank Miller, William Gibson, Buffy, Star Wars - this is not the stuff of cute, effective handheld gaming.PSP panders to a peculiar Western vision of portable gaming - a 'proper' console, playing 'proper' console games on a smaller screen. Thing is, I don't know about you, but I don't want to feel cool and edgy on the bus, I like the warmth of cute, iconic graphics. I don't know why.No PSP development in the UK? Sony's embattled platform has masses of potential - it's a beautiful piece of kit. But it is being failed. There must be a combination out there of Japanese aesthetics and the Western vision of cool. Until then, the handheld development coma continues, only the faintest blips of awareness puncturing the darkness.
