The first thing you'll notice about Windows 7 is that it looks like Vista. It also works like Vista, in the sense that it has the same plumbing underneath, except for a very welcome graphics upgrade to DX11. However, it works much better than Vista, and most of Vista's annoyances have either been removed, or (mostly) can be changed so the system works the way you like. It takes personalisation to extremes.Microsoft has analysed the data from millions of user computing sessions to find out exactly what people do with their computers, then attacked the "pain points" to make Windows 7 quicker and smoother. (About 15 million people used the Windows 7 beta.)The most obvious difference is that Windows 7 doesn't keep annoying you with prompts — though it's also true that the latest version of Vista is much less annoying than the original. In fact, you can set the degree of annoyance on a sliding scale, though reducing it increases the risk of security breaches. However, Windows 7 is vastly more secure than XP and, in any case, the threat landscape has changed since XP was trashed by worms such as Blaster and Slammer. Today, the more important security changes are in the Internet Explorer 8 browser which, uniquely, defends against cross-site scripting.Another obvious difference is that Windows 7 uses fewer resources.Where Vista really needed 2GB of memory, Windows 7 will run quite happily in 1GB on a slow dual-core Intel processor, though I'd still recommend 2GB or, for preference, 4GB with the speedy 64-bit version of Windows 7.The reduced footprint and some optimisation means Windows 7 sleeps and wakes up faster (though it's still not in the same class as Mac OS X).And laptop batteries should last longer. I've been running Windows 7 on an Asus UL30 laptop with a claimed battery life of around 11 hours with Vista: it now does more than 12 hours.Any PC that currently runs Vista will be better at running Windows 7 – a first for Microsoft – and it should also run on most PCs that will run XP SP2. (Search YouTube and you will find users showing off by loading it on unsuitable systems, including antiques with Pentium III chips.) The catch is that upgrading a PC running Windows XP requires a clean installation of Windows 7: you can't do an in-place upgrade. This has been a source of complaints, because it means reinstalling all your applications as well.However, we've known for a dozen years that a clean installation of Windows usually works better, and geeks have generally recommended it.Indeed, people used to reinstall Windows 95, 98 or Me just to clean up their systems, so it's silly to get hysterical about it now.The Windows 7 interface has a few noticeable changes. First, the Vista sidebar has gone, but you can still use the clock and other gadgets, and you can position them wherever you like. Second, the QuickLaunch area and the TaskBar have been replaced by a sort of combo-pack.Instead of putting applications in the QuickLaunch area, you can now right-click and pin them to the new-style Taskbar, alongside running applications.As in Vista, hovering over a Taskbar icon shows one or more mini-previews, depending on how many windows you're using, except now they're interactive. Hovering over a mini-preview shows it full size on the desktop, while right-clicking provides a Jump List of options.It makes it dramatically easier to see what you are doing. However, if you are an inveterate Alt-Tabber, that shows the same mini-previews. And if you liked Vista's Flip 3D feature, that's still an option.Incidentally, you can now move TaskBar icons around to change the order, like browser tabs. As I always try to keep XP TaskBar items in the same order, I find this useful. It's a small point, but Windows 7 has lots of small points, and they add up.There are a few party tricks that Windows 7 users can show their friends, such as Aero Snaps, Aero Peek and Aero Shake. Aero Snaps lets you put two applications side by side for easy comparison and copy-and-paste. Aero Peek makes open windows temporarily transparent so you can see what's on your desktop. Aero Shake means that if you shake a window, all the other windows will disappear. All are both useful and fun.The My Documents section has been reorganised under one heading, Libraries. This includes Documents, Music, Pictures, and Videos, with Windows 7 sorting things into these "shell folders". Each of these has two subfolders, such as My Music and Public Music. This makes it easier to keep stuff you want to share away from stuff you want to keep to yourself.Sharing is an important part of Windows 7. It has a HomeGroup feature that makes it very easy to set up a home network and share things. It only works with Windows 7 machines, which I expect will sell a few family packs of Windows 7 (three copies of Home Premium for £149.99).Right-click a photo, for example, select Share, and this gives you four options: Nobody, HomeGroup (Read), HomeGroup (Read/Write) and Specific People. "Plays to" lets you display a video, for example, on a different PC.Support for the consumer electronics industry's DLNA (Digital Living Network Alliance) standard should help Windows 7 PCs work with other devices, though I've yet to see an example.There are also some "location awareness" features where Windows 7 figures out where you are — on a home network or an office network, for example — and selects the appropriate printer. There's a section of the control panel, Location and Other Sensors, where sensors can be installed and controlled. One example is "adaptive brightness": if your PC has a light sensor, Windows 7 will adjust the screen brightness to match.Multi-touch is also supported, if you have the hardware to take advantage of it. There is an emerging flood of laptops with multi-touch pads and new all-in-ones with multi-touch screens, but it remains to be seen whether these will be successful.When it comes to Windows applications, the very old ones have been dramatically improved. Paint and WordPad now have "ribbon interfaces" like Office 2007, and both the Calculator and command shell (PowerShell) are much more powerful than before. Technically, several standard applications have also been removed from the operating system, though I expect most PC manufacturers will install them.What Microsoft has done is decouple the Windows Live Essentials suite of applications – Mail, Messenger, Photo Gallery, Movie Maker, etc – from the operating system. It means the Live programs can be updated from the web every six or nine months, or whatever, instead of on a three-year operating system development cycle. It also reduces the attack area for anti-trust complaints.But one thing that's missing from Windows 7 is the Microsoft Security Essentials anti-virus program, formerly codenamed Morro. You get Windows Defender and an improved firewall, but Microsoft appears to be too scared of the European Commission to do what would be best for users and include anti-virus software as well. As it is, specialist anti-virus companies install trial versions on new PCs, and pay PC manufacturers very handsomely for the distribution. If Microsoft did the right thing and defended users for nothing, it would upset the financial applecart.All round, then, Windows 7 is generally good, and some Windows fans reckon it's better than Apple's Mac OS X. It's certainly easier to use than Mac OS X if you are already familiar with the Windows way of doing things. Also, Windows 7 – released to companies on August 6 – has so far proved to be a lot less buggy than Apple's Snow Leopard, which has even lost users' data.If you dig into Windows 7 you will, of course, find numerous relics from the past, going right back through Windows 95 to DOS.There are lots of inconsistencies that still need cleaning up.However, Microsoft's business depends on running millions of programs that stretch back decades, supporting vast numbers of peripherals, and providing a platform for thousands of competing manufacturers who make everything from handhelds and tablet PCs to racks of data-centre mainframes. That's just the baggage Windows carries.But with luck you will not see too many of these relics, and on the surface, Windows 7 is impressively smooth.I'm a full-time Windows XP user who didn't upgrade to Vista on my two main PCs, but I can't see a good reason for sticking with XP now that it looks doomed. I've bought a cut-price Amazon Windows 7 Pro upgrade for my desktop, and I'm planning to buy a new Windows 7 laptop to replace my very old ThinkPad X31.Windows 7 is a long way from being perfect, and it's not an essential upgrade if you're happy with XP. But nor is there a real reason to avoid it. Windows 7 is simply the best version of Windows you can get.
Google is very good at taking existing products that we take for granted and improving their usability -- search, maps, webmail, documents. As well as improving usability, they are also encouraging a shift in where we store our information. Instead of a word document on our computer that we email to people when we are finished, we can have a document online that people can comment on while it is in progress. Instead of downloading email to our computer from our isp or company email server, it is accessed via the web.The computer becomes the tool to access information stored elsewhere, rather than the repository for all our information.Google Waveis taking both these ideas a step further - usability and shared online data.At the core of Wave is an attempt to improve the usability of email - not just by writing a new email client, but by creating a new protocol.Their stated aimis that "waves may succeed email as the dominant form of Internet communication".The biggest thing they want to change is concurrency so that email becomes a truly collaborative tool. At the heart of the wave protocol is a very smart algorithm that allows truly concurrent editing.Why should you care?Imagine you are working from home. You send a couple of emails to send people the new spreadsheet you have created. There is an urgent problem, so you use instant messaging to talk people through a fix. You know the same problem happened last week, so you search your emails to find an attachment which held the last resolution.Wave would let you do this in one place - drag and drop documents into a conversation and edit them with collaborators. Edit messages from before so important information can be kept. Talk concurrently with collaborators. Even playback a conversation step by step.It is bringing different tools together in one place - email, documents, instant messaging, so they are properly integrated. It is all about bringing all your data together, online, in a way that is easily shared with others.Worried about storing all your data with Google?Wave is an open protocol. Google envisage a host of federated wave servers all hosting waves, in the same way that email is hosted on many different servers. They intend to be only one of many wave providers.Still not impressed?The really powerful bit of wave is the ability to add extensions, robots and gadgets, that can interact with the wave. A gadget is an application users add to a wave, like iGoogle gadgets or Facebook applications. They are written in javascript and have access to the wave's state and participants. Think of a poll or a game like scrabble played between friends.Robots are an automated participant within a wave, which are added like any other participant. They subscribe to events of a wave and can both interact with users within a wave and pull in information from the outside world. For example there is a twitter robot that posts anything you say to twitter, and a swedish chef robot that translates what you say to swedish chef. Robots can be written in java or python and must currently be hosted on Google appengine. Spelly and Linky are two built in robots provided by Google, that check your spelling as you type and make sure links are clickable.What this means is that wave is infinitely extensible. It is quite likely that the killer app that will drive people to use wave will not be written by Google but by someone else.Problems?Security is the most obvious one. There is currently no permissions structure in wave[1]. Any participants in your wave have the right to modify or delete anything. Any participants in your wave can add any participant they choose. Currently you cannot remove a participant from a wave.You could argue that wave is usable without permissions. Even if someone deletes all your documents maliciously from a wave, you have full history and can restore what was lost. You can also tell exactly who removed the information and when. The worst thing that could happen would be ending up in an edit war, as happens on Wikipedia.(Although it is worth noting that even wikipedia, which was built on the principle of having everyone able to edit anything, has decided to lock down the most contentious topics to prevent edit wars getting out of hand.)The bigger security problem as I see it is robots, because what they do is invisible. Anything a robot can do with a wave would show up in playback. So while it could change data maliciously, add or remove gadgets or participants, like the edit war with human participants, you could restore what was lost.But what about what robots could do outside the wave?Imagine a spam robot that collected all the participant details and sent all of them an email about viagra, or simply sold the user details to another party. Or an espionage robot that copied documents and sent them to a competitor. Robots have to be added to a wave, but it would be easy to write a trojan robot that presented itself as something useful (like a translation robot, for example).Spam prevention is a whole topic in itself.Right now Google wave is limited to only around 600,000 people. What happens when it goes public? Google promise that "whitelisting" is coming soon. Wave users will be able to select which people they want to collaborate with and place them on a whitelist. Only those who are on the list will be able to contact you via Wave. This would solve the immediate problem of spam, but removes the ability to find and talk to friends easily.There is a difficult balance that needs to be struck, between blocking spammers but still making it easy to find friends. Wave is all about collaboration, make that hard and people will go elsewhere.For corporate users, I can imagine corporate wave servers, with only approved collaborators and robots allowed. On public waves, users will have to be careful who and what they add to their waves.What about the wave client itself?The first reaction of many people to the wave client is that it is clunky and hard to use. Search is slow and doesn't always return the results you expect. It can be hard to find new waves - they are meant to be at the top, but don't always seem to be. The screen is quite crowded with too many buttons everywhere and never the one you want. The spellchecker seems to vanish and reappear.The user interface is in beta right now of course, and we should expect it still to be a bit buggy. Also what should be remembered is that wave is a protocol not a user interface - Google's wave client is only the first example, and it may well be that someone else writes a better one.Browser compatibility?Wave will support Firefox, Safari and Chrome. It will never work with Internet Explorer. IE users are offered Chrome frame which will run Chrome within the IE window.What has all this got to do with the Guardian?Nothing yet.Two of us spent a week investigating waveand seeing if it would be useful to us. Our conclusion is that it is not yet ready to use, but watch this space. First of all, only people with wave accounts can see wave. Thats only about 600,000 people worldwide right now. Secondly, there is no security model  - anyone who can see a wave can edit it. For legal reasons we couldn't allow that. A user could change our articles, or put words into someone else's mouth.But once read-only public access is implemented, which Google promise is coming soon, we could start to embed waves on pages. Think webpages with embedded waves that update automatically when new content is published, without the user having to refresh. Or journalists around the world discussing the news in real time. Or just the flexibility of being able to embed third party gadgets on a page.Finally, what about the name?It was inspired bythe cult sci-fi series Firefly, where instead of saying "I'll email you", characters say "I'll wave you". Google is trying to prove it really is the communication mechanism of the future.([1] Google say more permissions are in progress. They may for example introduce a "commenter" role whereby a user can only create new blips and edit their own blips, and a "confidential" mode where participants can't add new participants. The permissions structure is not yet finalised as far as I know.)
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Today is the day:Microsoftis launching Windows 7 and it'll be interesting to see what the reaction is like. Yes, hardcore addicts have already got hold of their copies over recent months and said what they think - but are you one of those who got it for the first time today? Tell us what you think of it.&bull; Rumours that Google and Microsoft were both trying to forge deals for access toTwitter's data wereconfirmed yesterday- the kind of ready-made story that makes technology reporters go a bit loopy. But why bother? Because paying for access to the Twitter "firehose" is the fastest way to index new messages. So, finally, Twitter has a way to make some cash - but perhaps the more interesting part is that Google is paying for the right to index another website's content: the sort of deal that newspapers (and other website) have summarily failed to make in the past.&bull; This week'sTechnology Guardianis now gracing the shelves at your local newsagent, cunningly hidden inside the Guardian itself. We take a look at what theWindows 7 launch means for the industry, find out howNokia has upset some of its biggest fansand talk to legendaryMitch Kapor about his belief that open source has won out. Much more too, of course - you can buy it for £1	or find out morehereYou can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I want to completely wipe my mobile phone so that no personal data of any kind can be retrieved from it before I give it charity.Joe MercerMost if not all mobiles have an option to reset the phone to its factory preset condition, which effectively makes your data disappear. This is often known as a "hard reset". The option can be a menu item, so look in the settings for Clear or Factory Reset or something along those lines. In some cases, there is a reset code, such as *#7370# for a Nokia N95. The instructions should be in the manual, or if not, you may be able to find them online.TheReCellularwebsite provides instructions for a large number of phones, though you have to provide registration details including an email address. ReCellular is a US company that buys, sells and recycles mobiles, and I can't guarantee its instructions will work on all UK phones. Otherwise, one of your network's mobile phone shops should have the answer.Make sure that you have manually removed any email accounts and deactivated the phone before you wipe it. Some services can helpfully "refresh" the missing data from their servers. Also, remove memory cards etc.Note that forensic software and services companies may be able to recover data from a phone that has been reset or wiped. If a phone has contained extremely sensitive data that could justify the cost of trying to recover it, then the safest option is to shred it. If you are buying a new phone, think about choosing one that can be wiped remotely and/or install security software that will encrypt and protect your data right from the start.
I've started to introduce my mum to the 21st century, and she's using the internet with my old Packard Bell EasyNote running Windows XP. The return key's suddenly stopped working. Is it worth getting repaired, or should I replace it? I've a limited budget (£250) and she thinks netbooks are too small!Steve SaulThere may be dirt under the key that you could remove using compressed air, or you could pop off the key, clean and replace it.Laptop Repair 101has a good pictorial guide. Alternatively, a local PC repair shop might be able to fix it.However, cheap notebook keyboards are not built to last, and it might be better to replace the whole keyboard, if you can find a spare. Try searching for "replacement keyboard" with the precise model number of your laptop. ButCyfinity has documented the replacement of one EasyNote keyboardand it seems to be a finicky job.If your EasyNote is on its last legs, £279 is about the lowest price for a name-brand product that's not a netbook, though you might find a supermarket deal or "manager's special". November could be a good time to buy: there might be lots of old stock at clearance prices when a flood of new Windows 7 machines appears on October 22.Backchat: Tony Schroder, Andrew Richards and Anne Barry, sensibly suggested plugging in a separate keyboard. Something like the PC Line PCL-SK1, £6.99 from Currys or PC World, should be fine, and Maplin has a large collection. Check if you need a USB or PS2 connection.
Which combination of free protection software (anti virus, firewall, etc) would you recommend for a Vista 64-bit machine? I've been running McAfee and Kaspersky software as trials but am wondering if they are really worth the money.Karl TeofilovicA lot of Vista users just use the built-in firewall, sometimes with Sphinx's freeVista Firewall Control. The link now leads to the Windows 7 Firewall Control, but I presume it's the same.Comodo's firewallis a good free alternative. This now comes bundled with AntiVirus for Windows, for Vista and Windows 7, but you don't have to install it. Among the other free anti-virus programs, you can choose between Avast, AVG Free and Avira AntiVir, or possibly Microsoft's new Security Essentials. If you are willing to pay, then I think the 64-bit version of Kaspersky Internet Security (£39.99) is a better all-round suite, but the free stuff does the job.I also urge you to run Secunia's freePersonal Software Inspector(PSI) from time to time. Vista is inherently much more secure than Windows XP, so malware writers are trying to exploit vulnerabilities in Adobe, Apple, Real and other software, especially browser plug-ins.According to Secunia, "updating your programs and PC with the latest security updates is more important than having an anti-virus program and using a firewall". This may be an exaggeration, but not by much.
After reading your item on Huge XP (8 October), I noticed that my Vista Home Premium hard drive has a giant folder, C:\Windows\winsxs, containing 8130 folders, 33,625 files, and occupying 7.24GB. It grows every time updates or applications are installed. Does internal housekeeping ever shrink it?Ken LeeWinSxS is the Windows Side-by-Side directory, which stores operating system components such as dlls. (If you've installed old programs that need old dlls, there could be multiple copies of those.) For protection, it is owned and controlled by a "Trusted Installer" service, not by you. It's hard-linked to all the software on your hard drive, so you should not attempt to move it, delete parts of it, or otherwise mess with it. It's what keeps Vista running reliably by, for example, replacing damaged or corrupted files. Internal housekeeping can shrink it, if you uninstall unwanted software.Incidentally, Windows XP also has a WinSxS folder, though it's usually small.
The 2010 reboundGartner researchers predict that IT industry spending will grow by 3.3% next year, to $3.3 trillion.Trivial battle of the sexesTrivial Pursuit is running an online game between "the two biggest teams in the world, men v women".Satnav car radioThe €599 TomTom GO I-90 is a satnav that fits into a car dashboard, and includes an FM/AM radio with USB support for MP3 players.Speedier home networksThe HomeGrid Forum's high-speed G.hn system for communicating over mains and other home wiring has been approved by the ITU.King under the domeStephen King's forthcoming novel Under the Dome has been hidden on the internet in 5,196 pieces for fans to find and assemble.Sidekick contacts returnedMicrosoft says it has started recovering Sidekick data including contacts info as of 1 October.eReader to comePlastic Logic says it will unveil its QUE professional book reader at theConsumer Electronics Showin January.Next, Warner On DemandThe Warner Bros movie studio plans to stream movies and sell downloads directly to consumers, starting in the Japanese market.
Twitter, the microblogging company which lets users express their thoughts in text message-length bursts, has proven itself the most desirable property on the internet by announcing deals with both Microsoft and Google yesterday.Early yesterday, it seemed that Microsoft had stolen an important march over its younger, dominant rival in the search engine market, when it triumphantly announced that it would offer a facility to search tweets in real time through its newly rebranded search engine, Bing."Twitter is producing millions of tweets every minute on every subject you can imagine. The power of those tweets as a form of data that can be surfaced in search is enormous," said Paul Yiu, its head of search, on aMicrosoft blog.He continued: "Were you as fascinated by the 6-year-old boy floating away in a balloon as we were? Was it a hoax? We know that people are going to twitter more and more for information surrounding all the latest chatter ... You can now search for what people are saying all over the web about breaking news topics, your favourite celebrity, hometown sports team, and anything else you use Twitter to stay on top of today."The announcement was widely regarded as a coup for Microsoft, which has struggled to gain any leverage in the search market compared to Google, which has a market share of more than 70% in almost every western country. Despite a deal to power Yahoo's search, Bing has been struggling to break through 15% of searches.Reports of the deal with Microsoft began to emerge early yesterday, and were confirmed in the afternoon when Yiu appeared on stage at the Web 2.0 conference in San Francisco where, on Tuesday, Twitter's chief executive Evan Williams had spoken about some of his plans for the company, though not about search.But in a blogpost confirming the tie-up with Microsoft, Biz Stone, Twitter's co-founder, was notably circumspect about whether it would be an exclusive deal."Twitter is providing Bing access to the overwhelming deluge of public, real-time tweets rushing in from all around the world so they can help you find those that make the most sense right now. While Twitter currently presents tweets based simply on timeliness, Bing is experimenting with new solutions such as 'best match'. We hope more working relationships with organisations in the search business will mean even more variety for users,"Stone wrote.The subsequent deal with Google - announced at 10pm BST - promises a similar tie-up, though unlike Bing, the results will not be available immediately."We are very excited to announce that we have reached an agreement with Twitter to include their updates in our search results," said Marissa Mayer, the vice-president of search and user experience. "We believe that our search results and user experience will greatly benefit from the inclusion of this up-to-the-minute data, and we look forward to having a product that showcases how tweets can make search better in the coming months."But while the deal does leave Microsoft and Google in almost exactly the same place that they were 24 hours ago - though Microsoft's Bing has begun to integrate tweets already, while Mayer's description suggests a delay - it confers a huge benefit to Twitter, which is understood to be receiving payments from both companies for providing access to its content.That could be an important first step towards generating significant revenues for the company, which has resisted calls for it to be more open about its business plans.
Peter Molyneux thinks Coronation Street is the greatest entertainment event of the last 40 years. Luckily for those of us immune to the charms of the Rovers Return the veteran games designer offered up some more compelling arguments in his BAFTA lecture tonight in London. According to Molyneux 2009 has been the most exciting year of gaming ever. Why? Innovation in controllers, digital download and onlineThe innovation in controllers was the most obviously demonstrated by Molyneux's short but sweet demo ofProject NatalandMilo. The demo highlighted how you can hold a drawing up to the camera and see Milo show you a decent approximation of the image. Yes it is essentially scanning in the image – Molyneux made a couple of references to the "smoke and mirrors" behind Milo – but it was hugely convincing. How Molyneux incorporates Natal into Fable 3 – something he admitted tonight would happen – will be a real pointer for the future of the device in core gaming. As far as Molyneux is concerned Natal means going back to the drawing board as a designer. Yes, you would expect a Microsoft employee to hype up Natal but Molyneux's enthusiasm seemed genuine.Molyneux also focussed on online with episodic gaming a recurring theme. More controversially he discussed Fable 3's in-game shop that will allow players to buy items and access to other areas of the world.  A sign of things to come?Elsewhere in the lecture Molyneux talked about the games he thought have really broken the mould, or "moved the foundation stone" as he put it. First up wasDune 2, the original RTS game. By allowing you to think tactically Molyneux argued that Dune moved gaming away from twitchy reflex to a more cerebral state. Personally I would have chosen Civilization, but still.  The next title was more convincing - Super Mario 64. The classic Miyamoto game heralded the move to 3D and even hinted at the free roaming future seen in so many subsequent games (GTA etc). Tomb Raider  – was the ability to control a female character really that groundbreaking? – and Halo were also mentioned. The latter for changing perceptions that first person shooters could only work on PCs.Perhaps more interesting were his thoughts on World of Warcraft. Remembering how he played for hours to get his steed, Molyneux argued that WoW really changed his mind on the importance of delayed gratification. Before WoW he had always designed games that give the player all the goodies very early on.One stat stuck in the mind from tonight.  Populous, Molyneux's first game,  sold 4m copies – the same as his latest game Fable 2. Gaming may have seen huge changes in the last 20 years but has the core audience stayed about the same?We'll have the full transcript of the lecture up on the blog later this week but tonight's event showed that Molyneux has lost none of his gaming enthusiasm.
As wesuggested earlier today, Twitter is making searches of its public timeline - all the tweets there are being made - available through Microsoft's Bing search engine.In a blog post, Twitter's Biz Stoneexplains:there are already tens of thousands of Twitter apps and more to come because people want the choice to consume and create tweets wherever and whenever they prefer. The folks over at Bing took a keen interest in Twitter and worked fast to establish a working relationship with us in line with our open approach.Twitter is providing Bing access to the overwhelming deluge of public, real-time tweets rushing in from all around the world so they can help you find those that make the most sense right now. While Twitter currently presents tweets based simply on timeliness, Bing is experimenting with new solutions such as "best match." We hope more working relationships with organizations in the search business will mean even more variety for users."More working relationships with organizations in the search business"? Whoever can he mean? Goo... goo.. good grief, I can't think.Because of our open approach there are many ways to interact with Twitter, and there will be many more to come. As we work to mature our service and platform offerings, we also hope to develop meaningful relationships with companies that share our vision of creating value for everyone involved—especially users. Whether it's emerging startups, big companies, or people simply sharing information, we're establishing successful partnerships. Also, it's fun.Certainly successful, if the suggestion being made that Microsoft is paying Twitter for this feed makes sense. (And why wouldn't it? That's potentially valuable stuff there for Microsoft.) I'd expect an announcement involving Google some time in the next month or so. Else, it might (though only might - but in Google's eyes, this will be HUGE, even if to everyone else it's a bitmeh) lose market share.Microsoft has alsoconfirmed it, in its own inimitable way, on the Bing blog:Twitter is producing millions of tweets every minute on every subject you can imagine. The power of those tweets as a form of data that can be surfaced in search is enormous.Oi! Biz Stone uses "mature" as a verb - that we can almost bear. But "surfaced" as a transitive verb, and not in the sense of "covering a road"? Eugh.Were you as fascinated by the 6-year-old boy floating away in a balloon as we were? Was it a hoax? We know that people are going to twitter more and more for information surrounding all the latest chatter.You can now search for what people are saying all over the web about breaking news topics, your favorite celebrity, hometown sports team, and anything else you use Twitter to stay on top of today.Which basically makes it sound like a slightly more grand version of Twitter's own search - but you can bet that the Bing team have a much more ambitious scheme on the way.For once, Google is playing catch-up to Microsoft's search effort. Who would have guessed that it would be a tiny unprofitable startup that would be the wedge between the two of them?Update:Thanks to aMarissa Mayer tweet, we now know that Biz Stone was being carefully roundabout.Google is going to be indexing tweets as well. So that's status quo ante in the search engine world - but Twitter is very much status rex.
Truckloads of new PCs are being launched on Thursday, heraldingthe consumer availability of Microsoft Windows 7– the latest version of the operating system that runs more than 90% of the world's PCs. Microsoft could certainly do with a boost, having just suffered its first-ever decline in annual sales. However, Microsoft is just one of many suppliers to a huge PC industry that shipped 300m units last year, but has seen sales slump in a recession. The chance to flog some new kit is not one to be missed.Windows 7's main attraction for users is its stylish, user-friendly interface, but it is more power-efficient than Vista, giving mobile machines better battery life. It includes new features such as DX11 graphics, HomeGroup for simpler home networking, and support for the industry standard DNLA (Digital Living Network Alliance) system, for compatibility with other consumer electronics products. Also, its multi-touch capabilities should encourage manufacturers to create new all-in-ones, netbooks and tablet PCs.Driving upgradesFor Microsoft, Windows 7 has two key tasks: to eliminate XP on netbooks, where it brings in far less than XP on a standard PC; and to persuade more enterprises, which generate so much of its revenue, to upgrade from XP.On netbooks, XP was sold at a low price (around $15-$20) for "ultra low cost PCs" with limited specifications, mainly in response to the threat of Linux; Vista was too bulky to run on the low-spec machines. Microsoft doesn't divulge the prices it charges PC makers, but Windows 7 Starter could easily cost twice as much.Driving XP out of the corporate market will take much longer. According to a recent Forrester survey of more than 600 companies in the US and Europe, 79% are using XP, 9% Vista and 6% are still using Windows 2000.However, 12 months from now, 51% of them said they expected Windows 7 to be most frequently installed on new PCs, against 10% for Vista and only 34% for XP. The report byForresteranalyst Ben Gray says "two-thirds of firms already expect to migrate to Windows 7 eventually."The PC industry is hoping that Windows 7 will replace Vista, launched in January 2007, and Windows XP, which originally dates back to September 2001 (but was significantly upgraded with XP SP2 in September 2004), because no one wants the extra cost of supporting three different versions of Windows.Al Gillen, an analyst with research companyIDC, believes that: "Windows 7 will become the default install very quickly after launch, so we can expect a pretty quick switchover there. In terms of consumer acceptance, the only real choices are to buy or not buy: it's not like consumers have a range of operating system choices from Microsoft."However, he reckons XP will still be available on netbooks for a while, and Howard Dulany, Lenovo's software marketing manager for Windows 7, expects to offer XP on netbooks until the second quarter of next year.The mood in the trade this week ranged from optimistic to enthusiastic. Asked if Windows 7 would give the PC market a lift, Dulany told me: "Yes, actually, we think it will. It's a very strong offering. Obviously, it will start very strongly in the consumer and small business space, and take a little longer for enterprise customers. It's a great opportunity for us. We will be bringing out some brand new PCs in conjunction with the announcement, with additional models next year."John Swatton, head of marketing atAsus, was even more enthusiastic. "We have started using Windows 7 on our work laptops and it's fantastic," he said. "Microsoft aren't paying me for my approval, but Windows 7 is extremely intuitive and provides a superb user interface regardless of whether or not customers are familiar with Windows. We are launching a number of new products with Windows 7 – UL Series notebooks, Eee Top all-in-one touchscreen PCs etc – and we are anticipating high levels of interest."Sony's Anthony Brown confirms that while stocks still in the shops "will obviously still be sold, all new Vaio units purchased in the UK after 22 October will have Windows 7". At Asus, Swatton says: "Some resellers may have a wider range of XP models available right up to Christmas, but I'd expect more and more customers to opt for Windows 7."John Curran, Microsoft's senior director of worldwide channel marketing, says: "At launch, Windows 7 Starter Edition will be installed on many, if not most, netbooks, and a number of our telco partners [selling netbooks with mobile phone connections] are going 100% Windows 7 from day one. The location awareness features [which can sense whether you're on your home or office network] give them the opportunity to provided extra services, and they look at the support costs, so they see [Windows 7] as a better business proposition."Encouraging migrationIDC's Gillen says: "We are on the verge of a corporate refresh cycle anyhow, so Windows 7 will ride that wave. However, we don't believe that it is Windows 7 itself that will stimulate the refresh cycle, it's a combination of the deferral of deploying Windows Vista, the age of the installed base, and the (hopefully) continued emergence from the economic downturn that will drive the refresh cycle."To those factors, Gray adds that: "Eighteen months after Windows 7 is released or with the release of its first service pack (whichever comes first), the OEM licences bundled with every PC will no longer carry downgrade rights to Windows XP." Curran says Microsoft always provides downgrade rights to the previous version of its operating system, but with Windows 7, it is allowing downgrades to two versions: Vista and XP. This will help companies make the transition, but it is only a short-term relief for those still wedded to XP – the operating system that just won't die."We've also introduced XP Mode," adds Curran, "so if you have Windows 7 Pro then essentially you've have both operating systems installed." In other words, you get XP free as long as you run it inside a business version of Windows 7.Another factor that could help the migration is that – perhaps uniquely, for Microsoft – Windows 7 needs fewer resources than Vista, and most corporate PCs are already able to run it. If not, an upgrade to 2GB of memory may be enough.But the transition won't happen quickly. AsGartner researchdirector Annette Jump points out: "It takes enterprises 12 to 18 months to test all their applications on a new operating system. We expect application issues to start appearing with XP around 2012, so there is still time to do the migration, but they need to start testing Windows 7 now."Evolving ecosystemWhether consumers will upgrade their PCs rather than buy new ones is another matter, especially since upgrading from XP requires a reinstallation rather than an in-place upgrade. But Jeremy Fennell from DSGi, which operates PC World, Currys and Dixons, says pre-orders for Windows 7 (mostly cut-price) have been 15 to 20 times bigger than for Vista. "From the end of September we began to see a huge ramp in awareness of Windows 7," he says. "20% of people say they're going to buy a new PC, and 15% will upgrade their old one."We'll be offering people the chance to trade in their old hardware, but if they want to upgrade, our TechGuys will do it for half price: £24.99." Plus, of course, the cost of a copy of Windows 7.Curran concedes that "with the Vista launch, we were a bit ahead of the ecosystem" in terms of software compatibility, drivers and so on. "That was painful for us, our partners, and users around the world," he says. This time, Microsoft has involved 44,000 developers in a Windows 7 readiness programme, while tens of thousands of companies and more than 15 million users have participated in testing. It appears "the ecosystem" is not just ready: it is eager."When you use Windows 7 you quickly see a much more intuitive operating system," says Sony's Brown. "Microsoft has clearly listened to its customers. Even the worst salesperson at your worst out-of-town retailer can have a reasonable stab at selling you Windows 7. It will be a key sales driver this Christmas."See all our Windows 7 coverage:http://bit.ly/guardianwin7
Professor Colin Humphreys of theUniversity of Cambridgehas seen the light. By growing gallium nitride LEDs on silicon wafers rather than expensive sapphire, he's planning to put compact fluorescent lamps into the shade. A next-generation LED production technology will eventually see today's compact fluorescents going the same way as Thomas Edison's incandescent bulbs.Humphreys's interest in gallium nitride (GaN) goes back to the mid-90s when he first investigated the man-made material with an electron microscope. As well as emitting a brilliant light, it is an important semiconducting material for high-power transistors.Now, through theCambridge Centre for Gallium Nitrideand backed by Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council funding, cutting edge research is showing what GaN is really capable of.Working with GaN-based light emitting diodes requires highly specialist equipment capable of growing the semiconductor crystals. "Something like 90% of commercial LEDs are grown on two-inch diameter sapphire wafers," says Humphreys. "To grow gallium nitride you have to grow it at about 1,000°C." Indium is added for a brilliant visible light – 10% for a blue light, 20% for green – with a phosphor coating on the LED changing this to white.But why use sapphire in the first place? It's an unreactive base material stable at the high gas temperatures used to form the GaN crystals. Humphreys says that a two-inch sapphire wafer costs $50 with an industry standard six-inch silicon wafer costing $15.If you try and deposit GaN onto a silicon wafer to save money, differential thermal expansions between the materials result in a bent wafer with numerous defects in the neat rows of 1mm2 LEDs. But by using an additional "compressive" layer of aluminium gallium nitride and other techniques, Humphreys has successfully overcome these problems.The maths now starts to work in his favour even though, at 58%, the LED internal quantum efficiency currently lags behind the 70% of the sapphire-based equivalents. "Effectively, you get at least as 10 times as many useful LEDs from a six-inch wafer as from a two-inch wafer." He also reckons the production costs for a finished LED lightbulb may fall by a factor of five.LEDs offer three times the efficiency of compact fluorescent lamps and 12 times that of incandescents. They also switch on instantly, are dimmable, and last for 100,000 hours. "We think we can mimic the visible spectrum of sunlight and get natural lighting," adds Humphreys. "If we can get the cost down, they'll just be everywhere in the world."Matt Prescott, founder of theBan the Bulb campaignwould like to see more research into LEDs as a replacement for energy-wasting incandescent bulbs and halogen lamps, and even compact fluorescents. Today, you can buy a low-energy bulb for less than 50p."We need a similar thing to happen to LEDs where they're just made on a massive scale and go from being £10 or £20 now maybe down to £1," says Prescott. "The government should send a clear signal that LEDs are the future."
If you're in Lichfield and see a fashionably dishevelled young man wandering round municipal buildings taking notes on his iPhone, don't worry. It's probably Stuart Harrison, the council's webmaster, doing his bit to set data free. And to pave the way for a new kind of e-government.Harrison is a driving force behind one of the most refreshing developments in local government I've seen in years – a serious attempt to package Lichfield district council's data about planning applications, food inspections and leisure services in a way that not only makes it accessible but also reusable in third-party applications.A corner of theStaffordshire council's websiteincludes XML and Google Earth files of local facilities, information about councillors, and the location of car parks and polling stations. It's an example of the sort of thing Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign has been advocating since 2006, and what the US government is doing with itsdata.govsite (soon to be emulated by Whitehall athttp://data.hmg.gov.uk).Followers of the Free Our Data campaign will by now have guessed why Harrison has to plod the streets of Lichfield in his spare time plotting geographical coordinates: it's to get around the restrictions on allowing third parties to use data derived from Ordnance Survey products. It's easier just to create his own, Harrison told a conference organised by theWest Midlands Regional Observatoryearlier this month.Lichfield's pioneering work is interesting because if a council, or any other public body, does a good job of making its raw data available, why does it then need to spend taxpayers' money packaging and mashing that data into a public-facing web service? If there's a demand for such a service, someone, private business or community group, will fill it?I'd better say right away that when I raised the topic at the conference, Harrison was thoroughly uncomfortable with that philosophy. He sees the services created with Lichfield's open data as enhancements to, rather than replacements, of, publicly funded e-services.That's all well and good, and no doubt Lichfield is run by enlightened people,, but in the next few months most public bodies will have to find ways of cutting their spending by serious amounts, not just the single-figure "efficiency gains" promised under current policies. In the current political climate, anything related to IT is an easy target for savings, especially when that IT comes with the price-tag associated with the large public-sector procurement process, which could have been designed by an evil genius to gold-plate and complicate. Couldn't we just let our local web activists do it instead?Such a philosophy chimes very much with that of a Conservative party pledging to create a "post-bureaucratic state", in which floods of free data will equip citizens to take charge of public services.Up to now, the idea of post-bureaucracy has had a surprisingly free run, even from people who consider themselves on the political left. However, atimely blog postby Will Davies, a research fellow at theOxford Business School, has sounded a warning about such thinking. Davies, a thinktank veteran, says: "A state laid bare only to the audit of general public dissatisfaction is surely heading towards a legitimacy crisis."Whether Davies is right is very much a matter of debate. But we in the free data movement should pay attention.
Until last week, the consensus was settling on "no". But a startling report from the net monitoring firm Arbor Networks and an even more remarkable announcement from Channel 4 could well change that.The first of two main reasons for scepticism was that the TV companies didn't want to be eaten, and appeared to be fighting back successfully. Faced with the threat of seeing their viewers migrate to the Google-owned YouTube, the large US networks retaliated with Hulu – a powerfully ad-supported online TV service under their own control.The UK has seen several successful moves in the same direction: the most popular is the BBC's iPlayer, but there's also ITV's ITV player, which the analyst Screen Digest argues is having even greater advertising success than its US counterparts. In August, it predicted a tripling in revenues for ITV.com this year.The second reason for scepticism was doubt about Google's appetite. After all, everyone knew that YouTube was a money pit.In April,Credit Suisse estimatedthe site's operating losses at nearly half a billion dollars for 2009, largely due to the hundreds of millions of dollars in bandwidth costs racked up by all that user-supplied video. That prompted debate, but the less lurid figures offered in response – $174.2m, with a mere $83m in bandwidth costs, suggested the IT outsourcing consultants RampRate – were still frightening to normal mortals.According to Arbor Networks, however, which Wired.com describes as knowing "more about the net's ebbs and flows than anyone outside of the National Security Agency", all those figures reflect an outdated understanding of how the web works. Google has bought up so much spare network infrastructure – "dark fibre" – that Arborreckons it is simply swapping bandwidth with ISPs, rather than paying them. As Wired.com pointed out, this chimes with Google's own response to the Credit Suisse figures: "The truth is that all our infrastructure is built from scratch, which means models that use standard industry pricing are too high when it comes to bandwidth and similar costs." Perhaps it could find room for dessert after all.At almost exactly the same time, Channel 4 revealed that, after six months of negotiation, it was eager to jump into Google's jaws. It signed alandmark three-year deal, based on shared ad revenues, to make shows available for catchup on YouTube, along with 3,000 hours of archive material including episodes of Brass Eye. The service will begin early next year, although the network's own 4oD catchup site will continue."It demonstrates our ability to strike dynamic commercial partnerships to help underpin our future as a commercially funded, not-for-profit multiplatform public service network," said Channel 4's chief executive, Andy Duncan. It also demonstrates how much risk there is for pundits in betting against Google's ambition.
Windows 7 has become the biggest-grossing pre-order in Amazon's history – worth even more than the most recent JK Rowling book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows."The launch of Windows 7 has superseded everyone's expectations," the managing director of Amazon.co.uk, Brian McBride, said. "Demand is still going strong."Millions of computer users will be getting their first taste of Microsoft's latest operating system tomorrow, when Windows 7 goes on sale worldwide.The American software company is pinning high hopes on the launch, which aims to be a hit with PC owners and erase the problems suffered by its predecessor, Windows Vista, when it hit the market in 2007.Vista came in for heavy criticism when it was plagued with problems soon after its launch, but signs are encouraging for Windows 7 so far.Reviews have been largely positive, and high street retailers say they anticipate strong sales of the software.PC World is opening its shop in London's Tottenham Court Road at midnight for the launch, offering customers the chance to get their hands on the upgrade and receive advice on how to make the most of the software's new features.The makeover promises a string of upgrades and improvements for Windows users, including a more streamlined interface, better performance, and reduced power requirements, which means laptops with better battery life.It also incorporates new features that work with touchscreen displays – a move the company hopes will spur PC makers to develop new computers and all-in-one systems that take advantage of the growing interest in multitouch interfaces inspired by mobile phones.The success of Windows 7 is being seen as crucial for Microsoft, which is pumping millions of dollars into an advertising campaign and other initiatives aimed at boosting sales and awareness.Among them is a sponsored half-hour TV show written by Seth Macfarlane, the creator of American television series Family Guy, which the company hopes will broaden its appeal with younger consumers when it is broadcast in the US in November.Microsoft even plans to open its own chain of branded shops to help push sales of Windows 7 and other products – starting with two in the US - mirroring the move that has helped propel rival Apple to stellar success in recent years.Microsoft's Bill Veghte told the Guardian earlier this year that it was vital the company "put the magic back" into Windows, which runs 93% of the world's computers."The problem for Microsoft wasn't that products like Vista were bad," he said. "It's that the company wasn't telling its story well enough."But Microsoft is not the only company with heavy investment in making sure Windows 7 is a success. The makeover is also crucially important for the wider PC industry, which has experienced significant slowdown in sales as shoppers have chosen not to buy new computers during the recession.Manufacturers such as Hewlett Packard, Dell and Sony have witnessed a decline in sales that they are desperate to reverse. They hope that Windows 7 will encourage consumers to buy new machines that will be better able to take advantage of some of the software's features.Not everybody will be rushing to buy, however. Most businesses are expected to take at least a year to test Windows 7 and decide whether to upgrade, while consumer groups have suggested that the public should remember the problems with Windows Vista, which proved to be incompatible with millions of add-ons such as printers and digital cameras when it went on sale in 2007. Microsoft has worked hard to make sure Windows 7 does not suffer the same problems, but John Bogue of Which? Computing said that it could be better for shoppers to hold on and make sure that all of their peripherals work well with the new system."Software bugs are par for the course for newly-released programs, and operating systems are no exception," he said. "Unless you like downloading patches and updates, we recommend waiting a year."
There's a lot of packaging involved with the latest version of Adobe's Photoshop Elements for Mac (version 8, and no, I don't know what happened to version 7, either). One great big cardboard box contains the usual slimline DVD holder and a couple of bits of paper, one of which is a moderately useful getting-started guide.That's one of the improvements on the previous version,when we grumbled about the lack of useful documentation in the box.Another improvement is a slightly faster install time: 15 minutes instead of 20. It's still a sucky routine, though – double-click the DVD icon, find the installer app, double-click that. Come on, Adobe, it's time you joined the rest of the world and your Mac apps could be dragged into the Applications folder.Anyway, the good news is that it works with Snow Leopard – I had a momentary "oh hell, what if it doesn't" wibble. It does. So what else is new? Elements 8 has acquired some of the tricks that full-fat Photoshop did in CS4, including intelligent resizing, which means you can stretch/squash an image without distorting it. And there's cosmetic surgery – you can whiten teeth with, yes, the toothbrush tool.More usefully, it's now reasonably easy to remove unwanted elements from photographs. If you've since ditched a boyfriend who appears in all the pictures from last Christmas, he can be airbrushed from history in just six steps. And you can create composite images: so if Aunt Edna looked more than a little squiffy on one too many champagne cocktails in some of those Christmas shots, you can save her blushes by transposing a shot taken before her third Singapore sling.As on previous versions, the image management application Bridge is included, and it too has gained a few tricks. You can flip through images in full-screen mode, rating them as you go. You can also create PDFs and web galleries in Bridge – there are several templates available, including a Flash gallery.It runs pretty fast on my 18-month-old MacBook Air, which, with its 1.6GHz Core 2 Duo processor and 2GB of RAM is not the speediest and newest machine on the planet, opening and handling images across my wireless network impressively well. So that's a good thing. And there is an awful lot happening under the hood – you could spend weeks tinkering and playing with everything Adobe stuffs into this package.But is it just too much bang for your buck? Will you ever really get to grips with everything? The price is hefty – the full version if you buy it direct from Adobe's website is £74.75; and all the tabs, options and sliders are daunting even for an experienced user.If you've got version 6, don't rush to upgrade. If you've got a family member with a shiny new Mac, good photographic knowledge and bags of enthusiasm (plus you've got deep pockets), Elements 8 is a fantastic gift.Pros:Lots of clever new tricks gained from the CS4 version of Photoshop, runs well on older Macs and works with Snow LeopardCons:Expensive, daunting interfacehttp://bit.ly/elements8mac
US bookseller Barnes &amp; Noble has unveiled an e-reader in the US, calledthe nook, to compete with Amazon's Kindle and Sony's Reader.Like the Kindle, it uses a 16-level e-ink display for text from Vizplex. The device measures 7.7 x 4.9 x .5 inches (19.6 x 12.4 x 1.3 centimetres). However, unlike most other e-readers, it has a separate 3.5 inch (8.9 cm) colour touchscreen that allows you to either scroll through your book collection or pull up a soft keyboard for input to search through the text.&nbsp; It has 2GB of onboard memory and has a Micro SD expansion slot for adding up to 16GB of additional memory.Like the Kindle, the nook has 3G wireless provided by carrier AT&amp;T. AT&amp;T is one of the GSM providers in the US, so from a technical standpoint, it should be easy to launch the reader internationally. The device also sports WiFi. From a business standpoint, the AT&amp;T wireless tie-up makes sense seeing as the telecoms giant provides free Wi-Fi in Barnes &amp; Noble stores.Keen watchers of the US newspaper industry and its trials and tribulations will note that the nook willoffer subscriptions to more than 20 newspapersincluding The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post. "Barnes &amp; Noble expects to offer, in digital form, subscriptions to every major US daily." Digital subscriptions will also be available on the device.Under the hood, the nook is runningAndroid 1.5. This isn't the first ebook to run Android. California-based Spring Design announced itsown Android-powered e-reader, named Alex, just days before the nook was launched.The nook will also supportAndroid apps, although apps requiring internet access will be limited to working over Wi-Fi, according to Gartner Inc analyst Allen Weiner. The 3G wireless access is limited to book transactions, which makes sense considering there is no need for a monthly 3G subscription and AT&amp;T is already struggling to supportbandwidth-binging iPhone users on its 3G network.Not only is the OS more open than other e-readers, but the device supports more open file formats. The nook supports PDF ande.pub, the International Digital  Publishing Forum's open e-reading format. (More information about e.pub is also available atWikipediaand at theIDPF site).&nbsp; Barnes &amp; Noble has more than 1m ebook titles for sale and half a million free ebooks.Lending e-books to friendsThe new e-reader also allows people to lend ebooks for up to 14 days to friends. The LendMe technology works with not only with nook but also lend to and from any iPhone, iPod touch, BlackBerry, PC or Mac, running the free Barnes &amp; Noble eReader software.While this might cheer users, it has upset some authors. Writing on abook blog at the San Francisco Chronicle, author Michelle Richmondsays the lending technology:... means that authors, like musicians, will have no way to protect our intellectual property from being distributedad infinitum, without compensation.As she points out in the post, Barnes &amp; Noble didn't go into details of how many times an ebook could be shared, but one could assume that the lending policy would be similar if not the same to theircurrent e-book policy, which is:You can lend many of your ebooks one time for a maximum of 14 days. When you lend an eBook to your friend, you will not be able to read it while it is on loan.Richmond believes the lending feature will harm authors.What is clear is that, if all you have to do is wait for your friend to send a copy of a book to your nook or to your iPhone, why buy? And if no one is buying, then fewer and fewer writers will be able to make a living, or even supplement their income, by writing.Look out Amazon (and Apple)Thenook is a "game-changer", says Gartner Inc analyst Allen Weiner. The device "should not only throw a scare into Amazon but also put somewhat of a damper on the ereading capabilities of planned tablets/devices from Apple and Microsoft", he added.Apple, of course, is the centre of rumoursabout what one might consider an overgrown iPod touch or a media tablet. The tablet is rumoured to run iPhone OS and not only display text and play MP3 audio files, which is common on e-readers, but also will play video as current iPods do.The nook is available for pre-order for $259. You can get a refurbished first generation Kindle for $149. If you want a new one, the international edition of the Kindle sells for $279 and the Kindle DX for $489, just to keep everything in dollars. Now, it might be taking a rumour a step too far, but according to one super-secret source leaking Steve-Jobs-would-murder-you-with-a-dull-spoon details, theApple tablet will cost $700 to $900.It must be stressed at the moment only exists in the feverish minds of Apple fans and possibly in the lead-lined, spy-proofed meeting rooms at 1 Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California, but the price definitely suggests something a little more than an e-reader but a little less than a notebook.We'll have to wait for the Apple iPod Mega, but for now, we have another e-reader with some new features that, at least on paper, gives the Kindle a run for its money.
For years, the battle between the open source movement and Microsoft bordered on religious warfare. The two sides fired increasingly aggressive shots at one another – from the software goliath's boss, Steve Ballmer, calling open source "a cancer", to the man behind Linux, Linus Torvalds, suggesting that he might "destroy Microsoft" without even trying.It was a conflict that looked like it could continue for generations. But now, according to one leading voice, the arguments are settled – and the opposition posed by Bill Gates, Ballmer and their followers is untenable."If I look at it with some perspective, I think that they are fighting a rearguard action," says the investor, philanthropist and campaigner Mitch Kapor. "The battle is over."He continues: "At the detailed level, there are a million issues to work out – but will open source kill software? Nobody's saying that."That may come as news to some who have resisted the open source movement – as recently as last year, Gates claimed that the fundamentals of the open source philosophy meant that "nobody can ever improve the software" – but Kapor has more experience than most of those who have stepped into the fight.Resistance is futileKapor made his name by co-founding the software company Lotus in the 1980s, which helped bring the IBM PC into businesses thanks to its 1-2-3 spreadsheet program. He then went on to help found the digital activist group the Electronic Frontier Foundation, before moving on to become chairman of the Mozilla Foundation when it was founded in 2003.At the time, Kapor helped to convince AOL that it should jettison the Netscape browser it had bought and turn Mozilla into a separate non-profit operation. Indeed, he invested $300,000 of his own money in the push to create a viable, open alternative to Microsoft's massively dominant (and heavily criticised) Internet Explorer browser.Since it launched in 2004, Firefox has chipped away at Internet Explorer's market share and established itself as the world's second most popular browser. But while attacks on open source still make Kapor's blood boil, he suggests that the bigger picture indicates that resistance is futile."What's remarkable is that nobody remarks on it, because a few years ago people were virtually pulling out their guns to shoot at each other – and now it's a settled matter, as I read it."While Firefox is widely regarded as a huge success, Kapor warns that it is not actually the best example of the victory of open source. Instead, he suggests, the movement's main achievement actually lies out of sight – amid the systems that underpin the web itself."I tell people that the history of Mozilla and Firefox is so one of a kind that it should not be used – ever – as an example of what's possible," he says. "The accomplishment of open source is that it is the back end of the web, the invisible part, the part that you don't see as a user.""All of the servers, pretty much, they run Linux as the operating system; they run Apache as the basic web server on top of which everything else is built. The main languages out of which web applications are built – whether it's Perl or Python or PHP or any of the other languages – those are all open source languages. So the infrastructure of the web is open source ...  the web as we know it is completely dependent on open source."The reliance goes both ways, he suggests, meaning that the web and the open source community are interdependent. While developers and dotcom companies have turned in large part towards open source technologies to build the future of communication, it is the web itself that has made such an approach possible.The sort of large-scale, highly distributed teams that are the hallmark of such development – teams of coders spread out around disparate parts of the world – rely on websites to share code, discuss ideas and meet each other. What started as a marriage of convenience has now turned into a symbiotic relationship."Without the internet and the web, no open source – without open source, no internet or web," he says. "So they co-create each other."The reasons for this shift from a fringe ideology that could spark warfare among programmers to an accepted, everyday part of hi-tech life are complex. But Kapor puts at least part of it down to an important evolution in the underlying philosophies that emerged, appropriately enough, with Mozilla back in 1998.After Firefox's predecessor, Netscape Navigator, was crushed by Microsoft, its owners decided to release the source code, which became the Mozilla browser. Kapor gives credit to those who originated and then developed the concepts that led to such acts, including free software campaigner Richard Stallman and Torvalds.Their influence and ideas helped build and then reshape the idea of free and open software development, taking it from its doctrinaire beginnings through to something that was more palatable for commercial companies."If the rules of the game that were established by Stallman about free software – which were commercially unfriendly – had not evolved, we wouldn't have Firefox and we wouldn't have the web," Kapor says. "But the culture evolved to be less restrictive and more permissive – the idea of open source licences that permit but don't require new contributions, additions to be made available to everybody."Declining empiresSo if the battle is yesterday's news, then what next? Today, the world's most influential technology company, Google, engages with the open source community and has taken an open approach with both its Android mobile phone software and its forthcoming Linux-based operating system, Chrome. Another rising power, Facebook, meanwhile, is beginning to unwrap its platforms with one eye towards the open source community.While there is no guarantee that they will stick to those ideals in the long term, Kapor is now optimistic that the movement will have more staying power than whichever company happens to be the flavour of the month."I've been around long enough to know that empires come and empires go, and I can't tell how long the Google empire is going to last – but I'm pretty convinced that the answer is less than forever."Microsoft still has a big empire, but when Steve Ballmer thinks a new thought, the world doesn't tremble the way it used to when Bill Gates had a new thought," he says. "That day is over, and it will be over for Google. Facebook may be the next, or Twitter or somebody you haven't heard of, but empires come and empires go."
The internet has been evolving into three dimensions for years without most people noticing. The change has been confined to niche activities, even though some – such as World of Warcraft or Second Life – are big niches. Now there is a worldwide move to bring the 3D web to a mass market, led by the building of "virtual" cities where avatars can walk, shop, club or whatever with links to "real life" activities. From Tokyo to Helsinki and from Paris to Philadelphia, cities are being constructed at a pace that recalls 19th-century railway mania; except, mercifully, it is a lot cheaper and won't have serious economic effects if there is a crash. People who haven't tried them can't take virtual worlds seriously but in key ways they are more "real" and communal than real life: it is much easier to speak to people in shops or galleries, since normal social inhibitions are absent. There has been a virtual central London in Second Life for three years offering clubs, shops, galleries and other distractions. This year it featured a Chelsea Flower Show and an arts and film festival including a spoof James Bond film. It is moving into education, corporate building and high-end fashion linked to sales in real life. Debs Regent (her Second Life name), who runs it, claims that it is gaining 2,000 users a week and is breaking even.&nbsp;It now faces fresh competition from two new virtual Londons with contrasting business plans due to open in the next month or two. One is run by the German-owned Twinity, which already has a virtual Berlin (where I have an apartment) and a Singapore. It will focus initially on the community and enthusiasts – invited via a Facebook group – while also exploring commercial opportunities such as leasing Oxford Street shops to their real-life owners. The other new London, run by Alex Wrottesley, co-founder of Near, has an initial plan to harness what drives most people to the West End: shopping. His London is a faithful laser-mapped reproduction of buildings with blobs of light instead of avatars. The idea is that people will roam streets and if they like something in a window they can click and be taken to that company's website with Near taking a share of any sales. He claims to have signed up dozens of brands, including American Apparel, and says that as a result of subscriptions from corporate subscribers it will be making a monthly profit next month. Promotions include 50,000 DVDs being circulated via the Evening Standard. It is also using Facebook for recruitment and is in effect a Facebook application. The message is: why take a crowded tube to an overcrowded city centre when you can do it from home?These three are not the only virtual Londons. University College has built a 3D grid stretching as far as the M25, while the likes of Google and Microsoft are recreating cities all over the world, enabling others to do mash-ups by superimposing their own data on them. Google recently released itsBuilding Maker, a simple way to capture a building shape in Google Earth for placement elsewhere. So far it has Cardiff but not London. Other versions of cities are being built for private clients.All the London builders welcome competition, if only because it gets more people used to the idea. All realise that the barriers between virtual worlds and social networks such as Facebook are falling fast. Some functions of virtual worlds such as chat could be done on a mobile, while people on networks might want to slip into virtual Oxford Street to shop. I am as sure of virtual worlds becoming a mass phenomenon as I am unsure which formats will prove successful. Twinity scores high on use of live media (websites, weather updates etc) but is not yet easy to access (though like Near it has yet to go public). Near is the most focused and Debs Regent's the most communal and longest established. It may be that there is room for lots of them. The world is a big place.twitter.com/vickeegan
For much of the year British gamers are forced to look on forlornly as the big industry events take place elsewhere. E3, the Tokyo Game Show, the GamesCom convention... all out of reach to most of us.But this autumn sees an influx of UK-based happenings, from major festivals to one-off lectures. I've jammed five real treats together here - all of them open to the public and well worth braving the chilly weather - and possibly a cheap hotel or two - for.And it all starts tonight...BAFTA Annual Videogame Lecture - Peter MolyneuxWhen:tonight, 18.30Where:Princess Anne Theatre, BAFTAWhat's going on?The creator of Populous, Theme Park, Magic Carpet and Dungeon Keeper,andco-creator of the Fable games will be providing this year's BAFTA videogame lecture. He's always got something interesting and provocative to say about the state of videogaming and may well provide some more details about Lionhead's Mylo project for the Xbox 360 Natal. This event is co-sponsored by the Guardian and Gamesblog's Greg Howson will be there to cover it.Inaugural Lecture by William Latham: Computer Art, Games and BusinessWhen:October 27Where:Ian Gulland Lecture Theatre, Goldsmiths, University of LondonWhat's going on?Now a professor at Goldsmiths college, Latham is a real pioneer in computer art and graphics, starting out as a research fellow at IBM before setting up his studio, Computer Artworks and creating the astonishing Organic Art project. He later went into game development, overseeing the intriguingEvolva, and the excellent PlayStation tie-in with John Carpenter's sci-fi horror, The Thing. He's a fascinating talker, and the way he formulated his ideas for a procedurally generated artform in which shapes and simple lifeforms mutate as you watch, is rather mindblowing. Also, it's free and you get to play some of his games and art projects afterwards. You'll need to e-mailinaugurals at gold.ac.ukor telephone 020 7919 7033 if you'd like to attend.GameCity SquaredWhen:October 27-31Where:Nottingham city centre, various venuesWhat's going on?GameCity is Gamesblog's favourite videogame festival, a glorious grab-bag of talks, challenges, interactive sessions and curries. Access to genuine stars of the games industry is unparalleled  - if you'd have attended last year's Guardian Gamesblog curry quiz night you would have been competing against two guys from Harmonix and the creators of LittleBigPlanet...This year's event promises masses of fascinating stuff. Highlights for me include the IndieVillage, showcasing the best new independent game projects in association withIndieCade; Crysis Live, in which the city's market square will be transformed into a live interactive version of the hit first-person shooter; and 'Night Blooms' a performance ofThatGameCompany's Flowergame. There's also a potentially explosive curry session (pun sort of intended) on the perils of file-sharing, featuring Phillip Oliver, CEO of Blitz Games, Cliff Harris, CEO of Positech Games and Feargal Sharkey, CEO of UK Music.London Games FestivalWhen:October 24 - November 1Where:various venues around the capitalWhat's going on?Now into its fourth year the festival has evolved into a collection of disparate and interesting events, mixing consumer demo-fests with high brow lectures. At the heart of it all is the livelyEurogamer Expo, where you'll be able to sample all of this winter's prime releases. There's also theLondon MCM expoat the Excel centre out in the Docklands, showcasing games, movies and manga to the general public. Gamesblog readers may also be interested in'Emergent Design for Playful Engagement', a symposium concerning, 'new art and design methodologies and communities of practice that firmly put the user at the heart of the action.' There are more details at theofficial site.Space Invaders: Art in the Computer Game EnvironmentWhen:December 17 - February 21Where:FACT, LiverpoolWhat's going on?Exploring the collapsing boundaries between realworld and videogame spaces, this is a major group exhibition by some of the key digital artists on the planet. Famed video art pioneer Bill Viola will be presenting his first ever videogame project, while young Chinese artist Cao Fei is exhibiting his film COSplayers about local kids who dress up as game characters and enact favourite sequences. Augmented reality specialists Blast Theory will also be there with a bizarre ARG named Rider Spoke which involves playing hide and seek on bicycles.I also like the sound of Riley Harmon's sculpture, What It Is Without the Hand That Wields: "Hooked up to a modified version of the popular online first person shooter game Counterstrike, the sculpture responds to the player's online deaths by dispensing a small amount of fake blood from valves down the wall, creating a compelling physical manifestation of virtual kills."Throughout the event a selection of playable games will also be available, taking in a wide spectrum from Flower to Grand Theft Auto. And it's all free!
Josh and I settle down to a strangely orange-looking vegetable casserole in the staff canteen. I can tell something's been troubling him."So Jack, I'd been meaning to ask you. Are you, like, really into computer games?""I suppose so."He takes a moment to consider this."What, as much as Henry?"Henry, a mutual friend, spends maybe an evening a week on his Xbox 360. He doesn't use Xbox Live. He owns maybe half a dozen games."Uh, yes.""Wow. I had no idea."You've probably had a few interchanges like this in your life. Bemused by another, similarly aged human being's ignorance of your gaming habits, or the look of disgust on their face as you casually drop the term "pwnage" into a sentence.It made me realise that, as something I spend far more time doing than playing squash, watching football, going to the pub – more socially acceptable hobbies – gaming is something I barely ever talk about.It's the same for my friends. Even in each other's company we'll lower our voices to conspiratorial whispers when admitting that, rather than spending our weekends at a beer festival or going to look at some fancy pictures in an "art gallery" we pulled the blinds, heaved the sofa a couple of feet nearer to the TV and lay in our own filth for 30 straight hours, pausing only to urinate or check online to find the exact location of the rare Fallout 3 alien blaster gun.For the non-gamers, the consoleless Others, there's still something strangely distasteful about a grown man investing such time and energy into a seemingly unproductive activity. The distaste leads to secrecy, secrecy leads to shame. Almost 30 years on from the first home computers mesmerising a generation of quiet young men, is it fair that the stigma still exists?Video games probably shouldn't take precedence over going out or more productive activities, such as learning Cantonese, but as something to fill downtime when you are relaxing at home I can't think of any inherently superior activity.How many books, TV shows or films have rewarded you as much as your most cherished games? Looking back on a life I can demarcate via a succession of consoles, the positives easily outweigh the negatives.OK, so there's the fact that many of my teenage memories consist of playing Championship Manager in my bedroom. This is not going to look great in my memoirs. But I've developed excellent computer skills, I've learned about teamwork and competitiveness in a way the sportingly challenged never previously could and, most importantly, I've gained an unrivalled knowledge of Scandinavian under-21 footballers from the late 1990s that is sure to prove invaluable eventually.As gaming becomes more and more of a socially accepted activity with the wide-ranging appeal of the Wii and Guitar Hero games, we can hope that attitudes will change. Perhaps in a few years' time when asked by a colleague what I got up to at the weekend, I will feel confident answering "Super Mario Galaxy", rather than making something up.Back to the casserole, and Josh resumes his line of questioning. This time, there's a distinct look of concern in his eyes."It's not like you play World of Warcraft though, right?"
Evan Williams, the chief executive of Twitter, told the Web 2.0 conference in San Francisco that he wants to get rid of Twitter's internally-created Suggested User List (SUL) - in favour of user-created lists.It's a very short exchange - with the question actually asked by Tim O'Reilly - and it goes like this (transcription courtesy of TechCrunch):Q:For a long time there was only one list, the SUL. Is it time to retire it?EW:Yes, it's time to retire the SUL. It was a quick fix to a problem. We want to kill it when lists come out.We'vepointed to lists last week- apologies to everyone who has tried to follow the links and found that they don't work; this means that you've not yet had lists enabled on your Twitter account. (And for those not on Twitter, it makes even less sense.) At the time I wondered whether it was a sign of Twitter mining its users for reputation; it seems that's indeed the plan.Yet it's hard to see quite how Twitter would be able to put enough lists in front of people to make it the right experience. The benefit of theSULis that it's a fairly wide selection of people who you automatically get signed up to follow, giving you a taster of what's out there. (It's pretty broad, including John McCain and, yes, Guardian Technology's feed. We had no knowledge of Twitter's decision to put us on there, and there is no commercial arrangement.)Possibly it will do something rather likeWho Should I Follow, which offers you names of people to follow based on topics you pick; for my money it's one of the better starting-on-Twitter tools out there.Also dealt with in the interview (principally with John Battelle) were things like revenue (yes, Twitter wants it, but is still focussed on growth); why he didn't sell to Facebook - "I didn't see a reason to sell. 'Business is a context for doing interesting things.' The number of cool things we can do with Twitter blows my mind. Going to a bigger company doesn't make that better";  how it's going to kill spam ("overactive spam killing scripts" - who knew? - are apparently the reason why some users, such as O'Reilly himself, get knocked off without explanation; and, finally, something on search.It's on search that it gets interesting. After Battelle compliments Williams on Twitter's usefulness to journalist, Williamsresponds: "We're putting a ton of effort into search and discovery. We've just scratched the surface on it. We need to be more intelligent about mining this data."JB:Search deals with Google and Microsoft?EW:What deals? (awkward) Seriously though, we think third-parties can come up with great tools for people in the media.Which takes us smoothly over to All Things Digital, where Kara Swisher says that sources tell her thatMicrosoft's search engine Bing is close to integrating Twitterinto its search results.That would be quite a coup - though it's said to be a non-exclusive deal. We already know that the people at the top of Google are mad keen to get Twitter's results into their searches:Marissa Mayer almost said as much when I interviewed her in July.Swisher notes:But sources close to the situation caution that the deal could still run into a snag and was not yet complete, although it seems more likely than not that a deal will soon be struck with Microsoft first and then Google, which is the other company Twitter has also been negotiating with.If Twitter's really looking for revenue, it could do worse than ask one of those two giants for a bit of cash.Meanwhile, we have some more Twitter lists to build...
As the company behind more than a third of the world's mobile phones, Nokia is still the biggest player in the wireless industry – but at its Helsinki headquarters, things are starting to look grim. Last week it reported sales down more than 8%, creating losses of £836m over the past three months – and the chief financial officer was subsequently shuffled out of his job.Pundits and analysts put much of the blame on Nokia's inability to keep up with the likes of the iPhone and the BlackBerry, high-priced devices that are more desirable to customers, and more profitable.But while the company has indeed gone several years since its last hit handset, there may be more subtle clues to Nokia's malaise – not least in the way it is treating some of its most fervent supporters.Late updatesDisgruntled British customers are running a campaign claiming that Nokia's software updates often arrive in the UK weeks or months after other places.Mobile phone companies release their software updates to fix problems, and to add or improve features. In some countries, such as Germany, Nokia's updates are sent over the air to mobile phones as soon as they are finished. For British users, however, it can sometimes takes weeks or months – and in some cases, approval for the UK market takes so long that an update is superseded before it is approved.These delays not only occur for those who have contracts with mobile networks, but also those who paid extra for unlocked phones supported directly by Nokia.The problem is particularly pronounced on some of the most high-profile handsets – including the N97, a phone that Nokia's chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, called "the world's most advanced mobile computer" when it came out in July.Not everybody feels the same way."I was a pretty loyal Nokia customer," says James Gurney, one consumer who bought the N97 shortly after it hit the market. "At £500 I thought I was paying a bit over the odds, but trusted that the user experience would be good." Instead, he suffered bugs including memory problems, charging issues and difficulties with the screen. Nokia said these would be fixed by a software update, called v11, that reached British users three weeks after the phone went on sale. But it didn't fix everything. A further release, v12, was completed this August. Many British customers, however, have yet to get it: it was only available to those who bought unlocked, unbranded phones for a single day at the end of September before it was pulled. Meanwhile, Nokia is already previewing the next set of updates, v20, which it says will be available this month.Some users are sceptical."The problem has steadily gotten worse over the past two or three years," says Stephen Oiller, another customer who has been affected by the software delays. The question he wants answered is: "What makes the UK different to dozens of other countries?"We asked Nokia UK to explain. But a company spokeswoman did not address delays in updates reaching British customers, only suggesting that: "The team are working hard to speed up the process and ensure consumers in the UK and around the rest of the world can get all software updates as soon as possible."The v20 software would definitely be available in Britain at the same time as in other countries, she said, probably in late October. But she added that it took time to complete a "wide-ranging variety of country specific additions" for UK users and that networks often held back updates. while they did their own approval processes.But this does not really address the concerns of those who are up in arms over the lack of updates: customers who have, in many cases, spent hundreds of pounds precisely so they can bypass the networks and get faster updates direct from Nokia.Hard sellAt present, the firmware problem is bad enough that one employee of a mobile retailer, who asked not to be named, said he is finding it difficult to recommend the latest Nokia smartphones. "I've found myself advising customers to wait three to four months from a [high-end] N-Series handset's initial release before purchasing, as we expect all of them to have flaws in the original release."What's worse is the users complaining about the lack of updates are exactly the sort of people that Nokia needs to stick with it: high-spending long-term fans who think nothing of spending large sums on buying the latest handsets direct from the company. These are some of Nokia's biggest supporters – and all they are asking for is parity with the rest of the world.What's the solution? Better communication or faster delivery?"Ultimately, I would like to see updates released for everyone at the same time – sim-free or carrier-branded – similar to the way Apple operates," says Oiller.Gurney is less convinced that there is a simple way to recover his loyalty."Will I buy Nokia again?" he wonders. "Not until I know it works and they've had to drop the price … I'm an easy sell for a good alternative."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Mixed news for Silicon Valley's strugglers asYahoosaid things have stabilisedwhileSun Microsystems- already facing scrutiny over its proposed merger with Oracle - announced plans tolay off 3,000 more staff.&bull; Despite the host of partnerships it has made with its Android mobile phone software,Googlemay not be satisfied with the way other companies are showcasing the system - so much so that it could be preparing to build its own Android handset, according tothis report from TheStreet.com.&bull; The latest episode of the Guardian'sTech Weekly podcastis live, featuring a host of information about hardware hacking: primarily the amazing things you can do with a Wiimote. After an extended period in the presenter's chair, I'm handing over my duties to somebody who may be a new face (or voice) to you: the charming Susi Weaser.Listen hereand tell us what you think.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
After three years of faltering financials, the internet company Yahoo declared that its businesses have "stabilised" as deep cost cuts and a strategic overhaul yielded a 244% surge in quarterly profits.Although Yahoo's revenue slipped by 12% year-on-year to $1.58bn (£964m), the Silicon Valley firm's profits bounced from $54m to $186m for the three months to September, beating Wall Street forecasts and sending the company's shares up by 5% in after-hours trading.The figures were greeted enthusiastically by Yahoo's chief executive, Carol Bartz, who held them up as evidence that the company has turned a corner after a tumultuous period of management upheaval and dwindling earnings while Yahoo faced constant unflattering comparisons with its larger rival Google."We have a solid third quarter that signals our major businesses have stabilised," said Bartz, who joined Yahoo this year as the company's third chief executive since June 2007.She cited a brand revitalisation, expansion in the Middle East and a new home page as evidence Yahoo has turned a corner: "Our execution is improving and we're focused on what we do best: being the centre of peoples' online lives."Yahoo has cut some 2,000 staff in an effort to dig itself out from a slump in fortunes. After fending off a 2007 takeover attempt by Microsoft, the company struck a partnership in online searches with the Seattle-based firm, which was viewed as an admission that it could not close the gap with Google independently.Bartz has become frustrated with parallels drawn between Yahoo and Google. She recently told reporters that she was "pissed off" with media cynicism about her company's prospects.There was gloomier news elsewhere in the technology industry. Sun Microsystems said it intended to cut 3,000 jobs, amounting to more than 10% of its workforce, in advance of an agreed takeover by Oracle. The company said the layoffs will come from all major regions including the US, Europe, Asia and emerging markets.Sun has suffered a series of financial woes and is awaiting the outcome of an investigation by the European Union into its deal with Oracle. The European competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, ordered an in-depth inquiry last month into whether customers could face higher prices as a result of the two leading database companies coming together.
What next for Wii? Nintendo announced ablack model earlier but perhaps more interesting are the snippets that Mario and Zelda creator Shigeru Miyamoto let slip inan interviewwith, er, Popular Mechanics. Ok, it's hardly earth shattering news but the successor to the Wii is likely to be smaller than the current version.With both the Wii remote itself and Wii Motion Plus, what we've been able to do is introduce an interface that is both I think appealing and at the right price for a broad audience. And while we don't have any concrete plans for what we'll be doing with hardware in the future, what I can say is that, my guess is that because we found this interface to be so interesting, I think it would be likely that we would try to make that same functionality perhaps more compact and perhaps even more cost-efficient.Miyamoto also talks about the upcomingSuper Mario Brosmultiplayer game for the Wii.The concept for the Wii version from the outset was to make it a multiplayer game, and one thing that we considered was how do we design the game with a difficulty level that is going to be satisfying and accessible to all of those different skill levels? We found that it was very difficult to do. But instead what we looked at was, with the multiplayer ability, giving players the ability to pick up other players and carry them through the level and give novice players other ways to get through a level.Finally we get a little gaze in to the future.I think originally video-game systems were viewed as a toy, and they were something you played with. Whereas now I think we're starting to see a blurring of the lines, where, obviously, the internal guts of a video-game system is essentially a computer, and we're gradually seeing video games moving beyond simply entertainment into other aspects of everyday life.What do you think of Miyamoto's comments then? Smaller Wii likely to tempt you? And will the ability to guide novice players through Super Mario help bridge the divide between gamer and non-gamer like Wii Sports so successfully did?
Of course, no-one actuallyexpectsthe Best of Chatterbox post to be on time anymore; it would be most unsettling if it did. This is why we've stuck to our guns, and retained out tardy approach to delivering a weekly sampling of Chatterbox magic. We're always weekly after all - it's just that it's usually thewrongweek.So anyway, here's the latest super concentrated delivery of choice chat, this time brought to you by Apic...Chatterbox - October 5-11By ApicMonday was a day like many others that had passed before it, not nearly because silveryfox managed to grab asixthfirst in a row, showing a level of dedication previously confined to his obessesion with Wipeout. He went onto grab a seventh before the title was snatched away from him by Pokemon (a Gamesblog reader, and not one of the actual creatures, disappointingly). It was also a cold day, and with the breath of commuters crystalising in the pre-dawn air, the sudden shift to autumn was noticed by a few bloggers who dutifully complained of the cold, the dark and the way lycra shorts chafe at this time of year.FIFA10 was on the cards for most of the day, with the blog split between those who had it, those who were desperately waiting for it and those who were steadfastly not going to get it because they had their heart set on PES. SuperSmashIn was hoping the game-shaped birthday present he'd found was a copy of FIFA whilst GranaryThorax had the most heartrending story about not being able to play due to an XBox RROD. But it was mainly passed over by the unfeeling bloggers and we'll do the same here.[I got my copy late, but I'm planning some special coverage soon... Keef]Monday's enthusiasm for the game carried on through the week, though, and there were ruminations on a Chatterbox league to rival the dominance of PES. Online games involving 10 chatterboxers taking on the world in the manner that had seen them triumph in Killzone, were discussed with hushed excitement in many corners. PES players were able to delight in a touch of schadenfreude by Wednesday, however, as it became apparent that FIFA online was terrible, much as it had been with PES. Only bigworv had a word of warning amidst the general revelry:"Rather than revel in the delicious comedy of it all I'm going to take a pessimistic stance. If FIFA online is now borked, how heinous is PES10 going to be?"Only time would tell, and indeed probably has by now. There may also have been a few bloggers who don't like football games but they don't really count. As for me, I'm still waiting for it to be delivered from Tesco.More online football woe beset the 'box later in the week as it became evident that the In-ger-lund Ukraine World Cup qualifier would only be available online from an 'entertainment company', for a fee. SuperSmashIn, I feel, summed up the thoughts of the box when he opined:"THIS COUNTRY"Our lives, however, were considerably brightened by the introduction of avatars that didn't look like chess pieces caught in a Sony Bravia commercial as Guardian allowed us to express ourselves in picture form. Charles Arthur's eyes are all seeing, however, and many first attempts were cruelly, and probably quite rightly, rejected. Some did manage to make it through first time, and a more rounded view of our fellow chatterers was finally available.Some went for the literal - for example, BeardofBees with his picture of a man with a beard of, well, bees; some went a bittooliteral (Looking at you, Spew). Others went for games-related avatars, while a special few chose something close to their hearts, like Limni: "These are a pair of Air Max 360/95 hybrids and are my holy grail" Shewrog chose a picture of a doner kebab. My award for the best avatar, however, goes to Killerbee, with a picture of a bee with a minigun. What do you call a bee with a minigun? Answer: Anything it wants you to. Ahh, bee comedy.Things took a more serious note on Thursday, when ChairofRust chose to forgo the Sexual Healing column in favour of the blog's advice on relationships:"No gaming last night as had a long and drawn out argument with the girlfriend regarding a male friend of hers who has declared his undying love for her and apparently is waiting for me to slip up....... which she seems no problem with!"AlunEvans was first to respond, with the succinct advice that, "if she can't see why you're upset then she's a weirdo". Others were more blasé about the whole affair (sorry), pointing out that the only reasons she'd have told him this were that either she didn't take it seriously or she wanted him to start paying her more attention, neither of which are necessarily bad. Even if things do get out of hand, Killerbee reminded him that quite a few chatterboxers had already worked out 'contingency plans' for dealing with just this sort of situation. Plastic bags and hacksaws at the ready, gents, and don't forget the quicklime.[Ha ha, you're all joking right? Right? - Keef]Once again the blog seemed to have pre-empted all the major information sources, as news of the postal strike finally made it to the mainstream press, after being bandied about on the 'box for hours. Many bloggers had already felt its effects, through delay to online shopping orders and alfienoakes' Flaming Lips tickets, which arrived a full three weeks after they were posted.Killerbee was on hand once again to provide a wise word to all:"You'd have thought the Unions would've learned that strike action without public support for services that are no longer state monopolies is only going to be doomed to failure, but no, they still seem to be carrying on.."Very wise words indeed. Shame no one reads this crap apart from us, eh?And so along came Friday, kicking off as the week began with a first post silveryfox. Now we see the reason for his name. The man is an animal. Elsewhere on Bill Oddie's Autumn BlogWatch, Shewrog reported to have caught a rare sighting of two women kissing close to the basketball court where he'd been 'abused' earlier in the week. One can only wonder. Friday continued in the same vein as the previous four days, with the majority of the chat concerning FIFA and various attempts to coordinate online play.However, other games were managing to get more a mention. Smike whetted a few appetites with his opinions on Operation Flashpoint 2 ("probably not quite as murderously unforgiving as the original one") and several bloggers organised games of CIV4. There were also murmurs of a 'meat-up' happening in the far flung future, with cautionary tales about Hayers abounding and discussions about suitable venues worthy of such an honour. But that, as they say, is another story...Quote of the week"Overreacting? (Did I mention he is better looking and covered in muscles ....... albeit with the personality of a plank of wood?)"ChairofRust revealing his greatest fear - that his girlfriend is only after him for his personality.
Earlier today there was concern that a quick session with Google (and specifically Google) would reveal the contents of peoples' Twitter feeds - even if those feeds were protected (which means that they have to let you "follow" them).TheLos Angeles Times gave an ever-so-slightly-famous case: Bill Clinton - you know, the husband of the US secretary of state - whose tweets seemed to be showing up in searches.But now Twitter has said that the hole isn't there. Danny Sullivan at Search Engine Landhas been in touch with them, and been told:It seems that the LA Times piece references tweets that were public but later the user protected the account, thus all subsequent tweets are private along with the profile. The tweets prior to that time cannot be un-cached.Google has not been given a key to the castle…so to speak.The problem though is that if you start out being public, and at date A decide to protect your tweets, everything you tweeted before date A will be accessible through the search. They won't be cloaked.Sullivan explains it:Well, if Google can't get in to tweets after an account has been protected, why does it show some? And why does Twitter say this will happen?Google seems to rely on the last information for a tweet that it could see. So you tweeted something in March. Google sees the tweet and records it. If in August, you protect your account. Google tries to revisit your tweets as it does with any web page, to make sure it has fresh information. It can't get to any of your tweets now.The ones from August, it never saw them, since they were never public — so it doesn't list them.That tweet in March? It keeps showing the information from the last time it saw it. And apparently, it will keep doing this for weeks or months.He also points out something quite important if you do protect your tweets: you're on a social network, and unless you've created a closed network within it, you'll probably see them retweeted into the public sphere:If you have a protected account, also keep in mind that those who follow you might retweet what you tweet to the world. If you're that worried, make sure you pick your followers carefully and regularly keep them informed that you don't want things retweeted. Otherwise, be prepared for your private tweets to leak out.
This episode of Tech Weekly, it's a week of Wii hacks, which will have you taking your Wiimote to pieces before you can say 'Super Mario Brothers'. We talk to Yann Seznec, the brains behind the WiiLoop Machine, a piece of software that will allow you to create musical masterpieces the likes of which you'll never see from Wii Music. We also catch up with the God of Wiimote hacking, Johnny Chung Lee, to find out what he thinks the future of controllers looks like.There's a dissection of where some key mobile manufacturers might be going wrong (we hope they're listening) and discussion about what YouTube's partnership with Channel 4 might mean.  We guarantee you'll end the 30 minutes fitter, happier, more productive.It's also the first podcast to be skippered by Susi Weaser, as we send Bobbie Johnson back to a life of writing, tea drinking and chipping in with his extensive knowledge in future podcasts.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
On Tuesday Pascal Cagni, Apple's General Manager and Vice-President, Europe, Middle East, India and Africa, spoke to Katie Allen. Among the topics: drooping iPod sales, whether the Beatles will come to iTunes and whether he wanted a job at another company. Now read on...KA: How have you shaken off recession?PC:We have right now the best ever product line, we keep saying this, and it's fuelled by the fact you have got the portable line where we display growth of 35% year-on-year.We benefit also from back to school. Back to school has been an immense success all OVER Europe. You have got a lot of students going out there taking benefit of a lot of the solutions we offer.We also continue to have amazing leading positions in Europe too... we have typically above 20-25% market share in each of the countries. We have a route to market strategy, a multi-channel strategy which is playing well.Pascal Cagni Photograph: Cate Gillon/Getty ImagesYou have to appreciate that we have something rare in this industry: We have our own store, we are just going to open the 23rd store in the UK, we also have dedicated high-quality resellers, called Apple premium resellers, we have got 43 of them, we added close to 10 over the last year, we have also if you go to the classical retailers what you call 'shop in the shop', the shop in the shop would be anything between 40 to 80 sq metres, where you have highly trained people able to bring you through the logic of switching from PC to Mac or just experiencing what is the amazing software that we are putting on our products and last but not least we have also rolled out (rolling out?) up to forty in-line merchandisers. What that means, is in a country like the UK you have got in excess of 120 what we call high quality points of sale. You have 120 locations where in principle you should have a very unique experience.Q: Why is Europe growing so much faster? Revenues were up 45% year-on-year in q4 vs 25% for all territories.PC:Our position in the US is at a higher base... penetration of computers is even higher there. (In Europe) We have this multi-channel strategy that is playing well and that tells us that when we will be continuing the roll out of own stores like we started in Germany, in Switzerland, in Italy, we have got a reservoir of growth which is amazing on the continent. Last year, in 09, we had more openings outside the US than in the US. Europe is full of potential.  And our online stores are seen and recognised as one of the best ecommerce sites for consumer experience.Innovation for us is not just part of what we do on the products but is also linked to the way we bring our products to the market.Q: How do you think new deals with Orange and Vodafone will affect iPhone sales and price in UK?PC:I wouldn't be able to predict the price. We don't dictate the price. There is no question that after the specific partnership we had de facto with O2 the [deal with] Orange will be very interesting because we know from other countries, that people haven't yet switched to the iPhone because they have a loyalty to their network which is amazing. And the network does whatever it takes to keep you loyal to the network.In early 2010 you will also have Vodafone out there. The two or three combined together give us a lot of hope for the UK market. We also believe that what makes it compelling as an offer is the apps out there. You've got 85,000 apps. Apps that give a reason for anyone to use the phone. We are something bigger than just a part. This is about being disruptive in the industry and changing the rules of the game, which is really what we have been known for the last 23 years.Q: Given the iPhone's growth, are you unworried about declining iPod sales?PC:We are always worried about a fall. In Europe we don't yet have a fall. We believe we need to carry the message out there much better. In Europe we have growth while the rest of the market is falling... Having said that, we are worried, because we don't want a fall. We believe it is not doing justice to the [iPod] nano, where for £115 you've got 8GB plus the camera... We renewed the category.Q: So are you worried about iPod sales?PC:Our job is to better carry the message. We need to express it better so that people get convinced of what we do.Q: Do you expect to see iPod sales fall in Europe?PC:I cannot predict. But we are working hard not to let it happen, by all means. And if it comes, so be it. We'll try our best. We have so much to do just with the phone, the Mac and the rest that we have our hands full. And guess what, as Steve stated we are going to continue to surprise you in the year to come."Q: Will the Beatles be on iTunes in time for Christmas?PC:I would love to say yes, but nothing to announce.Q: How tempted were you by the ITV job?[Cagni was rumoured to be on the shortlist for ITV chief executive]PC:No comment. I wish them the best and they will do well.
Culture secretary Ben Bradshaw revealed today that controversial measures to tackle illegal file-sharing will be watered down following fierce opposition.He told the House of Commons culture, media and sport committee that rights holders will have to obtain a court order before punishing persistent offenders by reducing or cutting off their internet connections.Earlier this year, business secretary Lord Mandelson said that internet service providers would be forced to hand over information on customers who used illegal sites heavily to music companies and film studios so that they could take  action.Giving evidence to MPs, Bradshaw also said that those targeted would also have the right to appeal against the decision. Those concessions will be seen as an attempt to assuage the concerns of those who believe the proposed remedy is heavy-handed.Currently, those who download content illegally most often are sent warning letters demanding that they stop. Internet service providers and content owners have long been in dispute about whether ISPs should hand over confidential information about their customers, and who should meet the cost of disconnecting them.Bradshaw defended the solution, however, which is likely to be contained in a Digital Britain bill this year, assuming enough legislative time can be found in the current parliamentary session."The suspensions to which you refer would be a very last resort for serious ... infringement" Bradshaw said. "It wouldn't just happen ... on the basis of an accusation."Bradshaw also denied that he had been "rapped on the knuckles" by the Prime Minister after he criticised the BBC Trust and hinted that it should be replaced."On the contrary. No 10 are firmly behind the policy announcements we've made." He said No 10 felt that: "At the moment is almost impossible for anyone to say anything about the BBC without it being reported in a critical way".He said that if the BBC is required to share licence-fee money with other organisations, as the Government is proposing, it would need to be supervised by another organisation. "As we move towards a different broadcasting landscape that will probably call for a different regulatory structure"He said that could either by Ofcom or a new independent public service regulator but added that there were no plans to dismantle the trust and that its future should be decided when the BBC's royal charter is next reviewed.He added that it seemed to be "open season on the BBC" and said that as  "unfortunate because the BBC has great strengths. But like all major organisations it needs to change."Bradshaw also repeated his assertion that the National Audit Office should have unfettered access to the BBC's accounts and said there was some progress on this. "They [the BBC] are certainly making some encouraging noises and they are in conversations with the NAO as to how [to allow them access] without - as the BBC see it - their editorial independence being jeopardised".He said talks between the BBC and Channel 4 over a joint venture between the corporation's commercial arm and 4 are continuing. "We made it very clear that Channel 4 should remain a public service broadcaster and we favoured a joint venture or tie-up between Channel 4 and BBC Worldwide and this is something they are actively pursuing. The latest information on that is quite encouraging."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
BusinessWeek magazine seems to have jumped the gun on Apple's announcements today - the Apple Store is still down in the US and UK, but BusinessWeek's story is up, saying there are upgrades to the MacBook and iMac lines. [Update: perhaps we were just being cached to death - everyone else seemed to see the products while we were getting the same no-show. But this is still a prebrief - read on.]Here's the story.No reason to think it's wrong - it's clearly written based on a pre-briefing to Arik Hessendahl, the Apple correspondent at BW.The MacBook has been redesigned with a new polycarbonate shell, which has a unibody design similar to that of the Aluminum unibody found on the MacBook Pro. It has a new look, with rounded edges, has a seven-hour battery that's built in, just like on the MacBook Pro.Eugh. Built-in battery? Bad news. I say that as a Mac user who's been replacing batteries on laptops used for years since.. oh, about 1999?Its microprocessor is an Intel Core 2 Duo at 2.26 GHz and hard drive space starts at 250GB. Price: Still $999.We'll await a UK price. But assume it's still the same too.Update: it's actually up by £50. (Ta, @chronos.)On the iMac:The iMac is getting a major face lift. It too has LED-based displays of sizes of 21.5 inches and an impressive 27-inches. In fact the only non-LED based display in Apple's line-up is the 30-inch LCD screen still offered. Apple VP Phil Schiller told me last night that getting an LED screen of that size is no small feat, so don't expect an LED replacement right away.That Schiller quote indicates that it's not accident...perhaps it's taking Apple longer to do than it thought.OK, so we were behind. But clearly, Schiller's briefing indicates that this was something the company told selected journalists about ahead of time.Plus new mice:The entire iMac line will ship with a new mouse, dubbed Magic Mouse that replicates the multi-touch surface found on Apple notebooks, and which supports the same two-finger gesture movements for scrolling up and down and for moving back and forth between Web pages.The Mac mini goes on, rather than to the grave:Finally, the Mac Mini, much loved, but always rumored to be due for retirement, got some love today too. The new entry-level Mini still sells for $599 and sports a new 2.26 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo chip, an Nvidia Geforce 9400M graphics card and a 160-gigabyte hard drive.But nothing on the AppleTV. What's happened to that, then?The reasoning: well,coming off a stonking fourth quarter, Apple is now going after the computer buyers - of whom it has had more than ever.Interesting point to note: no updates for the Mac Pro line - the "desktop" high-end machine. How long is it since that was updated?And - to answer other questions - no, there's still no Blu-ray. Apple's determined refusal to use this is beginning to look like a policy. It's a strange fact of the computer industry that while any computer maker can bring a technology in, it almost always takes Apple to make it accepted: thus USB wasn't used first by Apple, but it took Apple with the first iMac to make it an industry standard. Ditto for Wi-Fi - Dell may have a claim to have been the first with it, but Apple really took it and ran with it.So Blu-ray may have to hope that Apple will come to its aid. You didn't think it needed aid? We'll deal with that in a later article...
You may have noticed that over one million votes have now been cast for this year'sGolden Joystick Awards- a record for the long-running industry backslap-'em-up. Taking pace at the end of this month at the Park Lane Hilton hotel, with well-known comedian Sean Lock handing out the gongs, it's the very epitome of the modern game award experience: brash, popularist and moderately high in profile.Elsewhere, a call for entries has just been put out for next year'sBafta Awardsceremony. This is a very different beast; a black tie affair, boasting a slightly more thoughtful range of categories and an emphasis on creativity and innovation.So is that the full spectrum covered? Is Britainokayfor mainstream game awards? I'm not sure...Don't get me wrong, the Golden Joysticks provide an important and uncomplicated yardstick of where popular videogaming tastes are at. The 15 categories cover all the usual bases - the best games on all the key platforms, plus awards for most favoured developer, retailer, publisher and soundtrack. There's also the spurious 'one to watch' award, which operates uneasily between a nice marketing extra for the publisher and a useful pre-orders tip for retailers.The Baftas, meanwhile offer the beautifully non-specific 'artistic achievement' award, and will next year present two new categories: 'family and social', recognising the inroads gaming is making as a living room entertainment medium, and 'use of online' which looks to cover things like social network games and downloadable content. These are worthwhile additions and they prove that Bafta is interested in reflecting the breadth of experiences on offer.But what's the point of videogame awards? is it about entertainment for us consumers? Both the Golden Joysticks and the Baftas have been broadcast in the past, the former via the web, the latter on Channel 4 - but they haven't worked particularly well as remotely viewed spectacles - unless you're really keen on watching guest stars from Mock the Week or 8 Out of Ten Cats trying to prise a gaming theme into their well-worn live material. Or perhaps you relish those brief backstage interviews with youthful celebrities, who have been tricked into attending by their publicists and must now awkwardly nurse their complimentary Tsin Tao beers while a gurning presenter mugs them for gaming anecdotes.I mean, it's not like the Oscars or even the Soap awards where there's a modicum of glamour on offer. I'm no OK magazine regular (those copies are mywife's), but I quite enjoy the lunacy of a decent red carpet entrance; I nod with appreciation when Scarlett Johansson launches herself at the attendant press to let them know she's wearing Balenciaga. Frankly, as much as admire the man, I don't have the same interest in where Peter Molyneux rented his tux.No, I think these big game awards should actually tell us something about games. Apart from awards for soundtracks and Bafta's Best Story option, it's rare that actual content gets a mention. How about awards for best plot, best level design, best user-interface, best character or best monster design? They're a bit more geeky, but they celebrate key elements of theexperienceof gaming - they're about what we see on screen.And what about awards for indie games, Flash games, casual games or advergames? How about celebrating lesser-known heroes, or innovative experiments? How about the experts and hardcore gamers who vote in these things actually providing consumers with the benefits of their knowledge? What if you could actuallylearnsomething at the Golden Joysticks, apart from the fact that loads of people liked Grand Theft Auto IV?Awards are a vital element of any entertainment medium - they're (usually/often/sometimes) fun for those present, they're a chance for under appreciated backroom creatives to be recognised by their peers and - with movies, games and music events - they may help you make a last minute decision regarding your birthday or Christmas list.But even as a recent recipient myself(!), I have to ask - could games awards do more? Should they do more? Or should we just enjoy them for what they are - a still rather quaint global industry playing at being glamorous.
Windows Mobile 6.5 came out. We'd like to say it's a barnstormer. But then we read the reviews. And they raise some very serious questions about the future of Microsoft's mobile platform.Shall we begin?Let's see,Gizmodo doesn't like Windows Mobile 6.5...The remaining interface changes are subtle, and intended almost solely to make Windows Mobile 6.5 bearable to use without a stylus. (Though don't get me wrong—most WinMo 6.5 devices will, damningly, still come with styluses.) It doesn't really feel like a redesign—it feels like someone went through 6.1 and adjusted a few values. Add a few pixels of menu spacing here, some plasticky highlight graphics there, and BOOM. 6.5. Let's go to lunch.and...The confusingly-named Mobile Internet Explorer 6 is to Mobile IE 5 what IE 7 was to IE6 on the desktop. Get that? This is to say it's a massive upgrade, but like IE7, which added tabs and popup blocking about two years after everyone else had it, Mobile IE6 is at least a generation behind its competitors. For what it's worth, it adds smooth panning and scrolling, intelligent zooming and full(er) support for CSS and Javascript pages that MIE5 used to choke on spectacularly.Rendering is good, but not WebKit good, and the browser has a tendency to reflow text in an odd way, formatting columns of text more narrowly than it should. And even though rendering is vastly improved—though inexplicably, not to the point of the Zune HD's browser—the experience is still glitchy. Page loading is slow even on a fast Wi-Fi connection, and there's often a pretty wide gap between when a page looks like it's done and when the browser actually becomes responsive enough to interact with....To put it another way, handset manufacturers have done more in the last two years to improve Windows Mobile than Microsoft has, which borders on pathetic. In the time since Windows Mobile 6.0 came out in February of 2007, Apple has released the iPhone—three times. Palm has created the Pre, with its totally new webOS. Android has come into being, and grown into something wonderful. RIM has created a touch phone and a revamped BlackBerry OS. For these companies, the world has changed.AndGreg Kumparak at MobileCrunch doesn't like it...Windows Mobile 6.5, we wanted to love you. We wanted you to come along and wash away the past, whisking away all signs of the antiquated 6.1 we've grown so tired of ragging on.We went into this review with the full hopes of emerging with a generally positive outlook. Sorry, Windows Mobile 6.5 – it's just not going to happen....a very small chunk of the operating system (namely, the home screen and the start screen – more on those later) has been overhauled for finger-friendliness. If you actually want to do anything, however, you're straight back to using the stylus. Want to type? Stylus. Want to navigate the settings screens? Stylus. Want to do just about anything outside of launching an application? Yep – grab that stylus....We can sum up the entire problem by pointing out one flaw: Let's say you want to move an application in the start menu. You tap-and-hold an icon, expecting it to allow you to drag it to a new location. A menu pops up, with just one option: Move to top. You can not rearrange icons manually here. At all. If you want to move one icon to a specific location, you get to move every other icon arround it. This is an incredibly obvious use case, and it was not addressed. This lack of foresight extends throughout most of the OS.Typing on Windows Mobile 6.5 is an absolute miserable chore. How bad? Every time we sat down to review this thing, we got so frustrated with the keyboard that we had to stop. We. Hate. This. Keyboard. Typing on this keyboard is like sewing with your feet....Every single change in Windows Mobile 6.5 feels like it was made by a team of homebrewers or modders, rather than a huge corporation with truckloads of money to blow on one of their flagship products.Oh dear. Well, perhapsZDNet's Matthew Millerwill like it better?The headline is "Windows Mobile 6.5 disappoints; no Start customizations and stylus still required". That's not promising.I have to say Microsoft disappoints me greatly with this release. We have seen more leaked than what was released today so maybe there will be some upcoming updates, but I am disappointed by the lipstick Microsoft gives to us with WM 6.5. The thing is, the beauty isn't even skin deep on this release..Oh, come on Matthew, don't hold back. Tell us what you really think.The icons are randomly placed on the display and the only thing you can do with them is tap and hold to select to move them to the top. That is it! You CANNOT place icons where you want to, you CANNOT add or remove icons, and you CANNOT create folders and manage the icons to create an efficient device. IMHO, this is so ridiculous that I see little value in this new Start menu scheme and find it to be worse than what we have on previous Windows Mobile operating systems.Hmm. Perhaps things will improve further in?You will find several menus that are now much larger and more finger friendly, but these also require that you now tap arrows to continue scrolling through long lists. The worst though is that diving down to this level and lower takes you back to drop downs that require you to have a fingernail or stylus to make selections. This is particularly evident when you try to create a new appointment, manage your regional settings, enter a new contact, or perform many other tasks throughout the device.That's a no, then.But even more pressing than the bad reviews for the update is the mystery of precisely how well Windows Mobile is faring: as in, how many licences has it sold? We know, for example, how the iPhone is doing (better and better, apparently); but whereas it used to quite easy to find Windows Mobile licence sales numbers, Microsoft has suddenly come over all quiet about it.What we can be confident of is that the number of iPhones being sold now exceeds the number of Windows Mobile phones being sold. Why do I say that? Because Apple publishes the number of iPhones sold every quarter (a record 7.4m in the just-gone quarter alone; 20.75m in its past four quarters). You can be sure that if Microsoft were outselling it, or even butting up close, it would be shouting it from the rooftops, blogs and press releases. It isn't.In fact at the Windows 6.5 launch earlier this month our communications editor Richard Wray flat-out asked how many Windows Mobile licences had been sold in the past year. He didn't get an answer.Given that Microsoft says that the next version of Windows Mobile - version 7 - will be coming out in the fourth quarter of 2010, you have to wonder how many licences it will be selling then - given that Google's Android could be then be up to version 3.0 (it's just hit 2.0) and that RIM, Palm (don't forget Palm) and of course Apple will all have been slogging away at updating their products.
Sony must have been miffed when Nintendo sauntered in and grabbed the casual gaming market with the Wii and DS. After all, Singstar, Buzz and Eyetoy were released before both. But in hindsight maybe they were simply appealing to a different section of the non-gaming audience. Singstar was – and still is – the ultimate post-pub party game for 20-somethings. Buzz appealed to a wider audience but was still aimed at teens and 20-somethings. Eyetoy was potentially the closest Sony came to attracting a new gaming audience but a lack of a Wii Sports-style breakthrough title ultimately limited its appeal.  Sony's latest attempt to crack this market isEyepet.Eyepet uses the Playstation camera to create a virtual pet that you interact with via a small "card". The creature – monkey really - interacts with any objects put in front of him and responds to your hand control. Sounds great right?Well, I've been playing it recently with my four year old daughter – presumably the rough target audience – and it's been a mixed bag. When it works well and the illusion holds you get a feeling that Eyepet might be onto something. For example "tickling" the pet works well. And some of the daily challenges and mini games – such as the ten-pin bowling – are nicely done. But as cute and child-friendly as Eyepet is the lack of tactile feedback is a major issue.For a start the card control is incredibly fiddly. Some of the daily tasks – feeding your pet etc – require worryingly sensitive controls for an experienced gamer, never mind a young child. You can imagine the frustration as you move the card ever so slightly out of range of the camera and lose the virtual item under your control. For a game aimed at children Eyepet is surprisingly clumsy to play.The presentation is fabulous though, with an exemplary setup movie and advice. And there is clearly some potential here – maybe you could appeal to the male (ok, geek) market and get a Star Wars style holographic chess game? Also it is relatively cheap too.Yes, this Friday is all about Borderlands (PLEASE don't let me down Borderlands) and PES 2010 but Eyepet is worth a look if you have young children and a lot of patience. Just don't expect it to dislodge the Wii from the best-seller lists anytime soon.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; In a week where Yahoo, Amazon and Microsoft are also announcing their financial results,Appleset the tone bybusting out some pretty spectacular numbers. Quarterly profit of $1.67bn is the company's highest ever - and with Christmas coming soon and the iPhone preparing to launch in China, things are looking very rosy indeed in Cupertino.&bull; What's the future for open source databaseMySQL, now that it's part of Oracle? Well, givenantitrust concerns being floated by European regulators, co-founder Michael 'Monty' Widenius suggests thatthe best course of action would be for Larry Ellison to sell it off entirely. "MySQL needs a different home than Oracle, a home where there will be no conflicts of interest concerning how, or if, MySQL should be developed further," he said on his blog.&bull; Anyone who's been online in the last couple of years surely can't have escaped the beauty of the point and click gameSamorost, from Czech developers Amanita. Good news! They have a new title out now, calledMachinarium.Play the demo, or download it here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Apple surprised Wall Street today by announcing record-breaking sales and profits, as the Californian technology company continues to defy the recession.Thanks to the highest ever sales of its iPhone handsets and Mac computers, Apple posted profit of $1.67bn (£1bn) for the last three months based on sales of almost $10bn (£6bn). That marks a 46% increase in profit over the same period last year, when the company made $1.14bn (£695m) on revenues of $7.9bn (£4.8bn).Chief executive Steve Jobs - who returned to the company earlier this summer after a six-month break to undergo a liver transplant - said he was "thrilled" with the results and had more plans to wow customers in the near future."We've got a very strong lineup for the holiday season and some really great new products in the pipeline for 2010," he said.Those products are rumoured to include a new touchscreen computer that the company hopes can capitalise on the iPhone's success. Although the secretive Jobs is working hard to keep details of the new gadget firmly under wraps, a string of reports suggest that the company may be preparing to launch the so-called "tablet" machine in the new year.In recent months, Apple has seemed immune to the overall moves of the market - consistently defying predictions that the recession would stifle appetite for its high-cost products.It exceeded expectations by selling 7.4m iPhone handsets and 3.05m Macintosh computers worldwide over the last three months - sales that mean 46% of the company's business is now outside the United States."People are worried about the consumer, and Apple PCs and Apple phones are more expensive," said Jane Snorek, an analyst with First American Funds. "Clearly, right now the consumer doesn't care: for some reason, consumers will spend more money to get Apple."The only area of the company's business that is not bucking the recessionary trend is its iPod line - which saw an 8% decline in year on year sales, down to 10.2m in the three months ending on September 26. However, analysts said that this is largely thanks to the shift by some consumers to using the iPhone - which is more profitable for the company, thanks to monthly mobile subscriptions.Part of the company's astonishing growth has been thanks to the widening reach of the iPhone, which is now on sale in more than 40 countries worldwide - as well as Apple's back-to-school promotional push to encourage students to buy its desktop computers and laptops.Staff at the company's headquarters in Cupertino, California, will also be buoyed by sales of its most recent computer operating system, Snow Leopard. In particular, the news of Macintosh sales will give them a boost since it comes just as long-term rival Microsoft prepares to release a new version of its Windows software on Thursday.The company's numbers significantly beat Wall Street's already-high expectations of how the Californian computer pioneer would perform, pushing shares up more than 6% to $202 in after-hours trading - a historic high.
iPod maker Apple surprised Wall Street today by announcing record breaking sales and profits, as the Californian technology company continues to defy the recession.Thanks to the highest ever sales of its iPhone handsets and Mac computers, Apple posted profit of $1.67bn (£1bn) for the last three months based on sales of almost $10bn (£6bn). That marks a 46% increase in profit over the same period last year, when the company made $1.14bn (£695m) on revenues of $7.9bn (£4.8bn).Chief executive Steve Jobs - who returned to the company earlier this summer after a six month break to undergo a liver transplant - said he was "thrilled" with the results and had more plans to wow customers in the near future."We've got a very strong lineup for the holiday season and some really great new products in the pipeline for 2010," he said.Those products are rumoured to include a new touchscreen computer that the company hopes can capitalise on the iPhone's success. Although the secretive Jobs is working hard to keep details of the new gadget firmly under wraps, a string of reports suggest that the company may be preparing to launch the so-called "tablet" machine in the new year.In recent months, Apple has seemed immune to the overall moves of the market - consistently defying predictions that the recession would stifle appetite for its high-cost products.It exceeded expectations by selling 7.4m iPhone handsets and 3.05m Macintosh computers worldwide over the last three months - sales that mean 46% of the company's business is now outside the United States."People are worried about the consumer, and Apple PCs and Apple phones are more expensive," said Jane Snorek, an analyst with First American Funds. "Clearly, right now the consumer doesn't care: for some reason, consumers will spend more money to get Apple."The only area of the company's business that is not bucking the recessionary trend is its iPod line - which saw an 8% decline in year on year sales, down to 10.2m in the three months ending on September 26. However, analysts said that this is largely thanks to the shift by some consumers to using the iPhone - which is more profitable for the company, thanks to monthly mobile subscriptions.Part of the company's astonishing growth has been thanks to the widening reach of the iPhone, which is now on sale in more than 40 countries worldwide - as well as Apple's back-to-school promotional push to encourage students to buy its desktop computers and laptops.Staff at the company's headquarters in Cupertino, California, will also be buoyed by sales of its most recent computer operating system, Snow Leopard. In particular, the news of Macintosh sales will give them a boost since it comes just as long-term rival Microsoft prepares to release a new version of its Windows software on Thursday.The company's numbers significantly beat Wall Street's already-high expectations of how the Californian computer pioneer would perform, pushing shares up more than 6% to $202 in after-hours trading - a historic high.
Past versions of Forza Motorsport didn't exactly generate a massive, devoted following: there was always a hint of cynicism about Microsoft's motor-racing franchise, fuelled by the suspicion that it existed merely as a riposte to Sony's all-conquering Gran Turismo. But the interminable hiatus between Gran Turismo 4 and 5 has given Forza's developer, Turn 10, an unprecedented opportunity to take the initiative. It has obliged in fairly impressive fashion.Forzas of yore suffered from an oddly clinical, antiseptic feel, and were distinctly intimidating for more casual users. Both faults have been rectified in Forza Motorsport 3: despite the startlingly crisp and detailed graphics, it doesn't feel quite so squeaky clean (unlike Gran Turismo, the cars can sustain damage), and it soon becomes obvious that the cars' handling is spot on, particularly when you step into a rear-wheel-drive US muscle-car, which will do doughnuts if you floor the throttle, even on a straight. And as well as the customary plethora of driver aids, which (mercifully) can be individually switched off according to taste and your desire to test your ability, there's a GriD-style rewind feature that lets you rectify bungled cornering and over-optimistic manoeuvres. Purists may recoil at the way in which it can rewrite near-unlimited portions of a race, but you can always leave it unused.In line with the current vogue in driving games, Forza Motorsport 3 has a complicated structure, in which success in races earns experience points and credits towards improving your driver level, and the reputation of each car you use, as well as buying new cars. There is also a system of car classes, to make sure you don't have an unfair advantage over fellow racers. A quick upgrade system hits the spot, although it can change your car's class, making it ineligible for races. The single-player game consists of series of midweek races, with world championship rounds at the weekend. Many of the world's best racetracks, including Silverstone, Laguna Seca, Le Mans, Suzuka and the Nordschleife are present, all rendered in loving detail.The one aspect of Forza Motorsport 3 which did strike a chord in the past was its customisability, with a selection of surprisingly powerful tools allowing gamers to decorate their cars ornately. Those tools have been retained, and budding mechanics can take a similar approach to their cars' internals, Zapping in engines, drive-trains and the like from other cars to create monstrous hybrids. Online, the ability to generate races with your own rules will prove to be the game's killer aspect as far as the most uncompromising virtual petrolheads are concerned, although a more sophisticated matching system ought to leave the tyros feeling a little less left out.It's not perfect, though: it's notably afflicted by horrendous loading times, and because off-track excursions drastically slow your car, raggedness while cornering can actually act as an aid to braking, which is anathema to the fundamentals of racing. At least clumsily attacked kerbs can pitch you into spins.Forza Motorsport 3 has comprehensively turned the tables on PlayStation devotees accustomed to ridiculing Xbox 360 owners for their lack of anything approaching the credibility of Gran Turismo. Kazunori Yamauchi is one of the world's great perfectionists, so no doubt Gran Turismo 5, when it appears next year, will be special. But in the meantime, Forza Motorsport 3 rules.
Forget the lack of official licences, restricted online options and menu – Pro Evolution Soccer has always delivered where it matters most, on the pitch. PES 2010 continues the trend and is simply a joy to play.The action is fast, instinctive and expressive. Aerial through balls are a particular delight but cushioned first-time passes and accurately weighted crosses are all a joy. Headers feel much more realistic now too, with the players responding realistically to your timed button presses.For the first time players can use 360 degree control when moving players. Initial discomfort soon gives way to a greater feel on the pitch, with plenty of room to improvise as you create space for a cross or shot. The action feels slightly slower than 2009 but is still much faster than Fifa. A typical PES game is more akin to the recent 4-3 Manchester derby than the continentally paced Fifa. While the pace of the game is often unrealistic the player models are not. All the big players look the part, particularly facially. One of the biggest improvements over 2009 is the online play.Yes, it lacks the 10vs10 and player leagues of Fifa 2010 but it is not much easier to set up games, especially 2vs2 games with friends. Lag is much improved too. Offline players will spend most of their time in the Master League mode.Like the rest of the game this has seen a much-needed presentation upgrade and will entertain those looking for a longer-term challenge than the Champions League. Away from the pitch the main improvements are cosmetic. The menu screens and music have finally been bought into the 21st century. The commentary is as appalling as ever, although the responsive crowd noise – quiet when you score an away goal, cheering when you make a last-ditch tackle – makes up for it. The new card system, that allows you to tweak player and team tactics, is less successful though, primarily because it is hard to notice any difference on the pitch.Many PES players have moved over to the ever-improving Fifa and there's no doubt that the more realistically paced and fully featured Fifa 2010 is an excellent football package. But performance on the pitch is where it really matters and PES 2010 wins that battle.
The signs were there long before the collapse - hindsight tells us that much. In December 2008, media mogul Sumner J Redstone sold his majority share of veteran video game publisher Midway to little-known investor, Mark Thomas,losing many millionsof dollars in the process. "We didn't know what it meant at the time," remembers Cumron Ashtiani, then art director at Midway's Newcastle Studio. "We did know that it was an unusual trade especially at the amount he sold it for. Several weeks then passed before the true horror of the situation became clear…"The change in majority share ownership prompted Midway's creditors to demand repayments of the company's debts. The senior managers attempted to negotiate new terms, but on February 12, Midway USentered Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. The directors had to decide whether to sell off the company's first-party studios separately or, preferably, offer them as a batch. Amid the uncertainty, it no doubt became clear to Craig Duncan, the studio head at Newcastle, that his team would be especially vulnerable. This was Midway's only UK department: if an American buyer came in, it might opt to purchase only the major American studios. Duncan would probably need to find a buyer – and he had weeks to do it.The team, though, came out fighting. They had some ideas for an open-world adventure, something that could utilise the experitise they'd built working on Wheelman. They figured if they could get a demo together, they'd have a compelling package for a would-be publisher: an experienced team, a decent new IP, and a headstart on development.As we covered on Gamesblogat the time, they got to work on gritty cop drama, Necessary Force, thenalerted publishersaround the world."It was actually a very focusing situation," says Ashtiani. "As a directors group we have a lot of experience, and have been through scenarios like this before. We knew that if the team lost focus it could all fall apart very quickly. We were led by Craig Duncan who is just fantastic at looking at problems for what they are and then finding solutions so we all saw this as a challenge rather than a death blow."The idea was to produce something akin to a vertical slice demo, a highly polished section of gameplay, that could capture the imagination of buyers better than a lot of early pre-alpha code. As Ashtiani explains, "Traditional pre-production has a balance between visible progress, back end documentation and code base work. We changed tactics and shifted our development focus to visual and playable demos. This was in itself very motivating as we were all focused on making the game look and play as well as possible with very fast iterations. It was very liberating creatively."But in the background, there was a dawning understanding that time was not on the studio's side. Negotiations over IP are complex and – especially in this economic climate – cautious; everything was taking forever. Then Warner put in an offer for Midway's Chicago and Seattle development studios - the deal didn't include Newcastle. "We all secretly knew we had run out of time," says Ashianti. "We wouldn't say it for fear of bringing everyone else down."Wheelman producer Joe Neate was heavily involved in the attempts to sell the studio. I met up with him at the Game Horizon conference in June and he seemed tired yet determined. But the axe was falling and he knew it. "As time went on, we realised we were edging closer and closer to the abyss. We had some interest in the studio and Necessary Force, but none of it amounted to anything concrete. We also had the opportunity to pitch for a game (which shall remain nameless) and were pretty hopeful as a studio up until the point that we found out our pitch had fallen through. That news was given to the studio on Thursday 9 July."The immediate reaction was understandable, and typically British – everyone downed tools and headed for the pub. "There were some high emotions but everyone behaved with dignity, which was a credit to the team's maturity and experience," recalls Ashtiani. Neate was crushed, "personally, I was pretty emotional that day. I had such hopes for our studio, and I – along with a lot of others – truly believed we'd be able sort it out and continue as a team. When I realised that wasn't going to happen, it hit me pretty hard."From here on, it all panned out like a typical studio closure. Often there are a few days, maybe even weeks, of confusion and uncertainty. Then the CEO arrives with awkward platitudes. Then the administrators roll in. Before this, the process of moving on will already have begun for the staff. It's a tight community in the UK; news spreads fast via closed industry forums and business contacts. Everyone knows someone at another studio. CVs fly out via email to other publishers or to the many recruitment agencies specialising in the games industry.It's rare that anyone has to handle this process alone. Many areas of the country have government-funded regional bodies set up to aid local studios. These can help with the inevitable diaspora of staff, alerting potential employers and arranging impromptu careers fairs. As Neate explains, Duncan took a proactive approach, "he lined up a number of companies who had agreed not to try and poach staff while we tried everything we could to save the studio. They were waiting for the green light to set up a visit as soon as our options were exhausted. The next week was pretty much full of visits from companies from all over the UK, collecting CVs and espousing the benefits of working for them. We had a mailing list for opportunities, a Facebook group even. So the studio spirit still lived on (and still does), with people looking out for and trying to find opportunities for ex-colleagues."This is not an isolated incident – British game development is facing some stiff challenges right now. "We know from our research that 15% of UK business have gone bust or closed down since July of last year," says Dr. Richard Wilson CEO of UK game developer trade body,TIGA. "Over that period we have seen business such as Pivotal, Free Radical and of course Midway closing down. Anecdotal evidence seems to suggest that the vast majority of people who are made redundant remain in the games industry. Either with other UK game developers or they will look for work overseas. Increasingly UK game developers that lose their jobs here are likely to be forced to look overseas - unless the UK government stimulates the UK games industry via TIGA's proposed Games Tax Relief…"For Ashtiani, the closure of Midway Newcastle had at least had one positive consequence; it meant he could realise a longterm ambition by setting upAtomhawk, a studio specialising in high-end concept art. This element of game design is often outsourced to companies in other countries, usually in the Far East or Eastern Europe, but that process can be troublesome, requiring the intricate micro-management of teams with no full game development experience."In our case, as we have come from game development and have made large budget games ourselves, the client can rely on us more to be autonomous and get on with the job as if we were working as part of their internal dev team," asserts Ashtiani. "This approach has enabled us to provide some more unusual services for an outsourcing firm, like UI and front end design, normally an in house job that people wish they could outsource – but as it's an iterative and design-heavy feature, it hasn't worked with offshore providers. It is working very well for with us."Employing just four in-house designers as well as a hand-picked pool of freelancers, Atomhawk may well be indicative of a new era of game development. The introduction of outsourcing has gradually chipped away at the notion of the one-stop-shop model, where a single studio produces a whole game from conception to completion. In the increasingly competitive economy, that is not viable. Instead, things are beginning to resemble another area of the entertainment media."I believe the industry is moving toward a movie studio model," says Ashtiani. "There, only the key individuals like the director, the producer and the actors are on staff for the duration. CG, cinematography, lighting are all provided by specialist companies brought in to do the job before moving on to the next contract. This means that productions can hire very specialist firms that contain expertise and talent that they would normally struggle to hire direct or would be a financial burden when they are not needed."Earlier this month, small British publisher Oxygen Games went into receivership, and looked likely to be the next British victim of the industry's evolution. In this case, there was a last minute reprieve of sorts – the company's former CEO Jim Scott swooped in and purchased Oxygen's assets and it looks as though jobs have been saved (althoughaccording to MCV, studios who have worked for Oxygen might have to deal with the administrators to recouptheirlosses).Not all struggling games companies will be bailed out at the last minute. "Small developers are more likely to survive if they have access to expert advice and help," says Wilson. "TIGA has recognised this and we are building up a network of business advisors including accountants, lawyers, and outsourcers who can provide expert help to studios facing difficulties. We also have a number of initiatives called 'Play Together' designed to help studios manage things like recruitment costs and avoid potential redundancies. For example, via our website we offer a 'Job Sharing' service which allows developers to loan staff for a period of time to other developers, this helps studios manage the resource swings brought about by the nature of game development."There are other plans afoot to aid the industry. Both NESTA and TIGA have provided the government with reports detailing the benefits of providing tax breaks to the industry, similar to those offered in countries like Canada. Tiga is now lobbying hard to prompt action. "If the government introduces TIGA's proposed games tax relief then the UK games industry will be able to compete on a much more level playing field," argues Wilson. "Our research shows that over a five year period a games tax relief would create or save 3,500 skilled, graduate level or the vocational equivalent jobs. It could also increase and safeguard £457m in new or saved development expenditure that would be lost without the tax relief. It would also increase and protect £415m in new and saved tax receipts for the Treasury, which again would be lost without the tax relief."It's all too late for Midway Newcastle, of course. One of the ex-staff has uploaded photos of the now empty offices to a Flickr account. They show abandoned meeting rooms and the vast main work area, now cleared of desks and computers. Most of the staff will stay in development, but every studio has a unique working atmosphere, a chemistry that feeds into the games it produces. Wheelman was flawed, but the potential was there for something much more interesting – that something could have been Necessary Force. Now we'll never know.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull;Microsoftis gearing up for the release of Windows 7 with an avalanche of press, including an interview with the FT in which Steve Ballmer says'the only way to calm the doubters is by delivering'. Notably, though, when asked what Win 7 will do for the average user, he suggests people will notice "the new touch-style applications" - but surely that's something that will surely only apply to a tiny minority of potential users? Anyway, the company will certainly be hoping that Thursday's launch will take the sting out of the financial results it will be announcing on Friday - which are likely to be tough, given the recent difficulties in the PC market and the number of customers who have been holding off new purchases to make sure they get Win 7. A big week for them.&bull; Since hitting the highs with its Razr handset a few years agoMotorolahas been on a losing streak - but it's trying to get back in the game with new releases based on Google's Android system. First there's the Dext (known in the US as the Cliq) which we said was'solid but not spectacular'. Now, however, it's promising to launch another handsetthe Droidin partnership with Google and US network Verizon: andthis ad show's they're firmly targeting the iPhone. A European modelis said to be in the works, but no clear details yet when or how it might be available.&bull; With all those concerns about theLarge Hadron Colliderthreatening life on earth - either throughal-Qaida actionorsabotage from the future- somebody pointed out through Twitter that it may be worth checking in periodically onHasTheLargeHadronColliderDestroyedTheWorldYet.com. It's going to be the first website I check in the morning from now on.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Plans to force internet service providers (ISPs) to disconnect suspected illegal downloaders have been roundly rejected in a new YouGov poll, the first time public opinion has been tested on the issue.Nearly 70% of those surveyed said someone suspected of illegal downloading should have a right to a trial in court before restrictions on internet use were imposed. Only 16% were in favour of automatic curbs based on accusations by copyright holders such as musicians, as is proposed by the business department.ISPs such as TalkTalk and T-Mobile complain that the government's proposals expect them to bear the costs of protecting a third party's rights. They warn that the move will not work because illegal filesharers can avoid detection by encrypting the traffic, or by hijacking someone else's IP address or using their Wi-Fi network.Ministers have insisted that disconnection is a last option and something on which they are consulting. They are, however, facing a growing backlash, with an all-party motion urging a rethink of the policy on disconnection being led by Tom Watson, the former cabinet office minister responsible for digital inclusion.Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, the organisation that commissioned the YouGov poll, called the government's plans extremist."This poll shows people rely on the internet, and an overwhelming majority think that access should only ever be withdrawn as the result of court action."Nearly a third would be much less likely to vote for a party that supports disconnection proposals."Clearly Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, is out of step with public opinion and should think again."The poll also found that among younger voters, the threat of internet disconnection for online copyright infringement might be a vote-changing issue.Meanwhile the Conservative shadow culture secretary told the Financial Times a Tory government would scrap the proposed 50p a month tax on all telephone lines, aimed at raising £150m to £175m a year to support rural broadband projects. Jeremy Hunt said it would be scrapped a "soon as possible" after the general election expected in May. He said the party was also considering reversing government plans to force the BBC to share £130m of the television licence fee with other broadcasters.The poll found a third of UK citizens (31 %) would be much less likely to vote for a party that supported internet disconnection for infringements.A further 13% would be a "little less likely" to vote for that party: in total, 44% would be less likely to vote for a party that supported such a policy.Nearly three quarters (73%) said if they were disconnected, they would find their ability to use vital commercial services, such as shopping and banking, completely disrupted or fairly harmed.When asked to choose, respondents also supported the right to a trial before punishments are imposed.A total of 68% of respondents said that, if the Government's proposals go ahead, a court should consider the evidence before restrictions were imposed, while only 16% were in favour of automatic procedures based on accusations, as is currently proposed.An inquiry into the issue by the all-party parliamentary communications group concluded last week that "much of the problem with illegal sharing of copyrighted material has been caused by the rightsholders, and the music industry in particular, being far too slow in getting their act together and making popular legal alternatives available".It added: "We do not believe that disconnecting end users is in the slightest bit consistent with policies that attempt to promote eGovernment, and we recommend that this approach to dealing with illegal filesharing should not be further considered."The commons motion tabled by Watson and others calls for users to be given the right to go to court before seeing their access to the internet is ended.Sion Simon, the minister for the internet, insists the government will not allow arbitrary disconnection.In an article in the Birmingham Post he explained: "As a first step, where rightsholders identify unlawful activity, ISPs will be obliged to notify accountholders that their account appears to have been used to infringe copyright."The infringer (who may, for instance, be a child) is very often not the accountholder (perhaps a parent), who will often be quite unaware of what is happening. For many people, a letter will be all it needs to put an instant stop to the offences."ISPs would also be obliged to keep anonymised records of the number of times individual subscribers are identified breaking the law."On production of a court order, that data could be used in targeted court action by rightsholders against those responsible for the most damaging breaches of copyright."He has stressed that only as a last resort government could require "Ofcom to demand that ISPs take technical measures against those people who repeatedly ignore the law. That could mean capping the broadband speed or filesize someone can access".
SOMEWHERE IN your email inbox last week you may have received from an acquaintance an invitation to a "Windows 7 Launch Party" scheduled for some time in the next 10 days. Do not be offended by this unsolicited and impertinent communication. Look at it in a positive light. The person who sent it meant no harm. He or she is offering you an opportunity to participate in an exciting new way of selling operating-system software. Its secret codename is "Tupperware 2.0".Some background may be helpful. Microsoft, a hitherto-successful computer company based in Redmond, near Seattle, has been labouring for two years to recover from a disaster called Vista, which was Version 6 of its celebrated Windows operating system.The disaster, it should be said, was entirely of Microsoft's own making. Vista was years behind schedule and ludicrously cumbersome and, despite a great deal of marketing hype, failed to ignite the enthusiasm of the vast majority of Microsoft users across the globe. Many of them, indeed, were so unimpressed with it that they actually paid computer manufacturers such as Dell a "downgrade fee" entitling them to replace the mandatory copy of Vista supplied with their laptops with the earlier – XP – version of Windows. Corporate customers were similarly unimpressed.Microsoft, of course, insisted that Vista was a great success, much as Churchill used to extoll the virtues of the Dardanelles campaign. But deep in the bowels of Redmond, emergency measures were taken. The guy who ran the Microsoft Office range was switched to operating systems, and vast resources were thrown into a project to create a simpler, cleaner, more efficient version of Windows.The goal was to fix Vista's flaws and give Microsoft customers a convincing reason to move up from XP. In keeping with the new philosophy, fancy names would be eschewed: the product would be known simply as Windows 7.Now it's ready for the official launch on 22 October. The product has been around in its beta version for ages, and most of those who have used it think it's a great improvement. Walt Mossberg of theWall Street Journal, possibly the most influential mainstream commentator on these matters, loved it: "I believe it is the best version of Windows Microsoft has produced. It's a boost to productivity and a pleasure to use. Despite a few drawbacks, I can heartily recommend Windows 7 to mainstream consumers."The problem for Microsoft is that the world did not stand still while it was extricating itself from the Vista mess. Apple continued to thrive and began to put a version of its OS X operating system into its iPhones and iPods, thereby turning them into formidable small computers. The world discovered netbooks – small, cheap, notebook-sized computers which came with the (free) Linux operating system. So threatening was this development that Microsoft abandoned plans for discontinuing Windows XP and instead concentrated on getting it on to as many netbooks as possible.Worst of all (from Microsoft's point of view, anyway), Google announced that it was developing an operating system of its own, which is the computational equivalent of parking its tanks on Redmond's lawn.In the end, none of this may matter. If Windows 7 is as good as people say, Microsoft's dominant market position will ensure its continued prosperity in the desktop market. But the problem is that, as Google has soared and people increasingly use the internet rather than their own PCs as a computer, Microsoft has come to seem, well, rather dull. So even if Windows 7 is terrific, the world may greet it with a yawn.Hence the invitation in your inbox. Microsoft is trying to generate a "buzz" round its new baby. It has commissioned an outfit called House Party to encourage thousands of employees, partners and Windows-loving techies to hold "launch parties" in their homes. Hosts will receive a free copy of Windows 7 Ultimate and "a good chance of winning a PC worth $750!".They are also supplied with a "party pack" based on one of "four festive themes: PhotoPalooza, Media Mania, Setting up with Ease, and Family Friendly Fun. Each pack contains a poster, playing cards, a puzzle, a tabletop centrepiece, a bag of streamers, a bag of balloons, a package of napkins, and 10 tote bags. Like I said, Tupperware 2.0.The only drawback is that potential hosts have to be vetted by House Party. Otherwise, Apple fanatics and Linux jokers might conduct their own subversive versions of the launch party. Indeed, I had rather hoped to do that myself. But on visiting the website, I find I've missed the boat. "Thank you for your interest," it said. "Sorry, we are no longer accepting applications for this event."I'll just have to wait for Windows 8.
