Guardian Unlimited, the Guardian's network of websites won four awards this evening at NetMedia 2001, the European online journalism awards held in London.The four awards are:&#149; Best news story for its coverage of thefoot and mouth crisis.&#149; Best investigative reporting using video and audio for Maggie O'Kane's investigation:The Refugee Trail.&#149; Best travel reporting for the newly-launched siteGuardian Unlimited Travel.&#149; Best use of mobile connectivity for itsWAP and PDA services.BBC News online was the other major winner picking up four awards including best news story broken on the net and best general news presentation.Full list of winnersRelated story30.04.2001: Guardian most popular online paper
Send it onThe Sendo S200, right, is a lively, quirkily designed phone aimed at the fashion hungry youth market. There are no Wap or infrared links but a treasure trove of ring tones, smilies, games and cartoon characters that can be exchanged with friends. You can even compose your own ring tones or put a different cover (back and front) on the phone to suit the mood of the day.It is marketed by Virgin but made by Sendo, Britain's only mobile phone manufacturer. Sendo is based in Birmingham, but has plans to expand in Asia. It hopes to boost its design team in the UK from the   current 200 to 500. Assembly is sub-contracted abroad.Weighing 98g, the S200 has good, clear reception and a claimed talk-time of up to 150 minutes. It ought to have plenty of appeal for the young market at which it is aimed. The screen supports five lines of text messaging. It retails for &#163;79.99 on a Virgin contract.www.virgin.com/mobileMost mobileEricsson has wasted no time extending its range of GPRS (general packet radio service) mobile phones. Following the launch last month of the R520 comes the triple-band T39, which is being billed as the most advanced mobile yet. Expected to retail for &#163;100 when it goes on sale next week, the T39 combines GPRS (which means it is always connected to the net and downloads Wap pages faster than standard GSM phones) with a range    of high-end facilities. The T39, right, is the first Ericsson phone to include EMS (Enhanced Messaging System), which allows users to create and exchange messages that combine text, pictures and melodies. According to Ericsson, the phone is also the first GPRS model to feature SyncML, which is over the air synchronisation. Using this format, a change made to an appointment entry on a desktop computer at the office can be reflected instantly in the calendar of the T39.  Its Bluetooth feature enables the phone to wirelessly exchange information with other Bluetooth-endowed products such as PCs and personal digital assistants (PDAs). Email facilities include the option of connection to the user's internet service provider's POP3 email server. The phone has a standby time of    up to 300 hours and talk time of up to 11 hours.  Due next month from Ericsson is a digital camera attachment for its phones - the CommuniCam. The unit enables the user to shoot and email low resolution (352 x 288 pixel) colour images direct from the phone to a PC. It also has enough memory to store up to five images. Its price is expected to be between &#163;120 and &#163;150. More details fromwww.ericsson.comPocket rockIntel's campaign to establish itself as a gadget manufacturer moves up a gear this month with the launch of its personal MP3 player, the Pocket Concert. A high-end model with a &#163;300 price tag, the Concert combines integrated storage of 128MB (double most of its rivals' capacity) with MP3 and Windows Media Audio (WMA) compatibility. This translates to between two and four hours    of near CD-quality music, depending on the format chosen. The unit also features an FM radio and hooks up to a PC via a supplied USB connector. Bundled software includes Windows versions of MusicMatch Jukebox (for ripping CDs) and Intel's Audio Manager. Intel stresses that the player can be upgraded to play back future audio formats. However, its 128MB storage is fixed, as there are no flash memory card slots. The unit will play for 10 hours from two AAA batteries. More details fromwww.intel.co.ukWearable PCsConstruction workers, telecoms engineers and field-based professionals could soon be wearing PCs. Panasonic is introducing a portable, ultra-tough touch-screen display unit that connects wirelessly to a PC. The Data Wireless Display is compatible with all wireless LAN-equipped PCs, although Panasonic hopes to see it paired with its new rugged    Toughbook CF-07 miniature PC. The connection range is estimated at around 50 metres. The Data Wireless Display is designed to be worn on the arm or carried in a pocket. It features an 8.4 inch TFT SVGA screen that has been optimised to make it visible in very bright conditions. It is expected to retail for around&#163;1,000. Its accompanying&#163;1,700 Toughbook CF-07 PC features a 300MHz Intel Pentium III processor, 64 megabytes of memory of SDRAM and a 5 gigabyte hard drive. Details fromwww.panasonic.co.uk
Are you comfortable with computers?I'm getting there. My generation is stuck in the middle. Wonderful when they work, but when they break down I have to call in an expert.Have you used IT in your medical career?All the records in our clinic are computerised and coded for security. I once got involved in creating a CD version of The Oxford Book of Medicine providing easy access to pictures of rare conditions. It raises the issue of consent and patients need to understand how these photos will be used.Do you use the net for research?All the time. Libraries are the best cure for insomnia. Most corporate sites are good but the public should be aware of who's paying for research and publication.Should the general public research their own medical problems?It's great when patients are involved. Often, they want to see how what you say compares to what they've read. The danger lies in wrong information or misunderstanding the situation.How will the BBC's interactive First Aid website work?We created 10 scenarios: choking, burns, drowning, heart attacks, reconstructions that stop when a decision has to be made. The audience chooses one of three actions and discovers the outcomes. Online, we've used computer graphics/animations for the reconstructions and surfers click on one of the three outcomes.How do you use the net in your personal and social life?I'd be lost without email, it's taken over from the phone. I'm one of those sad people who does grocery shopping online. I've booked hotels, bought books and often comparison shop on the net.Is there anything on the web that makes you angry?I do specialist work in sexual health so if I put the word "breast" in a search engine I get 45,000 porn sites. The porn isn't upsetting: wasting time is.Is there anything you'd like to accomplish online?The internet has great potential for learning and teaching, and I want to get more involved with it, to set up forums comparing teaching practice, ideas, bringing people together to share information.Any favourite websites?tesco.com- saves on trolley rage;go-fly.com- to dream of places to go when I should be working. Some general medical sites,nhsdirect.uk,patient.co.ukandmayoclinic.com. Specific sites,fpa.org.uk(family planning),cancerbacup.org.ukandembarassingproblems.co.uk.My favourite research sites arebmj.comandnice.org. I belong to several online communities and clubs;doctors.net.ukandbowlofcherries.co.ukoffer intelligent discussions.Visit:bbc.co.uk/health/999
The prospect of establishing a profitable market for broadband content came a step closer last week with the news that Elton John was to team up with the Microsoft Network (MSN) to webcast a concert in Turkey.In what could prove to be the biggest music event on the net this year, Elton John will play at the 2,500-year-old amphitheatre in Ephesus, where the Apostle Paul preached in the 1st century. The webcast will be only available to users with high-speed broadband access. The 90-minute concert will be made available at 100k and 300k and priced at &#163;7 and &#163;10 respectively. It is believed to be the first global pay-per-view concert on the net.The event follows last   year's record-breaking Madonna concert, which saw more than 10 million users view the show over a two-week period. Then, many users experienced severe delays or were denied access during the concert at London's Brixton Acadamy. This time, to ensure that a paying audience will receive an uninterrupted performance, MSN say it will limit the audience to 130,000, available on a first-come, first-served basis."To get video quality pictures and CD quality sound you need a broadband connection," explains Jeff Sutton, director ofMSN.co.uk. "Until now all our webcasts have been free and they've been great for building an audience. But this is an opportunity to build on that and set the stage for premium services and pay-per-view."MSN is looking at a number of sporting events for pay-per-view and there is a strong likelihood that the Elton John webcast will be repeated in September when the singer plays in front of the Great Wall of China.Sir Elton - the UK's highest-paid star - will receive an undisclosed share from an estimated &#163;1m. He will perform songs from his forthcoming album, Songs From the West Coast.MSN will host the event, but delivery of the concert to an internet audience will be performed by MediaWave, the Derby-based company that encoded and distributed the Madonna gig. MediaWave has also built a pay-per-view engine that can handle 15-20,000 transactions per hour."This is the first time we've used the network in anger,"   says Chris Frampton of Media Wave. "We used the Madonna concert to test out as many players, partners and ISPs as we could. We wanted to see who had the capacity and who could deliver."We've developed a global delivery mechanism that hooks into every major internet backbone. With satellite, the cost is colossal and it's time-based. This is going out live once and then the show will be on demand for the following week."Another reason for   restricting the concert is to encourage take-up of broadband. If Sky had not bought the rights to Premiership football, who would have satellite TV today?"If you keep providing stuff at dial-up levels, there is never going to be an incentive either for the broadcasters to move up towards the higher technology or for users to buy into broadband," says Frampton. According to a recent survey by NetValue, only one in 32 UK homes has broadband access.But will companies like MSN be able to establish a paying audience used to seeing such concerts through their televisions?The major advantage of showing a concert on the web is cost. It is far cheaper to reach a global audience via the net than on satellite tele vision. The net also comes without scheduling problems.Also, for the Madonna gig, MSN unleashed one of the biggest marketing campaigns the net had seen. The company promoted that concert to 75 million users of MSN Hotmail in 17 languages. Elton John's concert will see a similar campaign.The production company Done and Dusted, which produced the Madonna concert and this year's webcast of the Brit Awards, will film the gig. The company plans to offer a number of interactive packages including multi-camera options before and after the gig and backstage interviews."Madonna opened the world's eyes to the fact that you could have an enormous audience online," says Paul Morrison, the company's managing director.
The trains may have been thrown into chaos in the past year, but at St Pancras station London, at least something seems to be running smoothly.Midland Mainlinehas been testing Bluetooth, the widely praised new wireless technology, in its first-class lounge at St Pancras, as well as on board its trains since March.In the trial, around 100 regular travellers have been given Bluetooth add-ons for their laptops and Wap (wireless application protocol) mobiles. The company is the first to offer a Wap service with real-time details of how its trains are running by looking upwww.mmlwap.com.The trials have reportedly been a success, asRed-M, the firm supplying the Bluetooth hardware, is now working with BT's business internet operationBT Igniteto    supply hardware to "a major train company". Wap users will be able to surf the internet at the station and on the train. By using Bluetooth on Wap services, the feed is 20 times faster and more responsive.Red-M installs its Bluetooth servers and access points on board and at the station, where the Wap signals whizz from the user's mobile phone - across the Bluetooth connection - to a nearby access point for the regular internet. Marketing consultancy Frost &amp; Sullivan has just issued a report that points to Bluetooth's potential. It interviewed 120 IT network managers and other executives. The report concluded that despite the delayed launch of products, Bluetooth devices will be a success.It is not just new mobile phone technologies that are powering new services in the mobile world. Established services, such as text messaging, are branching out too. Next time youhave your hand clasped around your    favourite pint of bitter, keep an eye out for a new mobile phone game that will give you a chance to win a free pint from the bar. The Text Message Trivia game is being phased in across 500 Interbrew pubs and bars.It is the first application forAgency.com'sapplied concepts lab technology, which allows interactive games to be played using text messaging. Although the campaign, which runs all summer, allows mobile phone users    to win a free pint of Heineken, the technology that drives the game has many more applications.Matthew Travers, Agency.com's co-founder, expects the game to be hugely popular."The rapid interactivity that is available with text messaging means they can play a game in a few minutes," he explains.  The cost for a three-round session ranges from 12 to 30p - much cheaper than some trivia arcade machines   already in pubs and clubs. Travers says the technology behind the trivia game allows the game server to identify each player instantly and tell whether or not they have played before. It can even spot the fact that a player is involved in an active game and pick up where they left off.In a previous Mobile Matters column, reference was made to the Nokia 9210 Communicator supporting high-speed mobile internet access using GPRS. In fact, the smartphone actually supports HSCSD, the version of the high-speed mobile internet technology seen on the Orange network.
Give it stickFancy working with withies? Have a clue as to what withies are? Withies, for the uninitiated, are willow sticks, and they can be used to construct impressive structures, allowing children to work on their artistic and structural engineering skills. As school holidays approach, AccessArt has launched an entertaining website for Key Stage 2 children (nine years old) and older on the subject. While the kids watch animations about what to do with the sticks, the adults can consult the    information section to find out where to get the materials from and how much they cost.www.accessart.org.ukWho's backFriday July 23 should prove lucky for the net's millions of Dr Who fans- that's when the BBC is planning to screen a brand-new episode of the sci-fi show on its website. There are various teasers for the new episode available to download from Auntie. Indeed, the net wouldn't be the net without Dr Who fans popping up everywhere - and there are too many Dr Who tribute sites to mention here. But the Timelord site and Ya-Who discussion forum should get you started. Seewww.bbc.co.uk/drwho,www.timelord.co.ukandhttp://clubs.yahoo.com/clubs/doctorwhoOpen goalThe Football Association has just unveiled a website that aims to teach children the basics of our national sport. The Soccer Star programme has already had some reasonable success, turning out real stars - West Ham youngster Michael Carrick and Manchester United's up-and-coming winger Jonathan Greening are just two of half a    million who have benefited from it. Now the FA hopes the new website will open the course's sound advice up to thousands more. Step-by-step instructions, movies, games and drills all get across important coaching points on basic skills such as running with the ball, tackling and shooting. It might even teach us Sunday morning hackers a thing or two as well.www.fa-soccerstar.comCrisps &amp; popWorldpop, the pop music website, is plugging its Ibiza microsite in conjunction with Pringles, the snackfood. Their Taste of Ibiza site urges you to "get a flava", and offers mobile phone ringtones, screen-savers and exclusive big-name DJ mixes and interviews from some of the big names on the island this year. It could be perfect entertainment for two days as you wait for your charter flight to the Balearics. But the inclusion of phrases like "once you pop you just can't stop" into the otherwise informative reports from the island suggests the dead ringer for David Seaman has been given just a little too much say in the content. And that rather "pops" any club cool accrued through the   sponsorship. And no, we can't work out the connection between dance music and munchie food, either.Seewww.worldpop.com/pringlesPizza cutsStaying on a snack food theme, Pizza Hut is calling on its customers to help them find new sites for their restaurants. If you find them a new site for a restaurant they'll pay you &#163;5,000; that's around 400 pizzas' worth.www.pizzahutproperty.co.ukTories onlineIt sounds unlikely, but the race for the Conservative Party leadership has even reached the web. The Guardian's Ben Summers tells you who wins the net propaganda war.http://politics.guardian.co.uk/ conservatives/comment/ 0,9236,515859,00.htmlRed herringSurely the net community won't pass on an opportunity to own a prime dot.com domain name? It seems like only last year that domains like this were changing hands for millions, amid a flurry of business plans containing the words "community", "vertical"    and "leverage". But how times have changed, as illustrated by the sale on Yahoo! of three domains: gingerness.com, .net and .co.uk, by Kent-based owner Nathan Jones. By the time Online went to press, the sale of the red-top names had been running all of a week, and there had been only one bid of &#163;100, from a mystery buyer called    Gingerblood. Maybe Chris Evans is waiting until the closing hours of bidding- a favourite net auction tactic -before rushing in to win.http://politics.guardian.co.uk/ conservatives/comment/ 0,9236,515859,00.htmlBrit bratsParents in the armed forces often face dragging their families with them around the world, uprooting them as they move from place to place. For parents and their children, the internet is a valuable tool to keep in touch with friends and family. Yahoo! Groups has a number of ex-British forces forums which organise reunions and swap gossip and anecdotes. The Ex British Forces "Brit Brats Schools" forum could make a good starting point. It also has links to other forums.www.clubs.yahoo.com/clubs/exfareastbritbratschoolsNew &amp; noted&#149; Manage your own water and electricity utility -www.fantasyutility.com&#149;  Clean Fuel Guide launched for motorists -http://uk.yell.com/motoring&#149; Site of the times...www.justbeensacked.comSix of the bestBritish Grand Prix sitesUnofficial sitewww.formula1.comLots of informationwww.michelinf1.comHard to read ITV sitewww.itv-f1.comSilverstone circuitwww.octagonmotorsports.comFans of British driverswww.brit-f1.co.ukLikely winner?http://michael-schumacher.rtl.de
Given the world's fascination with celebrity, the case of Abraham Abdallah who allegedly defrauded Steven Spielberg     among others, has brought to light the massive amounts of information available online about well-known figures.Of course, most of us have a more legitimate interest in celebrities. Stars connect us to a more glamorous, exciting     world, providing intimacy and the pleasures of malicious gossip without any of the payback.Sources range from the well-established to the brand-new. Who's Who exists online, but only as part of a subscription     service for libraries and information specialists atwww.knowuk.co.uk. The publisher, A&amp;C Black, is planning an online     subscription service open to the public in the near future but for now you must phone, visit your local library or buy a     copy.You can get a list of links by typing a celeb's name into the search box of any search engine but you will have to wade     through tribute sites, home pages and reams of useless data to find any sort of information.      Mostly, celebrity hunters head for the fan sites, such aswww.actoractress.comorwww.celebritypro.com, which contain     well-designed data banks of performers, entertainers, sports personalities and politicians. Type in the name of your     choice and you will be directed to a starsite with pictures, biographies, associated links and a contact address.The     address is usually that of a publicist or fan club, which can provide further information, photos, and autographs for the     faithful or perspicacious. Signed celebrity photos can command high prices.      Hardcore star hunters prefer verified lists of celebrity addresses contributed by other devotees at sites such aswww.springrose.com/celebrity, where a surprising number of home addresses are listed, but no phone numbers. In the     UK, obsessives can work their way through directories of PR companies and talent agencies (seewww.excite.co.uk), pay     $199 a volume to subscribe at the film Directory of Directorieswww.hollyvision.com, ring a premium rate "contact     helpline" offered by Actor's Equitywww.equity.org.uk, or input the names of wanted actors, actresses and     presenters into the free search service offered bySpotlight.For people like myself, hounded by deadlines and editors, there is something new. Richard Brecker of London-based     Upfront Television, and his partner Claire Nye, have just createdwww.celebritiesworldwide.com, a business-to-business     contact service.For a £300 annual fee, plus a £3 buying fee for each name and set of contact numbers, subscribers get     access to a superb data bank, containing most of the "names" any media moocher could desire to interview, with     addresses, phone and fax numbers.      Brecker says the information will be updated weekly because "celebrities change agents like most people change their     underpants".He has already signed up Warner Brothers, the Daily Mirror, The Red Cross, Louis Vuitton and other     corporate clients and the company is currently raising £2m investment capital to take the site global.      Alternatively, you could pay Upfront TV (which books celebrities for events such as the Brit Awards) between £2,000     and £30,000 to do the job for you.Away from the expensive, professional end of the market are darker sites for celebrity obsessives. There's a "digital     voodoo doll" atwww.deadair2001.com, where you can nominate stars to die horribly in a plane crash.Another cheerfully nasty site,www.cultureshark.com, has been attacked by many who see it as an incitement to     stalkers. Already consigned to the great "404 website not available" graveyard are sites such aswww.celebritystalkers.com, which offered to do your stalking for you, and NationalUnionforTormentingCelebritiesandStalking.com.
Six months ago, anyone with even a casual interest in technology could hardly avoid Napster. News of the company had bounced from the business pages to the front page as the so-called digital music revolution became a cultural phenomenon.This was a compelling narrative: the story of a 19-year-old college student who developed a disarmingly simple piece of software that, by making music free, threatened to strip musicians and their sponsors of money, and possibly even topple the music industry with a grassroots revolution.Six months on and the quick-striking digital music insurgency has become a prolonged, trench-to-trench, slug-it-out ground war of attrition. Napster last week disabled all but the very latest versions of its software, which now contains technology to protect copyright material, which effectively ends the entertainment free-for-all. Indeed, as Online went to press this week, Napster had been completely disabled for two days by server problems caused by the new technology.Meanwhile, behind the scenes, a dizzying array of competing alliances has formed, each promoting different technological systems, with different ways of earning revenue and protecting copyright, and offering different libraries of music. Each of the original insurgents - Napster, Aimster, MP3.com, Scour - has been defanged, purchased or otherwise co-opted by the Big Five (Sony, Vivendi-Universal, BMG, EMI and AOL TimeWarner) that the spirited proponents of the revolution once scorned. Web surfers - who   as late as January saw hope, victory and free music forever within their reach - are now beating a hasty retreat.According to Johnny Deep, the founder of the Napster lookalike Aimster, the lesson is simple: innovation in the entertainment business is prohibited without recording industry support."There is now a climate of oppression among inventors, who are unable to market, fund or even freely distribute their work," he says.The record labels, long criticised for stalling on their own initiatives in favour of simply eradicating Napster's threat to their monopolies of creation, manufacture and distribution, are set to launch three competing systems by the end of the year. These will be in conjunction with major online companies such as Yahoo!, Microsoft and Real Networks. Meanwhile interlopers, such as the music channel MTV, are developing their own platforms.Sony and Vivendi-Universal formed Duet, a music delivery service, in February. Duet was rechristened PressPlay two weeks ago and has a deal with the portal Yahoo!.Universal bought Emusic, an online subscription music service, for $23m in April, and bought MP3.com, the digital locker service where users could store CDs they bought online, for $372m in May. Before the deal, MP3.com had lost its own court battle, signed deals with   the Big Five and turned itself into a pay-for-play service.Along with Napster, BMG also bought MyPlay, another online music locker service, for $30m in May. Its lockers remain free, but MyPlay will be assimilated by the BMG collective, which now includes the online retailer CDNow. BMG, AOL Time Warner and EMI joined with Real Networks, makers of the Real Player, to form Music Net in April. Music Net will deliver music to Napster.AOL Time Warner, owner of the Warners-Electra-Atlantic labels, has plans to distribute music through its own AOL and cable services.Currently all the services can stream music via radio-style playlists, but none has taken the step of offering downloads. Under current plans, there will not be one site with music from all Big Five catalogues. Initially, Music Net was going to be the wholesaler for three of the Big Five, then PressPlay, but now a single service for all music from all labels in every genre looks a remote prospect."It is not clear that any service is going to play an aggretory role," says Eric Scheirer of US media analyst firm, Forrester Research. "Such a service needs to evolve for the industry to be successful. We need to have some middleman emerge that's not related to any of them if we are going to achieve a successful download or subscription market."Under the new Napster model to be launched later this summer, users will pay a regular monthly fee, and then an additional fee to be able to access the MusicNet centralised server to download licensed material from BMG, EMI and Warner Music.But Napster has already lost so much of its customer   base and is so strongly associated with free-wheeling piracy that many wonder if it can survive as a paid-for service. A year ago, the network had 50m registered users. In February 16.9m were actively trading. That figure is now down 90%. The research firm Webnoize says 360m files were shared in May compared with 2.8bn in February.A series of deals - with BMG, MusicNet and last week's agreement to distribute music from more than 150 independent European labels - may not be enough to restore the company's fortunes. Napster also still has to jump some serious legal hurdles to guarantee its future. It still faces a trial over copyright infringement that could result in huge damages.Some music executives criticised the European label deal as a publicity stunt. "This deal brings Napster bulk but I'm not sure it is attractive to   consumers. Not many of the songs that were on Napster at its height came from those labels, so why would users suddenly want to pay for them?" said one major label executive.Moreover, hurdles need to be overcome before customers can download Barry Adamson, Stereophonics, Moby or hundreds of other independent label artists. "This alliance with the Association of Independent Music does not allow them to distribute music because they have to have the music publishing relationships as well," says Scheirer. "I think it is unlikely that Napster is ever going to re-emerge as a player in the consumer marketplace."Still, evidence is emerging that the recording industry may have done itself more harm than good crushing Napster and then trying to rebuild it in its own image. Record sales are down 5% to   10% this year compared with the same period a year ago. Weak record releases? The end of the boy-band boom? The incipient recession? Or did Napster promote sales?"Exposure over the internet prior to a record's release increases sales," argues Hank Barry, Napster's chief executive."They listen to it, they like it, they go and buy it. Napster users are the record industry's best customers.Although the new systems have yet to be tested on the public, analysts say that consumers are not going to like them. Most models call for limited downloads, files with expiration dates or music that cannot be copied from the PC that downloaded it. Will consumers pay for music that they cannot put on an MP3 player, trade or burn on to a CD?The Byzantine way the record industry is structured presents considerable difficulties. In short, some music   is more expensive than others. Record companies would clearly like to charge more for, say, Michael Jackson's upcoming efforts, than for a back catalogue recording of Archie Bell and the Drells.If record companies make all of their music, new and old, available in the online marketplace, the laws of supply and demand ensure that each song becomes worthless. And record companies, because of complicated pricing structures and contracts with composers and performers, cannot afford to slash per song costs just to make more music available."It is all bad news for consumers," says Lee Black, director of research for Webnoize. "The Big Five is trying to force business models on consumers that they are not willing to adopt. And by doing so, it is going to continue to force consumers to move to piracy for music."Moreover, the subscription model that the systems are likely to adopt allows unlimited usage of songs only so long as a subscription is maintained. Supporters of this system say it is like renting a video - you can play it as much as you want over the rental period and then, if you like it enough, rent it repeatedly or buy it outright."The important thing is that there is not going to be one service that is successful. It is likely to be a marketplace of different opportunites, different packaging, different rules, different prices and different customers," says Schierer. "The real difference is whether users can or cannot choose what piece of music will play next."But the music industry is almost certain to succeed. What is also clear is that the age of the free-wheeling internet music companies, like the free-wheeling inter net itself, is past. Once the Big Five get to grips with consumers' needs and fashion systems that cater to them, there will be little need for the MP3.coms or the Gnutellas that have skyrocketed in popularity in Napster's wake."There is no place for a small company to pull off a monster vision in digital music," says MP3.com's chief executive Michael Robertson."If you are making a tiny widget that is a bolt-on feature for listening to music, fine - that can be a small company. But if you want to be the grand vision, the place where everyone stores their music and listens to it wherever they go, that is a big undertaking and a small company cannot do that. All the small to medium companies are going away. The window of opportunity is over."File-sharing alternativesThe new generation of P2P (peer to peer) software products handles video, picture files and MP3s. But, asks  Mike Anderiesz, are any of them as good as the original Napster?Bearsharewww.bearshare.comis one of the most popular P2P products and captures some of Napster's community spirit. There is little option to define your search and its search engine is slow. The majority of attempted downloads failed.LimeWirewww.limewire.comis the second most popular. The interface allows multiple simultaneous searches. Download options such as minimum speed are easy to control. Searching for video yielded poor returns, but music content was good. Successful downloadshave improved although it is still not good enough.KaZaAwww.kazaa.comboasts 2m users and promises much, including an instant messaging facility and fast searches. Sadly, logging on took the best part of half an hour, and searches took almost that long. It is also prone to cookies and pop-up advertisements. Definitely one to avoid.iMeshwww.imesh.comis gaining in popularity. The interface seems to work well enough for music and video, and offers a instant messenger facility. However, like KaZaA, files are marked with a vague rating system rather than telling you the speed of the host modem. Furthermore, iMesh is about to impose its own music filtering. Will it go the same way as Napster?Gnotellawww.gnotella.comallows three simultaneous searches and file-sharing in all common media formats (MP3, MPEG, Avi, JPEG, Zip, txt). Downloads were fairly quick, and the selection of video files was encouraging. File duplication was still a problem, but it was nice to be able to restrict the number of uploads. Probably the best of the bunch, but not a patch on the original Napster.Napsterwww.napster.comstill staggers on, but in a grievously weakened state. Since an upgrade last week the service has been suspended while new filters are tested to keep the record industry happy. Searches still work, as does the instant messaging facility, but with the volume of traffic falling 90% since February, few would deny that Napster is effectively dead.Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
I had been hinting to my wife for some time that it would be useful to have something on which to play music downloaded from the internet. My spirits soared when she returned from a trip to Dublin with a small package. "Here you are," she said, "an Irish MP3 player."It was not quite what I'd expected. Long and thin and made of tin, with small holes in its cylindrical body, it had a little plastic mouthpiece. It was a Feadog, the original Irish tin whistle.My wife's gift was not a cheap joke but a timely reminder that there is a vast amount of free - really free music on the net. But you don't have to sit and listen to it - you play it, whether on a feadog, a flute, trumpet or timpany, bagpipes or balalaika.With the tin whistle, a good place to start ishttp://members.aol.com/planetmac/whistle/whistle.html. The Tin Whistle home page offers some free sheet music, advice and bad jokes such as: "What is the difference between a tin whistle and a snake in the road? A driver might swerve to avoid a snake."But for really traditional music on the net, the first port of call should be the ABC home page atwww.gre.ac.uk/~c.walshaw/abc.ABC is the musician's   version of MP3. This convenient way to compress music was created by Chris Walshall while travelling Europe with a flute and a notebook. He needed a quick way to note down folk tunes he picked up, and began writing them out in standard characters - as in ABC for the names of the notes. Using his system, tunes can be written in compact ascii files, which can then be translated into sheet music.You can translate the files by hand. But the ABC page gives links to a number of sites where you can download software that will turn ABC files into standard notation and vice versa (so you can email your compositions to friends without overloading their machines. Two programs worth looking at areMuse for PCsandBarflyfor Macs. These programs will also play the tunes through your computer for the benefit of musicians whose ear playing is better than their sight reading.The ABC page gives a huge number of links to sites offering a huge variety of folk music - from English to Irish, French and Scandinavian. But the system is not limited to jigs, reels and polkas. Classical buffs might    be intrigued by Steve Allen's coding of Beethoven's Symphony No. 7, Movement 2 into ABC (seewww.ucolick.org/~sla/abcmusic/sym7mov2.html).There is more to the web than whistling. Classical guitarists are particularly well catered for. It might be the national instrument of Spain but Iceland offers a wonderful site for guitarists of all levels. Seewww.eythorsson.com/en/for lessons, studies and music for solo and up to four guitars. The free sheet music is in .pdf format so you will have to install Adobe Acrobat reader on your computer first (this is available free fromwww.adobe.com).Also worth visiting iswww.guitarist.com/cg/cg.htm. Here you can find pieces ranging from Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring to the Flight Of The Bumble Bee arranged for guitar plus links to many other pages such as the Flamenco home page.Check out the hefty archive of music atwww.musicaviva.com, which contains a wealth of music for stringed instruments from fiddles to dulcimers, keyboards, woodwinds and brass. The sheet music files are mostly .gifs and may not print out as well as .pdf files. You may do well to download the files into a paint program and use that to   set page widths etc. But the vast collection of free music makes it well worth the effort. There are also links to other sites.Pianists can trywww.pianoworld.com/freepianomusic.htm, which has links to sites such aswww.dalymusic.comwhich are known to contain free sheet music. Unfortunately, pianists have yet to catch up with the ABC movement, so you can be dealing with big pdf files and gifs.As a tinkler on the mandolin I found theMandolin Caf&eacute;quite useful. It offers a range of music from Bluegrass standards to Charlie Parker's Blues For Alice. However, these files, like a lot of guitar music on the net, are nearly all in tablature, rather than standard, notation.The sitewww.virtualsheetmusic.com offers a certain amount of free music but does ask you to pay for many files. On the other hand, it offers rarities such as Scott Joplin's The Entertainer arranged for solo tuba.And for singers,www.dlib.indiana.edu/variations/scores/scores.htmloffers opera scores on the web. Be prepared for some hefty downloads if you want Fidelio or Carmen.The great thing to remember is that the web can and does cater for minority interests. Athttp://ljgpc.physics.uiowa.edu/~wtryou can pick up a copy of Set6, a small system for setting music for the Highland pipes on the PC.Which takes you back to another old joke: "A gentleman is someone who knows how to play the bagpipes but doesn't."
One reason for fads hitting a downturn is an influx of poor quality copies. Think of mini-scooters. New media appears to     have its own version of that little run-around for urban trendies, and it is called the viral.A marketing term, the viral is     an image or text passed around via email by friends sharing something seen as witty. It represents a message that     brands are keen for consumers to share among themselves. They are becoming popular, with major companies using them     to promote products, such as the confectionery giant Cadbury.But not everyone is impressed. "They are becoming     contrived, which goes against how they were originally created," says Mark Westall of Leonardo, the interactive arm of     the advertising giant Leo Burnett Group UK."In the past you would never have asked someone to create a viral: it would     have happened. People would see something they thought was exciting and then send it on." Westall describes this as     consumer empowerment, where they take up their own motifs. This can lead to campaigns spinning off in directions that     can have a greater marketing impact, as Westall explains."A viral has been going around featuring an Ali G look-a-like     called Super Greg. In America, Super Greg was part of a campaign for Lee dungarees, but in this country people wouldn't     have a clue about that. It makes no reference to the brand on the viral." Westall believes that with Super Greg's high     profile in the UK, Lee could take advantage of this and push their brand of jeans. If it had been obvious from the start     that Super Greg was a marketing ploy, its impact would have been hampered.Westall worries virals will become just a     form of direct marketing with the blurb coming through your computer instead of your front door. "Very rarely will you     get a good one," he says. Chris Wells, strategy director of the web design agency Babel Media, fears the direct     marketing threat has already struck."People are talking about viral fatigue. This is a shame because you can reach a     large number of people instantly. Virals can be one of the most powerful weapons in the arsenal of the marketer."Wells     puts the rise of virals in online marketing down to conflicting views on what is the best way to reach people. He says     contradictory reports have been written on the impact of online marketing techniques such as banners or pop-ups, which     leaves marketers open to the whims of fads.Jon Anderson is project manager for the web design agency SohoLondon,     which sent out a viral for the betting siteRacingpost.co.uk, which tied in with the election. Anderson is not entirely     gloomy about viral marketing, claiming there are still some good ones out there. He also believes that by tying them into     a particular event, they can create a bigger impact.The Racingpost.co.uk viral parodied the election, calling on     recipients to pick a candidate for No 10 from a series of caricatures of leading politicians. They could attempt to     scupper their opponents' chances through setting up embarrassing events. The viral also had a link to the     Racingpost.co.uk site, where £1,000 was up for grabs.Using games in the viral, a common trait, is also hampering its     success. Anderson explains: "Companies are becoming more strict on the emails employees receive, using firewalls to     stop them." Anderson admits there is also the danger of yours becoming one of many. "You have to be the first."Regardless of the feeling among marketers about the route virals are taking and the threat of them becoming a form of     direct marketing, the reaction from the public is still relatively positive. Anthony Davies, brand manager for Cadbury's     Time Out, points to the added impact from incorporating virals in the marketing mix.In the case of the Time Out     campaign, the viral was used to drive traffic to the chocolate bar's website. "The clickthrough rate for our campaign     using virals was 7% against an industry average of 0.2%," he says. He adds that the viral initially went out to Cadbury's     11,000 registered users, so it was only people who had intimated they would like to take partthat were contacted. This     increased its chances of a good response.
Jack Schofield's Second Sight column last week, which bemoaned the quality of web design, provoked such a flood of comment, and so divided our readership, that we have turned over all of this week's Feedback to the subject. You can continue the debate online from this morning   inthe IT and Computers section.Jack Schofield's article was interesting and it is indeed true that many sites are not very usable and prefer flash over substance. But it is a bit unfair to purely blame the web designers, although many are no doubt at fault.Designers have to answer to their bosses and clients, who often have no design experience and knowledge at all. In my experience it has always been a battle between the designer's sense of usability and inclusiveness and the client who, believe it or not, wants all that Flash nonsense. probably because the website of his golf partner has it.Budgets are also limited and clients only want to pay for a great site that looks good on their own web browser. Unfortunately the majority of clients are unwilling to pay for text-only versions of websites. The good designer will make sure the design works on other browsers than IE5 but many will not. I have worked in companies where both approaches are taken.Of course this does not stop designers making the best job of what they have got, such as alt tags which regretfully are not that prevalent even in this day and age. But then again... web designers design - they do not produce the site. Usually that job falls to the site builder, who is poorly paid and has to build a big site to a stupid deadline.Luckily now we are getting more advanced sites that are forming integral parts of business but cut corners still exist until users vote with their mice.Chris DaviesChris.Davies@uce.ac.ukJust a quick note to say thankyou for that article!From one of the web design   companies that don't hate users, in fact quite like them, able bodied or not, the more these issues are raised the better!Far too many companies really do not have any idea what it is like for users who aren't on a leased line with Internet Explorer 5 and a 20 inch monitor and top-notch graphics card. You might want to highlight the disability access standards atwww.w3c.org, and the bobby accessibility-checking tool atwww.cast.org, which together with Jacob Nielsen, some user testing and a brain really should solve all the problems.Unfortunately this won't happen until designers learn to think like a user with no design education. Time and time again I come across designers who justify things with phrases like "when I go to a site, I like to see...(insert whatever they are working on here)". Users have no design education, and are not willing to wait for design. They only appreciate it if the site is fast and easy to use as well (and has text big enough to read!).Keep up the good work, though! It is a pleasure to walk into a client's for a pitch, and be handed a printout from Jacob Nielsen's website!Martin Smithmartin@bootroom.co.ukWhile there are many good points in the article, such as rightfully complaining about the time it takes for certain sites to download, I feel that he criticises web designers harshly on some aspects.He talks about newer sites not having the ability to increase the type size from the browser menu. This is due to the inclusion of CSS (Cascading Style Sheets), a technology introduced to better control the typography of a page, and help ensure consistency across different browsers and platforms.Good web designers can   use these features to provide better typography for their viewers. For example, readability studies show that the length of a line will have a direct effect on its readability, typically showing that 10 to 13 words per line being the optimum. Also, decent line spacing (or leading to use the correct terminology) can improve readability. CSS, and the so-called "pixel perfect" designs which Jack hates so much, are tools designed to improve the readability of the text on screen.One final point. Had Jack ever spent any time talking to a web designer, he would know that the reason so many sites are designed to look perfect on IE5 on a PC running at 800x600, is simply because our clients tell us to, not through any anal pedantry on our part.David Earlsdavid@typographer.comHow dare you claim "Most web designers even ignore simple things that cost nothing to do". Do you not realise that web sites are developed for the target users? Do you think MTV worries about the elderly navigating their site? Of course not!Web sites are tailored for their intended audience, not for the entire online population of the world. And the vast majority of online users actually use Windows PCs running Internet Explorer 5.x on an 800 by 600 or VGA colour screen, so of course the websites are maximised for use with this type of PC setup. I think you will find a lot of sites try to cater for the most users possible but not every type of setup can be catered for, which you so nonchalantly claim.If you were paying for your website to be built, would you lay off half your staff on the off chance that, that a 79 y/o person running Netscape 2.0 with a 12 inch screen on a 28k line might want to look at your site? Or would you say to yourself: 90% of users and 99% of my target users can see my site and I get to keep all my staff?Alan Joycealan@labyrinth.ieYour article was spot on. I wonder whether, having identified that the "web design" emperor has no clothes, you might be able to follow up by informing readers about the existence of disciplined interaction designers/usability professionals.Richard Houstonrichard@amber-light.co.uk
Online goalsSky Sports is to put its weight behind a new multiplayer online football management game, to be launched in August. Your goal is to become Sky Sports Football Manager of the Year. The game, which combines a PC with a website, has been produced by Fergus McGovern's HotGen Studios and THQ International Ltd. The two companies have formed a joint venture, Network Interactive Sports Ltd.Users will have to pay a subscription to play Sky Sports Football Manager. However, those who preregister at the website atwww.nisports.com/preregwill be able to playtest the game free.PS2 shavedJapanese PS2 buyers are being tempted with a cheaper console - and PlayStation toys with their McDonald's Happy Meals. Sony has sliced almost 5,000 yen off the PS2, reducing the price to 35,000 yen (&#163;199). Sony's games division lost 51 billion yen (&#163;290 million) in the year to March as it invested in PS2 sales and production.Meanwhile in McDonald's joints in Japan, fans can get figures from a PlayStation-themed Happy Set. These include a monkey from Ape Escape, Parappa the Rapper, and Chocobo from Final Fantasy. The biggest is Toro the cat from Dokodemo Issho (Together Anywhere). Toro, who resembles Hong Kong's Hello Kitty, is the PlayStation's mascot in Japan.LAN ahoyThe UK's first national LAN tour will start on July 27, taking local area network gaming to Cardiff, Dublin, Glasgow, Manchester and London. PC gamers will be able to compete for regional and national titles using competition equipment, or bring their own PCs to join the LAN party. Virgin Interactive is using the tour to launch a new first person shooter, Codename Outbreak. Seewww.uk-lan-tour.co.uk. For news of other LAN parties world wide, go towww.lanparty.comGT3Gran Turismo 3 A-Spec has sold more than a million units in Japan, and looks like becoming the biggest-selling PlayStation 2 game of the year. The US launch is expected on July 10, and while a UK date is not confirmed, July 20 has been mentioned.
Zelda: Oracle of Seasons/ Oracle of AgesGame Boy	 &#163;24.99  Capcom/Nintendo	*****Not bought a Game Boy Advance? Worried your old Game Boy could be feeling left out? Don't fret, as Link is making his second, third and probably last appearance on the ageing handheld format.Here are two games - Oracle of Ages and Oracle of Seasons - that are fully independent but give passwords on completion that can be used in the other title to   release extra challenges.In fact, the adventure cannot be considered complete until both titles have been finished and revisited. The upshot is a busy summer for thousands of Zelda fans and hefty profits for Nintendo.Both titles have standard "save the world" plots, but it is the typically balanced gameplay that works perfectly. From the off you will find areas that are tantalisingly out of reach, or be stumped by a dungeon puzzle, before reaching a satisfying breakthrough. The mix of puzzles and action is well judged and helped by some nifty time-travel elements.Sure, both games look similar, but while Seasons has more baddie-hacking action, Ages is a cerebral affair char acterised by some challenging conundrums. Despite an over-reliance on simple block pushing, these puzzles usually offer a test, even if the grating music puts you off.These titles are near perfect handheld games, offering a long-term involvement that never becomes a chore. The Legend of Zelda series is amongst the most revered, and these additions will not change that.Thanks to backward compatibility, GBA owners can also experience two of the greatest-ever handheld games. But there is life in the old Game Boy yet.  (GH)Microsoft Train SimulatorPC CD-Rom	 &#163;49.99  Kuju/Microsoft	***Anyone interested in Train Simulator faces one thorny problem: getting it home without anyone seeing. It is a task Microsoft has made tougher by dressing the product in the most geeky packaging imaginable.Those that do manage may be pleasantly surprised by what they discover. Train Simulator offers six routes - the Marias Pass through the Rocky Mountains, the US Northeast Corridor, the Innsbruck to St Anton line (aka the Orient Express route), the picturesque Settle to Carlisle line, the high-speed Tokyo-Hakone route and the Hisatsu line, a scenic Japanese track. The choice of trains is even greater: two steam, three diesel and four electric locomotives, including the Orient Express and the Flying Scotsman."Even so," the cynical among you cry, "I fail to see the appeal of chuffing along a virtual track." "But aha," those canny Microsoft folk counter, "there's more to our simulator than just driving a train."And they have a point. As well as the basic drive, a fairly wide range of preset activities is available, from keeping to a timetable in the face of unhelpful signals to remounting a derailed train. You can even devise your own rail-based missions.The only big problem is the amount of time it takes to get things going. Installation is painfully slow, despite the fact that the code is contained on only two CD-roms; startup can be a drag (particularly if you do not have the latest video drivers); and load times are enough to drive an ex-smoker to start again.Once your stock is rolling, however, things improve dramatically. With a graphics engine that bears a suspicious resemblance to that used in Microsoft's Flight Simulator series, the game looks a treat. The designers have gone to great lengths to re-create the scenery . No complaints about the sound, which impressively captures the auditory experience of rail travel.All in all, Train Simulator is a pretty chuffing decent effort at simulating the locomotion experience. But the fact remains: the challenges of train driving lie largely in speeding up and slowing down.  (AB)RugbyPS2	&#163;35.40  Creative Assembly/ Electronic Arts	**EA's latest Rugby simulation is disappointing. It is good, but not much better than the PC version reviewed here in September. It also has some ludicrously annoying features that should be fairly easy to fix.Where the PlayStation 2 version of Rugby succeeds is in the kitchen-sink approach to detail: it has all the teams, all the players, stadiums, competitions and so on you would expect. The graphics are also impressive, being both smooth and detailed.Play the game, however, and it becomes much less satisfactory. The first annoyance is the menu system. The programmers behave like children with a new paint box. They can hardly put a bit of text or logo on the screen without pieces of the graphic appearing from all sides, turning themselves inside   out, and rotating three times first. It looks slick for 30 seconds; then it becomes silly.The second, much bigger annoyance is the game camera. The viewpoint is side-on when the ball is between the two teams, as in a scrum, then swings behind whichever team has possession. This works well with slow-moving games such as American football. It makes you seasick when playing rugbyThe PS2 version plays better than the PC offering, mainly because the controller is better than a keyboard. Unfortunately the controls are not all well chosen and, cruelly, there does not seem to be any way to change them.The play is also badly flawed. Things are fine going forwards, but when you lose the ball, your players run miles backwards and have great difficulty turning. Opponents find it easy to score when your defenders are, for no obvious reason, 20 yards behind the goal line. (That I can hardly win a ruck I will put down to my ineptitude.) The antique Jonah Lomu Rugby (1997) remains more playable.EA Rugby is nearly a great program, but the people who directed and play-tested this version have dropped the ball.  (JS)
It's America's fastest-growing crime wave and Steven Spielberg, Oprah Winfrey and George Soros have already fallen victim to it. A crime of the times, identity theft is sweeping the US and heading for the UK. Everyone, not just celebrities, is at risk.A restaurant worker was accused of purloining their identities, along with hundreds of America's wealthiest celebrities, in a scam described as the biggest identity theft in internet history.Abraham Abdallah, 32, a convicted fraudster allegedly used the web and his local Brooklyn library to track down confidential information and get access to bank, brokerage and credit card accounts. Through such relatively simple means, Abdallah, who has been arrested, allegedly sneaked into the financial accounts of more than 200 people on Forbes magazine's annual list of the richest people in the US.The number of identity thefts in America is small. There were 25,845 cases last year, but that was a 3,000% increase over the previous year. If that trend continues, the number will reach 780,00 this year. The cost of identity theft has also grown. The US secret service has stated that losses to individuals and financial institutions grew to $745m in 1997 from $442m in 1995. You   don't have to be Albert Einstein to work out why identity theft is growing. It can be simpler and certainly safer than storming into a bank and risking a stiff jail sentence or even getting shot.Identity theft is simply the theft of information such as a name, date of birth, social security number, or a credit card number. The mundane activities during the course of a normal day may provide plenty of opportunities for an identity thief: making credit card purchases, buying gifts or trading online, or even taking out the rubbish. Any activity in which identity   information is shared or made available to others creates an opportunity for identity theft.The increasing use of the internet for commercial purposes has only increased the opportunities to commit crimes involving identity theft. In the US, increasing use of the internet to post official information has made it particularly fertile ground for crooks to filch social security numbers, one of the most popular targets for thieves, along with dates of birth and driving licence numbers.In Washington last year, two defendants obtained   names and social security numbers of high-ranking military officers from a website and used them to apply online for credit cards and bank and corporate credit in the officers' names. US officials warn that illegal activity is not confined to hardened criminals. Dishonest employees in various credit offices in retail operations can sell credit card information to those with experience in fraud.One way of keeping the thieves and fraudsters from getting their hands on this information is for companies to erect sturdier firewalls. But these electronic walls are like online Maginot lines waiting to be outflanked - as Spielberg et al found out to their cost. Consumers can take a proactive stance by being parsimonious about their personal information. The less information there is in cyberspace, the fewer the opportunities. That is the approach advocated by Martin Lanser, chief technology officer at BlueWave, an internet consultancy firm."Consumers should refuse to give out information unnecessarily: lots of sites ask for too much. What's so scary is that it's so easy to piece together information, so it's important to limit that information. I always give out false IDs," says Lanser.Lanser cites the example of news sites that ask for detailed information when   you register and he asks why such sites want to know your marital status, occupation, salary and address. In fact, you can still register on such sites by not filling in all the boxes. Usually name, email address and date of birth are enough. Lanser criticises companies for being simply too nosy for wanting too many details about their customers.The US authorities are waking up to the problem and have brought out legislation to try to staunch this flow of information. Besides the   identity theft act of 1998, federal regulators have issued new rules to inform consumers about their rights to financial privacy, including when and how they can prevent an institution from sharing personal information with other companies. These new rules seek to strike a balance between the individual's desire for privacy and the benefits to consumers from the free flow of information."Many in the financial industry argue that the unrestricted flow of data results in cost efficiencies, convenience, competition and innovation in financial services," says Deanna Caldwell of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which guarantees bank deposits. "The new privacy rules give individuals a voice and a choice in this debate for the first time."Of special importance is a    provision of the law that gives consumers the right to block an institution's disclosure of private information to companies not affiliated with that institution, or "opting out." Under the new rules, even people who are not technically customers of a financial company - such as former customers or people who applied for but didn't obtain a loan or credit card - will have the right to opt out of information sharing with outside companies. Even then, the provision is not watertight as the authority to opt out does not apply to all infor mation sharing with outside firms. For example, the law allows the sharing of information with nonaffiliated third parties to market the institution's products, handle its data processing or mail account statements.Meanwhile, Lanser has this advice to consumers. Avoid giving out traceable information, which means do not give out phone numbers, social security numbers and addresses.To further minimise the chances of having his identity knicked, he shops at sites that he trusts such as Amazon. His attitude is "not everybody has the right to know everything about me." It is advice that should be heeded this side of the Atlantic, as you can be sure that identity theft, described by some as the crime of the new millennium, will be heading our way soon.Prevent theft&#149;  Only share identity information when necessary. Credit card numbers should never be given over the telephone unless you have initiated the call. Same goes for the internet.&#149;  Beware of "shoulder surfers" who swipe your bank card number while peering over your shoulder at cash machines.&#149;  Make sure your letter box is secure. In the US, the second most successful tool for thieves to obtain identity information is through stolen mail.&#149;  Computer users should install a firewall on their PCs to prevent unauthorised access to stored information.&#149;  If you are really paranoid, shred any identity information before it goes in the bin.&#149;  Business clients, customers and patients should insist that all data be shredded before being thrown out, and that all retained data be kept in secure storage.&#149;  Remove your name from mailing lists as that reduces the number of commercial entities having access to the identity information. It also reduces the amount of junk mail you get.&#149; For further information, visit:www.consumer.gov/idtheft
Instant messaging (IM) on computers is like text messaging on mobile phones, but quicker and faster. You can use your computer keyboard to type messages, and they are usually delivered almost instantly. The drawback is you can only exchange instant messages with people while they are online.There are several instant messaging programs, including ICQ ("I seek you"), Microsoft Messenger and Yahoo Messenger. The best is the one your friends use, if they do so. If not, choose the one where most of your friends have email addresses -probably Hotmail.You should be able to find IM software that runs on your hardware. IM systems should support Palm and Windows CE or PocketPC handhelds, as well as Windows PCs and Macs. Even people with more unusual hardware and operating systems may be able to run a generic version written in Java.I installed Yahoo's IM software, mainly because I use Yahoo's email, calendar, address book and briefcase services. However, all IM services are much the same.Step by step1)To install Yahoo messenger, go to the home page at http://im.yahoo.com/2)Choose a version that will   run on your hardware. In this case you can choose Windows, Apple Macintosh (OS 8.5), Unix (FreeBSD, GNU/Linux), Java (other Mac, Unix), Palm or Windows CE.3)Click the link for Windows and a download screen appears. Read it and click on a button that says Start Download.4)A standard File Download box appears. Click OK.5)A standard Save As dialog box appears, to save the file to your hard drive: click Save. The Windows version is 2.26MB and will take a few minutes to arrive. When the download has finished, click Close.6)Use Windows Explorer to go to the download directory and highlight the file ymsgr.exe, then double-click it. The Yahoo Messenger installation wizard will appear. Click Next and follow the directions. You will have to accept Yahoo's terms and conditions to proceed.7)The installation wizard offers the option to add Yahoo Companion software, which adds features such as the ability to send messages from your browser. Uncheck the tick-box if you want to decline (I did).8)The installation wizard puts Yahoo Messenger icons all over Windows, like a rash (see panel, left). When it has stopped, click Finish and the software will start.9)Yahoo Messenger puts up a Welcome screen with a Getting Started box ("Pick something to do"), and a messaging console. If you do not know anything about instant messaging, read the Welcome screen's Getting Started box (Step 2, first selection). Otherwise, close this box: it is a waste of time.10)Go to the Yahoo Messenger console. If you do not have a Yahoo mailbox, you will need to click the box marked Get a Yahoo ID. If you already use Yahoo mail, type in your email name and password. Other options let you log in automatically and log in "under Invisible Mode" so Messenger will always be running when you are online.11)Log on and the messenger console changes to show a directory for your friends and a help system with Yahoo Helper. Double-click on Yahoo Helper and an instant message form will appear. Type Hello (or something) in   the lower box and click Send. Congratulations: you have just sent an instant message. And since Yahoo Helper is an automated script, you should have received an instant reply.That is all there is to instant messaging: you type things in the lower box, and hit Send, and so do your friends. A running log of all the messages appears in the upper box.Of course, instant messaging is no fun if you have no one to chat with, so go back to   the messaging console. This has four icons. Click on Chat if you want to join a chat-room: it will pop up an expanding tree of options from Ally McBeal (Entertainment &amp; Arts, Television) to Voracious Vixens (Romance, Adult, Lesbian). If you find a room you fancy, highlight it and click the button labelled Go to Room.This is the "light" side of chat. To see the dark side, click the tab marked User   Rooms. These are chat rooms set up by individuals. If you do not fancy any of these, you can set up your own (click Create New Room).The fourth icon on the messaging console is labelled Add, for Add a friend/group. Click this and a box pops up that lets you enter a friend's Yahoo ID or name or search for people you know. Adding them to your list of Friends, or a similar group, will make it easy to chat to   them. On AOL, these are called "buddy lists".Note that the messenger console has some small icons at the bottom. Click the one on the far right - a bell - for an overview of services. These include a calendar, stock prices, news and weather reports. Many IM programs can also be used to make voice calls over the internet, and Yahoo and Microsoft are adding video messaging. Yahoo uses the Net2phone service for voice calls.Taming the messengerYahoo Messenger puts an icon on the desktop. Simply throw it in the bin. It puts a start-up icon in the System Tray: in Windows 98, select Start|Run, type msconfig in the box, and go to the Startup tab to uncheck it. It also puts an icon on the Start menu. To remove this, click Start and select Yahoo Messenger, right-click on it, then select Delete from the drop-down menu. Finally, it puts a Yahoo Messenger folder on the Start|Programs menu. You can put this somewhere rational - in a folder called Online Utilities, for example - by dragging it there. This folder contains an uninstaller if you want to get rid of Yahoo Messenger completely.
XP kills PCLooking at the system requirements on the Office XP box, all seemed fine. It installed OK and ran for three days, then my whole computer failed and appears irreparable. Microsoft pointed me to an article athttp://support microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q277/7/88.ASPwhich, they said, "refers to the installation of Windows Me, but the same principle will apply for Office XP."The key part is that some Cyrix processors do not work with Windows Millennium Edition. It says: "Some Cyrix CPUs are not considered Pentium-class CPUs, and because of this, these CPUs do not meet the   Windows Me minimum hardware requirements. To work around this issue, obtain and install a Pentium-class CPU." I have suggested that they put a warning on their packaging and direct people to the relevant bit of their website, but I doubt if they will.Irene Krechowieckairene@brightfuture.freeserve.co.ukJack Shofield replies:The Office XP box specifies a Pentium processor and recommends a Pentium III, so it does not look as though it is Microsoft's problem. However, I agree that a warning about some Cyrix chips would have been welcome. Otherwise it might be worth checking if you were sold your PC on the basis that it was equivalent to an Intel Pentium.Readers with Cyrix CX486 DRx2-20/40, CX486 DRx2-25/50, 6x86MX/MII PR233, 6x86MX/MII PR300, MII 433, MII 333 and Media GX Enhanced (266) processors should consider themselves warned. If you need to upgrade, consult your PC's motherboard manual to find out which alternative chips can be fitted. Second-hand Pentium chips are much cheaper than new PCs.New openingHow can I force Internet Explorer to always open a new window when I click a link from another program such as Outlook? It always hijacks an existing window   that I usually want to keep.Paul Matthewspdm@genie.co.ukJS:On the web, new pages are supposed to open in the same browser window, but I do not know of a rule that says where to open pages from a different program. Nor does Microsoft, since on my PC, Outlook re-uses the last window while Outlook Express opens a new one. Sometimes you can get what you want by right-clicking a link (or holding down the mouse button, on a Mac) and selecting Open in New Window from the menu. Otherwise, keep an empty window open for Outlook (or whatever) to use. But even that may not work all the time.Abnormal.dotWhen I close down Microsoft Word, this message appears: "Word cannot save changes to the global template because it was opened with read-only access: Do you want to save the changes in a template with a different name?" What does this mean, and how do I prevent it appearing each time?Ivor DembinaDembonet@aol.comJS:It probably means your copy of Word has been infected with a macro virus. These are common. Any of the anti-virus vendor sites will give you advice, or seewww.anet.cz/alwil/wwmacro.htm. Run an up-to-date version of    a virus checker such as F-Prot (seewww.datafellows.com/), which is free for home use.MysteryEvery time one particular friend has sent me an email over the last three weeks it has indicated that there is an attachment. As there was no mention of this in the body of the message, I did not open it but asked her what it was: she was amazed as she had not attached anything. I have not opened any of the messages, though I have kept them in my filing cabinet.Judith BennettJBen937437@aol.comJS:You have been wise. This is typical virus-like behaviour, and the file (Chlinst.exe) is one commonly found infected with the W32.Magistr.24876@mm virus: seewww.symantec.com/avcenter/venc/data/w32.magistr.24876@mm.htmlfor details. This virus is increasingly common and very nasty. You should delete all the infected attachments, and your friend needs to run a more thorough virus check with a program such as F-Prot.No overtypingIs there any way of disabling the overtype mode in Microsoft Word that is activated if I accidentally catch the Insert keys on my PC?David Joss BuckleyDjbwriting@btinternet.comJS: Yes, it is easy to customise   keys in Word: much easier than it sounds. Go to Tools and select Customize. Look for the Keyboard button at the bottom of the dialogue box, and click it to bring up the Customize Keyboard box. Go to Categories, scroll down until you find All Commands, and highlight it. Now go to the box on the right, and select Cancel. Next, go on to the empty box labelled Press New Shortcut Key, and click in it to select it. Press the Insert key on your keyboard, since this is the key you want to cancel. Click the Assign button, then hit Close and Close to return to Word. Finally, close Word in the usual way. You will be told you have made changes that affect the global template (Normal.dot), and asked if you want to save them. Click Yes. It is done.Future pastFurther to your discussion of PC clocks and batteries, my PC, bought second hand, defers to the year 2096 whenever I switch on and I have to manually reset it every time or my emails look like they come from the future. It's a huge irritation. Is this likely to be a battery problem too?Keith Knightsteeleknight@lineone.netJS:This is a well-known Y2K or "millennium bug" and may show your PC has an Award v4.51PG BIOS (basic input/output system) chip. Ideally you would get an    upgrade from the PC manufacturer, though this may not be possible. If you are not sure which chip your PC has, Unicore offers a BIOS agent that you can download atwww.unicore.com/biosagent. You may also be able to fix the bug with software that resets the PC's clock. TryHarlendorAccute, for example.BackchatThe item on screen grabs promptedAngus Baxterto recommend a program calledCapture Express, and several readers recommended Snagit ( www. techsmith.com ). Both are shareware, which means they are not free.On the start-up theme,Simon Evanspoints out that if you set your PC to start up from the C: drive then "it is no longer possible to use a recovery disk when something goes seriously wrong". Well, you would have to go back to the set-up routine and change the boot order back to start with A: first.
A new report from the Society of Local Authority Chief Executives (Solace) calls on councils to make e-government a part of their management mindset, and not just leave it to technical staff.The report, Sing When you are Winning, aims to help local councils meet the government's ambitious target of delivering all services online by 2005. But it also warns that local people must not be allowed to fall victim to a "digital divide" caused by inequalities of access, education or ability.Solace president James Hehir said: "The impact of e-government has the potential affect, engage and empower local people more than any other policy  But to successfully deliver e-government, council chief executives must have a clear vision of their e-community and explore all the possibilities posed by technology."More than 40% of councillors and senior officers believe the increasing role of the private sector in local government service delivery represents a significant risk to their council, according to a survey from the Local Government Association (LGA) and Zurich Municipal.But the survey of delegates at the LGA's annual conference also found that nearly half felt public private partnerships were crucial to improving public services.&#149; Many female councillors stand down from local government because they find the council chamber too aggressive and dislike the attitude of male colleagues, a report released by the LGA claims today.The report says, however, that the main problem facing women is balancing family life and council duties. The difficulty of arranging childcare and guilt about leaving their children also figure highly."We know that the proportion of women entering politics is increasing, but with 73% of councillors being male and some local authorities with less than 10% female councillors, it is clear we must do more to attract women," said LGA equalities chair Margaret Eaton.The report, Representing the People, is based on focus group interviews and highlights some of the key reasons that women, ethnic minorities and the full-time employed are under-represented in local government.
Apple has suspended production of its radically designed Power Mac Cube computer, just under a year after launching it alongside its brightly coloured iMac range.The Cube drew critical praise for its design but failed to convince the buying public to take it home. Sales of the eight-inch Cube had been three times lower than Apple expected, despite packing the power of a business class Mac into a simple, well-formed space.After seeing sales of nearly 30,000 Cubes between October and December, the company managed to sell only 12,000 of the computers between January and March.Yesterday Apple said that there is a small chance it will reintroduce an upgraded model of the Cube - which the company had billed as a "moviemaker, digital jukebox, game player, and internet surfer" - but there are no immediate plans to do so."Cube owners love their Cubes, but most customers decided to buy our powerful Power Mac G4 minitowers instead," said Philip Schiller, AppleÕs vice president of worldwide product marketing.Sales of the more popular iMac desktop PCs have also slowed over the last year, although Apple returned to profitability in the last quarter, on the strength of its notebook offerings.The company said it will continue to provide support for those who have bought a Cube.Related articles17.09.2000: Magician of new Cubism20.07.2000: Jobs packs Mac power into 8in cubeUseful linksApple PowerMac CubeApple.com
The BBC is considering radical plans to charge for access to TV and radio programmes such as Today and EastEnders on the internet, in a move that questions the long-term viability of the licence fee.Ashley Highfield, the BBC's director of new media, said the cost of putting all the BBC's programmes online could run to billions of pounds and could not be supported by revenue from the current licence fee.BBC Online, one of the world's most successful internet sites, is entirely free and regarded as part of the BBC's public service remit.Many programmes - including news broadcasts such as Newsnight - can be downloaded after they are broadcast, and the BBC may eventually want to extend the service to entertainment shows. But charging users for access to BBC programmed on the web would be highly controversial.The BBC stressed yesterday that Mr Highfield's remarks did not represent BBC policy yet. But the issue of future BBC funding, resolved only temporarily when the licence fee was increased to fund digital services after a review in 1999, will come under scrutiny when the corporation's charter comes up for renewal in 2006.Mr Highfield raised the prospect of charging internet users in an interview with the   Financial Times, pointing out that half of BBC Online's 10m users come from overseas and have not paid any licence fee."The increasing cost of distribution to the BBC is an issue. If all the BBC's content was streamed on the web it could cost billions of pounds."He suggested that licence-fee payers could be given free "credit" to view or listen to material on the web, but conceded that once the credit ran out, they would have to pay for more."The licence fee could give viewers a certain amount of credit and once that credit has run out they would have to top it up," Mr Highfield said.If approved, the plan could cast doubt on the viability of the BBC's funding arrangements, implying the &#163;2.4bn it makes from the licence fee each year is not enough to give people unlimited access to BBC material on TV and online.The proposal has angered the internet industry, represented by the British Internet Publishers' Alliance. BBC Online has long been the target of Bipa criticism over its increasing commercial activities.Rob Hersov, the Bipa chairman, said: "The BBC can't be serious about this. If it is we all may as well pack up and leave the internet now."Last year, the BBC spent &#163;73m on digital development, &#163;32m of that on BBC Online.
The financial website shake-out claimed its biggest victim yet yesterday when Interactive Investor International (iii), the sector's largest player, said it was about to be taken over for one fifth of its flotation value.Australian financial services firm AMP is close to offering 28p to 30p per share for iii in a deal that would value the business at around &#163;50m - little more than the cash it has in the bank. Although iii, which floated its shares at 150p each last March, has around 1.2m registered users, it has been unable to make sufficient money out of them.AMP, which last week agreed to buy UK financial services unit Towry Law for &#163;76m, plans to sell financial products to iii users.A sale of iii has been on the cards since March. It is a victim of the upheaval in the online financial news sector, which has been hit by falling advertising revenues, lower stock trading volumes and difficulties extracting cash from users.Last month, GlobalNet Financial was bought and then largely closed by New Media Spark. Thestreet.co.uk has closed, netimperative.co.uk has been refinanced and sharecast and nothingventured.com have merged. The online versions of the Financial Times and the Wall Street Journal have also shed staff.Yesterday, iii shares climbed 3p to 24.5p after confirming it was in takeover talks. Shares in AMP, which trades on the Sydney stock exchange, closed down 89 cents at A$21.10.
Shawn Fanning, founder of the notorious online song-swapping service Napster, is in London for the first time and he wants to go clubbing. Stuck in a sweltering hotel bar, where he has been facing the press all afternoon, he turns to one of the Brits in the room and asks: "What age is it here - 18 or 21?"The answer comes back that 18 is the limit for just about anything he might like to do. "Cool," he mutters. Despite his growing iconic status in the music industry, Mr Fanning is, after all, still only 20.In an archetypal tale of the new economy, the college dropout created Napster hunched over a Dell notebook in his uncle's office in Hull, Massachusetts, little more than two years ago. Since then, Napster (his high school nickname) has grown way beyond his original intent. The peer-to-peer service enabling people to find and share music files has attracted more than 50m users and become the focus for the music industry's considerable anxiety over the internet.Mr Fanning is in London with the chief executive of Napster, Hank Barry, an experienced corporate financier, to announce what they hope will be a landmark deal with the industry associations representing 150 independent labels. The deal, giving Napster users access to the likes of Badly Drawn Boy and the Stereophonics, is a key plank in the company's attempt to become a legitimate business.Faced with the weight of legal action for copyright infringement from the five majors, including Sony and EMI, Napster aims to start a service charging membership fees in July. The aim is to head off most of the concerns in the lawsuit, which is now awaiting trial."This has been something which it has been quite difficult to get my head around," Mr Fanning admits. "When I started this I didn't expect it to be a business with subscription fees. But artists should be paid. The notion of free music is nice, but I want a way to compensate artists I love and enable them to carry on making great music."I've always felt there was a great opportunity here for artists and labels, as well as users. We have had a lot of stuff written and said about us which is personally hurtful, but I try and detach myself from what is said publicly. Talking to people who say Napster is part of their lives - those are the ones I listen to."Appetite to succeedThe stocky young American appears very different in person from the swaggering baseball-capped figure smirking from the cover of Time magazine. He veers from articulate and thoughtful to seeming rudely out of place among the suits and smiling PRs. The cap is absent, revealing a close-cropped haircut, and during the press conference he stumbles over his lines, read from a sheet of paper. On most questions he demurs to Mr Barry, who takes on the avuncular role.Mr Fanning seems genuinely surprised when asked if he has the appetite to run a large corporation. "I haven't thought about it much," he says. "Napster has grown considerably but I still feel pretty much like I know most of the people."He pauses for thought. "But then, if we had 500 or 1,000 people, as long as we still all knew where we were going and what we are trying to achieve, I would be pretty comfortable. I want to build a great service - to make the offering as wide as possible, because people like to listen to a very wide range of music. I want improvements to the community side of Napster and to get people to interact more. The atmosphere in the company is still pretty close to the original aims."Today's terrorists are tomorrow's freedom fighters once their cause has been accepted, a head of one of the independent labels observes. Napster has made progress to making peace with the music industry. It already has a licensing agreement from MusicNet, a joint venture of EMI, BMG and Warner Music, despite their continued lawsuits. Bertelsmann, the German media group that owns BMG, has even taken a stake in Napster.The future, however, is still far from secure. There are other rival online services. Yahoo has moved its plans forward with the $12m acquisition of Launch Media and there are fears that users will simply desert Napster for other free services once it begins charging fees.From pirate to pariahSome Napster users have accused Mr Fanning of selling out by yielding to the industry giants. He laughs and stretches his arms out wide. "One minute I'm a pirate, and the next I'm selling out," he says, with a glance to Mr Barry. "Even when I was operating this from a PC in my bedroom I needed to cover the costs and pay for the extra bandwidth. So I was comfortable with the idea of raising money pretty early on. Napster needs to be a business to survive, and I think most people using the service understand that."Part of the reason I initially felt uncomfortable about charging was that it did not seem as valuable to me as it did to other people. Napster is all about the people using it."If no one is using it, it's useless, and I didn't have a full understanding of how it would appeal to people. And through the surveys we have done and discussions I have had with users, they want some form of compensation for the artists."He claims to be a fan of many of the artists signed in the deal with the independents, including Moby, Paul Oakenfold and Tricky. He describes Napster as a great equaliser for bands who are not played on MTV. The legal action is the most immediate threat. An appeal in the US federal court was denied last week."I'm saddened by the attitude of the majors," Mr Barry says. "There is a tremendous opportunity still there. We have been talking to them since the day I joined, which is little over a year ago, and I'm really disappointed that we have not been able to make more progress."It's a tremendous way to get people aware of music and a great way to promote music, and it has ended in litigation and rancour. I'm not at all convinced that this legal action will disappear."There will always be people who want it for free. But if you give people an environment where a community of users can grow, that's not controversial, and where artists are paid they will use it."He denies the accusation that Napster has been responsible for the 39% drop in sales of CD singles in the US. The CD singles market, he says, is dying on its feet because record companies are no longer interested. He quotes a statistic showing that CD sales for the two months before the injunction in March that forced Napster to remove copyright material from its service had risen 5.8% in a year. Since the injunction, CD sales have fallen by 0.9%, prompting the Los Angeles Times to ask whether Napster might have been having a positive effect on album sales.Whichever view is taken, it is clear that Napster has had some enduring effect. "It is very weird because you get caught up in it and live it," Mr Fanning says. "I took some time out recently and it reminded me of just going to high school, and sitting around relaxing and watching TV, which I don't get much time for anymore. Yeah, it's definitely strange. I just hope it has a positive ending."
It is the envy of the dotcom world. WSJ.com, the  Wall Street Journal 's internet site, has been charging subscriptions to users since it was launched in 1996. And, while almost all its rivals quickly abandoned their attempts to do the same, WSJ.com is actually planning to charge its 600,000 or so customers more.'It seemed to us fundamentally illogical to charge a substantial amount of money to print customers (each copy costs $1) but to provide all that plus more in a different medium and assume it should be free,' said Peter Kann, chairman, chief executive and publisher of the  Wall Street Journal .No doubt many of its rivals originally shared the same philosophy, but they have been forced to change their minds. The  Financial Times's  website, ft.com, initially intended to charge subscriptions. In fact, it quickly dropped charges for searches - despite the fact that users can search through rival papers as well as the FT on the site - and now rules out ever charging for the basic service. Likewise thestreet.com has abandoned subscriptions for its US service, although it closed its British site within months of launch and does charge for realmoney.com, aimed at active investors.The  Guardian  and  The  Observer  have 150 staff producing dedicated content for guardianunlimited.co.uk, all currently free. Users of hemscott.net, a financial website, initially had to either subscribe or use Hemscott as their internet service provider - netting it telephone revenues. Now, almost everything from comment on results to a full archive of stock-exchange announcements is, free although like thestreet.com, it does charge for premium services for active investors.So how has the  WSJ  succeeded where others have failed? One reason may be that it is relatively cheap: subscriptions cost just $59 (&#163;42) a year, or $29 if you already subscribe to the print edition. Contrast that with the &#163;587.50 a year asked by breakingviews.com, which started charging for its daily selection of opinions a few months ago, yet it has nothing like the range of services or archives available on wsj.com. It has not yet disclosed how many have signed up since it started charging in February but   founder Hugo Dixon says he is 'reasonably happy' with the conversion rate from free to paying users and that subscriptions 'continue to rise'.But price is just a small part of the story. Kann cites four key reasons for WSJ's ability to sustain a fee-based model. It has a strong brand and it owns much of the content so, says Kann, 'it is not commoditised'. Much of the information on the website also has what Kann describes as a high degree of essentiality. 'It is a must-read or need-to-use.'But the fourth reason is perhaps the key to  WSJ 's success in charging. The  WSJ  is owned by Dow Jones, whose news wires are the leading providers of news in the US and the second biggest in Europe and Asia. That gives it access to more than 800 journalists who are already churning out news as it happens, news that can be immediately included on wsj.com.'That is important as it means it is a dynamic, not static, site. The alternative would be to ask our print reporters to file their stories six times a day, which is not appealing, or to hire a sizable staff for the internet edition, which is very costly.' In fact, it has about 100 dedicated staff .Dow Jones has never revealed what its investment in the website has been, nor what losses it is making. But Kann claims that the total investment over the five years since it launched is 'less than the published numbers for some other website losses in a single year'. He claims the losses are currently 'modest' - indeed, he says, if advertising was as strong now as it had been last year, it would now be close to being profitable.Like other internet businesses, wsj.com has suffered from a downturn in advertising, although this has been less severe than on free sites - just as advertising in paid-for papers is at a premium to freesheets, so subscription websites can charge more for their clicks. Even so, the proportion of revenue from advertising will fall to 40 per cent this year from 60 per cent last.Kann believes others could, and should, follow its subscription route. 'A year or two ago, we tended to be seen as eccentric. Now, we get lots of questions about how to do it.' He admits, however, that 'once you go down the free route, it is hard to go back the other way'.Not many appear to be planning to try. The  FT  says it never intended to follow  WSJ 's lead as it lacked both the subscriber base and its news wires. Instead of charging for the basic service, therefore, it aims to get revenues from syndicating its content, for example through deals with the Hoover's network or factiva.com, the web-based news and business information service which is owned by Dow Jones and Reuters, and through charging for premium services - such as FT Mobile, which will bring the site to a Wap phone - and specialist searches. It is also examining other e-commerce opportunities.Despite the lack of a fee, and the fall in advertising revenue, the  FT  has promised that its site will break even by the end of next year.  WSJ  is making no such claims. 'The goal is to be in profit. Whether that is this year or next is irrelevant if the trend is in the right direction.'The  Guardian,  too, does not envisage charging for basic access to its site, although it is looking at ways to charge for specialist content in the medium term. That is unlikely to be the archive: although it initially thought that would be the most valuable resource, research has shown it is not what users come to the site for.Dixon at breakingviews.com, by contrast, cannot imagine anything other than a subscription model working in the long term. 'You have to have an incredibly mass-market offering to go down the free-to-air route. That was the mentality of the internet - everything was to be free. But if you look at the internet as a whole, the boom times could be seen as one gigantic loss leader to get people through the door. But you can't sustain a business like that.'Particularly not when advertising revenue on the internet is falling even faster    than it is in the rest of the market. Dixon does point out, however, that the economics will be different if you are simply using the internet as a marketing tool to promote your own business. Then, there is some justification for offering services for free - but only if there are clear benefits to the rest of the business. The  FT 's circulation has been rising sharply - it recently passed the 500,000 mark and it has managed to build up a circulation base of more than 100,000 in the US. But even the  FT  would not claim much of that was a direct result of its website. In any case, the rise would have to be a lot higher than that to justify the &#163;150 million the website is estimated to have lost over the last year.Kann thinks others must follow the wsj.com route. 'I am not sure you all &#91;British newspapers&#93; couldn't do the same thing. Some traffic would drop off, but it would strengthen the business.'
Microsoft, the world's biggest company, can now dominate the internet in the same way as it controls the computer software market.Last Thursday's US appeals court rejection of a break-up order on Bill Gates' giant allows it to go ahead with ambitious launches.This could see the Seattle-based firm act as an e-commerce gatekeeper, a cross-media diary holder and a music, film and games centre, all underpinned by a new, 'crash free' operating system for the internet, Windows XP, which is due out in October.The anti-competition trial, dating from 1998, centred on allegations that the company forced computer firms to distribute its products, tried to monopolise the browser market and illegally 'tied' its browser to its software. On the first count, Microsoft was still found guilty. On the latter two, it escaped.But the world has moved on. Microsoft's software sales are falling: the world has almost all the computers it needs, and it can't persuade customers to upgrade.To consolidate its position, Microsoft must colonise the internet, a move it calls 'standardisation'.A break-up would have been catastrophic. Microsoft is the engine of the new economy. News last Thursday that it was essentially off the hook sent the Nasdaq up 2.43 per cent. But given that Microsoft has a $30 billion cash pile, any fines would be small beer. 'It will finish up   more powerful than before,' said Dr Simon Moores, a computer industry consultant. 'Microsoft is developing a new model for the internet... and nobody can step in.'The cloud on Gates's horizon is the demand by rival Sun Microsystems, the server software specialist, for access to Microsoft's 'crown jewels', its source code, to be incorporated in Sun's networks. Also, a European Commission investigation may force Microsoft to unbundle its applications.Microsoft is now free to plot further takeovers or   partnerships. Rumours in New York suggest it wants to buy a major accountancy firm.Speculation centres on PricewaterhouseCoopers, following its abortive $18bn merger with Hewlett Packard last year. But such a move is denied by senior UK Microsoft executives.Gates wants to settle out of court quickly. The chances are Microsoft will face a billion-dollar fine and go on 'standardising' the internet. That's Seattle-speak for 'cleaning up'.
Forget mass production, say the futurists. That was an artefact of the industrial age - when economies of scale were what counted and you could only get those from stamping out millions of identical objects. The hot thing now is 'mass customisation' - the ability to combine automated production systems with detailed information about customer preferences to create a product that is, in a limited sense, bespoke.In computer manufacturing, the idea was pioneered by Dell. Customers ordering a Dell machine for the first time are often surprised to find that they can't have it delivered tomorrow, or the next day either. The reason is simple: the machine hasn't been built yet. After you've placed your order (and paid your money), the specification you've agreed with the call centre is passed to the manufacturing operation, which then orders the parts from suppliers and assembles them in best Lego fashion. This means that you get the precise specification you ordered - and also that Dell carries no   inventory and gets the money up front, while paying its suppliers later. Neat, eh?With the right IT infrastructure, the same trick can be pulled with millions of manufactured goods, from automobiles to, well, couture. I don't know whether Levi's actually does it yet, but there's no practical reason why you could not input your vital statistics on a Web form, pay with a credit card and have a pair of figure- hugging jeans delivered by FedEx within three working days. People who pay a visit towww.blackfrock.comcan already specify the neck and sleeve style and length of their cocktail dresses. And Nike will allow customers to specify the legend to be engraved on their trainers -   though I gather that the system balks at the word 'sweatshop' for some obscure reason.If this kind of thing is possible with physical goods, it's even easier to do it with information. Technophiles like Nicholas Negroponte have long extolled the idea of the 'Daily Me' - the ultimate, customised newspaper. Instead of wasting valuable time wading through a general purpose paper, for example, why not use software to customise your daily reading experience? That way, sports fanatics need never again read about the Tory leadership election and politics junkies will never again have to tangle with the antics of David Beckham.The same kind of technology will enable radio listeners to specify exactly what kinds of programming they want to hear rather than being at the mercy of DJs' playlists. Companies such as Command Audio are already offering its listeners 'personalised' radio, and most observers   expect this trend to continue.Now this use of technology to restore sovereignty to the consumer is wonderful, is it not? Only up to a point. In a sobering book,  Republic.com, a US law professor named Cass Sunstein has been pondering the implications of a mass-customised world. He is not impressed. His argument is that a vibrant democracy requires 'a well-functioning system of free expression'.This requires, firstly, that people should be exposed to materials that they would not have chosen in advance, and secondly, that most citizens should have a range of shared experiences. Without the first, there is a risk of fragmentation and extremism. Without the second, a heterogeneous society will find it more difficult to address social conflicts.In Sunstein's view, the growing power of citizens to filter what they see, hear and read could have the unintended consequence of undermining democracy - of leading to a society in which arguments about values which are the stuff of politics will increasingly be muted, and we will wind up with societies segmented into groups which hear only 'more and louder echoes of their own voices'.Mass customisation may be a boon for consumers, but a disaster for citizens.
Microsoft and its many supporters were delighted yesterday after digesting the court of appeal's verdict that the Seattle software giant would not be broken into two separate units. (One for applications and the other for its dominant Windows operating system for computers). But that does not alter the fact that Microsoft, the highest-valued company in the US and one of the most powerful on the planet, has been found to be an illegal monopoly by the appeals court and the lower court. This raises serious questions about the accountability of monopolies in an era of globalisation which have not been answered: the question of what to do about it has simply been batted back to the lower court.The core of the problem is that Microsoft's operating system resides on 95% of the world's personal computers (as defined by the judges). That brings lots of advantages - like not having lots of different operating systems with incompatible software - and is well liked by most users. But it also brings responsibilities. The problem is that Microsoft also markets applications that run from its operating system - like the Excel spreadsheet, Word wordprocessing package and Explorer web browser - and, to say the least, it does its damnedest to make life difficult for any rivals daring to offer competing products. The company claims it is an innovator, but the potential innovation by others that has been frightened off by Microsoft's armlock on its operating system is incalculable. The higher court found that in the controversial matter of "bundling" its Explorer web browser with its operating system - with dire results for rival Netscape - Microsoft was not acting illegally per se, but it did abuse its monopoly power by acting uncompetitively and by strong-arming computer manufacturers and internet service providers into installing Explorer.The Wall Street Journal says that bundling Explorer into the operating system is like a car manufacturer selling a stereo as a built-in attraction rather than an add-on. It could not be more wrong. There are lots of different car manufacturers. If you do not like one, you can try another - but there is only one Microsoft. More important, in the case of a new car, you can specify what colour you want and what kind of stereo, or whether you want to put in your own. None of this is possible with Microsoft, which regularly makes a return on sales of between 30% and 40%. This gives it excess profits which it reinvests - apart from the $30bn in cash it has built up to maintain its dominance. If it has been proved to be an illegal monopoly, should it not be required to repay the excess monopoly profits it earned in the past?This and other questions will not easily be answered because judges do not find it easy to interpret the rapidly changing technological scene, and the arguments of the fashionable school of economists that technological monopolies based on domination of a network eventually get dislodged by superior networks, and so should not be a cause for concern. Even if that were true, it does not follow that monopolists should be left to their own devices and not be cut down to size. No one argues that young offenders should be left alone because they will grow out it. The US legal system is full of surprises. It is possible that the lower court which has to sort things out, will be more belligerent than expected. It should be. If giant corporations like Microsoft are not made to behave properly by the strongest anti-trust authority in the world, then the darker forces of globalisation will never be tamed.
The way the US courts are treating Microsoft is beginning to look like the way the Seattle giant develops its own products - different versions, continuous upgrades and patches to improve earlier versions.Microsoft is able to claim victory because the US appeals has rejected breaking the company into two and has reversed a ruling that the company illegally attempted to monopolise the browser market.It also rebuked Judge Jackson (who ordered the break-up of the company) because he made offensive comments about Microsoft officials outside the courtroom in public statements.He called Bill Gates a Napoleon. This is a monstrous libel because Napoleon was defeated and captured by his enemies - something that is unlikely to happen to Bill Gates on present form.Even though Microsoft has scored a tactical victory in several key areas, the judgment is still a serious indictment of the company.To see this, just banish from your mind the charges the company has been cleared of and see what remains.Microsoft was found to have violated section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act by employing anti-competitive means to protect its Windows operating system.There will be a new ruling on what penalties are appropriate.The court found that Microsoft's exclusive contracts with internet access providers (IAPs) to promote its Explorer browser (at the expense of Netscape Navigator) were "exclusionary devices, in violation of section 2 of the Sherman Act").Although Judge Jackson was criticised for making offensive comments the court found "no evidence of actual bias".It looks as though Microsoft has escaped the earlier court ruling of being broken into two companies - one running the Windows operating system which has a 95% market share as defined by the courts - and the other, all the remaining applications.But in the topsy-turvy world of US court rulings no surprise should be entirely ruled out.Microsoft's battle with the US antitrust authorities started in July 1994. It always knew that time was on its side.As long as it spun the judgment out, it managed to retain custody of its ongoing monopoly profits and could argue, with some justification, that the underlying technologies of the market place were undermining its previous dominant position.Its recent dash to achieve a powerful position on the web in the face of flagging sales of personal computers is seen by some as proof of the fashionable economic theory that dominant technological monopolies based on networks have only a limited shelf life before being overthrown by new technologies.However, Microsoft knows these theories and is doing everything to ensure that it retains its monopoly position in the face of technological change.The latest instance of this is the way it was planning to include new features in its forthcoming Windows XP operating system that would allow Internet Explorer to turn any word on a website into a link to Microsoft's own websites.This week, in a well-timed act of humility, Microsoft bowed to the criticism (mainly from the Wall Street Journal) and shelved the planned features.But it almost beggars belief that they could even think of doing such things at a time when the antitrust authorities were conducting an investigation on this scale.Microsoft knows that the nature of the allegations against it are constantly changing. And it intends to stay ahead of the game.Emailvictor.keegan@guardian.co.ukRelated articles29:06.2001: Appeal court halts Microsoft break-up29.06.2001: How judge overstepped his brief29.06.2001: The day the gods smiled on Gates28.06.2001: US court reverses Microsoft break-upUseful sitesUS Department of JusticeThe Microsoft Boycott CampaignThe Anti-Microsoft AssociationMicrosoft
The latest web surf by the Financial Services Authority and other international watchdogs has identified 28 UK internet sites as being in breach of the law.The FSA took part in the second international surf day in April, which involved 41 regulatory bodies from 34 countries looking for internet scams. The surf was organised by the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as part of its effort to promote cooperation in the identification, investigation and prosecution of unlawful activity on the web.The FSA identified 28 sites in the UK and 35 overseas sites that appear to offer unauthorised investment advice and investment deals, or advertised investment products, in breach of the law.The FSA will undertake further investigations into the sites it identified in this country and has passed on information on the overseas sites to the relevant domestic enforcement agencies."The internet has opened up new opportunities for consumers and the financial services industry, providing consumers and firms with the benefits of lower cost, more choice and greater speed in access to the markets," said Carol Sergeant, FSA managing director. "Unfortunately, these benefits also provide new opportunities for those intent on undertaking unlawful activities on a global basis."There are four steps consumers can take to ensure safer use of online financial services, according to the FSA:&#149; Know who you're dealing with;&#149; Check for  a secure connection;&#149; Use passwords and PIN numbers sensibly;&#149; Protect your computer from viruses;&#149; You can also check a firm is authorised by calling the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234.
Microsoft conceded defeat over its plans for the latest version of its dominant operating system, Windows, yesterday - hours before it won a significant victory in the United States court of appeals.The timing of its decision to shelve the so-called smart tags intended for its new Windows XP operating system was unintentionally ironic. Microsoft's new system, claimed critics, merely meant that the company would act anti-competitively and destroy its opposition - of which it was found guilty by the US district court.Smart tags were among the most contentious of Microsoft's plans. They work by taking web users to Microsoft's own sites simply by clicking on underlined words. Software companies compared the system to a cable television company interrupting a popular show by enticing viewers to watch its own programmes.Perhaps more important, the states attorneys general who brought the initial case against Microsoft saw the introduction of smart tags as further evidence of Microsoft using its dominance in the Windows operating system and internet browsers to gain an unfair advantage in other, faster growing markets.Tom Miller, attorney general for the state of Iowa, had already indicated that the case would be used in subsequent legal reviews of Microsoft.The review demanded by the US court of appeals yesterday into this issue of illegally tying a product to a dominant service is now unlikely to consider the introduction of smart tags following Microsoft's decision to back off.In an interview with the Wall Street Journal yesterday Jim Allchin, Microsoft's group vice-president, said that the company had decided not to include the tags when it launches XP in October."We hadn't balanced the legitimate concerns of the content providers with the benefits we think smart tags can bring to users," he admitted.Microsoft's initial testing of such a controversial new tool emphasises the way in which the company has continued aggressively to pursue new markets during its legal travails, however. Yesterday's decision by the court of appeals appears to vindicate such bravura.Microsoft has categorically denied that there is anything wrong in adding new features to Windows. Indeed, it has continued to add other features to Windows XP, such as its new proprietary audio and video software.In an interview with the Guardian earlier this month Rick Belluzzo, the company's chief operating officer, explained why Microsoft had decided to effectively ignore last year's landmark ruling. "To survive in this business, you have to innovate. You have to make products better, that are good for consumers. It's an issue of survival."After yesterday's ruling, Microsoft will now be given the chance to re-argue its case that, rather than representing illegal behaviour, such practices are, or should be, the industry norm.In last year's verdict, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson essentially found Microsoft guilty of three clear violations of US anti-trust law.The first of these was that Microsoft illegally maintained its monopoly by forcing computer companies to distribute its products. The second was an attempted monopolisation charge involving the net's browser market, and the third was that   Microsoft illegally "tied" a browser to its dominant software.Yesterday, the US court of appeals sent back this last verdict to another district court because it was unconvinced of Judge Jackson's ruling. It also reversed his finding that Microsoft had attempted to monopolise the browser market by forcing computer manufacturers to include its own software.However, the appeals court still found Microsoft guilty of illegally maintaining its stranglehold over the world's operating systems. Microsoft essentially did this by bullying computer manufacturers into taking its products.The ruling vindicated Microsoft's decision to appeal, taken amid its shock at Judge Jackson's break-up proposal. The company and its lawyers called this rare punishment "extreme" and "entirely out of proportion to the anti-trust violations".Yesterday's ruling came as little surprise to anti-trust experts. After the drubbing the court of appeals gave the government's case in February, some even thought Microsoft could be entirely exonerated. In the event, however, at least part of the case brought by the US government and states was salvaged.The appeals court members had made it clear that they were concerned about several aspects of the case even before the two-day hearing when they requested evidence on the conduct of Judge Jackson.The district court judge presiding over the two-year trial had shocked even his friends in legal circles by discussing the case with members of the press.Although made public after the ruling, his view that Bill Gates had a "Napoleonic concept of himself and his company" and his comparison of one of the world's wealthiest companies to a drugs gang left him open to charges of bias.For the appeals court to ask each side to discuss a judge's conduct was widely regarded as evidence that they would be likely to criticise his behaviour, if not his ruling. Indeed, many lawyers believe that Judge Jackson changed his handling of the case in a bid to circumvent the appeal court's power.Pre-emptive strikeThe judge, who has had other run-ins with senior colleagues, took the unusual step of separating his so-called findings of fact in the case - which outline where Microsoft broke the law - from a proposed remedy.This appeared only to infuriate his more senior colleagues, who mentioned it in their verdict yesterday.Several eminent lawyers appeared to agree with yesterday's decision. Barry Nalebuff, an economics professor at Yale School of Management, said: "In my mind, there is no doubt that Microsoft violated the law. The question is, what's the appropriate remedy?"This is a question now to be decided by another American judge, or in settlement talks between the two sides.On the other side of the Atlantic, Microsoft also faces an inquiry by EU competition authorities in Brussels. The European commission announced in August 2000 that it was embarking on an inquiry into whether Microsoft was abusing its dominant power.The commission case is investigating whether Microsoft used that monopoly to damage its competitors in the server market, the computers that make network computing possible. The case also took testimony on Microsoft's attempts to make its own software incompatible with the servers of rivals.Whatever the trials and tribulations that lie ahead, co-founder Bill Gates is not blind to the trial's toll on his company. He told the New Yorker's Ken Auletta before the verdict: "No matter what the outcome, the lawsuit is a bad thing. The costs to the company and taxpayers have been huge. The last thing any company wants is to be sued by the government."
People with digital televisions in the west Midlands will be able to get free on-screen consultations with an NHS nurse under an experiment announced yesterday.The service will be aimed initially at 50,000 homes in Birmingham. Patients will be able to link up to NHS Direct, a service that handles about 100,000 telephone calls a week from people wanting advice on health problems.Hazel Blears, the health minister, said patients would see and speak to a nurse, who could then show them pictures of symptoms and videos of medical procedures.The six-month trial will also allow patients of three GP practices in Handsworth, Kings Norton and Newton to book appointments with a doctor or nurse through the 24-hour digital service. Patients will be identified by a pin code rather than by name and address, to protect confidentiality.The service will also include daily bulletins on conditions, treatments and medicines, with information on opening hours of chemists and locations of casualty units.Alan Milburn, the health secretary, told the Institute for Public Policy Research: "People today are less likely to accept a passive role as recipients of health care. They want to have a say not just over their own health but increasingly over how health care is provided."
Whoops! Months and months of testimony, scores of witnesses, millions of words of testimony - and the whole case against Microsoft, the monopolist which needed to be broken up, fell apart yesterday because of a few ill-timed words from the trial judge, Thomas Penfield Jackson, to the media.Ken Auletta, the New Yorker columnist whose book on the trial, World War 3.0, was serialised in these pages, has a lot to answer for. He enjoyed 10 private hours with Judge Jackson - 10   hours which seem to have destroyed the judge's career. Still, at least Auletta will have a sequel: How I saved, rather than slayed, the beast of Redmond.The trial judge's comments, uttered under embargo to be published after the judgment, always seemed intemperate. But then also there was always the expectation that once the Bush administration entered office, Microsoft would be off the hook. Jackson and Auletta simply gave the software group's attorneys room to wriggle.The US appeals court has upheld the claim that Microsoft is a monopoly but, crucially, it has rejected the claim that the company acted unfairly in the browser wars, blowing away its great rival, Netscape. And the remedy of splitting Microsoft in two is history.This is a huge blow to the world's software industry, which has to live with the fact that the development of any new piece of innovative software risks   Microsoft producing its own version, which is then bolted on to the Windows operating system - putting the original developer out of business.Clunky old Windows will remain on 90% of the world's desktops and Microsoft will impose itself further on all our cyber-lives. Yesterday, the company said it would be delaying the introduction of "smart tags" on Internet Explorer - links which threaten to pop up on screen guiding surfers to relevant Microsoft sites when looking at something else. But they will arrive, allowing someone reading this text on Guardian Unlimited to get a clean version of the news from the company direct.While we are all waiting, here's the dumb tag:microsoft.com/presspass/.Buy VodafoneA casual reading of the City's current re search output gives the impression that Vodafone, the world's largest mobile phone company and at one time Europe's biggest company by market capitalisation, is fast disappearing down a virtual vortex.Every possible stick has been used to beat the share price lower: delays to third generation technology, huge stock overhangs, a colossal goodwill bill stemming from the past two years' acquisition spree, to mention just three common gripes.Each represents an important reason to be cautious of a company whose value has fallen from &#163;223bn to less than &#163;100bn in the space of 15 months. But when every investment bank is singing from the same "sell" note, it is worth questioning why all the analysts have reached such a view simultaneously, and whether they are actually correct.Sure, 3G technology is going to be ridiculously late, and take-up among   consumers is bound to be substantially slower than the wired tomorrow which was painted last year. But it will appear and it will eventually change the way we do simple things, like buying train tickets.Yesterday, the Mobey Forum, a broad group of phone companies and banks set up last year, said it had agreed a recommended standard architecture for the development of mobile commerce - basically an extra chip that will sit alongside existing phone sim cards, allowing the user to put a payment on any preferred credit or debit account. Development for the mass market is presumably years away, but it will arrive.As for stock overhangs, these are a real problem for Vodafone, which has been printing share certificates with a speed and efficiency never seen before. Yet the issue is short-term and, in any case, this company's great salvation lies in the fact that it financed its expansion with eq uity rather than debt. On the allegation that Vodafone massively overpaid in snapping up market share around the world, the company stands guilty as charged. But this fact is already priced into Vodafone's share price, which has fallen from 385p to a low of 146p, before yesterday's bounce to 157.5p.As for the timing of bearish analyst reports, it is worth noting that there is nothing remotely new in any of the above gripes. Every bank on Wall Street and in the City has a large, highly paid telecoms team, which no longer has the mergers and acquisitions work for which it was originally hired.It is a fact of modern financial life that aggressive trading advice is much more likely to be driven by a desire to generate commissions than circulate honest new ideas.Vodafone is a world beater in a fast-growing sector, promising fat margins. Buck the market, buy the shares.
A US appeals court overturned yesterday the landmark decision to break Microsoft into two separate companies, condemning the original trial judge for "deliberate, repeated, egregious and flagrant" violations of judicial standards of conduct.The appeals court effectively removed Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson from the case by remanding it to another court for further review.In explaining its decision to "vacate" the break-up remedy after four months of consideration, the court said that Judge Jackson's behaviour had "given rise to an appearance of partiality". It specifically men tioned his "impermissible ex parte contacts", "secret interviews with members of the media" and "numerous offensive comments about Microsoft officials".Judge Jackson held several interviews with members of the press after his ruling in which he accused Bill Gates, Microsoft's founder, of having a "Napoleon complex" and compared the company to a drugs gang.Yesterday's ruling blamed "such crude characterisations of Microsoft" and "frequent denigrations of Bill Gates" for jeopardising "public confidence in the integrity and impartiality of the judiciary".Another district judge will now rule on what sanctions should be imposed on Microsoft for its illegal behaviour. These sanctions are expected to be far less onerous than a break-up after the appeals court reversed or remanded two of the three findings against Microsoft delivered just over a year ago.Despite reversing much of Judge Jackson's work, the appeals court agreed with an earlier ruling that the software group had illegally maintained its stranglehold over the world's computer systems.Microsoft spokesman Mark Thomas said: "We are pleased that the ruling significantly narrows the case and removes the break-up cloud from the company."He added that the company was "disappointed" over some aspects of the ruling.Ron Katz, a senior partner at law firm Coudert Brothers, described the ruling as "a victory, but not a clear-cut one" for Microsoft. Shares in the company rose by as much as 4% immediately after the verdict.The appeals court decision is likely to prompt settlement talks between Microsoft and the US government, which under the Clinton administration brought the landmark case alongside 19 US states in 1997. The Bush presidency has never supported the trial.The US states are likely to prove less willing to settle with Microsoft, however. Several have indicated that they will consider an appeal all the way to the US supreme court in the event of Judge Jackson's verdict being overturned. They were not immediately available for comment yesterday.The US department of justice said it was "pleased" that Microsoft had been found guilty of illegally maintaining its operating system monopoly. "We are reviewing the court's opinion and considering our options," it added.However, the court stopped short of sending the entire case back for a retrial. It found that Microsoft had broken US anti-trust laws by illegally maintaining its monopoly of the operating systems market by bullying computer manufacturers, among other things. Windows, a Microsoft product, is used on more than 90% of the world's computers.This part of the verdict was seized on by Microsoft rivals and pro-consumer groups yesterday. Ken Wasch, president of the Software and Information Industry Association, which appeared as a witness on behalf of the government, said he was "partly pleased" with the decision. "We believe that it paves the way for providing assistance to the industry," he said.Mr Wasch and others expect Microsoft to be made subject to so-called conduct remedies as a punishment for its illegal behaviour. Such remedies would force the company to change the way it did business.
Though he might pride himself on being a blunt speaker, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson is likely to regret his comments to the press during the Microsoft trial.With the arrogance of a man whose courtroom is his kingdom, Judge Jackson told the New Yorker that Bill Gates was "a smart-mouthed young kid who has extraordinary ability but needs discipline."To the New York Times he likened Microsoft's writing of incriminating documents to drug traffickers who "never figure out that they shouldn't be saying certain things on the phone". An imposing barrel-chested man, who enjoys parading his ignorance of the the technological nuances of the trial, he invoked the ire of his peers with a series of interviews where, according to the court of appeal, he emphasised "the company's prevarication, hubris, and impenitence".Jackson was merely intending to "educate" the public and rebut "public misperceptions". But the court of appeal disagreed. "If those were his intentions, he could have addressed them in his findings of fact, conclusions of law, final judgment, or in a written opinion. Or he could have held his tongue until or the appeals were concluded."The sight of a senior judge cavorting with journalists while a case was ongoing broke the jesuit code that the US judiciary prides itself on. The appeal court particularly singles out the 10 hours of taped interviews given to the New Yorker's Ken Auletta for a book published after the trial, World War 3.0.The appeal court judges suggest that on one occasion Jackson could have been influenced by a interview with Mr Auletta. The journalist told him that Microsoft employees were "shocked" that they "had violated the law" and Jackson became "agitated" by Microsoft's obstinacy.For the appeal court, Jackson's behaviour was bad but the press was capable of worse. "For all he knew there may have been trading on the basis of the information he secretly conveyed ... the public cannot be expected to maintain confidence in the integrity and impartiality of the federal judiciary in the face of such conduct".Special report: the future of Microsoft
Atari returns?Not really. The company that launched Pong, the first successful arcade games machine, and dominated the home console market 20 years ago, was dead and buried a long time ago. However, Bruno Bonnell, boss of France's Infogrames, plans to capitalise on the brand, according to an interview with MCV, the British games trade magazine.Infogrames picked up the Atari name with its takeover of Hasbro Interactive, which had been publishing 3D updates of classic 2D Atari games such as Centipede. Rather than exploiting its retro appeal, Bonnell says he plans to use it on "big games like Stuntman and the Unreal series". Atari is not only a much snappier name than Infogrames, it also has a more global range, being a Japanese name popularised by a Californian company.Lara starsLara Croft and her creation is the subject of an hour-long television documentary, Lethal and Loaded, to be broadcast on Channel 5 at 8pm on July 8. As well as the computer generated character, Maximum Films says the program will cover Lara's status as a cultural icon, and some of the half dozen actresses who have represented Lara in real life, including Angelina Jolie.The Tomb Raider movie, in which Jolie stars, started well in US cinemas, topping the charts in its first weekend, taking $47 million. This is claimed to be the largest gross achieved by a film with a female lead, the previous record holder being Charlie's Angels.For kicksBut Lara may not be the UK's most popular character for much longer. A survey by Amazon.co.uk has revealed that a game based on the life of Posh, Becks and Brooklyn would be a winner. The Beckhams came out well ahead of the Royal Family (29%) and the Royle family (14%).This will not do Rage any harm. The Liverpool games company is programming a Beckham football game that should be out before Christmas. One problem is what kind of hairstyle to give the lad. It may even give fans a choice. "We've got the technology to keep up to date with David's image," says a spokesman, "but whether we'll do it is still under discussion."
Commandos 2PC	 &#163;29.99  Pyro Studios/Eidos	****The original Commandos was a surprise hit. Released in 1998, the World War II strategy game has sold more than a million copies worldwide. Not bad for a game so frustratingly hard that grown men have been reduced to tears when yet another meticulously planned sortie fails.Aware of this problem, the developers promised to make Commandos 2 easier to play. Thankfully, this is the case, but it is all a matter of degree: C2 remains as tough, yet perversely enjoyable, as ever.This time, the game expands into other theatres of the war, including the South Pacific, and throws in a couple of new characters to lead.This allows for more variety, but it is still a game that calls for slow planning, quick thinking and a tortuous amount of trial and error. You can expect to spend six or   seven hours even on the easiest skill setting before completing a level, and it is possible that less patient gamers will give up long before the war is won.That would be a shame as there is plenty to admire here. War has never looked so good: it is hard to imagine how much better an isometric 3D environment can look, while you can now finally enter buildings and face the enemy indoors. There is also a pleasing amount of freedom when it comes to tactics, with no set way to achieve the goal.Ultimately, however, Commandos 2 does not offer a great leap forward from the original. In fact, the difficulty level is still set too high, which tends to induce regular quick saves that detract from the atmosphere (after all, you would not get a second chance to sneak up on the guard in real life). But the graphical and gameplay improvements, and an unerringly convincing wartime environment, make this a convincing sequel.  (GH)Red FactionSony PlayStation 2	 &#163;44.99  Volition/THQ	**As videogames become ever more realistic in their graphical design, they can also suffer from increasing logical incoherencies. Take the normal behaviour of that action-game favourite, the rocket launcher. Countless games give you a weapon that fires enormous explosive projectiles which can detonate your enemies into showers of bloody chunks, yet for some reason do not even leave a mark on a little wooden door. It ruins the illusion of involvement in the game world.Red Faction, a sci-fi first-person shooter, wants to change all that. Its "Geo-Mod" technology features real-time deformable environments.In English, that means that if a heavily armoured personnel carrier is crossing a bridge, you can take out the bridge with a rocket. If a door will not open, you can blast your way through the wall at the side of it. Cool.Anything you can see, you can blow up.That is the theory. But sadly, it doesn't actually work like that. You can only blow up parts of the environment   the designers have already decided are destructible. Try the wrong wall and you can fire hundreds of rockets without getting anywhere. Nice try, then, but no banana.Red Faction casts you as a miner on Mars rebelling against the evil corporation that has enslaved you. The gameplay, heavily influenced by Half-Life, alternates all-out shooting with stealth, with the added attraction of fun vehicles to play with - submarine, driller, jeep, fighter spacecraft and so on.Visually it is luminously striking and very smooth, although it works only within very well-defined aesthetic cliches - rocky caverns, brushed-steel facilities with   whooshing doors and so on.The sound design is wonderful, with a wide variety of subtle ambient noise working hard to build atmosphere.But it also features too many annoying platform-jumping sections, infuriatingly inconsistent enemy artificial intelligence, and frequent load times that utterly disrupt the rhythm of play.The only multiplayer option, meanwhile, is a disgracefully jerky two-person mode.Overall, Red Faction feels frustratingly unfinished. It has some lovely ideas and impressive set-pieces, hobbled by a clutch of glaring faults. Somewhere in this ambitious, sprawling epic is a much tighter, more coherent game struggling to get out.  (SP)AnachronoxPC	&#163;39.99  Ion Storm/Eidos	***Eidos's recent decision to close Ion Storm's Texas HQ indicates all is not well back at its million-dollar ranch. The developer's track record has been patchy at best, with two poor games (Daikatana and Dominion) just about balanced by the excellent Deus Ex.The fourth game was once tipped to be another world beater, but all went quiet a few months ago and now the game arrives almost unannounced - usually a sign of trouble.Despite visual similarities to Deus Ex, this is very much Final Fantasy with bigger boots: the same random battles, the same need to recruit allies (up to seven, albeit only up to three at once) and the same endless dialogue.Surprisingly, not all of this is voiced, resulting in more on-screen text than you may have seen in a while. Still, if adventuring is your thing, your hero Sly Boots has six   planets to visit as he tries to unravel why he was beaten up and thrown out of his own seedy office.Anachronox keeps to a movie-like pace, with key events nicely animated but strangely predictable to anyone familiar with cyberpunk fiction. The battles are fun, with excellent use of the background to create steam-pipe firewalls and the like. However, if you don't like this form of stone/paper/scissors combat, nothing on display here will convince you.My main problem with it is common to most graphic adventures, for example the tedious minor characters who stand around all day saying the same things - Shen Mue has proven that non-player characters can have interesting lives too.Likewise, revisiting the same locations over and over, trying to make out something significant through the gloom (why are these games always so dark?), to say nothing of the constant stream of cliches borrowed from the Matrix and Dark City, suggests a game struggling to find its own style.The end result is always playable, but not particularly exciting or appealing. Ion Storm's decision to try four different genres with its first four games, shows a developer taking on too much too soon.  (MA)
SkySky has committed to a late summer launch for its long-promised digital satellite decoder/hard disk personal video recorder (PVR) Sky+.The unit co-developed with the UK company Pace Micro Technologies, will for the first time allow Sky viewers to watch one digital satellite channel while recording another. The capacity of its integrated hard disk is 40GB, which Sky equates to around 20 hours of viewing. Sky also claims that as the programmes are recorded from the original broadcast stream they will be the same digital quality as live viewing.Similar to other   PVRs from TiVo, the unit can also pause live TV. However, the Sky+ box has no intelligent electronic programming guide which automatically records programmes it thinks the viewer will like. Instead, Sky subscribers program the unit to store their choices via a version of the Sky Digital programming guide. However, Sky insists that intelligent recording software could be downloaded to Sky+ owners in the future.The unit only records Sky Digital programmes, not those broadcast terrestrially. Seewww.sky.comSonySony is claiming to have won the race to launch PCs in the UK with built-in Bluetooth facilities. Two new laptops in the Vaio series, the PCG-SR31K and PCG-C1VKF, which go on sale this week, enable the user to create a personal area network where Bluetooth-enabled products like PCs, mobile phones and printers talk wirelessly with each other. Each PC features a Bluetooth antenna and module and BlueSpace (which enables the model to link Bluetooth enabled products) and VisualShare (which enables easy file sharing) software. Bluetooth PC cards have been available for several months and Ericsson recently launched Bluetooth-enabled mobile phones.The more expensive model of the two, the &#163;1534 (exc VAT) VaioPCG-SR31K, is a lightweight model that uses a 750MHz SpeedStep mobile Pentium III, features 128MB of memory, includes a 15GB hard disk and sports a 10.4inch   TFT LCD screen. It features a Memory Stick slot which is compatible with the MagicGate Memory Sticks used on Sony's personal audio products as well as Memory Sticks used in digital cameras. It comes with OpenMG Jukebox CD-ripping software and Movie Shaker, Sony's video editing application.Sony's other Bluetooth-enabled PC is a revamped version of the ultra portable C1 laptop with the built in Motion Eye digital camera. The &#163;1,449 (exc VAT) PCG-C1VFK features a Transmeta Crusoe TM5600 667Mhz processor, 128MB of memory, a 15GB hard drive and an 8.95inch TFT LCD monitor. It also includes MagicGate and Movie Shaker software. Visitwww.sony.co.ukPhoto mobileThis month in Japan sees the launch of the world's first mobile that is capable of taking photographs and making rudimentary sketches.British owned J-Phone's Java-compatible J-D05 has a built-in camera with an artificial retina chip that transforms a still into a digital cartoon-like sketch portrait. The phone can also "recog nise" its owner when he or she comes before the tiny camera lens, and responds with an animated: "I know you!"Other applications include taking shots of friends, loading them in to the phone's memory and having the mobile flash up their portrait when they call.ToshibaToshiba has joined the growing band of digital camera manufacturers who boast a 4.2 megapixel model. Announced this week, the PDR-M81, above, goes on sale in July for around &#163;700.The camera features a lens equipped with a 2.8x optical   and 2.2x digital zoom. Other features include an LCD monitor, a Macro mode for close-up photography, manual and automatic white balance and exposure setting controls, and an AVI movie mode that lets users film up to three minutes of video at 160 x 120 resolution (15 fps), or 60 seconds at 320 x 240 (15 fps). Clips and images are saved on the camera's 8MB SmartMedia card. The camera, which is compatible with both Macs and PCs, comes with a USB lead and Sierra Imaging ImageExpert software for managing, editing and accessing images.
Giles Clarke, the British chief executive of the loss-making European internet recruitment companyStepStone, has quit the company.His resignation was faxed to the group yesterday morning, according to chief financial officer Christoph Schmidt-Wolf.Karen Slatford, who recently joined StepStone as a non-executive director, will take over as interim chief executive while the company seeks a permanent replacement.Mr Clarke was appointed chief executive of StepStone in September 1999 and steered the group through a period of rapid geographic expansion and a stock market listing.No reason was given for Mr Clarke's decision and he was not available for comment.Mr Schmidt-Wolf said the parting of the ways had been amicable. "The way we see it is that the company has been through a period of rapid growth," he said. "Now the further growth will come through technology, through developing new products. That is a different skill set."He said the terms under which Mr Clarke would leave had not yet been negotiated.On the Oslo stock market, StepStone shares fell to an all-time low of 2.5 crowns (19p) on the news. Yesterday StepStone said it remained robust about its prospects.
Telecoms equipment maker Marconi yesterday took its first step towards demerging its broadband services subsidiary by announcing the reverse takeover of rival Easynet.The subsidiary, Ipsaris, which Marconi has been keen to offload for more than a year but has been unable to float because of negative market conditions, is to be sold to Easynet in exchange for a 72% stake in the group, or 82.9m new Easynet shares.Easynet, which supplies telecoms and internet services across Europe, has 27.5m shares in issue. The deal, which has been discussed for several months and is worth &#163;357m in shares, will create a firm valued at &#163;475m that will be a network-based provider of broadband services."The merger makes so much sense because it plays on the complimentary needs of the two businesses," said Neil Rafferty, Ipsaris' chief executive.Easynet brings its salesforce, customer base and internet skills to the group and Ipsaris brings network assets, information technology systems and engineering experience. The combined company, which Easynet says will be completely independent of Marconi - Marconi's voting rights will be limited to 49.9% - will have &#163;314m cash in the bank and employ more than 900. Marconi will sell around 10% of its stake to increase the liquidity in the stock.Easynet made a loss of &#163;12m in the 12 months to December on turnover of &#163;42m and has a cash pile of &#163;10m.One analyst said: "The end result seems like a pretty neutral thing for Marconi. The question is, are they going to be able to realise more or less cash by selling Easynet shares than they would have done from selling Ipsaris?"Marconi's shares remained stable at 237p, and Easynet's were suspended at 430p, valuing the group at &#163;118m.David Rowe, Easynet's chairman, will be executive chairman of the enlarged group and Mr Rafferty, Isparis' chief executive, and Will Gardiner, Isparis' chief financial officer will retain their roles.
The chief executive ofScoot, Robert Bonnier, yesterday fell on his sword as the troubled internet directory firm admitted it would go bust by September unless it received an emergency injection of cash.Mr Bonnier's resignation, along with the departure of finance director Ronald Dorjee, was announced among radical changes, including a decision to introduce charges for callers using its widely advertised freephone directory number. It is also cutting 285 of its 2,000-strong workforce.Scoot said it could need as much as &#163;22m to continue trading. The company said it could achieve this by either selling its recently acquired Loot newspaper business, by borrowing money against Loot's cashflow or by attempting to place new shares with investors. Its biggest investor, French media group Vivendi, announced it was writing off the value of its 7% stake.The troubled company's prognosis, revealed in a review called Project Genesis, was worse than analysts had expected. Scoot's shares halved to a new low of 3.5p, having collapsed from 160p since September.Mr Bonnier, a 32-year-old Dutchman, was one of the main investors when Scoot was established six years ago and was often mentioned as one of the City's most promising young entrepreneurs. Jon Molyneux, the head of Scoot's UK operations, has been appointed chief operating officer to take day-to-day charge.Mr Molyneux said: "Robert is a visionary. His strength and forte was in looking to the future as the company got bigger and bigger. We're a much smaller business now, and that's a very different environment for a guy like that to operate in."Mr Bonnier and Mr Dorjee are likely to get a year's remuneration in compensation, amounting to about &#163;320,000 each.Scoot, which has operations in Ireland, France, Belgium and Holland, is to drop its plans for further international expansion and will consider selling its overseas assets. Mr Molyneux said: "We've felt a cash strain in expanding into Europe in such a dramatic fashion without the UK being in a cash positive position."The firm's hopes for profitability at home have been hampered by problems in introducing a new technological platform, Scoot Version 2, which is supposed to allow directory users to search with much more detailed criteria.Teething problems have prevented the firm from adding new businesses to its database, and some subscribers have quit the system through frustration. The number of paying business subscribers has fallen 15% to 16,635 since December.Mr Molyneux's preferred option is to securitise the revenue stream from the firm's profitable Loot business, bought for &#163;177m last summer. He said other avenues were being explored, including an outright sale of Loot, which is his "least preferred option". Takeover talks at 15p a share with Vivendi recently collapsed.
After more than a year of industry wrangling, telecoms regulator Oftel has moved a step closer to forcing British Telecom to open up its telephone exchanges to high-speed internet network operators.Under Oftel proposals announced yesterday, operators offering an internet service - leaving BT to continue providing a voice service - will see the annual rent they pay for access to BT's local exchanges halved to &#163;68. One-off connection charges will also fall from &#163;141 to &#163;127.Many operators dismissed the move - which the government hopes could revive chances of Britain becoming a European hub of internet traffic. Oftel director general David Edmonds said: "We believe BT's proposed charges are too high and do not reflect the costs incurred."Oftel now intends to reduce BT's charges for shared access to the local loop for operators that only want to provide a DSL &#91;digital subscriber line&#93; service without voice calls.""Unbundling" the BT local loop of copper wires linking exchanges to homes has long since been blamed for the impasse on high-speed internet access roll-out. It is the key to providing internet surfers with competitive prices because it will allow operators to offer services to homes and businesses without any BT involvement.Several operators suspect BT has dragged its feet during unbundling negotiations because it is reluctant to face competition. Many of the 40 companies who expressed interest in more than 2,000 BT local exchanges, have turned to alternative means of provision.BT has just nine companies interested in 1,200 exchanges, but denied the decline in demand was a result of BT filibustering the unbundling process.
There has been a lot of hype over the past few years about online play being the inevitable shape of all future video- gaming. So much so, that a casual observer might be forgiven for thinking that it had already happened: that no one plays alone in their living room, and that all video-gamers are wired up to a whizzy, super-fast global network. Well, it ain't so. And more than that, it appears that a backlash is growing, among gamers and developers alike, against the idea that online gaming is the be-all and end-all of videogames.For a start, companies have begun to realise that they cannot survive giving away services. After a troubled second half of the last financial year, in which it lost &#163;54.4m, the UK games retailer and online gaming service provider Gameplay.com is now little more than a shell, having announced three weeks ago that it was looking to sell off the rest of its operations and make all staff redundant.Its online games portal, Wireplay, had been bought from BT when Gameplay was still a stockmarket darling. Early last year, Gameplay was valued at &#163;625m, and claimed it was the "leading player in online gaming in Britain". But it was the retail operations, not the online portal, that accounted for most of Gameplay's profitability.Now, a message on Wireplay's site from the sacked staff says they are "committed to work on Wireplay in our free time". But for how long?Providing decent servers for online play is, after all, an expensive business. Another British online gaming portal, the much-loved Barrysworld, nearly folded earlier this year, when it was revealed that its bandwidth bill alone was estimated at &#163;50,000 per month.In a shaky period for the videogame industry, in which Britsoft companies such as Eidos Interactive blame the transition to next-generation hardware for financial losses, why should companies spend money maintaining an expensive online infrastructure without any clear return?So online gaming looks to be moving inexorably to a subscription system. On the one hand, this is nothing new. The venerable role-playing game Ultima Online charges its users $9.99 per month. Sony's wizards-and-dungeons romp, Everquest, charges $9.79 a month and makes large profits from its 375,000 subscribers.But gamers who do not want to subscribe to one particular game and are just interested in a few hours' fragging a week have perhaps been spoiled by expecting great free multiplayer mods such as Half-Life's Counterstrike, and by expecting good, free servers on which to play them.Now that all seems to be changing. With the recent demise of pioneering free internet magazines such as Feed and Suck, it seems as though the entire online industry is leaving behind the golden age of getting something for nothing.Sony Online's vice president of marketing, Scott McDaniel, recently pointed out that providing an online gaming service has to make a profit for the company: "Subscription-based content is not all that different from magazine publishing."If you define online gaming broadly, to include the playing of Java-based chess or card games, or the increasingly popular online casino sites, it is already a very common pursuit.According to the Inter-active Digital Software Association's most recent annual report, 40m people in the US participate in some kind of online gaming. But that still leaves around 120m regular videogame players in the US alone who do not venture online. Sony has sold nearly three times as many boxed copies of the Everquest games than it has regular subscribers to the online component. And then there is the console-owning majority, who until recently have not had internet access at all. It seems fair to say that the playing online of complex videogames will only truly become a mass-market proposition once the home consoles are also involved.But again, the future is dragging its heels. Sega, for example, couldn't get its online network operating by the launch of its ill-fated   Dreamcast console in 1999. "Six billion players," screamed the commercials, but when the modem-equipped Dreamcast first appeared in the UK, there were not even six online players. The much-vaunted Dreamarena network finally started working properly only a few months before Sega decided to stop making consoles altogether.The flagship online Dreamcast game, Phantasy Star Online, has, in fact, been very popular since its release earlier this year, with up to 250,000 players worldwide. Now that the console has been abandoned by its makers, however, the future of the Dreamarena network looks grimmer. And where Phantasy Star Online was free to play online, the upcoming Phantasy Star Online Version 2 will require players to pay a monthly fee to participate.But will a mass, non-technical audience agree to pay money, on top of the cost of the game plus call charges, for online gaming over the current shaky infrastructure of sluggish servers, high "ping" rates (the amount of time it takes for a signal to be   sent from your home console or PC to the server and back) and frustrating drop-outs?The answer used to be: just wait till the broadband revolution. But where did the broadband revolution go?Last year Sony was pronouncing it had no interest in providing narrowband internet access for the Play Station2, because broadband was the future. But recently Sony has admitted that mass-market broadband is still too far away for this strategy to make sense, so its internet peripheral, due in the UK in 2002, will now feature both an Ethernet port for broadband, and an old-fashioned 56k modem, the sort that home PCs have had for years.This is a major problem even in the US, where a far greater proportion of the population enjoys high-speed internet access. According to a recent poll by the Interactive Digital Software Association, most videogame developers do not expect online gaming to provide more than 25% of their revenue until at least 2004.Even Microsoft is less bullish than it used to be. At last   month's Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles, Microsoft's chief Xbox officer, Robbie Bach, had said: "We're not about text, we're not about browsing, we're not about email - we're about online gaming."Microsoft was clearly trying to distance itself from Sony's ambition to turn the PlayStation2 into a general web device, following its announcement  of a deal with America Online.But two weeks ago, Microsoft's chief executive,   Steve Ballmer, sounded a lot more sceptical. It is now confirmed that no Xbox game will feature online capability until about six or seven months after the console's launch.Ballmer said that Microsoft had grown "more pessmistic" about the schedule of the broadband revolution. "Xbox allows for broadband connections," he says. "But the fundamental reason people will buy Xbox is to play games locally."Playing games locally: now   there's an idea. In all the fuss about online gaming, people seem to have forgotten that it is necessarily structurally different from the videogames we know and love. As we have seen, there are commercial reasons why online gaming has not yet taken over the world, but there are also aesthetic reasons why it will never stamp out the activity of local gaming.In a single-player game, after all, you are the central character. But if 90,000 people are logged into an online game, as Everquest boasts during peak hours, they cannot all be the hero. Instead of an overarching, authored narrative, you get, at best, emergent, soap-opera style narratives of character interactions: story by committee. The solo videogame form, on the other hand, allows an experience of attempting to outwit an authored design - whether in Peter Molyneux's ground-breaking Black &amp; White, or Warren Spector's superbly atmospheric sci-fi adventure, Deus Ex - that is qualitatively and valuably different. It is fun to play against real   people on the other side of the planet, sure, but it is also true that artificial intelligence is one of the modern wonders of the games world.Spector himself said as much in a recent interview: "It drives me nuts every time I hear someone talk about multiplayer gaming as The Future! We've barely scratched the surface of single-player gaming."There now appears to be a trend, after the recent rash of multiplayer-only games such as Quake III Arena, Unreal Tournament, and Counterstrike, towards creating once again an involving single-player experience. John Carmack's new Doom, as well as his company's Return to Castle Wolfenstein, are both going to concentrate on the singleplayer adventure.Online gaming is not dead, and there are some fascinating PC online experiences in the pipeline, such as World War II Online, or EA's Majestic, that will raise the ante for massive (and potentially profitable) involvement among thousands of players. But the revolution we were promised has not happened, and even when all the practical problems are solved, years in the future, it will never take over completely.Online gaming offers an intriguing democracy, but for the foreseeable future we will also continue to be willingly enslaved by dictatorships.&#149;  Steven Poole is the author of Trigger Happy: The Inner Life of Videogames (Fourth Estate, &#163;7.99)&#149; Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Get backYour comments on deleting files were very interesting (June 14), but I have the reverse problem: I want to bring a file back to life. Do you know if the usual utilities can recover a deleted file after the computer has been restored to the original factory settings?Stephen Edwardssubnort38@hotmail.comJack Schofield replies:I   don't know of any way to tell, in a specific case, except by trying it. However, I suspect there is relatively little chance of getting anything back from a Windows PC's C: drive.Undelete (or unerase) utilities sometimes work because Windows does not delete files, it just tags the indexing information needed to access them. At that point a file can be recovered. However, the tag means that the disk sectors where the file is stored are no longer protected and can be used for other files.So if you download a utility to undelete a file, it may well overwrite the file you want to recover. If not, the Windows swapfile may well overwrite it, which is why undelete programs are not as popular as they used to be when MS-DOS was the most common operating system. It is also a good reason for keeping data on a separate hard drive partition, not on the C: drive.You can try Ontrack's EasyRecovery software, which can be downloaded from www. ontrack.com/easy recovery/ . There is a free version of the Personal Edition of this program, which shows you all the files you could recover if you actually bought a copy. If it can recover your file, you only have to decide if   it is worth the price of the program: $179.A cheaper alternative is DTI Data's Fast File Undelete, which costs $29 for Windows 95/98/Me. Seewww.dtidata.com/products_ff_undelete.aspC to startHow can I set up my PC to read the C: drive first instead of the A: drive? I often leave floppy disks in the A: drive and next time I turn on the PC it tries to read them - unsuccessfully.Lee Hollandlee@barton29.fsnet.co.ukJS:You can change the seek order by going into Setup, as described by the on-screen message you get when your PC is starting up. Often it involves pressing the Del key. Changing the boot drive to C: helps avoid catching viruses from infected floppies accidentally left in the A: drive.Slow timeThe clock on my computer does not run when it is switched off so it gets rapidly out of date. How can I repair the situation?Graham Boothjgb.alt@breathemail.netJS:Try changing the CMOS battery on the motherboard. This battery powers the clock, and its lifetime is generally longer than that of the machine. Your motherboard manual should have details of the battery required, and where it is placed.If a PC battery dies or is removed you can also expect to lose the settings in the BIOS chip. Before doing anything else, reboot your PC, choose to go into Startup (usually by pressing the Del key) and write down the settings for your PC.There is a FAQ (file of Frequently Asked Questions) on PC batteries atwww.resource800.com/ibmfaq.htmlSort FavoritesIs there a simple way of alphabetising your favourites list in Internet Explorer?Mark Greavesmg003a4614@blueyonder.co.ukJS:Pull down the Favorites menu and find the pane you want to sort. Right-click on a grey area to get a pop-up menu, then select the next-bottom item, Sort By Name. You can also pick up individual entries with the mouse   and drag and drop them where you want.Office upgradeI have been told that I can't upgrade my Office 95 to XP, but will have to buy the full version. I got the impression from your recent article that a simple upgrade would be possible. Please would you clarify.Graham Roothroothfg@yahoo.co.ukJS:Microsoft's strategy is to encourage upgrades by making Office cheaper for people who upgrade, and more expensive for people who don't. Office 95 users have now skipped two upgrades in a row and are therefore being asked to pay the full price for XP. This is not so unreasonable if XP replaces most of the code from 95, rather than upgrading a proportion of it. (An upgrade price implies you don't pay again for lots of code you have already bought.)Save hereWhen I am ready to save a Word document and click on Save As, I am sent to some obscure part of my file manager, a long way from   where I keep my documents. Can I change the default on this? It would save a lot of time!Gerran Thomasdgt@aber.ac.ukJS:Yes, you can change the default using Tools|Options| File Locations by selecting the one you want to change and clicking the Modify button. You can also avoid the Save dialog box altogether by creating files in the directory where they will be stored (File|New|Microsoft Word Document). Double-click the file to load it (and load Word, if it is not running), then hit Ctrl-S to save it.Think smallResponding to last week's quest for a small PC, Will Macdonald ( wfm@macscan. co.uk ) suggests one I have not heard of: the Microstar SFP. It has "a typical Pentium III spec but only measures 7.8 x 30.0 x 32.0cm". Seewww.dnuk.com/systems/microstar-sfp.html
Do web designers hate users? Or are most of them simply incompetent? Either way, there is no doubt about the mismatch between what users want and what the vast majority of commercial web sites provide.As a user, I know what users want. They want information and they want it fast, which is why they flock to sites such as Google and Yahoo. Web designers, however, seem to be more interested in showing off their "design skills" - or lack of them. The result is gratuitous Flash intros, over-large graphics, pointless "applets", inconsistent menus, and pages that take far too long to download.A page from Yahoo or Google usually downloads in a couple of seconds, and any site that takes more than 10 seconds is too slow. But every surfer knows too many pages that take 30-90 seconds to appear. Some never appear at all, and it is not unusual for them to "hang" and even crash the user's computer.Most web designers even ignore simple things that cost nothing to do, and yet offer significant improvements in usability. They could, for example, download text first, so you can see if it is what you need, instead of making you wait for the rest of the page. They could and should use "alt tags" - labels that tell users what the graphics are for, when they do download.It is not as though mistakes in web design were obscure and unknown. Jakob Nielsen, web usability guru, published a list of the top 10 mistakes in May 1996 (seewww.useit.com/alertbox/9605.html), and updated it in 1999 (seewww.useit.com/alertbox/ 990502.html). He found the list "still surprisingly relevant" then, and it is today.Last time I checked, Nielsen charged $20,000 a   day to tell companies what was wrong with their sites, and he is not short of work. A frightening number of web designers could have saved their companies at least $19,999.97 if they could be bothered to read what he wrote. But that is a conservative estimate. With about half of internet shopping trolleys being abandoned before users get to the checkouts, bad web designs cost companies millions in lost business.If the situation is dire for able-bodied users with broadband ADSL connections, then how much worse is it for people with disabilities?And on today's web, "people with disabilities" includes tens of millions of people who are middle-aged or older. Their eyesight is probably not as good as it was, and it is not going to get better.In principle, the web allows for this. Simply pull down the browser's View menu, select Text Size, and pick Larger or Largest. But try this on a growing number of new and redesigned sites and you will find it makes not a blind bit of difference. Let's not beat about the bush: this shows nothing less than the web designers' incompetence.Perhaps worse, it shows a cluelessness about the nature and function of the web. In the days when most computers were incompatible with one another, the whole idea of the web was to provide users with access to information regardless of the kind of computer terminal they used. The user, therefore, not the designer, should decide how the information is displayed.Instead, web design has ended up in the hands of numbskulls who try to produce pixel-perfect layouts on Windows PCs running Internet Explorer 5.x on an 800 by 600 or VGA colour screen, and anyone who does not conform to their requirements can take a hike.This is not just bad business, it shows a profound ignorance of the way the world is going. Nowadays, a growing number of people want to access websites with grotty systems based on television set-top boxes or games consoles, or use devices with small screens, such as handheld computers and mobile phones. The PC is not going away soon, of course, but PC users are also buyers of game consoles, notebook PCs and handheld computers.There is some hope. The US has just put regulations into effect that make accessibility mandatory for federal government IT systems (seewww.section508.gov). This will at least require the use of alt tags, so that these labels can be read out to blind web surfers. And things that make the web more accessible to disabled users should benefit everyone.Section 508 does not offer much, but it could mark the turning of the tide.Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Known for its rugby league, undulating hills and some of the finest woollen cloth produced, Huddersfield is not the first place people associate with cutting-edge new media. But last week that preconception was overturned with the unveiling of the largest SMS (Short Message Service) interface in the world.Speakers Corner is a 15 metre-long, LED screen for SMS messaging built on the outside of an old industrial building in the town centre.  Designed by the Dutch artist Jaap de Jonge, the screen is backed up by a custom-built software engine that enables users to interact with content on the display via SMS, the web or voice, using a phone booth around the corner from the screen."Text is an apt way of showing content in a public space because it is very immediate," says Matt Locke, the artistic director of theMedia Centrewho commissioned the project and built the back-end. Locke says the initial problem was designing a screen that did not look out of place with the original building. "Huddersfield isn't Times Square and we are not surrounded by loads of other buildings with huge media signs."The project was funded by National Lottery money and cost &#163;15,000. The commission is part of a larger bid that hopes to develop the work of the Media Centre, which already houses a number of software firms and new media start-ups.Unlike the original Speakers Corner in Hyde Park, the screen will not be a totally free space."Obviously, abuse is an issue," admits Locke. "We don't want to stop people interacting or not have the screen running live. We have a list of 2000 words we have identified as either swear words or variations of swear words. We also had to include   Urdu and Caribbean patois to reflect Huddersfield's cosmopolitan community."We are interested in working with different groups in the region," says Locke. "During the Huddersfield Contemporary Music festival we will commission content that is relevant. I think the content is key _ if you just have an empty space and ask people to fill it, people will abuse it. So the content is a way of helping people formulate what they have to say, rather than hurl abuse."The Media Centre has commissioned three projects for the screen. The first is a collaboration withForced Entertainment, an experimental theatre group from Sheffield.Their project will fire at passersby questions edited from one of their six-hour performances. There will also be an SMS poetry competition with schools in the Kirklees region. (Locke was involved with the Guardian's SMS poetry competition ear lier this year.)"We are interested in how different groups of people end up in the same urban space at different times of the day. Commuters are always outside the train station in the morning. On other days people will be outside the post office to pick up pensions. We want to target content around these patterns."Ananova, the digital news agency, will display news in the morning to commuters. Headlines will appear on the screen and users will be invited to send an SMS to get more information on their mobile and eventually on the screen itself.Plans for interactive street furniture do not stop there. The Media Centre plans to build an interactive bus stop in Bradford in the new year.Seewww.speakerscorner.org.uk.
Pass it onOnly rarely does a website make me feel queasy, but this one did. It is based on the idea that you should leave your favourite books on buses or park benches, donate them to charity or whatever. The people who pick them up are encouraged to read them, pass them on, and register the experience atBook Crossing, as suggested by the sticker placed in each book. "Releasing &#91;books&#93; 'into the wild' and following their travels, is infinitely more fulfilling than the small satisfaction you'll get by looking at your books in your bookcase every day," claims the site. If you cannot bear to part with books, you can still list them on the site.Book Crossing is operating in the US, inspired by sites such asWhere's George?, which tracks banknotes, andPhototag, a "transient photography project".Hello HAL2001 fans - not the number, but a reference to A Space Odyssey - can head for the popular technology museum in San Jose, California. The Tech Museum of Innovation has put on a show based on the film, and it is now on the web atwww.thetech.org/2001dsCleaner mailIf you suffer from getting too much spam or unsolicited commercial email (UCE), then Popuce is offering to remove up to 90% of it - for a fee. You have to tell Popuce the name, address and password of your POP mailbox and it checks your email every 15 minutes. Unwanted email can be diverted to a junk address, such as Hotmail, where you can scan it to make sure the service is working correctly. Popuce, based in the UK, offers a free 14-day trial. After that it costs &#163;10 (or $15) per year.Just the ticketWould you sleep with someone in exchange for a ticket to see Madonna? If that sounds an unlikely idea, it was nevertheless the one proposed by Thema1 (www. thema1.de), a webzine based in Berlin. Reportedly 135 readers applied, with entries coming from six countries. A young man from Frankfurt was finally chosen by the publication's sex columnist, Shelley Masters. For a picture of the happy couple and Shelley's report, Sex for Madonna &amp; die Lust nach jungen Lustknaben, seewww.thema1.de/index.php3?F=AS&amp;AS=SELF&amp;ArtikelID=a3b35387918732What countsWriters often develop habits that lead them to overuse certain words. A computer could help by analysing a text and listing the words most often used. But it is not a feature built into most word processors, and not everyone wants to roll their own program in Basic, so the simple website being tested atwww.wordcounter.comfills a need. At the moment you can paste in texts, but the site will count uploaded documents and web pages in the future.BrainstormingBrainstorm, the "idea processing" program, seems to have left a number of people with no idea how to use it. The site is now trying to help with a demonstration that you can either watch online or download to a Windows-based PC. Seewww.brainstormsw.com/demo. The theme is planning a wedding.Clean pagesJustVanilla Ltd has a solution to the problem of illegible web pages and mediocre site design. By using its site atwww.justvanilla.comas a proxy server or gateway, you can change colours and type sizes on pages, strip out stupid features such as frames, or   eliminate graphics altogether. The site also stores bookmarks for you, and offers a number of utilities such as web-based email. There are also plans for a shopping mall for people with disabilities. There are only two major drawbacks. It is not anonymous and it costs money: &#163;19.95 a year, and a &#163;20 set-up fee.ListingWhat were the top 10 jingles of the century? The 10 most important people of the decade? The top 400 restaurant concepts? Hoovers UK has assembled a List of Lists (seewww.hoovers.com/uk/) that links to the offerings in a range of publications such as Forbes, Fortune and Advertising Age. The page is woefully short of British and European links.New &amp; noted&#149;  Compare-stuff (www.compare-stuff.com) is a search engine that helps you compare stuff.&#149; Immigration Index, launched in April, is worth bookmarking as a source of information. Seewww.immigrationindex.org&#149; Write like an Egyptian:www.babylonlondon.com/pictalk&#149; A UK vegetarian directory has been launched atwww.thevegetarianchannel.comfor National Vegetarian Week.&#149; There is a handy page for people who try to follow computing standards atwww.caba.org/standardsgroupset.html&#149; Men who look like Kenny Rogers now have a website to call home. It is atwww.menwholooklikekennyrogers.com, obviously.
Trying to get past bouncers on a Saturday night to check if your friends are on the guest list is normally a nightmare for the majority of diehard clubbers in the country.But in a bold hi-tech attempt to make life easier, top clubs such as the Ministry of Sound are selling electronic tickets which are delivered directly to your mobile. By going toClubConnexion, the UK's online dance community site, clubbers can buy discounted guest list tickets. Once you've submitted your details to the site, including your mobile phone number, ticket numbers and a booking confirmation are sent directly to your phone as a text message.At the door, instead of waiting for ages while staff wade through mountains of paperwork to see if you are on the club's guest list, you just show them your mobile with your mTicket number and you go straight in."It's working really well,"   says Sarah Thain, head of promotions for the Ministry of Sound. "It's so much easier to search for their names. And it is added security for clubbers to know they are on the guest list."This new service is the brainchild of the technology start-up, mTicket ( www. mticket.co.uk ) which is hoping to extend the service to cinemas and travel companies in a bid to revolutionise our ticket-buying habits.At the moment clubbers have to return to the ClubConnexion site each time they want to place fresh orders for electronic tickets. But plans are underway to make the club ticketing service completely SMS-driven. Soon, after opening an online mTicket account, clubbers will be able to text message the Ministry of Sound and other UK clubs for listings information and then buy and have their tickets delivered to their mobiles."The biggest benefit is being able to buy a ticket from your mobile phone at any time and anywhere," explains   Tony Coyle, mTicket's chief executive.When you arrive at the Ministry of Sound and skip to the front of the queue with your mTicket number on your mobile, bouncers use Compaq iPaq handhelds that log directly into mTicket's database to check if your electronic tickets are legitimate.Diehard clubbers might also be tempted to use their mobiles to take part in a new SMS-driven auction service which is going to offer oppor tunities to bid for hi-tech goodies such as MP3 and DVD players.The wireless portal,MyAlertis partnering the online auction site ebid.co.uk to offer SMS-based auctions in the next few weeks. Bargain hunters will be invited to   register online for product categories they are interested in and then get SMS alerts if an auction for their desired item is starting. Buyers can submit bids using text messages and will get messages back letting them know if they have been outbid.MyAlert has already run pioneering SMS auctions in Spain, where cases of wine and books went under the text message hammer. In the UK, it has 350,000 users and the head of operations,   Manuel Cerqueiro, is confident that Brits will respond as enthusiastically as the Spanish to the new SMS service. "It's like a game. It's very interactive and you can do it anywhere you want."Cerqueiro believes it will relieve the frustration of bargain hunters who are participating in an online auction but cannot always gain access to a computer to see whether or not they are still ahead in the bidding.
And suddenly there it was. Slap bang in the middle of a list of 20 bills in the Queen's speech, generally to do with making health and education run along more smoothly - a bill about the creation of a super-regulator: Ofcom.As they say in Spanish: "ya era tiempo" (about time too). Although perhaps incongruous in the company of good works planned for the coming Parliament, there is a logic to its creation.For some time now it has been almost impossible to distinguish where a telecoms company ends and a media company starts, where broadcasters become ISPs (internet service providers) and brands become broadcasters. So rather like the planned health and education reforms, this one was overdue.Organisations such as First Tuesday, the DPA (Directory and Database Publishers Association) or even perhaps the ISBA (Incorporated Society of British Advertisers) may prove a natural home for some of the issues that will be raised by this new behemoth. Yet if the bill serves to highlight anything, it is that the new media industry is screaming out for a more inclusive representative body.Ofcom's creators are comfortable in areas where the new body will incorporate existing bodies such as Oftel, the Independent Television Commission and the film censors. Sure, media ownership was always going to be contentious and deals are evidently being brokered to keep various parties happy. But new media in general has been couched in vague references to "self-regulation".Small wonder then that the new media press has been tepid in its response to the new bill. There was little detail to get excited about.And therein lies the rub. For many new media companies, the implications of the bill seem remote. There is confusion over how much, if at all, the bill will affect them. With dot.com now entering the lexicon of dirty words and many younger, entrepreneurial companies more focused on development and survival than on vague legislation, taking the time to look at a bill that may or may not affect them in a year or so is a luxury.But it should be a necessary luxury. Ofcom promises to be an organisation with teeth -   the power to impose retroactive fines of 10% of turnover, for example. It will have jurisdiction over ownership and access, content acceptability and, yes, some form of censorship of the internet.My best guess on the latter is that it will take the form of voluntary labelling. Certainly Mr Blair promised, in his manifesto, a "kitemark" system to help the fight against online paedophiles.This is just one example. Ofcom is going to be treading a fine and contentious line across a whole range of issues.A film with its appropriate classification may only be shown on TV at certain hours of the day. The same film can currently be shown freely over the internet. Times of day are irrelevant, since a film could be shown from any time zone. So does the government relax film censorship or tighten web broadcasting?Similarly, as brands are becoming broadcasters, companies wishing to broadcast   their own content over proprietary TV channels - such as those planned by Sainsbury's and Boots - will need a licence to do so. Yet if they were to broadcast over the internet, such a need would be obviated.And how about the overlap between European and national regulations? Current plans are that Ofcom's relationship with the EU will be through the National Regulatory Association, Department of Trade and Industry and the Foreign Office. Can Ofcom be workable if UK industry is being consulted in isolation?My big fear is that the new regulator will simply be the old ones rolled into one, without an understanding of the speed of change and flexible nature of the industry. Unless the new media industry organises itself to debate, relate and self-regulate, anomalies will abound, and Ofcom will necessarily impose solutions.Without consultation with the industry, Ofcom could stifle the creativity and entrepreneurship upon which great companies have been founded and extended.For the new media industry as a whole, there is PR high ground to be taken from sensible self-regulation and representation. By contrast, it will serve the industry poorly to be seen complaining after the event.&#149; Narda Shirley is founder and managing director, Gnash Communications.
Content kingsJim McClellan (New Media Gets the Message, June 21) is correct in talentspotting those websites most likely to build sustainable revenue streams from their content. In my experience of working with content owners there is a third factor - the approach taken in converting from a free-to-view to a paid-for environment. The honesty in communicating the switch is vital in allowing audiences to properly appraise the value of the content. Equally, those which employ a "good child" strategy of maintaining some free-to-view content and/or offer enhanced benefits beyond that available when the content was free are more likely to succeed. Much of this pioneering work is being developed by smaller, niche propositions. Clearly, the bigger players are still waiting for others to prove that subscription will work for them as well.Paul Simon, Isaiah Consulting Ltdpaul.simon@isaiah consulting.comAn interesting article by Jim McClellan. I edit a content-rich site (www.elexica.com) aimed at the legal community, principally in the UK, on behalf of international law firm Simmons &amp; Simmons. On the whole we do not charge users (there are a few documents that users must pay to read) but we do require first-time users to register.We continue to regard Elexica as a superb way for the firm to market its services by demonstrating its quality and breadth. Elexica was quietly launched in November 1999 and, since then, has won many awards and now boasts nearly 7,000 registered users. We rank 19th in the UK's top legal websites (seewww.legalhitlist). I think it's clear that there is a market for community websites, like Elexica, with quality content.Jonathan MaasJonathan.Maas@simmons-simmons.comI find it strange that a survey of the money-making potential of the internet makes no mention of the most obvious subscription services: the porn sites - the online equivalent of the top shelf.Robert Smalesrobert.smales@insnet.neCable chaosAndrew Ferguson and Roger Shufflebottom have made a strong case for the advantages of broadband, to counteract Azeem Azhar's negative view (Online, June 14). Now my Telewest cable modem is at last working, I can agree with them, but it has been a struggle to reach this point. I had hoped that, by opting for Telewest's cable modem service, I would avoid the widely reported problems with ADSL installations. Unfortunately it appears, at least from my experience, to be just as accident-prone. The root cause seems to be staff inexperience - when the modem was first installed, the technician spent three hours without success trying to get it going. It then took nearly three weeks more before I finally had a working connection. First I had to convince the frontline tech support that the problem was not at my end, then it took a further 10 days, after it was referred to network tech support, for them to sort out the problem. Since it is impossible to contact network staff direct, I also have no idea what caused the problem, nor how to avoid a recurrence. Maybe I was just unlucky and my experience is untypical - it would be interesting to hear how other Telewest customers have fared.Richard Williamsrwilliams79@compuserve.comA bit wrong keySteven Martin (Feedback, June 21) is correct that cryptography could prevent duplicate voting, in a textbook world. However, government moves on crypto keys could be risky   - particularly if it's the government you're electing. Then, there is the problem of key distribution. Either this must be done in a secure and reliable way, or some means must exist to deal with non- or mis-delivered keys - which someone else may have received, or stolen.As for linking keys with votes? If someone learns your key and vote, then although they can't tell who you are,    they can spoil your ballot by using the same key to vote again. All these problems can be handled easily within a system which requires voters to physically present and identify themselves. They become much trickier if you attempt to apply technology.Paul SmeeP.Smee@bristol.ac.ukwww.cse.bris.ac.uk/~ccpesMisinformedProfessor Gosling (Ghost in the Machine, Science, June 21) detracts from Alan Turing's wartime achievements by repeating the American "hype" that Claude Shannon invented information theory in 1946. Turing invented the theory to crack the encrypted messages of the Germans in the second world war using the Colossus machines. Interestingly Turing used logarithms to base 10 rather than to base 2 (as we now do) and called the unit of information the "ban" (rather than the "bit") after the "Banbury" sheets of paper on which the necessary calculations were done and which sheets had been intended for use in tallying votes in the town of Banbury.Dr M JC Brownmjcbrown@yahoo.comSimple shotThanks to Jack Schofield (Ask Jack, June 21) for his tip on how to save screen images on an Apple Macintosh. This has irritated me for months - and yet it's so simple.Christine McIntoshmcintosh@maura.demon.co.ukThink differentI recently upgraded my Mac G3 to OS 9.1 and then found that PsiMac, needed to back-up my Psion Series 3mx, crashed OS 9 whenever I tried to "start link" or "stop link". I emailed Psion UK Support and was told: "Thank you for contacting Psion Technical Support. Unfortunately PsiMac is not Compatible with OS 9.1. As PsiMac is the only Mac software designed for the Series 3mx we can only advise that you downgrade your operating system. Apologies for any inconvenience. If you have any further queries, please do not hesitate to contact us again." This does not improve Psion customer relations with this customer! I wonder what Apple thinks?David Barnarddavid.barnard5@which.net&lt;
What was your first experience of computers?I walked into a room at Smith College, in the US, filled with computers, an electronic treasure trove where students showed me how to turn squiggles of ink on paper into squiggles of light on a screen. I'm still experimenting with the fascinating possibilities of manipulation of text.How does using a computer affect writing your poetry?I still write drafts by hand, then I type it into my computer for polishing and choosing the font and spacing, something a poet could not do before IT became available.Do you write multimedia poetry?I love the intimacy of words on paper. It's too easy for multimedia poetry to become entertainment, where images distract the viewer from the complexities of meaning. Words on a screen resonate on the screen. Words on paper resonate in the mind.How have other poets reacted to the technology?Email doesn't intrude as the phone does, shattering your concentration. You can polish your words. Any poet with a computer and a photocopier can become a publisher. But computers may invite you to become glib; they make writing so easy that poems can lack the necessary scrupulous attention to detail.Has any good poetry been written about IT or the net?I like Edwin Morgan's witty poem The Computer's First Christmas Card and Robert Crawford's book, Spirit Machines contains several computer related poems.How do IT and the net contribute to the festival?We have a website (seewww.poetry-festival.com) providing a virtual programme. Details of our poetry competition were posted, allowing poets to enter by email. On July 7, Christina Patterson, director of the Poetry Society and poets Gwyneth Lewis and Don Patterson will discuss the impact of IT and the net.What will you be doing as virtual poet in residence?I'll choose a book each month and enter into a dialogue with the readers via the website (seewww.nlb.uk.org), post recordings of me reading poetry and will facilitate the writing of poetry by visitors. Blind poets have several problems - finding source material, mobility problems, lack of accessible writers groups and sources of feedback which comprehends their specific needs. This residency can bring some solutions.Any favourite sites?Ask Jeevesfor general inquiries,www.lit-net.org, the electronic noticeboard for literature in the west midlands andwww.bbc.co.ukto check Radio 3 schedules and cricket results. Cricket is the poetry of sports.&#149; The Ledbury Poetry Festival runs from June 28 to July 8.
The online world is full of registered names. Gone are the days when a Wired reporter could register www.mcdonalds.com, and ask for suggestions to be sent to ronald@mcdonalds.com. These days, even local papers  have domain names for sale. Fancy owning feelthelove.co.uk for &#163;50, or whatszat.co.uk for &#163;100,000?But by far the cheapest way to get your own domain name is to register one yourself. Here is how.1)First you need to pick a domain-name registering service, depending on what you will be using the domain for (see panel). All these services allow you to transfer your domain name for a small fee. We will use 10Quid, which, at &#163;11.75 (&#163;10 plus VAT) per year per domain is one of the cheapest, with email forwarding and 1MB web hosting included.2)Go towww.10quid.co.uk3)Click Buy Now4)Now think of a domain name. Generally, the shorter the better. You can try as many as you like until you find the one you want.5)In the Find a Domain   name box, type the name you want. It must be at least three characters long, and you can use all the letters , numbers and the hyphen character.6)Click Submit.7)The next screen shows whether your name is available with any of the standard extensions. There are plans to introduce new extensions, but for now the main contenders are: .co.uk; .org.uk; .com; .org and .net. If the name you want is available, click Select next to that name. If not, go back to step 5 and try again with another name.8)After clicking Select, you will need to pick a user name, then type in your email address for mail forwarding.9)Next, fill in your personal details. These are the legal details to be attached to the domain name, so it is important you type these in cor rectly. Click on the ? icon for help with any of the fields.10)To nominate yourself as the administrator, place a tick in the box marked Same as owner.... If someone else will be administering your domain, fill in their details in the boxes below.11)Check the pricing details, and click on the hyperlinks to read details of the contract and the FAQ.12)Type I AGREE (in caps) into the box below.13)Click Purchase to buy the domain.14)Click the Go Secure button.15)You will be taken to a secure server to input your payment details. Click MAKE PAYMENT to confirm the purchase, or CANCEL to back out.16)Your order will be confirmed, onscreen and via email. Congratulations: you are now the proud owner of a new domain. The address may take up to 72 hours to become fully active, but you will immediately receive a set of emails confirming the domain registration, and quoting your new 10Quid user-id and password. Log on atwww.10quid.co.ukto learn more about using your domain name, and how to   forward email. If you have existing web pages with your ISP, you can contact 10Quid for how to forward traffic from your new domain to your existing pages.The one catch with 10Quid is the charge for excess bandwidth: &#163;10 per 100MB if you pay in advance, &#163;10 per 50MB after the fact. The standard 100MB per month ought to be enough for a personal homepage, but if you plan to offer large files for download, or use the site for business, you might want to consider transferring the   domain to another hosting company (see panel).Once you own your domain, you can have it valued: trywww.britnames.co.uk/value.htmfor a (wildly optimistic) thumb-rule, or http://auction.names123.com to compare prices. Take any figures with a pinch of salt.Having said that, not all the good domain names have been taken. The name I registered waswww.guardian-online.co.uk. Any suggestions as to what I could do with that? Mail me attim.guest@guardian-online.co.uk
It would be nice to have computers that cost less than $100, said Nicholas Negroponte, founder of the Media Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "But we have a project to develop computers that cost less than $1, which is much more interesting."For $1 you do not, of course, get a PC with a screen and keyboard. You can, however, have a computer-on-a-chip that could be embedded into toasters, fridges, light sockets and perhaps even plastic cups, transforming the way society operates.And the applications need not be trivial. One of the researchers working in Media Lab's physics and media group has already produced a web server not much bigger than a match-   head - in part a response to an earlier development, a web server the size of a matchbox. (Seewww-ccs.cs.umass.edu/~shri/iPic.htmlandwww.ip-ic.com).The IP-ic web server was developed by Shrikumar Hariharasubrahmanian - Shri for short - when he was a graduate student at MIT. He's now a visiting scientist in a group headed by Neil Gershenfeld, author of When Things Start To Think.Shri's lab is in the Media Lab's basement, which is cool and dimly lit - but that's partly due to the contrast with the heat and bright sunshine of a sunny day in Cambridge, just across the Charles   river from Boston, Massachusetts. The basement is also rather peaceful until Shri arrives. He is not loud, just enthusiastic about his subject. He talks rapidly, and is quick to jump up and sketch ideas on the lab's whiteboard. Naturally he starts with the single-chip web server, which he contrasts to a PC.A PC needs about 260K of code to talk to the internet, but the IP-ic runs IP (the Internet Protocol) in only 256 bytes. A PC would need at least a megabyte of memory to run it, whereas the IP-ic runs it using only 7 bytes."But in spite of all the shrinkage, this chip does pretty much the same thing as a regular web server. If you come in from the net with a browser, there's no way you can tell this is not a $2,000 PC."The idea is not to replace current web servers and personal computers, but to open up a whole new world. Shri sketches out a pyramid to represent the number of computers on the net: a few large servers at the top broaden to about 400m PCs at the base. Something like the IP-ic chip, costing less than $1 could, he reckons, extend the base by adding another trillion nodes to the network.He holds up a chip. "What can you do with this? The first thing that comes to mind is that you can put them in every light socket, which sounds wonderful. But rather than solving anything, it opens a can of worms," says Shri. "In the long run it's not a workable scenario: it will be completely unmanageable."Today the computerised lights would probably be controlled from a server in the basement, which represents a single point of failure. "Look at the irony of it," he says. "You're taking a simple switch that's got a mean time to failure of the order of 100 years, and replacing it with an extremely complicated machine that crashes every week. We go in and very carefully install an Achilles heel!"The magic, he explains, is to build structures where the chips communicate with one another to maintain a consistent network without a server.The other part of the strategy is to use RFID (radio frequency identity) chips. These cheap, simple chips are coming into widespread use in, for example, transport and warehousing applications as a sort of electronic bar code. An RFID chip built in to a smart card lets commuters in places as far afield as Hertfordshire and Hong Kong "pay" for journeys without removing the smart card from their purse or wallet. RFID chips stuck to pallets of products or   individual packages enable them to be tracked by short-range radio signals as they are moved around.Since an RFID chip is similar in size to the IP-ic web server, Shri reckons it could include internet communications - "a TCP/IP stack".RFID systems have the same problem as computer-based automation: their reliance on servers. And if you have billions of objects with RFID tags sending data to tag readers that communicate with servers there will be a communications bottleneck.Shri paints on his whiteboard an increasingly horrifying picture of how it could all work. In a Starbucks-style application, you could pay for a self-service coffee when you put the lid (which is tagged) on the cup (which is tagged). The lid communicates with a server in Florida while the cup communicates with a server in Ohio; they both check that this is the first time they have been in contact (you don't want to pay twice) and then communicate with you bank's computer in New York to collect your $1.75.Then he shows how it could be done in a couple of bytes of code that are provably correct. "All you want is to tell the cup: talk to a lid   once, send its ID number to the network, and then die. And the program for a lid is: talk to a cup once, then stop. The program counter is one bit long, and it only needs two instructions. There is no possibility of error; there is no possibility of repeat billing."The "program" is not in the code, but the interaction. If lid and cup never meet, nothing happens.Another advantage with this approach is that the network does not need to be changed to use it. As long as the IP-ID chips use the internet protocol, they can use the one we already have."The beauty of the internet is that there is no intelligence in the network," says Shri, "so Cisco doesn't need to make any changes to its routers" to support IP-ID or any other application. He contrasts this with the telephone network where all the intelligence is in the network but the terminals are dumb."So the smallest change you want to make, you have to upgrade a significant proportion of the exchanges. That's why it is still stuck roughly   where Alexander Graham Bell left it." (BT is one of the Media Lab's financial supporters and BTexact Technologies, as BT's Martlesham research lab is now known, is showing a particular interest in Shri's work.)Of course, if a program is only a few bytes long, then it does not need anything as complicated as today's RFID chips. Zoe Teegarden, one of Shri's graduate students, is therefore working on chips that would "cost only about a penny to make instead of about a dollar". She is making them by hand out of copper and plastic, with the idea that tags could be printed instead of made out of silicon. "They might only contain 32 bits of information, but I've already shown you an application that uses much less than that," Shri adds.Initial applications will be in the retail industry, and inventory control, particularly for things like medical supplies, where RFID chips are already used for tagging and tracking. "All these are small islands of information but if we connect them into a global network then the number of things you can do explodes. As the network evolves, the applications will evolve," he says."The network will not be one-to-one, it will be many-to-many. With multiple chips, we could do voice, we could do video..."
