Zhijian Chen, of Portland, Oregon, has achieved a distinction of some kind: he's the first person to be fined under Washington state's 2005 Computer Spyware Act. He has been ordered to pay $16,000 in restitution to users who bought Spyware Cleaner, $24,000 in fines, and almost $44,000 in attorneys' fees.Chen sent annoying pop-ups to Windows users via the Net Send command, so they were not blocked by browser-oriented pop-up blockers. These apparently looked like system messages, and directed users to a Web site. AsTechWebnotes:There, users were offered a free "scan" for malicious software. As in other so-called "rogue" anti-spyware products -- dubbed "scamware" by some -- the scan always detected spyware, even if none existed. To remove the fictitious spyware, users were pitched the $49.95 Spyware Cleaner.It's easy to understand why he did it: "Chen was paid a commission of 75% of the purchase price, or $37.46, for each copy of Spyware Cleaner sold to users fooled by his ersatz messages."
Educational, too....
Programmer Michael Brundage has written an interesting piece aboutWorking at Microsoft-- it's not obvioius when, but it interested a few of theSlashdotcrowd yesterday.Brundage has been working on theXbox 360's backwards compatibility, which is one of the more interesting challenges in the programming world. I suspect that the average grunt who doesn't get to give presentations or write books has a somewhat more jaundiced view, but that's true in any company....
I am thinking about changing to an Apple iMac, primarily for my graphic design work. Would I be better off purchasing a high-spec Intel-based Windows PC rather than an iMac, or can I be confident that I can run the Adobe Creative Suite 2 on the new iMac? Richard MinnsThis is not a good time to buy an Intel-based Mac specifically to run Adobe Creative Suite 2. This has not been converted to universal binary format for Intel-based Macs, and never will be. As a result, it has to run via the Rosetta translator, and the Windows version of ACS2 runs up to three times faster. Adobe is writing new versions of its programs and will launch Adobe Creative Suite 3 for Intel-based Macs, perhaps next year. In the meantime, Abode advises "Mac-based customers looking for optimal performance" to continue with their PowerPC-based Macs (http://tinyurl.com/r3ws8).As a Windows user, it would make more sense for you to run ACS2 on a PC - the programs have the same interfaces - until Adobe releases ACS3. Also, by that time, Apple will have released a new version of the Mac OS X operating system, plus Intel-based versions of its professional desktop PCs, perhaps using superior chips that Intel is releasing later this year. By waiting you will get a better computer, a better operating system and (probably) better applications, all of which should retain their usefulness - and value - longer.The next version of Mac OS X is expected to include Apple's Boot Camp software, which enables an Intel-based Mac to run Windows XP and applications at PC speeds. This could provide a staging strategy, where you run ACS2 under Windows while having a Mac for other purposes. However, Boot Camp is still an early beta and not recommended for serious use. Some users have found that after running XP, they were unable to reboot to Mac OS X.Finally, I recommend buying a top-end Mac for ACS, rather than an iMac. The tower systems are more expandable and flexible, and the iMac screen is not easily adjustable. For best performance, Adobe recommends using two hard drives, with ACS on a different drive from the operating system. I'd also recommend using two screens. ACS2 costs almost £800, and in a commercial setting, it is a false economy to run it on constrained hardware.
I use Trend Micro anti-virus software, and receive automatic updates every day, often two or three times a day. Are their boffins really constantly outwitting the work of a relentless tide of crooks? Pete AllerhandThere are new viruses every day, and new variants of old viruses, so yes, there is a constant battle. But there are at least two significant problems. First, thanks to broadband connections and spam emailers, a worm or virus can reach more than 100m PCs in five or six hours, whereas it can take an anti-virus company eight hours to create and test a defence. By that time it may be too late, so it often makes sense to have more than one update per day. Second, in such a fast-paced market, every anti-virus company is at risk of missing a few threats, and even the best could miss half a dozen a month. It makes sense, I think, for anti-virus companies to work together on detecting and identifying malware, while competing in other areas.
I read good things about Microsoft Antispyware/Windows Defender, but it is still in beta. Should non-techies use it? Kathy ArnoldMicrosoft obtained this program as a going concern by buying Giant Antispyware in December 2004, and it has been rewritten to form part of Windows Vista. Its main claim to fame is that it monitors parts of Windows for changes that could indicate the presence of spyware. However, it doesn't catch everything, so it is still worth running Spybot Search &amp; Destroy and/or Adaware from time to time. Warning: the beta Windows Defender has the option to automatically remove anything it doesn't like without asking for your consent. Ticking the box that says "Apply actions on detected items during scanning" is potentially dangerous.
This week'sTechnology supplementgoes a little games crazy, with three - if you count the reviews as one, and I am - articles that should interest anyone reading this blog. First up is Aleks,who arguesthat games have untapped educational potential. I'd agree, although I'm still scarred by a near-miss in the mid eighties as my dad nearly bought us an "educational" BBC B rather than the C64 that we finally persuaded him was "better for school". Anyone else get aBeebfrom a misguided parent?Elsewhere there are thelatest reviews- Guitar Hero, Tomb Raider and Driver: Parallel Lines - andmy articleabout casual games being the future, or at least a profitable present. And I didn't even get space to properly mention the online elements of the PS3 and Revolution.
So I admit I've been remiss in mypromiseto pester the Royal Mail to include Great British Gaming Faces on postage stamps after noting that the French folks across the Channel have already immortalised their icons on envelopes across theFraternité. I was reminded of my duty when I came across this post in blog-land about thelatest additionto the Japanese postal system:Mario himself!I shall send a notice to Postman Pat immediately to see if we can jump on the digitales bandwagon.
Yes,accordingto the website of US news channel CBS13 ("Sacremento's source for breaking news, weather and traffic"), an eight-year-old boy stole his teacher's minivan on monday afternoon and drove it carefully home, instantly becoming Modesto's youngest car thief - we hope by some considerable distance. At the end of the report, the diminutive joyrider's 'mom' reveals his favourite videogame... GTA!Brilliantly, though, this is no tabloid shock report brimming with 'ban this sick filth' indignation. The site treats the incident with, if anything, lighthearted humour. "You can't do anything but laugh," the boy's teacher apparently told reporters - although she did spend 90 minutes of Tuesday teaching other pupils about the consequences of the choices they make.At no point does anyone ask, "actually, what was an eight-year-old doing playing GTA?"Whatever, he can't have beentooheavily influenced by Rockstar's adventure game, however. As the story notes:"In order to operate the Dodge Caravan, he raised the driver's seat, lowered the steering wheel, adjusted the rearview mirror and turned off the radio."It seems he then resolutely failed to drive it at full-throttle down the wrong side of the road, swerving to hit pedestrians before 'trading in' the homely van for a passing Ford Mustang.Finally, I enjoyed this statement provided by the teacher:"This is the smallest child you can ever imagine. I don't think this kid is 4 feet tall. He's tiny; he's the tiniest kid in the class."Okay, okay, we get the picture! Is this how they build self-respect in the schools of Modesto? No wonder the kids are turning to car crime.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too.. with a plethora of thought-provoking pieces:You've got (paid-for) mailAdvocates believe that 'paid-for' email schemes are essential to put a stop to ever increasing spam, but critics say it will lead to a two-tier internet. Charles Arthur reports.An online time and place for everythingGoogle's new calendar could entice you to put your pocket diary on the web - and never again worry about losing it.Living on the street with no nameFree our data campaign:The eagerness of public bodies to cash in on their data has created a black hole in satellite navigation systems.Simple pleasures hold key to the console's futureThe growth of videogames that anyone can play and appeal to old and young alike are giving publishers a much-needed boost.IT is the magic ingredient to keep council services localTo some local authorities, the whole e-government strategy may already look like one giant Trojan horse. For the rest of us does this really matter? Asks Michael Cross.Jockeying for attentionAmateur film editors can subversively recut movies and adverts - The Shining as a feel-good film, West Side Story as a zombie flick. But will their work make the big studios smile or sue?NewsBytesNews in briefThis tablet could be worth taking for nowVictor Keegan: If the holy grail of mobile communication is to have all the functions you need on a single device, then the long-awaited Nokia 770 is a deep puzzle.TechnobileInstant messaging requires patience, and newcomers need to be schooled in the subculture's etiquette, writes Wendy M Grossman.Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.Can a Windows update actually be a downgrade?Yes, and Microsoft performed one last week, when it released its latest Windows update, MS06-013. Along with the code to fix various security holes in Internet Explorer.Have you ever paid for sex.com?Some people have, and it doesn't come cheap. Inflated domain prices may be the second horse of the online apocalypse - the first, of course, being startups getting huge cash inflows.GamesGames of the week: Guitar Hero | Tomb Raider: Legend | Driver: Parallel LinesEducative powers lost amid the violenceGames aren't just about base instincts, argues Aleks Krotoski. Yes, a disproportionate amount of fighting goes on, but there's a lot more to games than most non-players imagine.Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.
If the holy grail of mobile communication is to have all the functions you need on a single device, then the long-awaited Nokia 770, based on the open-source Linux operating system, is a deep puzzle. It lacks a word processor. It doesn't have a spreadsheet. There is no camera. There is no calendar. It isn't a personal digital assistant (PDA). And there is even a health warning attached to its calculator, stating that it has "limited accuracy". Oh, it doesn't make phone calls, either. Its selling point is that it is an "internet tablet", one of the first of what may be a new generation of handhelds with instant access to the internet either through a wireless link - at home or in local hotspots such as Starbucks - or with a Bluetooth short-distance wireless link (which most smart phones have).As a fast link to the internet, it is the most impressive I have encountered on a mobile device. In standby mode it took 45 seconds to reach a bookmarked website using Wi-Fi broadband at home - including the time it took to establish the right wireless connection. Once that was done, it took only 10 to 15 seconds to move from one website to another. Using Google was a joy. The 770 has a big high-resolution screen for a mobile device (9cm by 4.5cm) and weighs 180g. You can input text either by using the stylus on a screen-based keyboard or using the handwriting recognition mode (there is no conventional keyboard). This is fine for finding sites or typing a quick reply to an email but pretty hopeless for anything much longer.I started writing this article using Google Mail (which, as with other email sites, can be accessed easily) but soon gave up. However, I wrote a short blog post without any trouble and was impressed by the way it handled my Flickr photographic account, doing everything a laptop would do. It gave speedy access to internet radio such as Shoutcast (with loud and clear volume) and to the online encyclopedia, Wikipedia.A button at the top gets rid of all the toolbars etc, enabling the website to occupy the whole screen. An adjacent button increases the size of the text if you have difficulty reading, and if this means that part of the picture is out of sight then the stylus will guide you around the screen. Other features include audio and video players, games such as chess, and a regularly refreshing news feed on the home screen. You can watch films if you have a big enough memory card. Although it can't be used as a phone, there are plans for a download to provide internet telephony soon.The more I used this device the more I was impressed with how well it did its limited functions. Once you accept it is a complementary product and not one that is going to replace everything else, then it assumes a life of its own. If you want something that is lying around the house, or by your bedside, for instant use when needed, then this is for you. It could come of age during an era of omnipresent Wi-Fi, enabling anytime, anywhere access to the web for everything from word processing to blogging and video sites.Previous attempts to sell internet tablet computers have failed despite massive accompanying hype. This one has two things in its favour. It is tailor-made for the cloudburst of web applications we are promised and, being based on open source, it can call on a volunteer army of Linux enthusiasts to write programs for it. Let's hope they start by making it easy to use online word processors such as Writely. On the downside, there is a price tag of $350 (just under &pound;200). This is cheap if you regard yourself as buying a powerful, web-friendly computer, but a tad expensive as a luxury to leave around the house as an extra consumer durable. At a lower price it would be very tempting.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Q1 due in Q2Samsung has unveiled plans to release its Q1 ultra-mobile PC on May 1. It's so easy to use that senior executives from Samsung, Microsoft and Intel were almost able to run their own PowerPoint presentations, with only a little help, as The Korea Times reported.http://tinyurl.com/orcw3Die, Zombie BastardsSci-Fi London, a dedicated science fiction and fantasy film festival, will be held at the Apollo West End, London, from April 26-30.www.sci-fi-london.comMini diskMaxtor has announced a OneTouch III Mini Edition portable USB drive that stores 60GB or 100GB in a 200g package.Grub's upHu Jintao, the president of China, and his wife joined 100 guests for dinner at Bill Gates's house in Seattle. Menu options (under Table|Select) included fillet of beef with Walla Walla onions, local asparagus, celeriac pur&eacute;e and chervil glac&eacute;.Egged onResearch carried out outside Victoria Station, London, by Infosecurity Europe found that 81% of people were willing to part with all the personal information needed to steal their identity for the chance to win a &pound;60 "Easter egg bonanza".www.infosec.co.ukSnap hacksO'Reilly has published Flickr Hacks (&pound;17.50), a book of "tricks, tips, and tools" for the Flickr photo-sharing website.Webby hustleVoting has started for the People's Voice section of the 10th annual Webby Awards, and Guardian Unlimited is one nomination (hint). Polls close on May 5.http://peoplesvoice.webbyawards.comWe want porn!A large study of Google's mobile search by Maryam Kamvar and Shumeet Baluja found that more than 20% of all mobile queries in the US were for "adult" content.http://tinyurl.com/mr9eqToshiba by a headToshiba shipped its first HD-DVD players in Japan on April 1 and they reached US stores this week, only two months before the expected release of a Blu-ray player.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Yes, and Microsoft performed one last week, when it released its latest Windows update, MS06-013. Along with the code to fix various security holes in Internet Explorer, Microsoft included a patch to handle what is commonly known as the Eolas patent problem. This patch changes the way web browsers interact with ActiveX controls, and could affect things such as Macromedia Flash, Apple QuickTime, Adobe Reader and various applications that run in a browser.According to TechWeb News, a spokesman said: "While Microsoft tries to minimise the amount of non-security updates that go out with the regularly scheduled security updates, occasionally changes are permanently made to the Windows source code and therefore are picked up in the subsequent security update that installs the affected files. This particular change falls in that category."Microsoft released the code in advance, to give developers some chance to fix any problems and thus minimise the impact on the web. So far, the main problem seems to have been with Siebel 7 customer relationship management (CRM) software, now owned by Oracle. Minor problems have also been reported with early versions of Google's Toolbar and some versions of Sun's Java. People who are adversely affected can use Microsoft's "compatibility patch" to undo the change for 60 days.The code change results from Microsoft losing $521m in a lawsuit brought by Eolas Technologies and the University of California. Ludicrous as it sounds, Eolas was given a patent "for the embedding of small interactive programs, such as 'plug-ins', 'applets', 'scriptlets' or ActiveX Controls, into world wide web documents". Even more ludicrously, the patent was upheld even after the web's inventor, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, and others wrote to the US Patent Office asking for it to be declared invalid.On the other hand, making it harder to run applets in a browser may not always be a bad thing. A lot of them are rubbish, and some of us are already doing what we can to block them.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Emlyn Williams is mystified: why doesn't his house show up on satellite navigation systems? It was built in 1988, and he moved there in 1996, yet from time to time delivery drivers complain that they can't find it. His own tests on demo models in shops show that the problem is real: "Sometimes the postcode is recognised (not always), but is linked to a different street. On the ones I've tried, the street name isn't recognised at all."When he searches online on Multimap, he gets a circle over the correct place - but no street name appears. Multimap told him that "our map data comes from different suppliers who provide many other organisations with this same information". Other navigators, such as ViaMichelin and RAC Route Planner, recognise either or both the address and the postcode, but show no street name. Online,Streetmap.co.ukrecognises the street name and postcode.So what is going on? The insistence that address and postcode data should "pay" for themselves is creating delays for the very people and companies who originally funded their collection.The Williams house's apparent invisibility is caused by the eagerness of the Post Office and Ordnance Survey (OS) to sell their postcode and geographic address data sets respectively. That wouldn't happen if both provided their data free, as the Guardian Technology Free Our Data campaign argues they should.When a building is created, the local council assigns it an address and a number or name. That name and address is passed on to the Post Office, which assigns a postcode. The UK postcode list, known as the Postcode Address File (PAF), has been resold by the Post Office for years, even though more widespread use would ease the Post Office's task: postcoded letters are easier to sort and deliver.The PAF and its updates are bought by OS, which literally puts them on the map. "The value we bring is the high-quality spatial coordinate, ie saying where '23 Main Street' is in terms of x and y coordinates," says an OS spokesman.So why doesn't the Williams house appear on satellite navigation systems? As OS itself says on its website (http://tinyurl.com/jceto): "Please note that not all navigation systems use road network data produced or maintained by Ordnance Survey." Which can easily create confusion. As it points out: "There are 800,000 road names, the most frequently occurring being High Street - there are more than 1,000 of them."But why don't all in-car navigation systems use the data collected by the UK's mapping agency? Because it's expensive. To bring down costs, some satellite navigation companies have tried sourcing data from local councils which, after all, know about road changes. They're the ones who maintain roads, and tell the Post Office about new ones - which tells OS, which maps them.But OS's licensing foils that. As the minutes of a Coventry council meeting from March reveal (http://tinyurl.com/z6n2h),councils are not allowed to pass on that data to satnav companies, because the council uses OS maps to note where changes have been made. "The provisions of the legal agreement, covering our use of maps and derived data, preclude passing data to any organisation for commercial purposes. Therefore, the city council could not provide data to the satellite navigation companies due to legal constraints," say the council minutes.So the Williams house remains elusive. "If double-glazing salesman relied on satnav to find me I might be tempted to keep quiet, but they don't. Meanwhile, I have to guide delivery people into my address by phone," he remarks - another example of how putting a price on public data imposes a cost on the public.See the campaign blog atwww.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You may have worried occasionally whether an email you sent had arrived. Was the address correct? Does your intended recipient check that address regularly? Or might it have somehow been junked as spam? You probably didn't worry, though, whether sending that message would lead to a two-tier internet in which you would have to pay for your messages to be received; and in which some messages would receive favourable treatment, being express-delivered to the inboxes of people who might not have asked for them.But some people are deeply concerned about exactly that. The process by which "paid-for" emails could lead to a two-tier internet will be the topic of a debate tonight in California between Esther Dyson, editor of Release 1.0 for CNet Networks, who favours paid-for email delivery, and Danny O'Brien, of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), who will argue that the effects of such initiatives could spread far and wide until they engulf the "neutral" internet that we like to think exists now - and so must be stopped.And the argument over email is a microcosm of far larger disagreements about who should pay for what online, and whether the present model for internet economies - which turn many of the economic models we are used to offline on their heads - are viable.The argument about email has been simmering since AOL announced in February that it would be using the services of a firm called Goodmail. It guarantees the delivery of bulk emails for a fee of $2 to $3 per thousand, payable by the organisations sending them, which would be vetted beforehand. Their emails would arrive with an inline logo, guaranteeing their content as not being spam or phishing - at least by Goodmail's lights.Critics called it paid-for spam, saying AOL and Goodmail were creating a revenue stream for themselves in which customers would have to endure unwanted messages, while other messages they did want would increasingly be blocked by AOL's spam filters - creating a world where you'd have to pay to get someone to see an email that they wanted. AOL countered that it would keep plenty of avenues open for bulk-mailing organisations such as charities to reach its customers. "This is all about protecting consumers from spam, phishing, viruses and fraud," said Richard Gingras, chief executive of Goodmail.Block bustingThe debate abruptly reached a head last week with the discovery that AOL was (almost certainly accidentally) blocking emails containing a link todearaol.com, the site where the EFF has set up an online letter and petition asking people to oppose AOL's policy. Send an email without the dearaol.com link, and it would arrive; send it with the link, and the message would bounce back to the sender. Suspicions were heightened when the problem disappeared just 20 minutes after the EFF put out a press release about it.So is Goodmail and its principle of making people pay to send emails a bad idea? Dyson argues that the maturation of the internet - and, in particular, of online threats - makes such payment systems inevitable. She says opponents of "sender-pays" schemes are being naive. "[They] seem to think that all internet mail must always be free, just because it was free before. Yet they pay for computers and internet access and office supplies," she argued in an article in the New York Times last month (available on her website atwww.tinyurl.com/fgjxg.Dyson said that services like Goodmail are now necessary. "It's idealistic and unrealistic in a world where there are bad people; you need to spend money to protect yourself. At the moment, the costs have to be borne by the recipient. Really you want to charge through third parties [such as Goodmail] who can work together with ISPs." She thinks Goodmail is "better, but not best" in terms of solving what she sees as the email problem. "At least one start-up is coming on Thursday [to the debate] - they use a system where the recipient gets money."Despite scientists and engineers being among her opponents, she compared them to advocates of "intelligent design" (the anti-scientific idea that the universe had a "designer"). "People who are anti-Goodmail say, 'Let's have an intelligent design for anti-spam systems'," she says. "I believe in evolution: there will be a lot of different attempts, and some will work and some won't, and the best will thrive."The weakness in this argument is that the internet was definitely designed, by humans. And it's exploited by them, too. Indeed, the driving force behind Goodmail is the high level of spam and the growing volume of phishing. Arguably, Bill Gates blessed such anti-spam projects by proxy when in 2004 he told the Davos conference that "two years from now, spam will be solved", and suggested systems whereby senders would have to get their computers to solve cryptographic puzzles, or "pay" a certain amount of (refundable) money, or work within a system where mail servers verified the identity of a server. Only the last has appeared, and only to a limited extent.Spam challenge systems have proliferated, and spam-trapping is now pervasive. But it can cause tremendous problems. In the UK, NTL last year began using Sorbs, which claims to identify "rogue" servers being used to send spam, and blacklist them. Unfortunately, as a long discussion on the Ask Jack blog demonstrated in January, emails sent from addresses such ashotmail.comsilently failed to reach their destination. That caused a great deal of consternation - and anger that NTL had not told its customers or given them the option of allowing particular emails (seewww.tinyurl.com/h3xa4)AOL, too, labels as "probable spam" messages from websites with "registration" links and URLs. BT uses Yahoo's spam-blocking system, which uses a Sorbs-like method that automatically marks as spam any email that comes directly from a PC, rather than going through an ISP or other mail server. Users, too, have a multitude of methods to defeat spam, with filtering programs such as Mailwasher, Spam Assassin, Post Armor or POP Monitor, which they can tailor to their needs. But none of these products has turned back the tide of spam. According to Postini, a mail-filtering service, spam makes up 82.5% of all email it sees.The argument about email is a microcosm of the debate about "network neutrality" - whether organisations responsible for the passage of internet data should have the right to pick and choose which get preferential treatment. It has already surfaced over the issue of telephone calls made via the internet (Trouble on the line, April 6), where cable providers argue that they should be able to block some calls to favour their own service. The same argument has begun about video over the net, as cable companies in the US - which also provide broadband services - contend that they should be able to give preference to their internet-delivered video, rather than having to treat all-comers equally as the law compels them to.The chief executive of AT&amp;T, Ed Whitacre, put this view to Business Week magazine last November (www.tinyurl.com/j3q99): "Why should [Google et al] be allowed to use my pipes? The internet can't be free in that sense, because we and the cable companies have made an investment, and for a Google or Yahoo! or Vonage or anybody to expect to use these pipes [for] free is nuts!" AT&amp;T was then completing a $67bn merger with BellSouth to create the US's largest telecoms company. Many people were outraged that he should think customers who had already paid for internet access should be denied access to online services without a behind-the-scenes payment to AT&amp;T from companies like Google.Email economicsSpam may be too intractable and embedded a problem to yield to simple solutions. Dyson suggests that, in future, people who want to email her might have to "pay" a dollar, refundable if she accepts their mail (or perhaps not, if it's their first time contacting her). "I think there will be lots of systems, and they'll all work differently." The economics of dealing with that would put off spammers, she suggests. "I agree that pretty soon sending most email will cost money, but I think that's only right," she said in her March article. "It costs money to guarantee quality and safety. Moreover, I think the market will work, and that it will not shut out deserving senders."Only one problem with that: a "sender- pays" free-for-all would actually benefit spammers and seriously inconvenience everyone else, according to research by Dr Richard Clayton, of the security group in the computer laboratory at Cambridge University. In a 2004 study, he noted a number of reasons why "sender pays" would fail: labour is cheap in Asia (where spammers could hire people to click on links or get computers to solve puzzles); middlemen would push up their price; and spammers offering profitable items (such as pharmaceuticals, real or fake) could afford to pay per-email prices that ordinary users wouldn't - so your inbox would see proportionally more spam.Plus, Clayton adds, "for a consumer at home with some bit of malware on their machine stealing their resources, you'd get a bill for hundreds of pounds for the millions of spam emails it had sent out".But he thinks that Goodmail is not as bad as has been suggested; that it is a legitimate way for airlines or banks to reach customers, when messages might otherwise be blocked. O'Brien disagrees, seeing it as the slippery slope towards a two-tier - or multi-tier - internet. The EFF argues (at dearaol.com) that those organisations that do not pay the "email tax" would increasingly be left behind with unreliable service. "Your customers expect that your first obligation is to deliver all of their wanted mail, and this plan is a step away from that obligation."O'Brien adds that widespread "sender-pays" systems would be a disaster. "What would you lose to do this? Basically, nearly all of the advantages email has over existing post. Mass mail in the postal system is mainly transactional mail (bills), advertising with a clear monetary return, and occasionally charities begging for money. Compare that with the richness of email conversations: long threads and discussions, updates from groups appealing from 20 to 20 million with no ask, and no money expected; shared knowledge about a hundred and one topics."Pay-to-send would be a way of filtering your incoming mail against spam. Like any suggestion for filtering, we should judge it on the false positives it falsely rejects. In this case, that's a vast chunk of the conversations and interchanges from across the world that makes mail what it is. It sounds an easy solution, but the collateral damage would be incomparably worse than even today's filters."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Games aren't just about base instincts. Yes, a disproportionate amount of fighting goes on, but there's a lot more to games than most non-players imagine. Unfortunately, only the violent elements are broadcast to the public, but educators are increasingly adapting game products for the classroom.Games feature an inimitable interactivity, which puts a player in an environment where he must learn the correct path towards advancement. Controversy surrounds this potential for 18+ games, but in the context of the curriculum, the potential for learning is great.According to BBC statistics from last year, 59% of people between the ages of six and 65 play games - 26.5 million in the UK - and most play between one and five times a week.The Department for Education and Skills has worked with designers to develop interactive learning software. Its foreign language product Sonica, released in 2004, integrated Spanish lessons with more than 200 interactive games. Evaluations maintain that it has increased participation, improved skills and inspired independent learning. Other initiatives have engaged students in subjects from zoology to space travel using virtual hands-on techniques.The instant feedback of games is far more engaging than writing an English essay. Furthermore, players are progressively able to put their unique footprints on game worlds. Developers may impose the context and spectrum of activities, but increasingly their roles are as advisers. The player is constantly challenged and engaged, and is the master of his progression. This makes for a compelling product, and, with a little adaptation, digital canvasses could become effective learning environments.Adaptation is a cheaper alternative to creating bespoke software, and "unofficial" use of off-the-shelf products in lesson plans has been growing. Dance mat games have increased attendance in PE classes. Tim Rylands, a west country primary school teacher, won the 2005 Becta award for ICT in Practice using Ubisoft's commercial fantasy role-playing title Myst to support literacy and communication. His innovative use of gaming technology helped Chew Magna School achieve third place in the country's league tables.Further afield, virtual witnesses are cross-examined by journalism students at the University of Minnesota after simulated accidents in NeverWinter Nights.Such examples challenge the stereotype of games as destructive media. And Gamesblog is keen to hear more experiences. The more the positive benefits of gaming are talked about, the greater likelihood we'll learn something.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Guitar HeroPlayStation 2 (comes with controller), Harmonix/Red Octane, &#163;39.99Guitar Hero is a game where frets, not frags, are all that matter. The guitarshaped controller only confirms this. Plug the plasticky, yet oddly satisfying peripheral, into your PlayStation 2 and it all makes sense. Choose your tune - from Black Sabbath to Franz Ferdinand - and strum away by matching the onscreen prompts with coloured buttons on the guitar. Sound easy? Not a bit of it. Dexterity is essential, skidding on your knees with a tie round your head as you live out those Brian May fantasies is purely optional. Thankfully there is depth to add to the novelty. For example, hitting the special star power notes is crucial to get high scores. But Guitar Hero isn't really about scores and the normal gaming rewards. Instead it concentrates on being the one game where dads can compete on equal terms with teenage offspring. And for that alone it deserves respect.Greg HowsonTomb Raider: LegendXbox 360, Xbox, PS2, PC, PSP, Crystal Dynamics/Eidos, &#163;29.99We can all breathe a sigh of relief: Crystal Dynamics back-to-basics approach to the revered (but recently tarnished) Lara Croft's starring vehicle has been successful. Croft is back doing what she does best - raiding tombs primarily - and has never moved or looked better. Indeed, the tomb-raiding sequences have all the fluidity of Prince of Persia - the influence of original Lara designer Toby Gard is palpable. Tomb Raider: Legend's puzzles are the best in the series, thanks tocanny use of a physics engine, and there are some diverting driving-and-shooting sequences on the back of a Ducati. Many of the boss-battles are dodgy, though, and the game ought to be longer. But Croft manages to rekindle past glories, with considerable style. How could we have doubted her?Steve BoxerDriver: Parallel LinesPS2, Xbox, Reflections/Atari, &#163;39.99In case you'd forgotten, the game that started the drive anywhere/do anything genre was Driver 2. Sadly, the follow-up was so badly bugged that Grand Theft Auto 3 nipped in and claimed all the plaudits. So will this latest instalment be the one to finally redress the balance? If only life were that fair! In fairness, Parallel Lines does much to redeem its reputation. For a start, most of the bugs have gone, most of the action is now behind the wheel (as opposed to the on-foot shenanigans of Driver 3) and with 35 New York missions played out to a cool 70s soundtrack, there's plenty to enjoy. However, it still lacks the weight, variety and sub-cultural chic of Rockstar's recent efforts. You also yearn for a higher calibre of car and greater control to make it truly essential. However, it is a big wheel-spin in the right direction.Mike Anderiesz&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Police forces from across the world are queuing up to buy a head-mounted camera developed in Britain and tested by the Metropolitan and Devon and Cornwall police.Forces in Los Angeles, New York and Japan are among those which have bought or expressed an interest in the Cylon camera, which lets officers film incidents with hands free.Steve Rogers, chief executive of the Plymouth-based Audax Group, which has produced the cameras, said the company had been "overwhelmed" by the response.Devon and Cornwall police began using the &pound;1,700 cameras in December.
It's hard to beat a pocket diary: there's still no more practical way of keeping track of where you or your kids should be, and when. But last week's launch of Google Calendar could encourage more people to explore the possibilities of putting their schedules online.Google had long been expected to add a calendar to its growing portal - everyone else has one - but it's also a growth area. The past year has seen the arrival of more than a dozen calendar sites, with the most visible being 30Boxes, Airset, Kiko and SpongeCell. If the online calendar market is about to take off, Google Calendar should be ready.There are, of course, advantages to going online. First, you can share your schedule with other people; for example, you can have separate shared calendars for family members, fellow workers or members of a club. Second, you can subscribe to lists of events, which means you can add, say, concert dates or your favourite sports teams matches without typing them all in. Third, you can't easily misplace an online calendar - and anybody who has lost a Filofax will appreciate how devastating that can be. You can make your online calendar handily portable just by printing it out, and if you lose that, it's easy to print another copy.So far, these features have not proved attractive to the average web user. According to research firm Nielsen/NetRatings, AOL has the most popular online calendar, with 2.9 million users, followed by Yahoo (2.4 million) and Microsoft's MSN (1.3 million). Since MSN's Hotmail has around 200 million users, and all of them have access to its online calendar, the take-up is less than 1%.More responsiveBut all of those services date back to the 1990s: Google Calendar is faster and easier to use. Like Gmail, Google's email service, Google Calendar downloads and runs JavaScript code in the browser (Internet Explorer and Firefox only), which makes the user interface much more responsive. Google has also exploited the iCalendar internet standard, which has superseded the old vCal, and XML, the eXtensible Markup Language. The first makes it much easier to share calendar data; XML makes it easy to add a button to a web page, which users can click to add an event to their Google Calendar.Google has such a huge influence on the web that these features are likely to be well supported, and there are already lots of calendars you can search for and import. Thousands of web jockeys are already building sites that use Google Maps, and its a fair bet that many will use the programming features of Google Calendar, too. A calendar entry can already send out email invitations and - in the US only, at the moment - SMS messages. Perhaps it could be used to trigger other events, leading to a more calendar-driven world.Google has also included some natural language recognition in Gcal's Quick Add box, so you can type a sentence - "Meet Pat at Heathrow next Wednesday at 11am" - to create an appointment. This has been done before by, for example, the 30Boxes calendar, and Spongecell seems to do it better. Still, it will be new to most Google Calendar users, and it's handier than filling in a form to create an appointment.Another idea is to parse email messages in Gmail and use the details of meetings to create calendar entries. Google Calendar does this, but not for everyone. It's a feature that is still being rolled out, and my Gmail mailbox has no calendar integration at all.Google will also face competition. Both Yahoo and Microsoft have similar offerings in beta test at the moment, and Microsoft is expected to include a calendar in the Vista version of Windows that will connect to the calendar on its Windows Live website. However, at the moment, Google Calendar is much the most polished offering.But Google Calendar is also a beta with a long way to go. It does not have the synchronisation features needed for serious business use - an area where Yahoo leads, through its use of Puma's Intellisync. Google Calendar seems to have a gaping hole where the open industry standard SyncML (Synchronisation Markup Language) could be.Serious calendar users normally keep their schedule in Microsoft Outlook or another PIM (personal information manager) such as Ecco. This desktop schedule is then synchronised with one or more mobile devices: usually a phone or a PDA (personal digital assistant), such as a Palm or Psion, or even a music player - whatever you carry around. It could also be synchronised with an online service, but rarely is.Unfinished synchronyAt the moment, Google Calendar lets you upload an existing calendar from Outlook or anything that supports the iCalendar standard, such as Apple's iCal and Mozilla Sunbird, and you can download a Google Calendar and read it. With a bit of work, you can even update one from the other, essentially by subscribing to a "feed". What you cannot do is have your desktop calendar synchronise with a Google Calendar so that one updates the other, the way Outlook synchronises with a mobile phone. According to reports, that feature is on the way.And with SyncML - which competes with Microsoft's ActiveSync - it should be possible to synchronise a Google Calendar directly with a compatible Motorola, Nokia, Sony Ericsson or Symbian-based mobile phone.However it's done, syncing with a portable device is probably the key to making an online calendar really useful -and perhaps finally replacing some of those pocket diaries.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Playing legendary rock riffs on your guitar? Answering trivia questions? Singing along to Duran Duran's Rio? Videogaming has come a long way since Space Invaders and Doom. It has finally hit the mainstream, driven by huge sales of "casual" games such as Guitar Hero, Buzz and SingStar. While sales of traditional videogames have been fairly flat, some of the biggest sellers of the past year have been games that appeal to everyone, not just the core 18-35 male audience.Until fairly recently, videogaming has been a generally male pastime, with consoles and PC gaming dominating. But the growth in popularity of casual games - puzzles and simple arcade games - over the past few years has been in stark contrast to the traditional market."If you examine the household penetration rate of home consoles over the past 20 years, you will see that it hasn't really risen from around 30%. All that is happening is that we are selling more consoles to the same people," says Robert Saunders, a spokesman for Nintendo.Console manufacturers have realised that widening the market is crucial, as each transition to the next generation takes its toll on publishers. Wedbush Morgan Securities' NPD preview of console software sales for last month suggests they were down 18% on last year to $445m."The gamers who are using the current kit have expanded far beyond the techy early adopters and trend followers into the mass market," says San Dromgoole, chief executive of Some Research. "This more casual, less committed, gaming demographic have notably different needs from the hardcore boys that preceded them."Retro gamesThe clearest manifestation of this new focus is the inclusion of Live Arcade in the Xbox 360. Arcade allows gamers to download casual puzzle and retro games that offer simplistic graphics compared with the latest 360 titles but are simple and enjoyable to play. "Whole genres were disappearing from retail and publisher portfolios, including fun genres we all grew up with, like scrolling shooters, 2D platformers, puzzlers etc," says Greg Canessa, group manager of Xbox Live Arcade. "Arcade enables game developers and publishers to develop games for much lower cost and time than a traditional game."Initial figures suggest that the service is popular - more than 4m items have been downloaded since the 360 launched - with titles such as Geometry Wars and Zuma proving that looks aren't everything. Many of these puzzles and games are available from the web for the PC, often for free. Canessa remains confident that the service can differentiate itself from casual game operators like Pogo. "Live Arcade is the equivalent of the Sundance festival for games. It has opened up the console to small indie developers to develop and distribute innovative, intensely creative game titles."The other console manufacturers have been equally keen to appeal to the wider market. Nintendo appears to be basing its upcoming Revolution console around casual games. The controller resembles a TV remote control and is designed to be unthreatening to use. The vision behind the concept is sound. "People who grew up playing games are now in their 20s and 30s, and have demands on their time," says Saunders. "They require different types of games and may want family and friends to play with them, which requires a different type of videogame."The success of the tactile Nintendo DS - with its touch screen and microphone - shows that a market exists. For Saunders, the interface is key. "Nintendogs, Donkey Konga, SingStar and EyeToy all have two things in common. First, success in the mass market with the casual gamer, and second, all have new and innovative interfaces and new ways to play." Then there is Brain Training, which has sold more than a million copies, mainly to older Japanese consumers who warmed to the cryptic puzzles and conundrums.But it is Sony, in particular Sony Europe, that has made the biggest strides in this area. More than 600,000 EyeToys - the innovative webcam peripheral that allows users to interact with the screen by waving their arms around - have been sold in the UK since its launch in July 2003. That's twice as many as a top-selling traditional title such as Need for Speed: Most Wanted. The quiz game Buzz has been a smash hit - more than 200,000 sold so far - and is already on to its second iteration after launching just before Christmas. And then there is SingStar, which lets you holler along to music from the past four decades. By appealing to both sexes and all ages - the 1980s edition sold in large numbers to the over-40s - the game has done much to boost the PS2's appeal."We were intentionally trying to reach a wider audience," says Paulina Bozek, senior producer for SingStar at Sony Computer Entertainment Europe. "This motivated us to focus on how we can fundamentally change some of the experiences, and many of the design decisions were specifically focused on how we can get everyone to play, and to play together."Short burstsThe focus is on new forms of entertainment. "Videogames have been perceived as something you do alone, but games like SingStar, EyeToy and Buzz work in the opposite way. They are specifically designed to be played socially," says Bozek. Kelly Sumner, chief executive of Guitar Hero's publisher, RedOctane, adds: "Our attention spans are declining, and we're typically demanding games which can be played piecemeal. We want short bursts, but don't want to be short-changed".Clearly, gaming needs to broaden its appeal to break out beyond the converted. Creating different types of games that don't involve complicated input or space vixens in a fantasy land is essential for growth. "Just as the music industry offers classical, pop and jazz, and the film industry offers arthouse, sci-fi and the Hollywood blockbuster among its offerings, so the games industry should be creating titles and genres that appeal to as many people as possible," says Saunders.One of the most popular new games is Guitar Hero, a PlayStation 2 title that comes with a replica Gibson guitar peripheral. Players strum along to tracks from groups ranging from Black Sabbath to Franz Ferdinand. The game has been a huge success in the US - particularly, one imagines, with head tie-wearing dad-rockers.Sumner is clear why the game has done well: "Too often, playing interactive entertainment is a solo pursuit. Guitar Hero, SingStar et al are almost as much fun to watch as they are to play."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
On May 4, voters in London boroughs and other English councils will blow millions of democratic raspberries at Tony Blair or David Cameron, according to taste. Judging by the electoral literature that's come through my door, political parties have given up even pretending that these local elections are about local issues. Voters realised long ago who makes all the important decisions about what their council does and how much it spends. Whitehall doesn't even trust councillors to decide whether library catalogues should be posted on the web.Odd, then, to read an official declaration that councils are on the way back. According to a paper from the Cabinet Office (Transformational local government,www.cio.gov.uk) local government is at a "tipping point" thanks to a policy that is "broadly sympathetic to the value of local public services and local government's role in leading their integration". The magic ingredient, apparently, is IT.The paper is a discussion document aimed at engaging local authorities in the "transformational government" IT strategy published last November. E-government wonks will remember this is all about joining up public services around users' needs, and government agencies saving money by sharing finance and personnel departments, not to mention citizens' personal data.Despite the above, the Cabinet Office can't directly order local councils to do things its way. Hence the need to portray transformation as part of the new "double devolution" agenda, of empowering a new tier of local communities. It's not all twaddle. As the paper points out, the local e-government programme between 2000 and 2005 created exciting new channels of engagement between local authorities and their communities, for example allowing us to keep tabs on planning decisions and council meetings electronically. Meanwhile, computerised contact centres, when run properly, give citizens confidence that their inquiries and complaints are being heard.Yet, for all its talk of neighbourhood decision-making, the real thrust of e-government policy appears headed in the opposite direction. Take the local Directgov scheme for "deep linking" between the national web portal and local services: the whole idea is to bypass councils' own web pages. Or the Government Connect Programme to plug councils' IT into central systems: it looks like an attempt to turn local authorities into branch offices of national government.Then we have shared services. Although it is patently daft for every single local council to run its own bureaucracy, the government's obsession with cutting the number of call centres squares oddly with local accountability. As the discussion document notes: "If poorly or inappropriately implemented ... shared services could conflict with many of the other objectives of local government transformation - to devolve power to communities, to deliver more responsive local services, to increase choice and personalisation, to reach excluded groups more effectively."Councillors and public sector unions can be expected to make this point forcefully when Whitehall's shared services squads come to call. In fact, to some local authorities, the whole e-government strategy may already look like one giant Trojan horse. For the rest of us, as citizens or businesses, does this really matter? Certainly, the outcry over "postcode lotteries" in the NHS suggests limits to our enthusiasm for locally tailored public services. Is it time to knock this sham of local accountability on the head and route all our contacts with officialdom to Whitehall via Chennai?I don't think so. I'd prefer to take at face value the discussion document's thesis that IT can help develop public services that are more locally responsive and more efficient. To get there, as the document says: "We need to explore the ways in which ICT can inform and support people in making collective choices and finding the right local balance between service quality and cost." Which, if anyone would let us, is what we should be voting about in two weeks' time.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Professional prose too valuable to loseLet us hope that the financial challenge Wikipedia poses to Britannica (A thirst for knowledge, April 13) will not mean the disappearance of such publications. The institution I work for uses Wikipedia as an internal searchable information repository. This is extremely useful, but a comparison of the instructional texts within our publication would pale when compared to a collated piece of prose, produced by experienced professionals.Andrew BoagWellington, New Zealand&#183;By comparing Wikipedia unfavourably to learned academic resources, Andrew Orlowski misses the point. Wikipedia is highly accessible and free, contains a range of information and is far bigger than traditional intellectual tomes. Rather than criticising the wiki model, Orlowski should reconsider his old-fashioned views on what constitutes important information. Whereas an editor was once needed to second guess relevancy, we can now measure it in mouse clicks.John PictonMerseyside&#183;Orlowski seemed to imply it was difficult for library authorities in the UK to provide equivalent services to those in the US. This may have been the case but I think we are fast catching up. I work on an online reference library project for Lancashire library and we have expanded our online provision considerably and provide many established sources for home use. In common with many library authorities, our web page also acts as a gateway to recommended websites and we see part of our role as that of evaluating online sources and pointing the public to trusted sources.Andrew WalmsleyLancashire County, Library &amp; Information ServiceNever before have so many people been able to get poorly thought-out arguments and prejudice far beyond the bounds of the bar room.www.hackingcough.com/blog/We don't expect the ocean to turn out ready-to-consume cans of tuna. We shouldn't expect pre-packaged, ready-to-consume information from Wikipedia.http://socialsynergy.typepad.comWatching the watchersLike Wendy Grossman (Technobile, April 6), someone doesn't want me to be in control of my viewing with my TiVo. For me it's Sky, who would rather I got one of its less intelligent SkyPlus boxes.Sky has moved all its radio channel numbers to four digit numbers. TiVo can only read three digit numbers. When I rang TiVo support, they had no solution. Except to "upgrade" to SkyPlus. TiVo is no longer available here. Sky, which was to have been marketing TiVo in the UK, now has its own, loyal personal video recorder in SkyPlus (TiVo also works with Freeview and cable). After buying the SkyPlus box, viewers have to pay a subscription for programming information. I hope Ofcom is watching.Ann StylesLondonNo arm-twistingIt's the British Phonographic Industry's choice (Newly asked questions, April 13) to assume that each free download replaces a paid-for one that leads to them insisting that zillions of pounds are being stolen. It's like the pen industry claiming the free pens you get from charities are ruining their industry, because otherwise you'd buy a jewel-encrusted fountain pen.http://xrrf.blogspot.comFew efficiency savingsUsing nanotubes (Tiny tubes could bring big savings, April 13) to effect a 10% increase in the heat transfer rate of the circulating fluid in your central heating system will permit the size of radiators to be reduced, but will have little effect on the efficiency of the system, which is dependent first on the efficiency of the boiler, and then on the effectiveness of the control system. If the nanotubes allow water-flow temperature to be reduced, this may help boilers operate more often in condensing mode and therefore more efficiently, but the improvement will be far smaller than 10%. Radiator manufacturers often boast of their products' "efficiency", but it is eyewash; so is this.Alan KennedyLondon
Adobe for Intel MacsI am thinking about changing to an Apple iMac, primarily for my graphic design work. Would I be better off purchasing a high-spec Intel-based Windows PC rather than an iMac, or can I be confident that I can run the Adobe Creative Suite 2 on the new iMac?Richard MinnsJack Schofield replies:This is not a good time to buy an Intel-based Mac specifically to run Adobe Creative Suite 2. This has not been converted to universal binary format for Intel-based Macs, and never will be. As a result, it has to run via the Rosetta translator, and the Windows version of ACS2 runs up to three times faster. Adobe is writing new versions of its programs and will launch Adobe Creative Suite 3 for Intel-based Macs, perhaps next year. In the meantime, Abode advises "Mac-based customers looking for optimal performance" to continue with their PowerPC-based Macs (http://tinyurl.com/r3ws8).As a Windows user, it would make more sense for you to run ACS2 on a PC - the programs have the same interfaces - until Adobe releases ACS3. Also, by that time, Apple will have released a new version of the Mac OS X operating system, plus Intel-based versions of its professional desktop PCs, perhaps using superior chips that Intel is releasing later this year. By waiting you will get a better computer, a better operating system and (probably) better applications, all of which should retain their usefulness - and value - longer.The next version of Mac OS X is expected to include Apple's Boot Camp software, which enables an Intel-based Mac to run Windows XP and applications at PC speeds. This could provide a staging strategy, where you run ACS2 under Windows while having a Mac for other purposes. However, Boot Camp is still an early beta and not recommended for serious use. Some users have found that after running XP, they were unable to reboot to Mac OS X.Finally, I recommend buying a top-end Mac for ACS, rather than an iMac. The tower systems are more expandable and flexible, and the iMac screen is not easily adjustable. For best performance, Adobe recommends using two hard drives, with ACS on a different drive from the operating system. I'd also recommend using two screens. ACS2 costs almost &pound;800, and in a commercial setting, it is a false economy to run it on constrained hardware.Virus dailiesI use Trend Micro anti-virus software, and receive automatic updates every day, often two or three times a day. Are their boffins really constantly outwitting the work of a relentless tide of crooks?Pete AllerhandJS:There are new viruses every day, and new variants of old viruses, so yes, there is a constant battle. But there are at least two significant problems. First, thanks to broadband connections and spam emailers, a worm or virus can reach more than 100m PCs in five or six hours, whereas it can take an anti-virus company eight hours to create and test a defence. By that time it may be too late, so it often makes sense to have more than one update per day. Second, in such a fast-paced market, every anti-virus company is at risk of missing a few threats, and even the best could miss half a dozen a month. It makes sense, I think, for anti-virus companies to work together on detecting and identifying malware, while competing in other areas.Ready for DefenderI read good things about Microsoft Antispyware/Windows Defender, but it is still in beta. Should non-techies use it?Kathy ArnoldJS:Microsoft obtained this program as a going concern by buying Giant Antispyware in December 2004, and it has been rewritten to form part of Windows Vista. Its main claim to fame is that it monitors parts of Windows for changes that could indicate the presence of spyware. However, it doesn't catch everything, so it is still worth running Spybot Search &amp; Destroy and/or Adaware from time to time. Warning: the beta Windows Defender has the option to automatically remove anything it doesn't like without asking for your consent. Ticking the box that says "Apply actions on detected items during scanning" is potentially dangerous.Backchat&#183;Last week I pointed out that Hotmail users risk having their mail deleted. Michael Juffs says: "There is a free web-based email service that has no time limit for storing messages: the much overlooked Opera and its Operamail." The drawback is that it provides only 3MB of storage space, and the paid-for version only 25MB.&#183;Terry Vincent writes from France to say: "After running CCleaner I found that all of the French in my documents was changed to English (US)." This is something I can't account for, but is worth raising in the CCleaner help forum athttp://forum.ccleaner.com.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Some people have, and it doesn't come cheap. Sex.com is the top banana in Zetetic's list of the All-Time Top Domain Sales, having changed hands for a cool $14 million earlier this year (following a long-running ownership battle under which the original owner, Gary Kremen, is owed $65m in damages). Seven of the top 10 were purchased in 1999, at the peak of the dotcom bubble - examples includebusiness.com($7.5m),wine.com($3.3m) and loans.com ($3.0m) - but Zetetic reckons the market is hotting up again.Which may mean that all those tales of Bubble 2.0 really are coming to pass; inflated domain prices may be the second horse of the online apocalypse, the first, of course, being startups getting huge cash inflows (the first time from venture capitalists, this time from established internet giants such as Yahoo and Google; it's progress, of sorts).Zetetic says that sales of 5,851 domain names generated $29m in 2005, compared with 3,813 sales worth $15m in 2004. It's also evident at Domain Name Journal magazine, which publishes a weekly Top 20 chart. Over Easter,MovieRentals.comwas sold for $100,249, andCubanCigars.comfor $55,000.The companies that make a living out of this kind of speculation are ponying up big bucks to play. According to a story in USA Today: "Publicly traded Marchex spent $164m on more than 100,000 domain names, includingdestination.comanddebts.comlast year. It works with Yahoo to direct advertisers to specialised websites such asvideocamera.com. Separately, Marchex has acquired 74,000 zip code domains, such as 90210.com."But domain names are not always a safe bet. The $3.35m paid foraltavista.comin 1999 doesn't look quite such a good deal today. And what about the &pound;30 spent by Diana George of Hickling, Norwich, who leapt (figuratively) into cyberspace in May 2000 to register leoblair.com and leoblair.co.uk as the name of the prime minister's youngest child was announced? The .com seems to have changed hands (or perhaps just lapsed) in September 2003, and the .co.uk version in October 2004.We don't know whether she made a profit - or whether Charles Sweeney did. The IT consultant from East Kilbride registered babyleo.co.uk in 2000; the domain is now apparently registered to an Austrian, Daniela Noisternigg, whose name is used peculiarly often to re-register lapsed sites.For further information, seewww.zetetic.com/domain-name-salesandwww.dnjournal.com/domainsales.htm.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Look, folks, it's instant messaging, not instant response.I first heard of IM in late 1998 from a friend's child in the US. Owen was about 13, and IM was the cool, new thing the kids did when they came home from school. I got my first IM client so he could talk to me. Eight years later, I have two problems. The first is that everybody insists on using a different service, and none is interoperable. So I have to have five different accounts.But the more immediate problem is that there are two camps of IMers, for whom the "I" means different things. The first group, usually newcomers to the technology, think the "I" really does stand for "instant", and so they post a message, and then, increasingly irritated when they don't get an instant response, post more and more agitated follow-ups.I don't get the logic of this behaviour. If I haven't responded to the first message, isn't it most likely because I haven't seen it yet? What is this fantasy that more messages make the first one more visible? Is there any point in following up with:Hello?HELLO?Answer me!!!Or, as happened a few mornings ago, "You can't just IM somebody and disappear. It's extremely rude." The person had not seen my original message for five minutes. Was I supposed to sit there watching the screen? Get real. I say the average person watches for a minute or two, then goes and does other things, checking back at increasingly long intervals. Which is what I did. Thirteen minutes elapsed between my correspondent's first response (of several) and my next glance at that window. This is rude?Because I am a mature, experienced IMer, I coaxed this person out of his aggrievement. I understand that newcomers must be tolerated and educated in the etiquette of the new subculture they've just joined. This is deliberately patronising: it's my revenge.The second group, usually experienced IMers, generally display more patience.I could, of course, ensure the immediate visibility of new messages if I set the windows to "Always on top". If I did that, I wouldn't have much screen space for articles in progress, research material or email. And I would resent my correspondents for constantly importuning me. A straw poll in my blog reveals that most people stop expecting immediate replies, just like we learned not to expect people to answer their mobile phones after only one ring.Sometimes, the problem with technology is the name. If they'd called it intermittent messaging, we wouldn't have these problems.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Apple Computer Inc said Wednesday its second-quarter profit rose 41%, beating Wall Street estimates, as sales of its iPod players continued to soar and Macintosh computer shipments increased by 4 percent. Cupertino-based Apple said it earned $410 million, or 47 cents per share, in the three months that ended April 1. In the same period a year ago, the company earned $290 million, or 34 cents a share," reportsThe Mercury News."Revenue for the quarter was $4.36 billion, up 34% from $3.24 billion in the year-ago quarter, but fell below the projections of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial, who, on average, expected revenue of $4.54 billion."Intel didn't do as well in a slowing PC market, with increased competiton from AMD. "First-quarter profits dropped 38% -- the biggest decline in more than four years," reports theSilicon Valley/San Jose Business Journal, while "sales fell 5.2% to $8.94 billion."Meanwhile IBM's sales fell by 10% to only $20.6 billion, following the sale of its PC division to Lenovo. However, profits from continuing operations climbed by 22% to $1.7 billion.Reutershas the details.
I've written quite a lot in the past about the eccentric licensing deals forged by mobile game publishers, but frankly Gameloft has just set a new benchmark. Today the company has signed a deal with pointless hotel heiress Paris Hilton to create a series of games based around her likeness."Gameloft is dedicated to increasing mobile game offerings to female and casual gamers and we are thrilled to have Paris Hilton on board," froths Michel Guillemot, the company's president. "She is a model, a fashionista, an actress, an entrepreneur and a pop culture force of nature whose appeal is recognized the world over," he explains, somehow missing out 'home video porn star' and 'horrifying example of celebrity culture gone mental'.Paris herself had this to say: "I'm excited to collaborate with Gameloft to bring the Paris Hilton brand and the glamour of young Hollywood to the cell phones of all my fans around the world. My phone has become an all in one entertainment device and mobile games are an integral part of that. Mobile gaming is really hot right now and I'm excited to be part of this project." Is anyone else petrified of a culture in which people refer to themselves as a brand, or is it just me?Apparently, the first title will be aimed at "tweens/teens and fans of Paris Hilton". Okay. So, Gameloft is a fantastic developer, its Tom Clancy conversions have more or less defined what is possible through the format of mobile phone gaming. But aiming a Paris Hilton game at teenage girls just seems... wrong. Like little pink Playboy pencil cases. I'm reminded ofthis South Park episodeand not in a good way.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
I thoroughly enjoyed most of Tomb Raider Legend and it looks like you did too. Lara's latest has retained the top slot in theUK chartsand is going a long way to banishing the torrid memory of Angel of Darkness. Yes, you can argue that the game is too short or too simple or even that her scanty and impractical clothing is immature sexualisation from an industry supposedly outgrowing puberty. Any hopes thatMr Gardwould tone down the T&amp;A were dashed early in the game - is she supposed to be a role model or a sex object? Hopefully by the time my daughter is old enough to pick up a joypad Lara will be more like the former. Still, despite all this, the controls and graphics, combined with some nice puzzles, make for some zesty entertainment.Elsewhere Football Manager 2006 gets a 360 and PSP-shaped boost, while The Godfather begins what I predict will be a fairly hasty descent. Buzz does the biz though. Like Singstar, it's a game that anyone can play and I expect to see this series troubling the charts for years to come.
Go toAmazonand you'll find The Wealth of Networks : How Social Production Transforms Markets and Freedom (Hardcover) by Yochai Benkler has not yet been released. Actually, it's due from Yale University Press on May 15, 2006. However, you can nowparticipate in a wikiabout the book, anddownload PDFs of the book, or read it online -- it is being published under a Creative Commons Noncommercial Sharealike license.
ModelPeugeot 407 Coupe S 2.2Price&pound;21,925Top speed138mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.2 secsConsumption30.7 mpg (combined)Emissions219g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelSharon from The ApprenticeThey'd rather walkAlan SugarOn the stereoJack JohnsonEn route forHindheadBroad, long and fastidiously smoothed over at every corner and edge, the new Peugeot 407 coupe appears to fancy itself as something in the Thunderbird 2 line. Remember the big green one, with the pod inside? The 407 has clearly been built, similarly, with freelance international crime-busting and tricky spells of hovering in mind - and when a preliminary recce of the car's dashboard uncovered no obvious vertical launch button, it was a source of some disappointment.That said, parking Thunderbird 2 in a crowded indoor shopping facility would odds-on be a less nerve-racking experience than attempting the same feat in a 407. True, there might be one or two maximum height issues, but in the Thunderbird, you would have the all-important jet-thrusters to guide you in. In the 407, it's just you, the reversing sensor and several yards of freshly painted aluminium that you'd rather not scratch.It's not just the backing-up that makes squeezing the 407 into tight corners such a knuckle-whitening ride. It's also the going forwards. Through the vast, endlessly tapering, low-slung windscreen, the even vaster, even lower-slung bonnet is just a persistent rumour. You know it's out there somewhere; but it's a question of where. Best to grit your teeth and cover the brake, while making yourself as narrow as possible. Not that this helps, of course, but it's one of those reflexes it's hard to fight. By the time I had finished jiggling my 407 into a hemmed-in bay at my local Sainsbury's, my shoulders were virtually touching under my chin.But, of course, slipping unobtrusively into unremarkable spaces is not what the 407 coupe is about. A sister car for Peugeot's determinedly respectable 407 saloon and the unusually attractive 407 Sportwagon (another word for estate car), the coupe version goes out to make a splash. Perhaps literally. At any rate, note how the three air-intakes, slashed into the car's front corners, are strongly reminiscent of the gills on a predatory fish. The message seems to be that this decorous, faintly regal barge can get a little monstrous if the situation calls for it.The impression of shadowy menace is possibly compromised a little by the gummy grin formed by the radiator grille. Yet the car has its fancy moments. I had the entry level, fairly forgettable 2.2-litre engine, in a range that runs to a presumably more memorable 3.6-litre V6. But even in this beginner's version, the 407 coupe could be made to slide effortlessly through the air like a well-made paper plane.By rights, a vehicle of this length should be capable of carrying 26 people, plus a maximum of 12 standing. Instead, brazenly uneconomical, the 407 goes for the classic tourer format of four seats only. The two in the front offer almost comical amounts of leg, waist and shoulder room, such that one wonders whether the point of the seatbelts isn't first and foremost to stop the occupants sliding across the interior and landing in a heap on the floor.The two seats in the back, by contrast, though similarly ample in most directions, yield the sort of leg-room about which even a Jack Russell would have some legitimate cause for complaint - assuming you could get the Jack Russell to spring in past the tipped front seats in the first place. Rear occupants are also destined to see the world through small triangular windows that might as well be portholes in a slave ship.Like almost any coupe you care to mention on this scale, the 407 is chiefly for people who want the suggestion of sporty action from their car but are unwilling to surrender even an inch of the corporate kudos that comes from nudging people aside in a padded-shouldered company saloon.And the Peugeot has presence - yard after yard of it. But at the same time, the person in the market for this kind of car is more than likely looking to be sent some powerful signals confirming his or her executive worth. What is a giant, county-straddling coupe for, if not to provide a constant update on its driver's social and professional standing?The slickness of its gearstick, the whisperiness of its steering, the fat chunk of its doors shutting - you want these things to report back in glowing terms on your unarguable affluence and entitlement. And the likelihood is that the 407 is going to let you down in this area. It's all a bit - how can one put this delicately? - second tier.The steering is tidy without being pin-sharp. The door handles ping. The dashboard is plain and underwhelming. The gearstick is just a well-greased version of functional. Which doesn't make the car unreasonable at the price. But on such things is status built, and grand and hotly cherished delusions of importance could collapse against the everyday ordinariness of the 407's indicator stalks.
Media coverage of blogging has led to increased awareness of the phenomenon among internet users, but this has not yet translated into more people writing or regularly reading blogs, according to new research.The findings of the British Market Research Bureau's quarterly survey led senior associate director Trevor Vagg to conclude that blogging has received disproportionate media coverage and the whole idea of citizen journalism is overhyped.Awareness of blogs dramatically increased in the three months to the end of February, with the proportion of internet users in Britain who have never heard of a blog, or blogging, falling from 45% in the previous quarter three to 30%, according to the BMRB survey.But despite this there has been no significant change in the number of people who publish blogs, which remains at just 2% of UK internet users. Furthermore, only 10% - around 2.8 million people - of internet users view a weblog once a month or more."There has been disproportionate coverage of blogging, still only a minority ever read blogs and a tiny proportion publish them," said Mr Vagg. "This suggests there is an over-hyping about how big the idea of people's journalism is through using technology like camera phones and weblogs."But Mr Vagg recognised that the relatively small number of bloggers potentially wielded a hugely disproportionate influence in setting trends and opinion-leading."It may well be that those who do publish weblogs are more likely to be opinion formers and therefore have a larger influence than their numbers would suggest," he said.Blogging has received a lot of publicity in recent months with many media owners attempting to tap into the phenomenon.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
If you ask people what their favourite bike tool is, most will say "the telephone". Reasonably enough, they have no wish to cover their hands with grease. No such issue arises with a numeric keypad: bike needs a service? Call the shop and book it in.Bicycle maintenance is more a cult than an art; its mysteries and rites will never be more than a minority fetish. Yet we maintenance maniacs are cushioned from the full, lonely realisation of our weirdness by the mechanically inept majority's generous, if self-serving encouragement of the delusion that our ability to fix bikes has some social value. At least, that is the feeling I get when a colleague asks me to fit a light bracket or fix the indexing on their gears. Journalist by day, bicycle repair man by lunchhour.In fact, we have an honourable history. If it wasn't for machine-sympathetic folk like us, cyclists would still be going around in constant danger of their pedals falling off. Fortunately, a century ago, two bicycle mechanics from Dayton, Ohio, realised that the left-hand pedal needed to have a left-hand thread so that it self-tightened. To me, that was the Wright brothers' greatest invention. (If Kitty Hawk had ended up a rusting, skeletal heap in Wilbur and Orville's backyard, I'm not sure we wouldn't all have been better off.)There are plenty of other nominations for the bicycle's most useful innovation. A Belfast vet, John Dunlop, might claim credit for his pneumatic tyre, but I am a fan of Frenchman Eugene Meyer, who in 1869 invented wire spokes. Talk about reinventing the wheel: it became amazingly light yet as strong as ever. It had a degree of compliance that hugely improved handling and comfort, yet was rigid enough to transfer pedal power into forward motion with superb efficiency.And that is why my favourite tool is the spoke key. For a wheel to be healthy, it should be "true" - run straight, without warp or wobble, its spokes evenly tensioned. Learning to true your own wheels is the most satisfying of accomplishments. If you ever do a maintenance class, this is the task to learn. Expert wheel-builders are craftsmen par excellence yet the basic principle is simple: tension the spokes on one side of the wheel to pull it one way; tighten the opposite side to pull the other. It's all about balance.The best moment is when you've done your spoke-key tweaking and the wheel looks straightish. But you can't know for sure until you've stressed it - and the only real way of testing this is to ride on it. Then there's a lovely "plink, plonk, plunk" progression of the spokes adjusting to their new tensions, like impromptu tuning forks. For cyclists, that's the music of the spheres; and a true wheel the key to happiness.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,A few weeks ago, I witnessed an incident following a disagreement between a cyclist and a van-driver who had done a swift U-turn into his path. My friend and I continued in her car to the next set of lights where we pulled up alongside the van. The cyclist arrived and was, with dangerously perfect timing, planted on to the bonnet of my friend's car by a flick of the van driver's door.The van escaped with a left-hand turn, while the stunned cyclist got up and left us to inspect the dents and scratches on the side of the car. I managed to take the van's number plate, but what should I do?Jane B, via emailMost important is to report the incident to the police, because this may be a case of assault, plus leaving the scene of an accident. Both the cyclist and your friend will want the police to trace the driver (or owner) of the van. You are invaluable as a witness, possibly in a criminal case, but very likely in a personal injury action by the cyclist, and definitely for your friend's insurance claim. Well done on getting the number.Email your bike-related questions tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
Broadband that bundles you outThe miracle of broadband has been exercising you painfully. Much of my postbag has been occupied with Wanadoo, which, in attempting to do its customers a favour with a little local loop unbundling (stowing its own kit in BT exchanges), actually bundled a good many of them out of cyberspace. Dozens of telecoms companies are now grappling for customers' money but a catch to watch out for is your cancellation rights, usually in the faded grey print at the end of the contract. Wanadoo customers, for instance, found themselves unable to defect even though they could not get online because the company would not release them.If you do try to sweet-talk a rival, your current service provider can "forget" to hand over your migration authorisation code (Mac), without which you are captive.Perhaps the most cunning ploy to keep income flowing was invented by Homecall, part of the Pipex Group. Three months after Edit Zolnai and Ben Lucas of Pinner had signed up to a joint broadband and unlimited telephone calls package, they were still not online. Their phone charges had been bungled, their address mistyped and much of their paperwork lost. So they wrote to cancel their contract. A customer services being responded, acknowledging that they were within the cooling-off period and could therefore withdraw without penalty. However, said being could not quite believe that the couple wanted to depart into the wilderness and asked them to email again assuring him that they had meant what they said. Several days elapsed before Lucas could respond because there was no internet service at home and he had to wait until he was next at work. By then, it was too late. In this brief interim, Homecall scrambled to do what they had failed to for three months and activated the couple's broadband service, which meant that they could no longer cancel. Zonai and Lucas only found this out when, weeks later, their new provider told them that they were locked into a relationship with the old enemy. Homecall blames everyone except itself. It declares that the couple's Mac code expired as they were trying to escape to a new provider and insists that it warned them that this would happen. And it blames the new provider for incorrectly processing the new account. It does not, however, find it odd that written requests for cancellation are not taken at face value. However, it has refunded the package fees and call charges paid by the couple, who now have a new Mac code.Blame the laws of physics, says BTLondoner Sara Norman and Richard Price of Brockenhurst, Hampshire, would not mind the chance to experience such hitches. Their gripe is that they can't get broadband at all. Norman was told that the impediment is a fibre-optic line that cannot carry the service nor be replaced because BT deems the task too expensive. For some reason, Norman is not permitted to slip them the money for the job. Price's line is aluminium and broadband will apparently only tolerate copper. If it is any comfort, there are thousands of others in the same predicament. As the telecoms watchdog Ofcom explains, BT, which provides the infrastructure, is under no legal obligation to ensure broadband for anybody. Nonetheless, out of the goodness of its heart, it set itself a voluntary target to connect up to 99.6% of the population and has, apparently, achieved this. Eventually, it hopes to give access to everyone but is hampered, it says, by the laws of physics. "Some customers' lines are too long for broadband to work, in some areas the cable technology does not support it and line-sharing equipment called Dacs prevents access," says a BT spokesman (Dacs, he discovers, is Norman's difficulty, not a fibre-optic line). "We are working to find solutions to all these problems."
The Wall Street Journal has hostedan interesting conversationbetween Jason Calacanis, who co-founded Weblogs Inc, and Alan Meckler, one of the Web's oldest entrepreneurs (circa 1994) and chief executive of Jupiter Media.Update: The New York Times has a report from the Bloggercon II conference, calledMany Started Web Logs for Fun, but Bloggers Need Money, Too, which looks at some of the ways bloggers make money.
Raph Kosteris an authority on virtual worlds. He'sdesigned several- including Ultima Online and Star Wars Galaxies - and has been on the "implementation side" of countless others since before virtual worlds were 3D-graphics driven.There's a strange symbiotic and contentious relationship between the 3D-visual virtual worlds (we'll call themMMOGs for the sake of argument) and those without the 3D graphics (we'll call themMUDs). Or is there?Some people are precious about how different the two are, with MMOG-ists suggesting that their forum of virtuality is better because of its immersive qualities, and MUD-ists arguing that their virtual zones are superior because they don't restrict the user with the visuals of someone else's vision.I'd like to refer to Raph forhis perspectiveon the similarities between MUDs and MMOGs:...it's undeniable that presentation has an enormous cognitive impact on the user of a client. Many variables may fluctuate massively, such as degree of immersion, spatial awareness, ease of parsing data, and so on. However, we must not forget that different brains have different cognitive strengths. A common mistake made by MMORPG exceptionalists is that graphics are necessarily more immersive. This is exactly the same sort of logic that says that movies must be more immersive than books. Different strokes for different folks, as always.The thing we should never lose sight of is that in the end, what the player is participating in is actually the simulation on the server. Humans have an amazing ability to see abstractions behind displays, and to elide out insignificant information. ... The true typology of virtual worlds lies not client-side, but in the differing methods of handling databases, user interactions, and persistence.Indeed, what makes these spaces truly special are the interpersonal interactions that are fostered with the technology. Visuals or no, the true greatness of this software is that community can emerge through a series of 1's and 0's.
Industry magDeveloprecently published its Develop 100 list - an annual guide to the world's most profitable developers, based on UK sales data collated byChart-TrackandELSPA. Next-gen.biz has arun-downof all the studios featured. The empiricism of this approach makes the Develop 100 much more interesting and unpredictable than other more subjective guides to the 'most important' studios - it is all about money, not reputation or the perceived quality of the games on offer.As such, there are plenty of surprises. While several generally respected studios lurk in the lower recesses of the chart (Hudson at 100, Bioware at 94, LucasArts at 79...), the top 30 features a number of comparative minnows. UK veteran Travellers Tales, for example, claims the number nine spot thanks to its wonderful Lego Star Wars title, while The Collective takes 15 on the strength of just one (pretty poor) title, Star Wars Episode III. THQ's LA movie tie-in sweatshop Heavy Iron Studios sneaks in at 28 with the wealth garnered from The Incredibles and Spongebob Squarepants.It will probably not shock you to the very core of your being to discover that turning movies and cartoons into mediocre games is a profitable endeavour. Along with Heavy iron, you'll find the likes of Eurocom, A2M, Helixe and Radical Entertainment, all of whom make a decent living crafting 3D platform adventures out of any Pixar animation or superhero blockbuster lobbed their way.It's interesting to note that there are 31 UK companies in the chart, suggesting that the domestic industry is a lot healthier than we are often led to believe. Alright, so aside from big names like Rare, Rockstar North and Criterion, some of these companies may not leap immediately to mind when we're thinking of truly world-respected studios. Plus, more than a few are lackeys to, or local offices of, foreign giants (EA Chertsey, Sony London Studios, etc), but it's clear Britain is still a key player, a hot-house of competitive development talent. You know, unlike the UK car industry...On a personal note, I'm pleased to see Japanese studioDimpsin there at 80 - not because I'm a particular fan of their Dragonball-heavy output, but because the company was set up by ex-SNK employees. 2D, it seems in some small way, reallyisforever.
"In our new eyetracking study, we recorded how 232 users looked at thousands of Web pages. We found that users' main reading behavior was fairly consistent across many different sites and tasks. This dominant reading pattern looks somewhat like an F," says Jakob Nielsen in his latestAlertbox column.
If you were beginning to worry that there hadn't been enough research into the effects of videogame violence recently, I think I may well have the story for you. As reported by numerous bemused sources (here'sone), Dr. Sonya Brady from the University of California and Professor Karen Matthews from the University of Pittsburgh have just published a report entitled, "Effects of Media Violence on Health-Related Outcomes Among Young Men". It seems the duo cornered a group of young people 'who had previously reported differing amounts of lifetime home and community violence' and encouraged them to play The Simpsons: Hit and Run or Grand Theft Auto III.The results? Apparently GTA III players are more likely to show, 'permissive attitudes toward violence, alcohol use, marijuana use, and sexual activity without condoms'. You may want to pause and read that bit again.I confess I haven't read the report yet, although it isavailable for downloadfrom the website of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine. However, these conclusions are so far-reaching in their negativity (incredibly, every box on the parental fear register - drugs, unsafe sex, violence - is ticked), I'm still not sure this isn't some elaborate April Fools ruse. How could playing GTA lead people to be more permissive when it comes to unprotected sex? Where is the specific neurological connection between the two activities? How could such dramatic conclusions be drawn from such a limited focus group?Have a read of the survey and see what you think...
A while agoMySociety dudeand all round good egg Tom Steinberg got in touch to mention that the group - which is responsible fantastic web projects likePledgeBankandWriteToThem- would be on the lookout for new ideas.It's two and a half years since our last call for proposals. At the time we had almost no funding and could only promise to try and raise money to build the projects. That worked, and now we've got a little bit of a surplus (charity language for a profit) left over from our government support.The time has come to open the call for proposals up again, this time with one difference: we pledge to build the winning project, using a combination of some of the leftover cash and the help of any willing volunteers.It's simple enough: suggest a concept that you think could be worth building (preferably with some civic or community benefit) and people will discuss it and then the best idea will get built. Interesting thoughts already expressed include a site to show you where all the food you eathas come from, an easy way to runonline referendaand an attempt to get you tomeet your neighbours.Any good ideas?
For the price of a paper clip, it's not a bad place to live for a year: a modest semi-detached house with a white picket fence in sunny Phoenix, Arizona.Yesterday, nearly a year after going online offering to swap a red paper clip for bigger and better things, Kyle MacDonald, 26, of Montreal, Canada, had come tantalisingly close to realising his dream of a free house.Beginning with the red paper clip, Mr MacDonald made a canny series of trades, from a fish-shaped pen to a door knob to a barbecue to a generator to a free three-day trip to Yahk, British Columbia, to a white van to a recording contract before receiving the offer of rent-free accommodation for a year."It looks like a nice house, though I haven't seen it in person," Mr MacDonald told the Guardian yesterday. His blog,oneredpaperclip.blogspot.com, shows pictures of a chalet-style home with a green interior. But while it's worth a lot more than his original paper clip, Mr MacDonald is still not convinced that a year's free rent is the best deal out there. His dream home may be only a trade away.Since launching his blog, Mr MacDonald has been astounded by the willingness of people to engage in his trading game, which he says was born in the scavenger hunts he played as a child, when they went from house to house swopping their stuff. In exchange for the van he was offered a jobless roommate, seven video games (from a teenager who "needed a new hobby"), a month of telemarketing services, a 17in viola, someone's virginity and another red paper clip.He has also been astounded by the media attention. He was in New York taping a segment for American breakfast television yesterday. Managing the trades has consumed his life. "This isn't a charity. I view this as a job, an occupation, and I am working quite hard at this - 24 hours a day for the last four months," he said.So far, he has received offers of a mobile home - nice, but he owns no land - and the offer to live free for a year in the house in Phoenix. Other offers don't even come close, like the full body tattoo, but Mr MacDonald is prepared to wait."I don't have anything to trade that is worth as much now as a house," he said. "I'm going to keep going until I get the house and then I am going to live in it."
The Financial Times yesterday ran an interview with Oracle boss Larry Ellison [full transcript here]. One of the big talking points is Ellison's approach to open source, and whether or not it poses a threat to a firm like his.Apparently not:If an open source product gets good enough, we'll simply take it. Take [the web server software] Apache: once Apache got better than our own web server, we threw it away and took Apache. So the great thing about open source is nobody owns it - a company like Oracle is free to take it for nothing, include it in our products and charge for support, and that's what we'll do.So it is not disruptive at all - you have to find places to add value. Once open source gets good enough, competing with it would be insane. Keep in mind it's not that good in most places yet. We're a big supporter of Linux. At some point we may embed Linux in all of our products and provide support.He goes even further, too, saying that Oracle is "missing an operating system". "You could argue that it makes a lot of sense for us to look at distributing and supporting Linux."It should come as no surprise - given Oracle's buy, buy, buy strategy of late - that he admits "we've looked at buying some, some with very high price tags". But although he says he doesn't mind the idea of buying open source firms for their talent, he does balk at the idea of paying for something that he could take for free. "Since we already have access to all the intellectual property, why wouldn't we just embed this technology in our technology and provide support?" he ponders.Is this just hot air, or could he really be considering a move in this direction?
How did you spend the long weekend?
Last week I chatted to Toby Gard, the artist who designed the look of Lara Croft. A decade on and back working with Lara it was time to see what had changed and how he felt about the character he created. Oh, and how he was mobbed by French Tomb Raider fans, but that's for another day.How do you feel Legend turned out? How has it been for you?It's been a really enjoyable experience. Crystal Dynamics are strong and professional studio and it's been an experience for me seeing how a studio like that is run. The game has turned out so well because there is so much attention to detail from the guys. I came in at pre-production when they had all the game setup and I was bought into redefine Lara's look and then the other characters and the story. I worked closely with the story team too, to help define who Lara actually is. It's a question of adding details to her personality and not just physically.What are the difference between working on Lara now and when you did originally?It's all about detail now. The gameplay is fairly similar to what it was in the original game. So you have combat, exploration and puzzles. But it's the fidelity that is the difference now. Big basic blocks don't cut it anymore - you need swaying grass and butterflies now. Also the team for Legend is ten times as big the original team. It's gone from 6 to 60.Do you think character design is underappreciated in these days of FPS and online RPGs?I don't think so. FPS games don't need a strong character as that would get in the way of you. Look at Half Life - it worked brilliantly that Gordon didn't say anything. Also people really enjoy creating their own character in a game. The advantage of doing something like Lara is that it helps focus a story and narrative design.Why do you think Lara captured the mid-90s zeitgeist in the way she did?She had a real difference to the games characters of the time. Compared to the burly men shooting guns she had a real appeal. She was mysterious and had a danger about her this gave her a real difference to other female game characters that were basically sex objects. Lara had a mystery about her. Also I was very keen to get Lara to animate properly, which no one else at the time was doing. This made her move slowly but look realistic which helped player empathise with her.How was Galleon?I learnt a lot about the industry, let's put it that way.You left Core originally over concerns that Lara was getting "sexed" up. She still seems that way in Legend - how do you feel about that?It wasn't about her boobs getting bigger. She was always designed to look good - people's psychology is that they like attractive characters on both sexes. What I objected to was the marketing which represented Lara in a way that was nothing like the character. At the time I didn't like that and it prompted me to want to retain control of characters I created in the future, so that's why I left.How many designs did you scrap before LaraAbout four or five. My initial design was a guy in some tombs. But when I started doing proper designs the female character just worked better.Can Lara become an icon again for the next-gen?Yes, I think she can. She's a really interesting character and Legend digs below the surface and gives a much clearer idea of her depth. But whether another gaming icon will replace her? I don't know.This was supposed to be a return to raiding tombs, and yet a lot of the levels in Legend have urban settings?The previous game wasnt about archaeology and the new one is, so tombs are important. But when you write a story it needs to have some modern day relevance. Lara does have a place in other locations rather than just underground. Especially now we can do it. One of the main reasons the original game was set underground was because we couldn't really do a convincing outside.Any parts of the world that you haven't used that you'd like to?That's tough, we're running out of ancient cultures!Any chance of a re-release of earlier games as a directors cut with Legend quality graphics?Good idea. It would certainly be an interesting nostalgia trip.Reviews have mentioned the brevity of the game, how important is the length?There's a finite amount of development time which obviously limits how you present the game. Legend was designed to be Tomb Raider amped-up. There is a real emphasis on action, even though it is still a fairly relaxed game. We can't make a game that goes on forever and would rather not spread it too thin. It's good that people enjoy the game so much that they want more.How long can Lara go on for? Will she still be raiding tombs in ten years time?Tomb Raider is essentially about solving mysteries and exploration and these will always be interesting. So I don't see why she shouldn't be relevant in years to come.Why are you still using block-moving puzzles?We've moved along away from switch based puzzles but the real puzzle focus now is on the physics. The goal was to modernise the puzzle elements from before. You really have to think physically now to solve a puzzle.Do you get annoyed that people only want to talk to you about Lara even though you have worked on other projects?It doesn't bother me too much at all. Lara is a great character to be associated with.
Further to last Thursday's column in the Technology section,Inverted Castlehas a great overview of audio-only games. The article directs readers toAudioGames.net, a hub of audio-centric titles. I had a play around with some of them over the weekend and must say that while they are far more simplistic than many contemporary console games, the experience of playing them is both relaxing and enlightening. As per the arguments in the column and the hypotheses of some of the research projects highlighted at GDC, playing games such as this emphasise the importance of the audio channel for immersive entertainment.Games like this should be included on the must-play lists of any aspiring games designer.
Wei-Hwa Huang, Software engineer and 4-timeWorld Puzzle Championship Individual Winnerwrites on theGoogle Blog: "A small group of us at Google, in cooperation with Sony Pictures, have managed to create 12,358 original puzzles forThe Da Vinci Code Quest on Google(or onSony).
I hope you are using your time off to do something more interesting than install patches. However, by now, Microsoft's AutoUpdate will probably have downloaded this month's bug fix,MS06-015, and it is not one to miss: it fixes one particularly critical and threating problem (remote COM code execution triggerd by a Web site). There's an extra note for some Hewlett-Packard PC users onMicrosoft's security blog.Mozilla Corp has also releaseda heap of security patcheswhich are also important because of the possibility that some could be exploited by malicious Web sites. According toTechWeb News:Mozilla unveiled Firefox 1.5.0.2, which included 7 patches, 5 of them critical. It also unveiled 11 new patches for the older Firefox 1.5, 15 for the even older Firefox 1.0x line in an update numbered 1.0.8, and 19 in the Sea Monkey browser suite, the replacement for the now-defunct Mozilla suite. (Note: Tallies exceed the total of 18 patches because some were applied to more than one version.)Danish vulnerability tracker Secunia tagged the overall updates -- to Firefox 1.5.0.2 and 1.08, and Sea Monkey 1.0.1 -- as "Highly critical," its second-from-the-top ranking. That ranking was the same as Secunia awarded Tuesday's 10-bug patch for IE.Mozilla is urging all Firefox users to move to v1.5, which includes an auto-update feature.Operahas also released a new version that fixes asecurity hole.
Imagine strolling through the countryside or bustling down crowded city streets. Then imagine taking a bird's eye view not only of the route you took - right down to fields, footpaths and zebra crossings - but how you were feeling each step of the way.This is called emotion mapping and it enables people to compare their moods with their surroundings more precisely than ever before. It measures not just major reactions that tend to stick in the memory, but also the degrees of stimulation caused by speaking to a stranger, crossing the road or listening to birdsong.Emotion mapping combines two existing technologies. First is a simple pair of 'finger cuffs', long used in lie-detector tests, which record the changing sweat levels on the skin as a measure of mental arousal and making no distinction between positive or negative. Second is the Global Positioning System popular with drivers in satellite navigation devices. In this case the user carries a receiver which, by locking on to three satellites, continually records their location as they walk from place to place.By calling up data from the finger cuffs, emotion mapping displays the user's fluctuating level of arousal, expressed as peaks and troughs along the route.So a walk down a country lane might produce only a mild curve. But dashing across a busy road or being confronted by a mugger might show up as a sudden spike.The system was devised by an artist, 30-year-old Christian Nold from Brixton, south London. 'It's the opposite of what architectural simulations do, predicting how buildings will be used,' he said. 'This shows what is there and how people are physiologically responding to it. But the interaction people have with each other is much more important than the built environment, although architects might think otherwise.'Nold, a former Royal College of Art student, suggests practical uses for his system, such as helping children suffering from Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder who, as part of their treatments, are sometimes given a camera to document their day in the hope of reviving memories.Emotion mapping might also give an insight into panic attacks and whether they have an external cause.Bucolic bliss did little for my arousal quotaWalk 1: Bibury, the CotswoldsWilliam Morris described it as 'the most beautiful village in England'. So, surrounded by green leaves and stone cottages, I set off in the spring sunshine at peace with the world.At the first corner a local man inquired what I was up to. This mere act of conversation, I would later discover, caused a peak on the emotion map. I walked on to Arlington Row, built as a monastic wool store in 1380, converted into a row of weavers' cottages in the 17th century and now beloved of movie-makers seeking a pristine, chocolate-box Cotswolds. But none of this bucolic bliss had much effect on my arousal quota.I crossed a footbridge over the Rack Isle watermeadow, then headed up a country lane, not sure of my next turn. This produced the largest spike: Christian Nold confirms that anxiety about direction can cause stress. Eventually I chose a footpath and headed out to rolling farmland.Here, with few distractions - and no interaction with people - my arousal began to flatline. It was only the sight and sound of animals, in particular a sign 'Beware of bull', which quickened my pulse. Then the graph picked up some more fluctuations. Could it be the mere effort of climbing a country stile? The final peak came as I got back to my car, suggesting we find natural reassurance in the sight of base camp: there's no place like home.Three men watching me caused a surgeWalk 2: 'Murder Mile', Hackney, LondonUpper and Lower Clapton Roads earned this name after eight gangland-style shootings in Hackney in 2001. So, drawing attention to myself with expensive satellite equipment, surely my arousal levels would be off the scale compared to those in placid Bibury, Gloucestershire?Not at first. Heading south from the top of Upper Clapton Road, a peak came when I sensed three men watching me intently. I nodded and exchanged a few words, enough to cause a surge on the emotion map. In the shadow of the Gooch House tower block, two schoolboys shouted: 'You're gay! You're gay!' Charming: and another fluctuation on the graph. On Lower Clapton Road my reactions accelerated. Here there were bunches of people, roaring traffic, the ring of my mobile, the aromas of ethnic restaurants. Here, also, an oasis of peace in Clapton Pond, where my arousal level reached a high point.But my most powerful reaction of all came when I reached a roundabout to find that construction work would force me to walk the long way round. Judging by the big spike this produced, there's nothing more arousing than laziness.&#183;Clickherefor photographs of David Smith's emotional journeyUseful linkwww.biomapping.net
Mercedes-Benz B200&pound;16,995 TO &pound;22,795Top speed:140mphMiles per gallon:50.4Good for:Tom & BarbaraBad for:Margo & JerryMarketing seems an unpromising subject for a glossy coffee-table book. But when the story in question is the 120-year reign of Mercedes-Benz, charting its rise from Karl Benz's revolutionary invention in 1886, through the Nazi years to its near destruction in 1945, and subsequent rebirth as the ultimate 'lighthouse' brand it is today - with a worldwide symbol as recognisable around the globe as the Christian cross - then you are on much safer ground. The book in question is Leslie Butterfield's Enduring Passion (&pound;25, Wiley).Two things I particularly enjoyed were, first, the description of the Ghanaian practice of building wooden coffins in the shape of a Mercedes-Benz saloon. The 'car coffin' would be kept in the house until it was needed and then the newly deceased could depart in the style he or she had always dreamed of - brand loyalty that goes beyond the grave. The second was Butterfield's research into the way people parked their cars outside their homes. He found that people who drove a Mercedes always parked their pride and joy facing the road, so that the car would be on 'display' to passers-by, symbolising, in more ways than one, that the owner had arrived.I wonder, though, how many owners of the great marque's latest model - the B-Class - will bother reversing their car up their driveway. With its myopic, bulging headlamps, droopy chops and raised rear, I'd have thought most owners would do their neighbours a favour and park it out of sight - in the garage.I've test-driven the A-Class (which I didn't much like), and the C-Class (which I liked very much), so it seemed only fair to give the B-Class a turn, too. Starting with the name itself, I couldn't help but think the car was facing an uphill battle. B, with its connotations of effort without excellence, always makes you think of an also-ran. No celebrity aspires to be on the B-list. Secondly, it looks like a strange hotchpotch of the A-Class and the comical Chrysler PT-Cruiser. This mixed heritage seems to have defeated its own marketing gurus - they call it a 'Compact Sport Tourer', which covers all bases but doesn't really mean anything. A tourer by definition is a long-legged beauty that eats the miles as you head for the Cote d'Azur. So how can it be either compact or sporty? It all ends up sounding like a triple-barrelled surname spoken in a hail of saliva.The entry price for the B-Class is &pound;17,000, but with all the necessary add-ons this will quickly rise to &pound;23,000. The best engine is the 2-litre diesel, which gives a very laudable 50mpg. On the inside, the finish is excellent, and even makes use of a natural alternative to fibreglass made largely from abaca - a relative of the coconut palm. In fact, every aspect of the new Merc is geared towards recycling. At the moment, 85 per cent of a B-Class can be recycled or re-used when the car comes to the end of its life. But it does make you wonder why Mercedes is spending so much time thinking about the end of the car's life, rather than creating a car that people will want to hang on to in the first place.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Microsoft has signed up tosponsor the World Cyber Games competiton for 2006-08, and will exclusively supply all the equipment used. This isn't too surprising since almost all competitive gaming is already on Windows. However, it raises speculation that this will lead to an emphasis on Xbox 360 games. AsArs Technicanotes:At the 2005 World Cyber Games, competition covered 6 PC titles (Counter-Strike: Source, FIFA Soccer 2005, Need for Speed: Underground 2, StarCraft: Brood War, WarCraft III: The Frozen Throne, and Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War) and 2 console games (Dead or Alive Ultimate and Halo 2). The move to official Microsoft sponsorship may lead to an increased focus on console-oriented titles. The Xbox 360 is the crown jewel of Microsoft's gaming division right now, and it's reasonable to expect that the competition will be expanded to cover additional Xbox 360 titles--at least once there are more games that would make for good competitive fodder.As Ars Technica might have mentioned,Seattle will host the 2007 World Cyber Games Grand Final-- an announcement made when Samsung Electronics was still the worldwide sponsor. With the backing of the Microsoft publicity machine, the 2007 finals could turn into a very visible event.Comment: Nintendo of America is also based in Redmond. When Microsoft was first being accused of world domination, a Softie friend of mine used to describe Microsoft as "the second biggest software company in Seattle".
