In the last four years I've realised that the net to me is an incredibly useful phone book. I've been amazed at some of the people I've been able to track down via the net. People like Yma Sumac the legendary mock Inca performer, and Severed Heads, an Australian proto-techno band.How do you use the net?I use it to buy records, find artists and as a way of accessing hard to find information. Recently I traced some obscure Luis Bunuel films through American video sites ( http://members.xoom.com/scatt/bunuel.html ). It took about three clicks to get there. I think I spend more money on the internet now than I do in shops!Is e-commerce taking over the net?One of the things that really annoys me is the junk email. The amount of stuff I filter out now is ridiculous - Lastminute.com I save a special place in hell for.Are you in favour of regulation of the net in general?I am always reluctant to go down on the side of regulation of any kind. I wouldn't ever advocate any kind of censorship but I do still want to punch the guy that writes the Lastminute.com copy.How vital has the net become to your lifestyle?Email is now the primary point of communication between myself and the people I work with. I hardly ever send faxes and I'll avoid picking up the phone whenever possible. I've put gigs on at the Festival Hall where the entire negotiation, technical and contract process has taken place via email.Any favourite places on the net?Finding Severed Heads' homepage atwww.sevcom.comwas a joy. There's a great Simpsons sitewww.geocities.com/SoHo/Workshop/3255where some guy's drawn his versions and scanned them in. I also like the work of John Kricfalusi atwww.spumco.comwho did Ren &amp; Stimpy but gave it up because he felt he had more freedom for a cartoon site on the net. Credit where it's due, I'm a big fan of theGuardian Fiver newsletter. I think theNMEis very good but I wonder why anyone buys the NME anymore as all the information is there two days before it comes out.Where do you see the net going?This idea of the internet being the death of recorded and live music is similar to what people said about cinema when video came along. I actually think it will encourage more interest in the music. I've been very keen to welcome people in to do web casting and recently iGig (www.igig.comfilmed Blur for their site. I remain sceptical about the idea of truly interactive live entertainment but it will come.Do you like the anarchy of the net?I do like the idea of all the biggest companies in the world sweating because 17-year-old kids are developing technologies in their bedrooms that could destroy their profit margins! I'd hate to see the net taken over by the multinationals so you had to start paying for everything. I don't want to see the net stop worrying people.
Soft toys with hard centresFur FightersSega Dreamcast	&#163;39.99 Bizarre/Acclaim 	***This is more Quack than Quake, but Fur Fighters solves the problem of gore in third-person shooters: you just have to knock the stuffing out of your opponents.The idea behind Bizarre Creations' game is simple enough: put serious fire-power in the hands of some furry toys. This is carried through in Rayman-like 3D cartoon graphics and punning humour. The more difficult aspect of the game is that you have to play all six characters - Roofus the hound, Bungalow the kangaroo etc - choosing the correct one for the task in hand. It's all a bit tricksy.But this isn't just a shooter. It's also a 3D action/adventure game, and you have to solve lots of puzzles to get around the six game zones. Some of them are compli cated, so finishing the game could take a long time.The worst thing about the game is the opening "train  ing" sequence, which also fills in the back story. It goes on far too long. The best thing is the split-screen Fluff Match,   which provides an arena where you can go fur-to-fur with a friend. Wicked.  (JS)Little LaraTomb RaiderGame Boy Colour	&#163;24.99  THQ	***While a date with Britney Spears or a goal at Wembley remain largely unfulfilled teenage dreams, one fantasy has now become reality.Lara Croft is finally in the palm of your hand. The PlayStation heroine has arrived on the Game Boy and is set to introduce a new format to the frustrating, yet satisfying Tomb Raider series.Bearing in mind the limitations of the hardware, the game has gorgeous visuals with some high-quality stills for scene setting. Lara is particularly well animated and far bigger than a typical Game Boy character. She can jump, vault, swim and climb ledges without catching her breath.Unfortunately the same can't be said for you. In their brave attempt to enable Lara to do everything, the developers have forgotten that mere mortals will be playing the game. The myriad scorpions,   snakes and bats will cause little more than annoyance, especially as medi-packs are everywhere. No, the real problems are caused by spikes and gaping pits, which regularly scupper you after another unsuccessful tussle with the horribly stubborn controls.These can be blamed on the ancient platform game, Prince of Persia. On the PlayStation Lara always was Prince of Persia 3D and now the series has gone to back to its 2D roots with predictably frustrating consequences.Nevertheless, if you can master those controls, the graphics and rewarding plot twists make this a classy Game Boy title. So, until Britney returns your call, handheld Lara will do nicely.  (GH)
Hanging onIt was interesting to read the letter from William Allen (July 13) and the methods to "junk" your sensitive email.If you send emails from work it is likely that copies will be retained on their mail or other server(s). If you email from home your email will be stored on your internet service provider's (ISP) server. Copies are also kept on the recipient's server(s)/computers (ISP, work, home).ISPs also keep backup copies of servers. So even if the data is deleted from the server, there is no guarantee that it has been eradicated entirely.For those wishing to retrieve information there are many copies out there. Just because you can't see it does not mean it is no longer there.A sobering thought!Philip KeoghPhilipK@pathology.leeds.ac.ukMock OperaJohn Purser (Online, July 6) writes about Opera's ability to pretend to web servers that it is Netscape or Internet Explorer. While this allows its users to get around poorly coded websites that deny them access, it is also incredibly annoying for web developers.If a browser is pretending to be something which it is not, then it makes it impossible to deal with any differences between it and other browsers in an intelligent way. This type of hack does nothing positive to solve the problem.Stephen Dunnstephen@cuica.demon.co.uk.Threat to netRichard Wild (Feedback, July 13) thinks some of the fears raised in Bill Thompson's article (July 6) "will not be realised" because the internet already exists, and "the standards cannot be changed".The web was born in the   early 1990s and to transport the data, a new protocol was invented called HTTP (hypertext transfer protocol). But TCP/IP and other protocols date back to the 1970s.Microsoft and others have tried to gain a foothold with various new "standards" that layer themselves over existing protocols. One example is the failed "channels" scheme that was launched with Internet Explorer 4 and closely tied into the Windows 9x operating systems. "Channels" were an early attempt at an XML (rather than HTML) platform. XML standards are still to be finally and formally agreed, but all are open standards. Wap is not.Yes, corporations could steal "the web" from us. They just have to invent something new on top (eg Flash from Macromedia). Case closed, job done. Luckily, it is the inertia of the existing data on the web that may just halt such attempts, and HTML may be a computer virus whose progress is unstoppable!Gordon Jolygordon.joly@gordo.uklinux.netIf, as Richard Wild says, it is impossible for a single corporation to "steal" the internet, then I might feel more relaxed about not being able to use First Direct's online banking service from Netscape, Opera or any browser other than IE running on Windows. To say nothing of the other "Internet Explorer Only" sites.Microsoft is possibly the one corporation that could steal the web. The anti-trust case bought to light an internal email from Bill Gates on January 28, 1997, instructing staff that it would be the wrong strategy not to force Office users to use IE and to make unilateral extensions to HTML. He told them to patent elements of Microsoft's HTML rendering engine and make it extremely hard to clone. (Seewww.theregister.co.uk/content/archive/10603.html.I assume that Microsoft's tenacious efforts to ensure that Internet Explorer is the only browser shipped with new PCs are directed at a wider goal of controlling both the browser and the server software used on the web.Jim Haguejim.hague@insignia.com
Hollywood joined the music industry in the battle against digital downloads this week, with a legal battle against a website operator for alleged copyright infringement.The Motion Picture Association of America, an industry trade group, has filed a lawsuit against Eric Corley, the publisher of 2600, a quarterly hackers' magazine and website, in a move that is being eagerly watched by online businesses, lawyers and computer users in the US.Mr Corley's website has distributed software that unscrambles the encryption on DVDs, thereby allowing computer users to download movies on to high-quality discs and send films across the internet. In addition, it provides links to other websites which contain the same information.At issue in the case, which came to court on Monday, is a 1998 law on copyright in the US which has already pitched the music industry against listeners citing the First Amendment of the US constitution, which protects the right to free speech.Leon Gold, a leading lawyer for the film studios, told the court: "The threat of world copying is here and the process has begun. It will become an avalanche unless this court acts."Martin Garbus, the First Amendment lawyer who has represented the author Salman Rushdie, is acting for Mr Corley, who calls himself Emmanuel Goldstein, in a reference to George Orwell's novel 1984.Mr Garbus argued in court that the technology at the heart of the case is covered by the "fair use" freedoms awarded by the First Amendment. Such arguments are also being put forward to defend online music downloads under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.The unscrambling software is thought to have been downloaded from a website owned by Microsoft, the world's biggest software group, by a Norwegian teenager.It has been largely used to allow people who already own DVDs to watch their movies on computers using Linux, the freely available alternative to Microsoft Windows.The eight major film studios originally filed a suit against three defendants in January. Following an earlier order by the judge presiding over the case, two of the defendants settled. At the time, Mr Corley agreed to take the DeCSS software which breaks the encryption code off his site, but then continued to provide more than 400 links to sites where the code could be found, citing journalistic freedom of speech.Mr Corley is a self-confessed hacker and his website is devoted to fighting against what it calls "the failing of our modern technical era... and corporate abuse of power".The film industry argues that the links on the website blatantly evade the spirit of the prior injunction. It also says that the Copyright Act's language, prohibiting the provision of or "trafficking" in a circumvention device, includes linking.US district court judge Lewis Kaplan could rule on the case as early as next week.
Parliament today has its last opportunity to object to the government plan to give sweeping new powers for intelligence agencies - indeed, any public authority - to conduct covert surveillance, including intercepting emails and bugging property.As Jonathan Freedland points out in his article today (The text that got away), the misleadingly friendly-sounding regulation of investigatory powers bill (RIP) is one of the more contentious measures even this government's Home Office has managed to produce.This is not just because of its implications for civil liberties. The bill is also opposed by commercial groups because of the cost of setting up black boxes to link internet service providers to MI5.While Tony Blair tries to find the person who hacked into his own communication network, companies are deeply concerned about the implications for their businesses and their privacy from the threat of having to hand over encryption keys or the text of emails. As we all should be. The libertarian Tory MP Richard Shepherd likens it to "giving to the police the keys to the doors to your homes".The interests of business and civil liberties groups coalesced as they realised the full significance of the bill which MPs and peers describe as the most complicated ever - one says it is like "mapping in a fog".Faced with opposition, Home Office ministers resort to the mantra they use to defend such other disturbing measures as the terrorism bill and the football (disorder) bill. "Trust the authorities and ministers to be sensible," they say, and they damn critics as paranoid conspiracy theorists.But up to now, GCHQ, the government's electronic eavesdropping centre, has been authorised by ministerial warrant to intercept domestic communications only if there is suspicion of terrorist activity. Under RIP, for the first time, they will be able to trawl through domestic emails more or less at will.Home Office minister Steve Bassam admitted as much in a letter last week to the Liberal Democrat peer, Andrew Phillips. GCHQ, MI5 and MI6 could also intercept emails between British citizens whether or not they are covered by warrants signed by ministers. Lord Bassam admits the agencies can lawfully intercept internal communications even when a warrant specifies only external ones.Referring in particular to emails and mobile phones, he admits that "it is not possible to intercept the external communications... without intercepting internal communications as well".Ministers will be able to issue interception warrants covering broad categories of information without naming specific addresses or individuals. Individuals or companies would have to hand over a key to their encrypted communications (or supply the plain text) "in the interests of national security", to prevent or detect serious crime, or in the interests of the UK's "economic well-being".But this is not all. Keys would have to be disclosed if the information was "necessary for the effective performance of any public authority" in carrying out their statutory functions. (The government's original test was even vaguer than that.)There is more in the RIP bill. While a ministerial warrant would be needed to read the contents of an email or any other form of communication, any "authorised person" will be allowed to intercept communications "data" - that is, the addresses of all emails (or phone calls for that matter) you send or receive.The bill covers a wide range of intrusive surveillance techniques, including systematic targeting of an individual in order, as the Home Office puts it, "to obtain a picture of his life, activities and his associates". It includes the bugging of private property and cars, and the use of "covert human intelligence sources" - informants or undercover officers.Ministers will be able to issue orders allowing many other agencies to undertake such covert surveillance. They include the departments of health and social security, and trade and industry, as well as local authorities. Authorisation for these forms of surveillance would be given by senior police officers or even local authority officials.Concern about the bill was expressed last week by Elizabeth France, the data protection commissioner. "The routine long-term preservation of data by ISPs &#91;internet service providers&#93; for law enforcement purposes would be disproportionate general surveillance of communications," she said in her latest annual report.Ministers argue that the bill is necessary to catch up with drug-traffickers, money-launderers and organised criminal gangs with access to increasingly sophisticated technology. But the risk is that criminals will continue to evade the snoopers. The bill's victims may turn out to be the innocent.richard.norton-taylor@guardian.co.uk
Alan McGee, the former head of Creation Records, is to float his new internet music venture with the backing of two directors from Knutsford, the high-profile former bidder.Mr. McGee, renowned for discovering the rock band Oasis and turning Creation into one of the UK's leading independent record labels, has appointed financial advisers to co-ordinate the AIM flotation of Poptones Records.Knutsford directors Michael Edelson, also deputy chairman of Manchester United football club, and Julian Richer, the founder of the Richer Sounds hi-fi chain, will become non-executive directors. Shareholders include Robert Devereaux, the chairman of Virgin Film &amp; Records. News of the float first broke on internet website Sharecast.com.Mr McGee surprised the music world in November last year by announcing he was leaving Creation to launch his own net label. During his time at the head of Creation, the 39-year-old became one of the most influential people in the UK music industry and an adviser to Tony Blair - although he has since distanced himself from New Labour.The bands he discovered included the Jesus and Mary Chain, Primal Scream, Super Furry Animals and Oasis.Poptones Records will sell at traditional stores and via internet retailers. Mr McGee's decision to team up with Mr Richer and Mr Edelson will give him useful access to a wide pool of City investors.However, it is unclear what support the venture will gain from retail investors who followed the Knutsford story. Shares in the company surged last autumn when Mr Edelson, the company chairman, recruited a team led by Mr Richer to launch a bid on a beleaguered high street retailer.Knutsford's directors - including the Conservative minister Archie Norman and property entrepreneurs Nigel Wray and Nick Leslau - struggled to close a deal.Shares fell, and the company reverted to its former role as an American financial information and marketing group.When he quit Creation Mr McGee said: "The future for me is multimedia; the future is not being one-dimensional and having one record company. It's worked for the last 25 years but it doesn't make sense any more."You have to be in lots of different areas to give yourself leverage, if you're not in all these businesses at the same time you're going to be left behind."
"It is probably the most complex and technically drafted bill to go through parliament in 40 years, and even now, with the honourable exception of six or so Labour backbenchers, no one in the parliamentary Labour party has bothered to understand it. There is enormous cynicsm among MPs. They don't think they are going to get brownie points with their constituencies if they rebel."Caspar Bowden, the head of the business funded Foundation for Information Policy Research, is in despair that the regulation of investigatory powers bill will today complete its troubled Lords passage.The bill has been watered down by an alliance of Tory and Liberal Democrat peers - who have first defeated the government and then extracted concessions from Lord Bassam of Brighton, the Home Office minister steering it through the Lords. Despite the small victories, the bill's critics say industry has been left with "the worst of all possible worlds".Britain will probably remain the only country in the world where the security services will have powers to demand "decryption keys" from individuals and businesses, Mr Bowden claims. The power has been restricted, but companies cannot be sure their data will be secure. In the Lords last Wednesday business leaders such as Lord Stevenson, the chairman of Pearson, was forced to admit he and "the large companies like the ones I run have not really understood the implications involved. It is my judgment that no one knows what the cost to the economy will be".He speculated that if the costs proved too burdensome, his businesses "would melt away into other countries, and the government will not have the luxury of any warning".How could such a business-friendly government so alarm one of its greatest business supporters? Last summer the Alliance for Electronic Business, eager to get the e-commerce bill on the statute book, successfully lobbied for the section on interception of material to be deferred.Net service providers were worried about the cost of being required to install as yet technologically unproven remotely controlled black box recorders with which the security services would be able to monitor the flow of information. They also did not like the idea that bodies such as MI5 could de mand businesses hand over the "key" to decrypt data.At the time the deferral looked like a good call for industry but it left business with less lobbying leverage when the same provisions reappeared in the Home Office's regulation of investigatory powers bill, a piece of legislation in part designed to make the security services compliant with the Human Rights Act.The Home Office took its orders largely from the security services, leading to a widely drawn bill with many catch-all provisions, ambiguities and draconian punishments.Stephen Byers, then a new industry secretary, lobbied Number 10 to try to get the bill watered down.Normally Mr Blair is hyper-sensititive to business, especially e-business, but the home secretary, Jack Straw, had the support of the head of the civil service, Sir Richard Wilson. Ministers also do not readily tell M15 or M16 to get lost, especially if a convincing case can be made that access to the internet, email and other forms of electronic communications will smash criminal and terrorist gangs.In the Commons, the Conservatives voted against the bill for a ragbag of reasons, expressing business anxieties and fears that some of the punishments were too lenient. Only Labour leftwingers, such as stalwart CND campaigner Harry Cohen, expressed fundamental doubts. Mr Cohen argued: "Every new-style connection - internet as well as mobile phone - is going to be monitored by 1,000 or so self-authorising officials."The real opposition has come from the upper chamber, however. Lord Bassam, a former local government radical and considered the hardest working minister in government, is increasingly getting hit. On July 12, peers voted by 155 to 130 to establish a technical advisory body with which ministers would have to consult on the installation of the black boxes, and hear appeals from ISPs. Ministers will tomorrow accept the idea.An hour later the Lords passed an amendment saying ministers will, rather than may, cover the cost of installation of the system, a potentially huge expense. Lord Bassam had offered &#163;20m over three years but others believe costs could be much more. It is estimated that business will have to spend between &#163;20m and &#163;640m. If the security forces want to e-snoop, the state will now have to pay.A day later peers drew back by one vote from demanding warrants requiring access to decoding keys should come from the home secretary, as with phone taps, rather than a chief constable. More amendments are tabled today and few expect Lord Bassam to emerge unscathed.
Gas and electricity supplier Powergen was today "urgently" contacting more than 2,500 customers after their banking details were  revealed on the company's website in a major security breach.The incident arose when a customer encountered the names, addresses and banking card numbers of other consumers when he  tried to pay his bill online earlier this month.John Chamberlain, a freelance IT consultant from Leicester, said he had discovered three files containing the bank details of more than 7,000 home and  business customers.Mr Chamberlain told BBC Radio 5 Live: "I couldn't believe what I saw. It was basically names, addresses, credit  card details, account numbers and so on."I thought, 'I wonder if I'm in here', so I clicked the search button and typed in my name and off it went and found my name,  address, credit card number, expiry date..."Powergen said that the information had not been obtained "fairly" and that it had called in the Metropolitan Police to investigate the  breach.Spokeswoman Isobel Hoseason said: "We take the security of customers' personal information very seriously. Until Tuesday, the  allegations by the individual behind the breach of security were unsubstantiated."It wasn't until late yesterday that we had any evidence that there had been a breach in security."We are aware of the customers who may be affected and will be contacting them today. We hope customers will bear with us."We have passed all the information to the police who are now investigating. We were confident that our website was robust. We  had our website tested by professionals and the security on that website is robust."
Cr&eacute;dit Suisse First Boston, the Swiss-American investment bank, is planning to launch a new online private banking service targeted at the rapidly-expanding numbers of high earners in the US.The new service, known in the bank as "privateadvisor.com", is expected to compete with a $1bn venture between Merrill Lynch and HSBC, which also hopes to attract cash from the newly affluent.The Merrill/HSBC company, based in London, will target those with "investable assets"   of &#163;60,000-&#163;300,000 who are keen to make their own investment decisions.CSFB's privateadvisor.com is expected to go after the same market and will be headed by Kevin English - the former chief executive of news websiteThestreet.com.Mr English joined CSFB's e-commerce department earlier this year and is expected to hire significant numbers of people - one insider said "several hundred people" were required - for the new service. Mr English was unavailable for comment.A spokesman for the group also refused to comment on its   online ambitions yesterday, saying it would be "premature to discuss" the new service.Insiders say that privateadvisor.com will initially start in the US before it is launched in other parts of the world, such as Europe. It is expected to be branded as a CSFB product.The bank's top management is expected to move swiftly into cyberspace - which sources say has been triggered by the rising number of users of its websites.By the end of February, the number of CSFB's online banking customers had reached 200,000.CSFB executives are keen to   combine the web's low cost with the high margins generated by well-heeled investors.Most traditional private banking services target the extremely wealthy - defined as individuals with investable assets of more than $1m - and offer bespoke investment plans.In recent years, the growing ranks of individuals with at least $100,000 to play the markets with, has attracted the big banks.These customers, say the banks, neither need nor want the sort of personal attention provided by a traditional private bank.Studies by Gemini Consulting and Merrill Lynch suggest that private banking assets could rise above $38,000bn by 2005 largely because of the increasing wealth of this band of people.Michael Maslinski, director of a management consultancy which specialises in private banking, has estimated that the richest 5% of people in the US, which includes those targeted by CSFB and its rivals, provide about half of the profits earned in the retail financial services sector."Private banking is not a niche any more - it's big business." he says.The private banking operation of Cr&eacute;dit Suisse, which has SFr600bn (&#163;243bn)in assets under management, also plans to launch a European e-commerce operation in the third quarter.The new "ebank" is part of CSFB's global strategy. Experts say that across Europe, the Far East, Japan and Latin America, the number of households on the net that are also active investors is expected to grow more than fourfold in the next decade to 50m.In Europe alone, the number of online banking and investment accounts is predicted to exceed 14m by 2004.
Telephone bank First Direct yesterday sought to exploit consumer dissatisfaction with standalone internet banks by saying it would be the first to offer interest rates similar to those offered by other online operations combined with an "award-winning person to person telephone service".The bank, part of HSBC group, announced a range of products including a current account paying up to 5% on credit balances and a savings account paying up to 6%.The 5% current account rate is higher than that paid by rivals such as Smile and First-e, but is only available to those with more than &#163;5,000 in their account. Customers with less than &#163;1,000 will earn 1%.Rates for savers are also tiered, starting at 5% for those with &#163;1 in their account and rising to 6% on more than &#163;100,000. Also on offer is a credit card and personal loans.First Direct announced plans to transform itself into an "e-bank" almost five months ago. The bank expects to double its 1m customer base within three years.In a swipe at standalone rivals such as Egg, First Direct's chief executive, Alan Hughes, said it wanted customers to benefit from attractive rates, "but not at the expense of the service they receive"."Some of our competitors support interest rates by penalising customers for calling them, while others are shut when you need them or automate their response to customers. We will not compromise our service for unsustainable headline-grabbing rates."Mr Hughes said he expected most customers to use firstdirect.com. But those who do not use the net will not benefit from the new pricing - the existing lower rates will continue to apply to them. Banking via Wap phones will be introduced next month and TV banking is to go live in the autumn.
The startling share price performance of ARM Holdings, the fast-growing British microchip designer that reports second quarter results this morning, is understood to have made millionaires of around 150 of the company's staff.Bill Parsons, the human resources director, said yesterday that around a third of the company's 520 staff now own stock worth in excess of &#163;1m after a surge in ARM's share price that has propelled it into the list of Britain's top 50 listed companies.Mr Parsons said that most staff who had been with the firm for four years would be paper millionaires by now. "Even the administrative secretary is a millionaire several times over," he said, pointing out that every employee has stock options."Graduates who have been with the firm for just three years can be worth &#163;400,000 or &#163;500,000."The track record of ARM's share price performance - which has transformed the firm from a start-up based in a converted turkey coop to a &#163;7bn multinational corporation in just eight years - is forming a central part of ARM's efforts to recruit and train young staff.The Cambridge company is competing for new engineers in a domestic market desperately short of the requisite skill sets, Mr Parsons said.ARM has made various moves to ensure that company is not impeded by staff shortages."We want the company built to last so that it is around in 50 years," Mr Parsons said.It has helped to design and is sponsoring a new four-year MEng degree programme at Loughborough university which starts in October. Around 20 students a year will be given help with their living and study costs, and provided with state of the art laboratories and equipment to enable them to learn how to design the sort of embedded microprocessor cores that have become ARM's speciality.The company has also sponsored a lectureship at Cambridge university and research at Manchester university.Robin Saxby, the chief executive who has seen the value of his own stake in ARM climb past &#163;100m, has personally donated &#163;1.5m to Liverpool university, the institution where he studied electrical engineering, to help fund future research.ARM is forecast to report a second quarter pre-tax profit of &#163;6.4m, against &#163;8.2m in the first quarter. Its shares surged on Friday ahead of the results but fell back 30p to 790p yesterday, reminding ARM employees that their fortunes exist only on paper.
One evening last week someone from Surinam tried to break into my computer. I was sitting in south London surfing the internet, and a person on another continent thousands of miles away was attempting to hack into my PC, right in front of my nose.All my anonymous friend in Surinam did was the computer equivalent of trying a door to see if it was open. He or she rattled the handle a couple of times, couldn't get in, and left. So while it was disconcerting - like hearing someone try your front door in the middle of the night - it's no reason to rush out and get security guards.Cyber-crime now worries a lot of people. As Tony Blair's emails leak, the government's Regulation of Investigatory Powers bill is going through the Lords. Not only is this one of the most sustained attacks on civil liberties in recent history - allowing for powers of surveillance that Stalin would have been delighted with - the bill will also fail in its aim of tightening computer security. It would be powerless against my Surinam visitor, as Jack Straw's writ does not run to South America just yet. Flawed computer software and inadequate management are the biggest contributors to cyber-crime in this country - not the Russian Mafia or spotty teenage hackers.Imagine if cars were sold with just a standard key, which started every car of that model. That, in effect, is how most commercial software is released. Had I left my computer exactly as it was when I took it out of its box, my potential hacker from Surinam would have been able to get in. By rushing out new products, with little regard for security or time to check for dangerous flaws, software makers actually allow hackers to flourish. The majority of successful attacks on computers over the internet can be traced to the exploitation of one of a small number of security flaws. Microsoft is one of the worst offenders: it has just announced an update for its new Windows 2000 operating system that patches up 35 "access violation errors", and 65,000 bugs in total.A Welsh teenager, Raphael Gray, was arrested this year for breaking into commercial websites and publishing details of customers' credit cards. Gray said: "You could teach your grandmother how to do what I was doing." That suggests Gray isn't really a hacker, but a "script kiddie" - the pejorative name proper hackers use for those who simply download free programs from the internet, and use them to exploit the well-publicised weaknesses in commercial software.Gray says he first warned companies their sites were insecure. When they didn't respond, he posted thousands of credit card details on the internet until someone took notice. The FBI sent an agent, in regulation trench-coat, to the small village where Gray lives to be present at the bust. But something must be going wrong if an 18-year-old, with just a home computer and basic skills, can operate out of a bedroom in Wales and find confidential information.Any shop that allowed a teenager to walk in off the street and scoop up pages of customers' bank details and credit cards would be guilty of lax security. Why should websites be any different? They are the ones with the IT departments and professional systems administrators who should be able to lock out the script kiddies. But enough of them aren't able to, because the most common mistake made by companies is to assign untrained people to maintain security.While it's annoying to have sites defaced by snot-nosed punks, it does at least mean that systems are being tested in a relatively benign manner. The good news is that the majority of hackers aren't interested in stealing credit cards, and most of them don't break the law. They are curious about how computers work, and are more interested in the challenges involved in hacking than anything else. That's a small price, a sort of survival-of-the-smartest computer Darwinism, for exposing the hidden entrances and rickety defences of modern software.richard.adams@guardian.co.uk
&#149; Popular Supreme in software but an internet laggard for several years, Microsoft yesterday proclaimed it had the world's most popular website with 201m unique users last month. The figures, helped by Microsoft's number one slot in the British market as well as elsewhere around the world, beat those published by Yahoo! , the internet portal, for the same period. Yahoo!, which announced 156m unique users in the same period, refused to comment on the Microsoft results. However, it has also described itself as the "leading, global branded web network".&#149; Oversubscribed The institutional tranche of Wanadoo 's initial public offering has been 16 times oversubscribed and the retail tranche more than 4.5 times oversubscribed, said a source close to the float. Demand for the institutional tranche came 40% from France, 40% from other European countries and 20% from the United States and the rest of the world. France Telecom, Wanadoo's parent, declined to comment.&#149; Expanding The American business-to-business marketplace company, Internet Capital Group, said it would expand its European holdings and has plans for a future spinoff. ICG also said it had appointed Doug Alexander, ICG's managing director and chairman of VerticalNet, as chief executive officer of ICG Europe. The company is planning to open an office in Paris and expand its Munich offices.&#149; Developing Internet content software developer NetCentric Systems said it will raise &#163;390,000 from a private placing to finance expansion plans. The cash will also be used to invest in development of the company's flagship technology, Lychee. The technology enables corporate website owners to update their websites by using a browser, eliminating the need for technical knowledge of complex web languages such as HTML.
Almost a third of business users expect to receive a free upgrade of their mobile handsets to next-generation internet phones, according to a survey by the consultancy CMG.CMG said the prospect of phone operators having to subsidise upgrades threatens their ability to recoup costs.Third-generation technology will allow mobile handsets to perform simple computing tasks and promise high-speed   internet connections and video conferencing.The costs next-generation operators face already are massive. Vodafone, One2One, Orange, BT Cellnet and TIW paid a total of &#163;22.5bn to the government for the licences to deliver third-generation mobile phone technology from 2002.Analysts have estimated those five operators might have to spend a further &#163;10bn upgrading their networks to deliver the technology.The survey of 300 business users in Britain, the Netherlands and Germany found many mobile were dissatisfied with the performance of functions on their present handsets such as email and internet access."&#91;They&#93; aren't yet attractive enough for business managers to want to pay extra to upgrade their mobile phones," the survey concluded."Surprisingly, 28% expect their service provider to provide the upgrade for nothing.   This is bad news for the network providers as it looks as if customers are not yet prepared to help them recoup their costs."The survey also found only 11% of those interviewed were happy with their current mobile phone operators and only 10% owned handsets capable of sending and receiving emails.Even so, more than two-thirds of those respondents expect to be using their mobile phones for email by 2003.
Two aspiring internet tycoons will today begin developing their website ideas with the help of &#163;1m each after winning Channel 4's E-Millionaire show.The pair beat off competition from more than 7,000 applicants to triumph in last night's final.Charity worker Joe Rajko, 37, from Leeds can now set up his dream site - yourable.com - which allows disabled people to buy specialised equipment online.The site also provides information and travel guides for disabled holidaymakers.The other victorious website - schoolsforschools.com - was the brainchild of Colin Robinson, 37, from Slough, Berkshire.The site allows schools to save money when buying equipment by letting them group together to maximise purchasing power.After claiming his prize Mr Rajko, a wheelchair user, said he was eager to get to work on his project.He said: "I am elated. I am going out for a few beers but only a few because I have got to keep a clear head."I want to start work on the site as soon as I can."Despite recent fears that the internet bubble could be bursting, Mr Rajko said he was confident he could make his idea succeed."Our profit targets are all within easy reach and I am sure we will do well."And I hope it will benefit disabled people enormously," he said.Mr Robinson also expressed confidence in his idea. The technical support manager said: "It still hasn't sunk in yet. It's all a bit of a blur. But I know I have the passion and vision to make it succeed."Out of 7,000 original ideas, 15 contestants made it through to last week's televised heats.The winners from each show met in last night's final which was hosted by Channel 4 News presenter Jon Snow.The &#163;2m prize money was put up by a consortium of venture capitalists who decided on the final winners. The consortium was made up of Oxygen, Bright Station, Andersen Consulting, Skill Capital and BM Investments.
There is  a new dinner party game doing the rounds which has the working title: 'What have internet incubators ever given us?' The winner is anyone who can name a company successfully (or even unsuccessfully) floated off from a UK incubator fund. Tough one isn't it?There are only a handful of examples, despite the fact that, at a rough estimate, there are about 150 different internet incubator funds operating in London alone.But the signs are that this number is not sustainable for much longer. The sector is in turmoil, dragged down by the collapse in value of internet stocks and a dramatic shift in market sentiment. The fact that incubators have so far failed to deliver more than a handful of internet firms to the market has made financial backers reluctant to commit further investmentAlready we have seeneSoukcull its staff from 22 to seven with a view to channelling its &#163;10 million-worth of funds into pure venture-capital investments, rather than incubation. Lutian, the Belfast-based incubator, has ceased operations while Softechnet, a fund that focused on the Indian start-up sector, has been gobbled up byNewMedia Spark, one of the UK's largest incubators. Sources suggest several more could be about to shut up shop.Those funds that have gone public are also in the doldrums, and share prices have taken a hammering.Oxygen Holdings, which aims to invest in university start-ups, has seen its price collapse from 65p to 5p, while the value of NewMedia Spark has slid to little more than &#163;60m, a third of what it was worth a few months ago. Some quoted funds even find themselves in the surreal position of having more cash in the bank than their current market values.'It reflects fears that they can't invest the cash profitably,' said David Pannell, analyst with IT investment bank Durlacher.One of the problems the   sector seems to be suffering from is an abject lack of definition. An internet incubator is essentially an organisation that will help start-ups in the first six months of their lives. Often called accelerators because of the way they help speed a company's route to market, an incubator should have a well developed network of contacts that can help fledgling dotcom firms find everything from offices to personnel to equipment to, crucially, cash.'You have to have a portfolio of partners so you can find cash quickly. It's become more difficult to find funding because market sentiment plays such an important part in the process,' said Chris Thomas, chief executive of Route II, a new incubator which is focusing on Ireland.It is also becoming apparent that many of the so-called incubators have little in the way of in-house expertise and, equally, poor access to partner firms who can guide their charges in the right direction.Andrew Parker, analyst with Forrester Research, noted in a report earlier this year: 'Few incubators offer full-service support. Neither a thin veneer of support laid over venture capital nor access to premises with basic business services adds up to effective incubation.'They may call themselves incubators, but they actually bring little to the equation other than cash, a proposition already on offer from the myriad venture-capital firms swimming in the same pond. This raises questions about what will happen to these vehicles now that they are effectively cash shells.'Some of these incubator funds have raised quite a bit of money,' said Ian Coleman, European head of value consulting at PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). I suspect we'll see some consolidation as they reverse into other companies who are looking for an easy way of raising finance.'The giant Coleman works for represents a new threat to   the incubators. Whereas the likes of PwC have been tardy in developing their own models for nurturing internet start-ups, they are now attacking the sector with abandon. Those smaller incubators, such as eSouk, which tried to build a panoply of expertise under one roof, have found it too expensive to compete with Andersen Consulting, Ernst and Young and PwC, all of which have set up their own accelerator funds, chiefly to prevent prized staff from leaving and setting up their own e-businesses.How long will it be before some of the big venture-capital firms, and even conventional unit-trust companies, start to snap up small incubators, whose backers are now growing impatient, not to mention worried, about their investments' chances of delivering hatchlings to market successfully via initial public offerings (IPOs)?'Although I wouldn't say there are too many incubator funds, I think there are too many with ill defined propositions,' Thomas said.A lot of these tend to focus   on what analysts charitably refer to as the 'frothier' end of the market. These are the funds that invested heavily in nurturing e-retailers (the business-to-consumer, or B2C, market), many of whom are now on their last legs. Parker noted: 'B2C incubators won't see big returns. Europe's e-commerce future lies in B2B (business-to-business) trade, which will outweigh B2C revenues sixfold through 2004.'Nevertheless, there will be winners. Antfactory, one of the largest incubators operat ing in London, last week managed to raise a further $150m (&#163;100m) for investment purposes, despite the downturn in market sentiment.Perhaps this is proof that only the biggest incubators will be able to survive the impending shake-out. After all, given the collapse of the internet IPO market, the gestation period of dotcom firms is starting to stretch dramatically, as the markets become more discerning about online firms looking to go public.Some difficult pregnancies lie ahead.
It's been an instructive week. On Monday the Irish e-commerce Bill became law. Section 28 of it says: 'Nothing in this Act shall be construed as requiring the disclosure or enabling the seizure of unique data, such as codes, passwords, algorithms, private cryptographic keys, or other data, that may be nec essary to render information or an electronic communication intelligible.'On Thursday, the British Regulation of Investigatory Powers (RIP) Bill completed its passage through the Lords, on its way to the Statute Book in October. Although their Lordships have done some sterling work   in Committee, the Bill that now returns to the Lower House preserves intact its sinister essence as a spooks' charter.The RIP Bill still makes it a criminal offence, punishable by five years in prison, to tell anyone (including a client, an employer or your family) that you have been served with an order to surrender encryption keys, or that you have been forced to hand over encrypted material in plaintext form.It still provides for the installation of remote-controlled boxes in an internet service provider's premises   which relay all data passing through the ISP to a special monitoring centre in MI5.It still gives the security services power to monitor - without a warrant - the e-mail addresses of everyone with whom you communicate. And, through a strange conjunction of internet technology and a legal loophole, it extends GCHQ's existing powers to trawl through all external communications to and from the UK to cover internal data traffic. (Users of Hotmail and other email services hosted in the US, please note.)The RIP Bill is a catastrophe on two fronts. First, it makes colossal and essentially unsupervised inroads into civil liberties. From October, nobody in the UK can feel confident that their internet use is not being trawled or intercepted by the Minister of the Interior or his goons.Second, it makes it a racing certainty that the UK will miss out on the coming e-business revolution.What Jack Straw and co clearly do not understand is that encryption is the core technology of e-business, and that internet commerce only works if businesses and customers are completely confident that their encryption methods are secure.It is clear from their private and public reactions that major e-business companies and industrial lobbies see the RIP Bill as undermining that security. They are entirely unimpressed by the assurances of Charles Clarke and other Home Office Ministers that its sweeping powers will be exercised 'reasonably'.'The only thing I care about,' the security manager of a major bank is reported to have said to Clarke in a private meeting, 'is the text of the Act. Which is why my &#91;encryption&#93; keys are going to   Switzerland.' What the RIP fiasco also demonstrates is how Blair's goofy pledge to make the UK 'the most e-friendly country in the world' was really just a sound-bite masquerading as policy.If the Prime Minister really wants to see what a serious e-friendly strategy looks like, all he has to do is take a trip to Dublin. Ireland was the first country to use a digital signature to sign an inter-governmental agreement (on 7 September 1998).Concerned that the country might run out of bandwidth, the Irish government invested $80 million in an   undersea fibre-optic cable that provides a 25-gigabyte-per-second pipe to the US and to 24 European cities. Bertie Ahern and co are also spending $90.78m on extending this broadband network to more than 120 Irish towns.They've set up a development fund to help small and medium-sized Irish enterprises switch to e-commerce. I could go on, but you get the point. So do British ISPs, three of which announced last week that they will set up offshore operations if the RIP Bill is passed. Another triumph for New Labour.John.Naughton@observer.co.uk
Dixons is back in talks to sellFreeserve, the UK's largest internet service provider, toDeutsche Telekom's T-Online division.Talks collapsed late last month, which sent Dixons and Freeserve's shares plunging. Speculation over why negotiations were halted centred on the price Dixons wanted. Dixons owns 80 per cent of Freeserve.The retail giant was apparently keen to put a &#163;6 billion price tag on the internet business, a figure which T-Online believed was too high. Now, however, with Freeserve worth less than &#163;3.5bn, T-Online is reconsidering.Last week, the markets were awash with rumours that the two parties had re-entered negotiations, the latest twist in an erratic courtship which has also seen Freeserve linked with cable firm NTL, with BT, and with Spain's Terra Networks.But both Freeserve and Deutsche Telekom played down the story, pointing out that Wolfgang Keuntje, T-Online's chief executive, was on holiday and therefore unable to lead negotiations.However, sources in the internet sector say the two sides have now resumed exploratory talks. 'It's not a dead duck. You don't get to the point where these two have got to and walk away completely. It comes down to what Dixons values Freeserve at,' said one source.A combined company would see Freeserve's 1.9 million users pooled with its German counterpart's five million subscribers.'It's still a good partnership and Deutsche Telekom has still got to find a way into the market,' the source added. Asked about the fact that Keuntje is apparently on holiday, the source said: 'He knows what's going on.'One possibility would be for T-Online to take a minority stake in Freeserve. Following the collapse of talks with T-Online last month, John Pluthero, Freeserve's chief executive, hinted that this might happen.'We do not expect a bid for the whole of Freeserve in the near future,' Pluthero said at the time - leaving open the possibility that the company could offer its shares to a number of strategic partners in a bid to help it develop a pan-European online network.There had been suggestions that Freeserve's senior management team had threatened to quit if the company was sold to T-Online, but it is understood that Pluthero has privately stated his confidence in the German firm's business strategy. A link between the two ISPs could see Freeserve's portal introduced to Deutsche's One2One mobile phone network as a way of developing the operator's wireless internet services.Freeserve was valued at nearly &#163;9bn earlier this year, but the slump in the value of tech stocks, coupled with the falling prices ISPs can charge for providing internet access, sent the company's share price into freefall.
Eastern European women are being marketed and sold over the internet by criminal gangs which smuggle them into the UK sex industry to order,  The Observer  has learnt.In a disturbing hi-tech twist to the burgeoning and lucrative international trade in prostitutes, gangs are using websites to sell the women 'wholesale' to buyers across Europe, who then put them to work in flats, massage parlours and brothels.The practice was uncovered by officers at the National Criminal Intelligence Service while carrying out research, due to be published next month, into Russian organised crime.It is not only Russian criminals who have turned to the web to revolutionise their women-trafficking operations. Gangs from across the former Soviet bloc and the Balkans are now dealing on   the internet, as the trade emerges as one of the biggest moneyspinners for European criminals.The gangs place details of the women for sale on some of the hundreds of sites which have appeared across Europe, offering electronic noticeboards - so-called 'virtual phone boxes' - for prostitutes to advertise their services.Pimps in the West can then log on and select which women would best suit the market they cater for, before ordering them for delivery, like any other commodity available on the net.One US site believed to be used by the criminals includes a link to an internet magazine called  Streetwalking the World, which carries explicit ads for escorts in Europe, the United States and Australia. There is no suggestion that either site is involved in, or has any knowledge of, the trafficking operations. The emerging   role of the net is certain to increase calls for a Europe-wide crackdown on gangs involved in the trafficking of women.NCIS believes that most of the women being offered for   sale on the internet are already working in the sex industry and are willing participants in the trade. In some cases, they may even be sold to men as internet brides.But there is growing evidence that many of the women being smuggled into the UK have been kidnapped and forced into prostitution against their will. Officers fear that the growing hi-tech sophistication of the trafficking operations will make uncovering their activities even more difficult.'This is a whole new ball game for the trafficking gangs and therefore for us,' a senior police source said.   'The fact that they can put these human beings out for viewing not only shows how they regard the women, but also underlines how strong the market is.'The development comes in the wake of a Home Office report last month which revealed that more than 70 per cent of Soho sex workers are now foreign, a substantial number of whom may have been forced to become, in effect, sex slaves.Police intelligence suggests an increasing number of women are already being held in 'debt bondage' by criminal gangs, who lure them to the West with false promises of jobs. But once here, they confiscate their papers, place them in flats and force them to work as prostitutes.In many cases, the women are sold to another gang shortly before the debt is paid off, and the cycle begins again. The trade is fuelled by   the insatiable appetite of punters for 'new' girls and by the need for pimps to cater for more extreme sexual demands, such as torture, as well as unprotected sex. The trade in imported women is slowly spreading across the UK, centring on cities where there is a major off-street sex industry, such as Glasgow. According to sources in the trade, one flat in the city connected to a sauna offers eastern European women for clients with 'exotic' tastes.In Edinburgh, three Lithuanian women were deported after police discovered they had been put to work in the city's sex trade by a Russian gang. Two worked in a sauna and the other in a lap-dancing bar, but information that they were working against their will soon went round the city's small but highly competitive industry and police were called in.stuart.millar@observer.co.uk
President Bill Clinton may be the last man in the US to need Viagra, but last week he raised eyebrows by saying that, if he ever considered doing a commercial, he would join Bob Dole in promoting the drug which freed millions from the curse of impotence.Clinton's casual comment belies the battle lines he has drawn against the peddling of medicines - most markedly, Viagra - in cyberspace.Drastic legislation drawn up by Clinton unleashed a nationwide sweep by government agents to clamp down on prescriptions and sales of so-called 'lifestyle' drugs on the internet. A sudden wave of investigations and 'search and seizure' raids rounded up providers of Viagra and other drugs. The vendors were charged with breaking laws which do not yet exist.The popular drugs involved are prescribed to hundreds of thousands of patients who now face being stripped of treatment. The main four are Celebrex for arthritis, Clarityn for asthma and allergies, Xenica for obesity, and Viagra for 'erectile dysfunction'.None are 'controlled substances', nor addictive or dangerous, but - says Clinton's proposal now before Congress - prescription of such medicine from doctors to patients who never meet should be outlawed.Clinton's legislation aims to impose a $500,000 fine on any online business or pharmacy selling these drugs without a 'valid prescription'. About $10 million has already been spent training hundreds of specially trained Food and Drug Administration agents and sending investigators to raid prescription sites.Of 350 providers and pharmacies hit, about 150 have come under criminal investigation. Affidavits for the raids are sealed, so that those raided do not know on what legal grounds - no law having yet been passed - they are being investigated.Clinton's crusade and the counter-campaign recall rows over Prohibition in the Thirties and the abortion debate in their fury. Fuelling the emotion of this battle, the lobby fighting on Capitol Hill to oppose the Bill is led by Roy Lucas, famous in America for his victory in the epic Roe versus Wade case which   established the legal right to abortion.Lucas says Clinton's 'witch-hunt' legislation is 'oppressive and needing to be watered down tremendously'.The government insists that the drugs - especially Xenica and Viagra - are abused by people who do not need them medically for slimming or sexual recreation. It says patients fall victim to 'cowboy' websites.Officials cite the proliferation of Viagra in clubland, and claims the drug is being sold to buyers and administered to patients who simply fill in online questionnaires.The senior policy chief at the administration, William Hubbard, testified to Congress during hearings last month that 'illegal dispensing   of prescription drugs poses a serious threat to the health and safety of American citizens'.Meanwhile, besieged prescribers and online doctors have formed OPPA - the Online Prescription Providers' Association - whose director Anton Pusztai retorts: 'Where are the victims? We read and read about the victims of obesity, arthritis, impotence and allergies, but where are the victims of these drugs?'Pusztai says, as with Prohibition and abortion, the closing down of legitimate sites that provide consultations with doctors will only 'give the rogues and the cowboys the break they need'.The providers want a list of drugs that do not contain 'controlled substances' on the internet, with guarantees of proper medical consultation online or by telephone. 'You   are always going to get people who abuse the system, in any form of healthcare,' says Pusztai. 'It's the same with alcohol. But that doesn't mean that we prohibit access to drugs for most of the people we deal with and the millions who genuinely suffer from obesity and impotence.'Pusztai says that his members would never, for instance, sell the dieting medicine Phentamine, which contains a controlled substance, only the fat-blocker Xenical. 'They say, "what would happen if an anorexic got hold of some Xenical?". Well, the answer is nothing, because an anorexic has no fat to block. They might as well have taken a sugar cube.'The irony, says Pusztai, is that 'the sites that offer consumer protections are the visible ones and therefore the ones they're going for, while the rogue sites are going to be difficult for them to get to'. Oppa members are sites with registered real addresses, whereas rogue sites have cyber-addresses only.Ironically, most online prescribers, who offer consultations with US or foreign doctors and reject some applications, had set up OPPA just as the government clampdown began, to campaign for regulation of the online medical business and cut out the cowboys.Clinton's legislation aims to throttle the frontier-less nature of the internet, deploying laws that forbid pharmacies to deal beyond the borders of the state in which they operate. 'What the FDA is doing, however,' says Pusztai, 'is to use this in order to control the practice of medicine, which it has no right to do'.The government's position is that a prescription is 'illegal' if the patient and doctor have not met face to face. One woman whose firm is under investigation counters: 'If you go to a doctor in New York City, you fill out forms that are less rigorous than ours, and you can lie. You don't need to go to a doctor to know if you're impotent, and if you do he won't do a physical examination to find out'.If the legislation passes Congress it will have global ramifications - including for Britain. It bans dealing with providers in the US 'or abroad'. The $500,000 fine is just enough to enable the US to apply for extradition.Useful links:www.viagra.com
QXL or Quicksell?What does it stand for? Good
question. It used to be pronounced Quicksell, but the
public didn't catch on. So you can call it Queue Ex Ell.Why are you blinking?I've been assailed by a
sinus-inducing field of orange. "HOT! HOT! HOT!"
shouts the headline. "MOSCOW: 2 nights - The Spy
Game - Mastertour - Heathrow - 22 September - 141."What does it all mean?QXL would like you to bid
more than 141 for an autumn package trip to
Moscow. This is an auction site for holidays and
flights. The reserve price is reasonably low, but anyone
can outbid you - if they do, QXL can send you an SMS
message on your mobile to let you know - but if they
don't, you may have a bargain. Before bidding, you
have to entrust QXL with your credit card number and
become a member.Any notable bargains?Disappointingly few, but there
are hundreds of deals on offer. And you may spot
something that has gone unnoticed by everyone else,
particularly since many offers attract no bids at all.Will I get carried away?That depends on how
susceptible you are. QXL relies on creating a sense of
urgency among users. Once a bid is made, a
legally-binding agreement is formed, so you can't
change your mind.Oddity of the weekFielding's DangerFinderDominated by a cackling skull, DangerFinder warns you of the dangers lying in wait for travellers to Peru, Uganda, Algeria and similarly troubled locations. It's all rather perverse and about as sincere as the skeleton's warnings at the entrance to a ghost train, but as a corrective to the rose-tinted delusions of the tourist industry, it deserves a look.&#149; Nominate a travel oddity on the web by e-mailing:ros.taylor@guardian.co.uk
Burnt out by the dot.com shake-out? If the chatrooms are any guide, the new breed of internet-based share traders are now plunging down often murky mineshafts or punting on dubious derricks in far distant oil fields.Natural resources - gold, diamonds, oil and gas - are the new dot.coms as the punters look for the next "tenbacker", a share that multiplies 10 times in double quick time. But investors lured in by potential huge gains could be literally pouring their cash into a bottomless hole in the ground.Only a minority of "junior" mining and oil exploration companies - the small fry quoted on the alternative investment market, or in overseas markets such as Ireland or Australia - ever find what they are looking for. And even fewer make economically viable discoveries. Many just keep raising money from hapless investors to finance yet more exploration.But that doesn't stop chat room devotees in their search for a quick route to riches - or for an escape route from a poor performer - by convincing others to buy.Take Bula Resources, a Dublin based "black gold" play. It has been around for years, looking for oil in both Siberia and Libya. Earlier this week one investor, 'Jupiter's Lover' posted on iii: "I bought more today as I'm hearing that the announcement is now about to come - the offices in Libya have been moved into and the ceremony is either this week or next. Get into these as there is a lot of interest brewing."But 'Sospanfawr' is a bit more down to earth. "Do you have any ideas what they are likely to go up to? I've been holding them for seven years (after a hot tip!!!)."Bula predates the internet. Back in 1994, an anonymous Bula investor (who came from Guildford) faxed newspapers with fanciful stories about directors pretending to fly to see interests in Siberia while changing planes in Frankfurt and heading to secret deals in Libya.The shares have been as high as 7p and as low as 0.75p - the latter following Irish fraud squad action and a disappearing director in 1998. And while Bula's latest statement (the company has gone through a complete change of management) is full of bull points such as higher oil   prices, a better political situation in Libya and the "enhancement of our asset acquisition strategy", there are no words about earning any money from oil.Alternative investment market listed Pan Andean Resources is also a chat room favourite. The shares have multiplied five times to 50p so far this year. "BUY, BUY, BUY!" enthuses 'Tom Bear' on iii. "I have done a lot of research, emailed the company etc. The risks aren't as big as some people reckon. The upside is massive and the price is cheap."The anonymous "Citytipsters" reckon it will go to 500p, based partly on enthusiastic quotes from a director who saw plenty of oil activity from a helicopter flight over the jungle.Some online punters are backing MinMet, in the hope that unsubstantiated rumours on the net that some unidentified person may have found a diamond as big as a cricket ball in a terrain not too far away from the company's own concession, turn out to be true.A year agowww.minesite.com, a free service paid for by exploration companies eager to post their latest statements, set up with only a few hits a day. Now it counts 5,000 .Its co-owner Robert Tyerman says "interest is poised to be as big as dot.com mania. We could be at fever pitch by Christmas. There are literally hundreds of stocks for the punters but few are going to make it." But he warns against punters promising "target" share prices and advises finding out about promoters - some are serial fraudsters.Jeremy Batstone at NatWest Stockbrokers pours cold water over mines mania. "The reality is that concern for interest rates and an economic slowdown is bad news for all natural resources shares. They are just geared plays on commodity prices and these could fall. Smaller companies will be hit hardest - they have nowhere to go."And for those still getting overexcited, there is always the example of Bre-X, the Indonesian gold mine which was quoted in Vancouver. It attracted huge investor interest. But after a director fell out of a helicopter, it was revealed that its claimed biggest precious metal find ever was just a massive hole in the ground.
Debt relief campaigners are relying on a massive online campaign to get their message across shark-infested waters when leaders from the world's leading industrialised countries meet in Okinawa, Japan.Jubilee 2000, the movement pressing for debt relief for the world's poorest countries, has set up a website urging people to email the US president, Bill Clinton, the prime minister, Tony Blair, and other G8 leaders in a "drop the debt" campaign.There will be also a virtual summit, with G8 members invited to take questions emailed from the public on the snail's pace at which wealthier nations are writing off debt. Jubilee 2000 will also host an unofficial "people's summit" on Okinawa itself on July 21, the opening day of the G8 summit.Campaigners have accused the G8 of choosing Okinawa, a remote island 1,250 miles south of Tokyo, to avoid the rioting that bedevilled the World Trade Organisation summit in Seattle last November. At G8 meetings in Cologne last year and Birmingham in 1998, tens of thousands of people demonstrated in favour of debt relief. That was out of the question at Okinawa - so campaigners are resorting to the net."Far more people are doing things this time, all over the world," said Nick Buxton of Jubilee 2000, "whether it's a small church gathering in Birmingham or a big rally in Detroit, Michigan ... the net connects them all." People are invited to post messages about their events on the drop the debt website.In a coup for Jubilee 2000, President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria has accepted an invitation to address the unofficial summit. He also plans to meet G8 leaders in Japan on behalf of the G77 group of developing countries, which he chairs. The president's response came after months of lobbying by Jubilee 2000 to ensure that leaders of the rich countries invite the poor to the annual G8 summit. The Japanese government agreed to a meeting between G8 leaders and Mr Obasanjo and President of Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria, representing the Organisation of African Unity. The meeting is due to take place on July 20 in Tokyo, after which Mr Obasanjo will fly on to Okinawa for the Jubilee 2000 people's summit.In accepting the invitation, Mr Obasanjo told Jubilee 2000 UK: "It is heartwarming to know that your petition campaigns are doing well at all levels, especially the collection of 17m signatures worldwide in support of debt cancellation." Some 350,000 emails have already been sent to G8 leaders.Ann Pettifor, the director of Jubilee 2000 UK and co-founder of the international movement, said: "The president's determination to travel to the remote Japanese island of Okinawa to represent his people will send a powerful message to the leaders of the richest countries. It is time for them to honour their promises to a billion of the world's poorest people, and to drop the debt."Debt relief through the World Bank and IMF's debt relief programme has been slow. G7 leaders set themselves a target of getting 25 countries through the process by the end of 2000. Only 10 countries have started the process and only one, Uganda, has benefited from any debt cancellation.In a report this week, Cafod, the Roman Catholic development agency, said the public had been fooled into believing that the battle to reduce the third world's debt burden had been won. Repeated announcements by western leaders that they are cancelling 100% of poor countries' loans have convinced more than half the population that debt is no longer a problem, according to Cafod."Gordon Brown and the other G7 finance ministers have the power to get the debt process back on track," said Jessica Woodroffe, head of campaigns at the World Development Movement, part of the Jubilee 2000 coalition. At their last summit in Cologne a year ago, the G8 promised to write off 67bn of loans to the world's poorest, but they have delivered just 1.3bn in extra debt relief.Useful linksDrop the debt campaign: send your own emailJubilee 2000Special report: debt reliefSpecial report: WTO summit
In early 1995, life looked good for young Mathieu Nouzareth. He had just completed an MBA in the US on an exchange programme from university in Grenoble and had landed a job with a multimedia business start-up in New York.  Then one day a new chief executive was appointed. By the end of the week Nouzareth and everyone else in the company had been fired."That's where I really got in touch with the American way of doing business," he says.  So it was back to Paris with no job and no money - only a desire to sell the internet to a nation which regarded it as anything between a passing fad and another demonstration of American economic imperialism.The 23-year-old 's first move was to join forces with his younger brother, Romain, 20. Together they set up a company, Web Concept, creating websites for others. It was an uphill struggle. "We had no money and for the first five or six months we used my brother's flat (the younger Nouzareth was still a law student) in Paris. The banks did not want to give us money, neither did the venture capitalists."  Faced with a struggle against indifference, ignorance or outright hostility, the Nouzareth brothers got used to being seen as more than slightly crazy. But they persevered. "It was only in 1997 that things really took off for us. For two years it was really tough; not having any experience we made lots of mistakes."  He recalls working 80 to 100 hours a week.Although Nouzareth does not put a precise moment on the breakthrough, he notes that in 1997 the company was beginning to drag in orders from some of corporate France's biggest names.  The brothers were on their way. Within two years the business had been sold to the Swedish firm Icon Medialab. Nouzareth will not disclose the purchase price but acknowledges that, though he continues to run the business for Icon, he has no need to work again."But what would I do? I am 28 years old. If I did not work I would grow bored very quickly."  But in the new France is money, the making of money - even in large quantities - still a taboo subject? Nouzareth, a big, friendly, slightly shambling man with still the hint of a schoolboy air, grows reflective.When Web Concept was sold to Icon, Nouzareth said he was afraid people would be very negative. After all, the French attitude to someone who makes a lot of money is that it cannot have been earned honestly. "In fact, every one was very happy for us. People said we had worked hard and that we deserved it," he says.  But since the dot.com world has run into turbulence Nouzareth detects a change in some attitudes. "It's not that cool any more."But does that mean France is locked in a world where money-making remains a cause for suspicion? Nouzareth thinks things are changing, though slowly.  "The older generation are still of the old mindset: that money is bad. But the younger generation thinks much more about making money. A lot of young people see themselves as being entrepreneurs or, if they are not going to be entrepreneurs, then they will work in an entrepreneurial environment."
WorldCom, America's second biggest long-distance call carrier, abandoned its $120bn (80bn) merger with rival Sprint yesterday after regulatory and court challenges threatened to torpedo the deal.  The collapse of the merger paves the way for Deutsche Telekom to make a bid for Sprint, in which it has a 10% stake.Ron Sommer, chief executive of Deutsche Telekom, has said the German group's strategy as making its presence in the US as big as its operations across Europe.  WorldCom and Sprint were forced to abort their merger because of demands by the US justice department to divest Sprint's internet, long-distance and local telephone operations, leaving it only the mobile phone division. A day later the deal was further knocked back by Mario Monti, the European competition commissioner.WorldCom said the demands made by the US justice department would have eliminated the customer benefits and "financial synergies" which supported the proposal.  Bernie Ebbers, chief executive of WorldCom, said: "We very much regret that our merger with Sprint was not allowed to proceed. The benefits of this merger were clear and compelling."Sprint is the third largest long distance carrier in America and together with WorldCom and AT&amp;T the companies control 80% of that market. Regulators were concerned the merger would lead to less innovation and higher prices.
A record rise in the number of complaints - 36% in one year - have been made to Elizabeth France, the data protection registrar, over the misuse of personal files held on computers, the agency revealed yesterday.The 4,570 complaints is the largest number made to the agency. As a result it has overburdened agency staff who say they are facing "substantial backlogs" in handling them.The surge has led to 587 visits by compliance staff to companies to check files for criminal offences. Another 11 search warrants were obtained to raid businesses run by private investigators who were illegally obtaining confidential information on people.Some 145 cases went to court, with 130 businesses and organisations found guilty of illegally using or procuring the information.Successful prosecutions detailed in the annual report include the Rugby Football Union, fined &#163;1,500, R and B Consultancy Services in Swaffham, Norfolk, which was fined &#163;4,000 for two offences, and Apex Computer Recruitment of Kingston, Surrey, which was fined &#163;3,000.Many of the cases involve misusing personal information for direct marketing or misusing consumer credit information held on computers.In the report, Ms France warns the home secretary, Jack Straw, against overweening powers to obtain details of people's emails and to force internet providers to hand over encryption codes to fight cybercrime.Mr Straw's plans would only be acceptable "provided that strict conditions were laid down in a national law in which an order or notice could be issued," she says.As regards emails she calls for an amendment to the regulation of investigatory powers bill - now being challenged in the Lords - saying that interception must take place only after a judge or independent authority has ruled that there are grounds for doing so.Ms France also says that membership organisations should make it clear to members how widely their details will be made available and for what purposes."
More sportThe BBC's director general Greg Dyke has launched a comprehensive new sports site atwww.bbc.co.uk/sport, which will offer commentaries, streamed from BBC Radio 5    Live and webcasts of previously unseen interviews, among other things. But if you just want the latest score, try a more specialised Australian site:www.thescore.com.au.Mind gamesGeneric Artificial Conscious is supposedly the first computer program that may become artificially conscious by talking to millions of internet users. GAC, or Jack, is the front end for the MindPixel Digital Mind Modelling Project, an attempt to build a database of true and false observations on the world. GAC's creator, Chris    McKinstry, plans to use the database to train an artificial consciousness once he has a billion "mindpixels". If you're in New York tomorrow, McKinstry is talking about his forthcoming book, Hacking Consciousness, at the H2K hackers convention. If not, try the site:www.mindpixel.com.It's a secretAT&amp;T researchers have announced Publius, a system that will protect free speech by dispersing encrypted files across the internet and making their authors untraceable. The only limitation on the    free service is on the size of a file that can be distributed, which must be less than 100KB. Publius will start a two-month public trial on July 28. Seewww.cs.nyu.edu/waldman/publius.DigicultCultivate Interactive, a quarterly pan-European webzine funded by the European Commission, has just gone online atwww.cultivate-int.org. Aimed at the Digital Heritage and Cultural Content communities in the EC Fifth Framework Programme, it carries information about Digicult projects. The    webzine is produced by the UKOLN group at theUniversity of Bath. UKOLN also runs theEC's Exploit Interactive webzine, which disseminates information about Telematics for Libraries projects.Lofty ambitionE-Loft also has a pan-European target: 14 million students. The result of a merger between Germany's Campus2day AG and SOS Student from the UK, the site is being tested in five national versions. The company says it is opening "large loft-like spaces" in London, Paris, Milan, Rome, Madrid and Berlin, "where students can participate and shape the portal's future". Seewww.uk.e-loft.com.God bookThe Goettingen Gutenberg Bible is online in a facsimile version digitised by the Goettingen State and University Library, and also published on CD-rom. The bible is one of only four complete illuminated copies on vellum. The website in English and German is atwww.gutenbergdigital.de/gudi/start.htmInessentialIf you can't make the Essential Festival in Brighton this weekend (July 15-16), you can always check out the "virtual festival experience" atwww.thesiteofsound.com. It promises on-site cameras, three presenters and broadband and narrowband streaming media: "This is not a shaky webcam but the first of the next generation of websites!"Simpli greatEvery week I come across a search engine I've never seen before. The latest,Simpli.com, lets you select a relevant subject area before the search. The software was developed at Brown University and MIT, based on the WordNet lexicon developed by researchers at Princeton University.Just HarryThe official Harry Potter site wasn't exactly magic when it first featured in Webwatch. However, the arrival last week of the latest in the series was celebrated with a makeover that is almost in the Better Homes class, without Carol Vorderman. Shame about the domain name,www.Bloomsbury.com/harrypotterStop itAdfilter claims to be "the most intelligent internet filter available" and will speed up your web surfing by blocking    unwanted ads. But that's not all. It also includes an "adult filter" to block pornography, violence and bad language, and a "privacy filter" that filters cookies. A free trial version of the &#163;16.50/$24.95 program can be downloaded fromwww.adfilter.com.SoundalikesThe newTriplehom websiteprovides a list of triple homonyms, from air/ere/heir to ware/wear/where, with pop-up definitions for more obscure words. The homonyms are based on "standard American" pronunciation, but that does not detract too much from an entertaining web page.Quids inPriceChallengeaims to show the cheapest UK prices for products sold online and in the shops, though the lowest prices may well be for less desirable brands. It proves thatUnbeatabledoes not always live up to its name.New and notedAre you entitled to any state benefits?EntitledTooffers a range of calculators to help you find out. If you are prone to losing things,Yellowtag.comis selling stickers with email addresses backed by a global lost property retrieval service. The European Information Network website has been set up atwww.europe.org.ukto provide European information for the UK regions. Ordnance Survey has a Shockwave-ridden site about maps aimed at kids, seewww.mapzone.co.uk. Would-be hackers have a chance to win prizes with theOpenHack Challenge, which continues until July 21.Six of the bestCalculatorsCurrency converterwww.xe.net/uccConvert from/towww.minibearings.com.au/tools.htmSavings, mortgageswww.abgltd.co.uk/calculators.htmUtility billswww.buy.co.uk/freeserve/ Index.aspCalendar converterhttp://genealogy.org/~scottlee/calconvert.cgiReference deskwww-sci.lib.uci.edu/HSG/RefCalculators.html
Fangs, but no fangsVampire the Masquerade: RedemptionPC CD-rom 	&#163;34.99 Activision	****Both vampires and role-playing games (RPGs) suffer from image problems. These include pale complexions, aversion to light, skin   complaints_ and that 's just your average role-player.So the release of a vampiric RPG, based on a tabletop Dungeons and Dragons game, should be enough to send you scuttling to the uninstall icon.Indeed, a cursory glance at the manual confirms early suspicions. Stats, experience points and spells are all commonplace with the plot heavy in "thine"s and "thou"s. But, despite these handicaps, Vampire the Masquerade: Redemption delivers a stylish undead romp.This is due primarily to the stunning visuals. Unlike the 2D retroism of Diablo and the rest, Vampire offers a full 3D environment that will stretch your pricey graphics card.Unfortunately the gameplay hasn't evolved to the same degree, with a formulaic emphasis on monster bashing and stat-building sadly prevalent. In fact, this could almost   be Diablo 3D, and there is plenty here that fans of the Blizzard games will enjoy.In particular, the multiplayer, complete with a human storyteller controlling the game, will appeal. What won't impress are the artificially unintelligent members of your coterie. Walking in sunshine and failing to replenish crucial blood stocks, these sidekicks would be laughed out of the Daikatana school of sidekicks.Also, saving is a needless chore. While the ability to save everywhere can lessen atmosphere, it at least keeps frustration at bay. Here you can save only at certain points, which makes the extremely tough later levels too much of a challenge. Nevertheless, Vampire's sexy graphics and polished style offer the promising of a more fashionable future for RPGs.  (GH)Follow that carnageDestruction Derby RAWSony PlayStation	&#163;25-&#163;30 Studio 33/Psygnosis ****Destruction Derby has always been a great game for kids and drunks, but this third version is worth playing even if you're old and sober. Since it doesn't include any wrestling, except with the steering, the chief mystery is why they've called it Destruction Derby RAW. Polished would have been a better description.DDRaw gets off to a good start with a front end that makes choosing a car and track fun. After that you have to score the required number of points in each race, through a combination of bashing into other cars and finishing in the top half-dozen places. If a track proves too hard, you can always try a different one.The two dozen tracks are of variable quality but the best are excellent, and the strong racing element distinguishes DDRaw from rivals in the   wrecking game genre, such as Driver and Carmageddon.However, DDRaw also has an Armageddon mode played either in a bowl or on top of a skyscraper, where the sole aim is survival. It comes as no surprise that several of the development team worked on Indy car simulation Newman-Haas Racing, but if what you really want is a racer, this is not the game to buy.Six of the tracks offer multi-player racing for up to   four players, so DDRaw provides a more brutal version of the sort of racing that has helped make karting games popular with the back-from-the-pub crowd.The dreadful clipping that distinguished the first Destruction Derby has almost completely disappeared, so your car no longer seems to go halfway through walls. Pop-ups are also very well controlled, which helps DDRaw feel more realistic.   Still, a mirror would have been nice.Destruction Derby was one of the first PlayStation games in the UK, which probably helped it sell better than it deserved - Psygnosis says it shipped more than two million units of the first two versions. The competition has now become so much tougher that it's hard to see DDRaw matching that, but it is a much better game.  (JS)The grating adventureIcewind DalePC CD-rom 	&#163;39.99 Black Isle/Interplay 	***It may be another Black Isle RPG set in the Forgotten Realms, but Icewind Dale is neither a sequel to Baldur's Gate (that would be Baldur's Gate II, coming up this winter) nor a missions disk (that was Tales of the Sword Coast).As a result, it's dissimilar enough to its predecessor that saved characters from the first game cannot be imported;   and similar enough for BG veterans to pick it up without a second thought.As before, the code driving the game is Bioware's Infinity engine. Cosmetic tweaks aside, the mouse-and-hotkey interface remains unchanged. The character models, depressingly, are identical, and even some of the voice acting sounds familiar.The most obvious change is one of location: as the title suggests, the action takes place in the frosty northern wastes of the Forgotten Realms (although the inhospitable climes have done nothing to thin out the numbers of marauding baddies).The backgrounds have become much smoother, so   that they look better in themselves, but contrast all the more unfavourably with the now crude-looking heroes. And of course there are new enemies, new weapons, new quests, new items and a whole new shock-horror secret to unravel.The significant twist in the gameplay is that instead of starting with one character and collecting pre-generated adventurers during the game, you now create your entire team from the off. While this makes planning your campaign easier, it destroys some of the most enjoyable aspects of Baldur's Gate: the Magnificent Seven-style team-building, the soul-searching about which companions to take and which to drop, and the   wittily scripted banter between your comrades that made those cross-country massacres seem so much more civilised.Indeed, while on the surface Icewind Dale appears to be a thinly veiled rehash of Baldur's Gate, in the event, it lacks much of what made the original great: the rounded characters, the subtle dialogue, the novel quests and the relentless humour.Which, to be honest, is precisely what Baldur's Gate fans were hoping for from this halfway-house release. After all, if Black Isle used up all their brilliant ideas here, what would they have left for BGII?  (AB)
1 Husky Fex 21&#163;1,100If you want to combine swimming in the sea with rustling up the opening sections of a PowerPoint presentation, look no further than the Husky Fex 21. The makers might have taken their design cues from Fisher-Price, but this Psion style handheld PC is so tough it's more than a match for any sand, sea or lager that comes its way. The downside is that it runs Microsoft's clunky Windows CE and its slightly rickety versions of Word and Excel.2 Ericsson R310 mobile phone&#163;120So Ericsson's allegedly indestructible R250 PRO mobile phone wasn't tough enough for you. The company now has a new model, the R310, which is also water, shock and   dust resistant, yet is significantly smaller and boasts extra facilities like voice control and data/fax capabilities. Outdoor types should also note that it comes with a free adventure kit that includes a thermometer, magnifying glass and a compass.3 Samsung Vivace&#163;TBASamsung is billing the Vivace as the first splashproof MP3 player. Whether this pendant style model will deliver Handel's Water Music during a dip in the hotel swimming pool is a moot point, but it will be fun to try.4 Aquapac PP10&#163;17Palm owners who have been separated from their favourite personal organiser often describe the   experience in terms of losing a limb. So they probably already own the Aquapac PP10 waterproof Palm casing, which should ensure that not even the beach and the swimming pool can come between them and their beloved PDA. And yes they can still use the infrared facility.5 Music Store&#163;400This is the gadget that those of us who have spent years perfecting the art of cramming most of their CD collection into their case have been waiting for. The PlayStation sized box teams up a CD player with a 7GBhard disk storage system. The upshot is that it allows you to store up to 150 of your favourite albums in CD-ish quality. For an extra &#163;80 you can also secure the Soul Mate - a small MP3 player that slots into the Music Store for almost instant downloads.6 Canon Ixus X-1&#163;130There's no point in swimming with sharks off some idyllic island in the Indian Ocean if you can't prove to the folks back home that you've   been hanging out with relatives of Jaws. So don't forget to pack the Canon Ixus X-1, one of the smallest and cheapest waterproof cameras on sale. It should guarantee some great shots of those fearsome-looking fangs. The X-1 uses the APS system, so you can even exaggerate the size of the molars by plumping for panoramic style prints.7 Personal Mosquito Control Force Field&#163;12If those pesky mosquitoes are threatening to ruin your exotic holiday then you need to imitate their arch-enemy the dragonfly. This entails either frantically waving your arms and emitting strange humming noises or, much better, investing in this little wearable gadget. It uses ultrasonic and sonic technologies to recreate the sound of a dragonfly's wings, sending the mozzies diving for cover. Playing Boyzone CDs may have a similar effect.8 Wharfedale LoudMan&#163;30It might be a dead ringer for a CD jewel case, but the Wharfedale LoudMan is actually a really neat little speaker system. You connect it to your personal stereo, flip it open and there you go - an instant stereo hi-fi system.9 Teksta&#163;50Don't worry if you haven't yet sorted out a pet's passport for Rover. You can assuage the guilt caused by consigning your canine chum to the kennels for a week by taking robot dog Teksta with you on your hols. The hi-tech hound can perform almost all the tricks your real-life mutt can - it sings, dances and even breaks wind. However, Teksta doesn't require any Pedigree   Chum and is sure to raise a smile on the face of even the grumpiest customs officer.10 Sony SRF-M75&#163;50The toughest radio in town, this bright yellow Sony tranny is splash proof, dust proof and could quite possibly last more than 40 seconds with Mike Tyson. In addition to an FM/MW tuner it boasts 15 presets, a clock and a stopwatch. Stressed execs will also love its pulse meter which gauges just how relaxed they are when chilling by the poolside.
How has MP3 changed the distribution of music?I see MP3 as a filler until broadband comes along. The feeling at BMG is that it is not a particularly good format technically. Also, I don't really see a lot of kids walking around with portable MP3 players yet, and by the time they're cheap enough for the kids to buy, broadband will be more available.How has the internet changed the music industry?What it is going to do is to empower further the artist. The worrying thing is having to listen to all the unfiltered music that's out on the web coming direct from its creators. I think inevitably you would have to come back to some sort of filtering system. I think for record companies at the moment the internet is a huge and incredibly powerful new marketing tool. We now have millions of record buyers that we email on a regular basis. The internet is a superb way of breaking new acts and it does destroy the stranglehold of the more traditional media.How do you think the record industry has reacted to these new media?Slowly. In our case quietly as well. If I were allowed to tell you, which I'm not, exactly what BMG is doing to tackle some of the current problems with music distribution on the net you'd be scared. I think some of the measures and the partnerships that are being put in place will show up the transient nature of some of the high profile internet music players. I do think that they're just filling a gap until the record companies catch up.Where would we find you on the web?I like theVitaminic site. TheI Am siteis fun as well. You input "I am..." an actor, a musician or whatever and it has lots of information relevant to your career.Music Unsignedis still managing to keep a hold on itself because it has a strict A&amp;R policy. I also useBroadband Talent NetandDot Musicwhich has great information and a nice design. I have also been known to useMP3.comandPeople Sound.How do you feel about Napster.com?You can't deny that it is one of the biggest things on the net right now but I personally think it is a nuisance. I'd rather go and buy a CD. I don't use it at all because, if it was a band I liked, I'd feel as if I was stealing from them. It is interesting to note that file sharing sites likeiMeshare opening a whole new can of worms for more people than just the recording industry.You can now share any kind of file in your registry - MP3, JPGs, multimedia.How do you see the net evolving?I think we'll go from having two screens in the house to just having the one as your TV and your PC merge. At the moment most people buying PCs mainly want to have access to email, help the kids with their homework and to look at a bit of pornography! Once all that's available through your TV, what would you want a computer for?
Email on your phonePanasonic's latest mobile phone, the GD92, allows you to send and receive email using your existing internet account. After a rather involved set-up process, the GD92 dials your ISP and checks your mailbox,   displaying up to 40 emails on its four-line display.You can send and reply to mail using your normal email address. You can't synch the phone's inbox to that of your PC, but the phone can be set to keep messages on the mail server until the next time you access it from the PC.Text entry is made easier with T9 predictive text input, but it is still significantly slower than using a keyboard. A bug stops you writing long messages without first saving then re-editing the message before sending.Frustratingly, you can send emails only to addresses you have already saved to your phonebook, or to addresses from your inbox.Despite these gripes, this 77g phone is packed with   features. It has a speakerphone option, polyphonic ring tones (a first) and can record speech or a sample of music to use as a ring tone.The GD92 is expected later this month costing around &#163;80 (with subscription).  (JS)Design for livingCyberSelect has launched a home automation system that lets PC users turn lights on an off and show other signs of occupation while not at home. Devices can also be controlled via SMS messages or a web page. In the house, the signals are carried by the existing mains wiring.The &#163;530 In-When-Out kit    is based on the X10 home automation system supported by many US vendors likewww.X10.com. It has never taken off in the UK, though it was invented at Pico Electronics in Scotland in 1978.CyberSelectis selling X10 devices on the web.V moreIt may be time to start saving up for a new modem - and for ISPs to do the same. The International Telecommunications Union (ITU) has just agreed a new V.92 standard which extends the current V.90 (56k) system. Uploads should be up to 40% faster though download speeds may improve only slightly.  (JS)
Junking mailOnliners reading the story of the Oxford student whose deleted emails were read by police (Guardian, July 6, page 2) may wonder about their own emails, and how to delete them totally.Details vary with email client, but to take Outlook Express 5 as an example (the most popular - because it is free with Windows 98): When you delete an email, it goes into Deleted items. Recovery is trivial.Delete an email from Deleted items (or use Shift-delete to bypass Deleted items), and it seems to disappear. However, it remains in the file Deleted Items.dbx buried deep in your folder structure.Subsequent deleted emails may eventually overwrite it, but this could take some time, or never happen. Recovery of the deleted email is still very easy.To clean up this file, open Outlook Express, and click File, Folder then Compact All Folders. Wait. It could take a few minutes. If you get a "folder in use" error, close Outlook Express, reboot, and try again.Recovery of your deleted email is now much harder, but still feasible for quite a while until those disk sectors are overwritten.To accelerate this, load your Windows CD-rom, make a temporary folder on your hard drive, and drag and drop the entire contents of the CD-rom into the temporary folder. Wait. When this finishes, delete the temporary folder and its contents.Then empty the Recycle bin.Then open (all at the same time) all the normal programs you use. Close them all again. Reboot, and defrag your hard drive. This overwrites most deleted file fragments and the swap file contents.Now, only military intelligence will be able to read your deleted emails. To stop this, remove your hard drive, and place it on a hot bonfire until it reaches bright   red heat for at least 10 minutes. You are now safe.Except for the records the government will soon force all ISPs to keep about your emails, which will still be available. However, look on the bright side; when you email your friends, it's one time the government will be listening to you.William Allenmail@mayfly13.fsnet.co.ukCall costsThe initiative by Mint Telecom (Online, July 6) to cut GSM call costs abroad is excellent. But why should it be necessary?Why does it cost me &#163;2.15 a minute to call my UK Demon mailbox from the US? After all, mobile call prices in both countries have tumbled recently and you can phone transatlantic from fixed lines for just pennies a minute.Is there any sound reason for these excessive GSM rates or are they simply what the market will stand?David Lastjdl@navaid.demon.co.ukCrying foulFascinating, isn't it, the way the commercial mind works? First we have the "music industry" belly-aching about MP3 and Napster (etc) "piracy" with never a word about the decades of their piracy, ripping us off with grossly inflated record prices.Now we get commercial "internet publishers" moaning about "unfair" competition from the BBC (Online, July 6).Well, just how many commercial web operators have volunteered to contribute even as little as one-tenth of one per cent of their web-generated revenues to help fund the particle physics community which spun the web in the first place?And, please, no guff about how much commerce has contributed to improving the web. I don't see what "improvement" there is when we now regularly have to hang around while the ads download!David Lewind.lewin@rl.ac.ukI'm delighted to hear that the BBC is so successful on the net - just the kind of thing that I pay my licence fee for. And anyway, I thought that excellence was the name of the game.Do we cry foul because Venus Williams is coached by her father, and has her sister   for constant practice? I think not. If the BBC's competitors cannot come up to the mark, they should quit and do something else.Better than that, they should learn from the example, and then diversify.Peter Hartpeter@searlecamb.demon. co.ukStay mutualRe Demutalising the internet (Online, July 6). It was an interesting article, but I think some of the fears will not be realised.Undoubtedly, corporations would love a stake in "controlling" the internet, but I don't expect it to happen. The standards for communicating on the internet cannot easily be changed, because the internet is already there. For anything new added to the internet to be any use, it must be compatible with the existing protocols.True, the standards have changed over the years. Microsoft added "extensions" to HTML (hypertext mark-up language) which now seem to have become standard. Also, Java appeared a little while after the advent of the web.But these changes have not affected the uses that the internet can be put to.This is the important point: no one can "take over" the web in the way that a business can take over a street, or a town. No matter how many web pages your organisation has, you are still just as small as somebody's personal one-page website.As long as a website is not being viewed, it might as well not be there.So, come on any corporation thinking it is hard enough to steal the web from us - have a try! It can't be done, because the web is established. It will only get bigger.Richard Wildrichard_wild@nsb.co.ukOutnumberedSo 12.3 trillion x 8 = 1 trillion, then? It seems the government's numeracy hour was introduced just a little too late for poor Neil McIntosh.Still, it was probably as a result of his mind being overboggled at the concept of trillions per second.Tom Paternostertom@ashley-pub.comOnline replies:Quite. We should have said the scientists were aiming for computers running at 100 trillion operations a second.
Teenagers have a much greater understanding of the internet than many adults. They use it for education (revision and homework), recreation (online games and music) and of course chat. There are also sites likewww.stormloader.comwhich allow them to build websites for free andwww.yahoo.co.ukwhere free email addresses are available.Educational sites, such as theBBC's Bitesize revision), have features which you can read through and print out before trying an online test.Another useful service isAltaVista's translations, where you can type a passage in English and get it translated into many different languages - a great help for homework and revision.The only drawback to these sites is that after a while they serve as a distraction and you stop learning from them and start playing around with them.Online games sites, such asGames Domainare widely used because of their accessibility. They can be very addictive, and teenagers tend to spend hours in front of the screen. Many cost nothing to play, although they usually cause the phone bill to rise substantially. There are also   games which are downloads from the internet. These may carry viruses but despite this danger they continue to be among the most visited sites.Music sites are becoming ever more popular with the release of the MP3 player from which you can download music, seewww.mp3.com. But downloading music files is not the only reason teenagers visit music sites. Some of us go to join a fan club or to download images of the band or even to find the lyrics to the songs. There may also be news on concerts - dates and information on how to book tickets.The most visited sites on the entire internet are the chat sites. These can be accessed through many different routes, including music sites, search engines, internet service providers and even newspapers. Each offers us the opportunity to talk to people that we have never met before and probably never will meet.My favourite isYahoo Chat. If you go to a chat site through a music   site then you can discuss your favourite bands and songs. If, on the other hand, you go through a search engine or internet provider you will normally have options like "teen chat".The trend seems to be that the more interactive the site, the more teenagers will visit it. It has very little to do with how the site looks - if there is nothing to click on or to play with it tends to be quite unpopular.However, if the site has a big name behind it (such as a band name) then it will be visited whether it is interactive or not. I think that the perfect teenage site would be called gabriel.com. It would have to have a chat feature and free email addresses.There would also have to be the ability to download music onto an MP3 player or games on to your hard drive. Features like these would guarantee a popular site for teenagers and a nice money earner for all the phone companies.
Why not make computer power a utility, just like water, electricity and gas? Users should simply be able to plug their chosen hardware in to a wall socket to get applications "on tap", without having to worry about installing software or backing up their data.Everything could be taken care of by an application service provider (ASP) on a pay-by-use system, or for a   fixed monthly rental fee.It is a seductive dream, and one that, thanks to the internet, could become a reality. But it is not yet, as anyone who has spent an hour trying to get email on Hotmail or Excite will testify.The "apps on tap" idea is, however, luring thousands of companies into investing billions of dollars in software and infrastructure. Read the hype they put out, and practically every technology supplier is involved. The pack includes phone companies such as AT&amp;T and Nortel,   computer companies such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Sun, software suppliers such as IBM, Microsoft and Oracle, software services giants such as EDS and IBM, and dozens of start-up companies.But the firms that are leading the way are the ones whose businesses are already based on the web. Some are ISPs (internet service providers) who see net access turning into a low-value commodity market. They want to become more profitable ASPs. Others are website operators who want to offer extra fea tures to keep users on their sites. If ISPs are already hosting email and e-commerce applications on their servers, it's easy to think about hosting other applications, such as word processing and payroll.Meanwhile, website operators are expanding by adding new applications such as web-based email, calendars, address books, instant messaging, chat rooms, auctions and games. Netscape was the first company to make a play for this market when it upgraded its Netcenter portal in 1998. However, the major players now areYahoo!and Microsoft, with itsMicrosoft Network,HotmailandbCentralsites.Last month Yahoo! announced its move into the corporate ASP market based on deals with leading suppliers of enabling software, Citrix and Tibco, and its first independent customer, the state of North Carolina.Corporate Yahoo!enables companies to integrate Yahoo's services with their own applications on in-house intranets.But Microsoft made a bigger splash with the launch of itsMicrosoft.net (.net)on June 22. Bill Gates, chief software architect, and Steve Ballmer, chief executive officer, committed the company to supplying software online. Gates said .net would support many different devices, including mobile phones, "tablet" computers and TV sets, as well as PCs: the base level for access would be an HTML 3.2 browser. But naturally you will get a "far richer &#91;experience&#93; if you have a device that actually has the .net code down on it" - such as the forthcoming Windows.net operating system.Later, Ballmer spelled it out: "We're open," he said. "We'll talk to people about making .net run on devices that aren't PCs that don't run Windows."Microsoft's new system is intended to be a platform for the whole industry, and is based on open standards, mainly the World Wide Web Consortium's XML (extensible markup language). Microsoft will sell programming tools such as Visual Studio.net and BizTalk, and offer software and services online, but so can anybody else. Ballmer said: "So what is the .net bet? First, we're betting on our selves to do something well. Second, we're betting on the transformation of the software industry..."The bet is that the industry will move from shipping programs in boxes to selling services online on a rental basis. Users will not have to worry about what goes on in what Gates called "the cloud" - the network infrastructure - they'll just plug into it. Gates's theme was endorsed by a .net supporter, Marc Andreessen. The co-founder of Netscape and former AOL technical guru is now chairman of Loudcloud, a start-up 	company with an ASP hosting service called Smart Cloud.Although the .net strategy represents a dramatic change in direction, it is one that Microsoft has been preparing for some time. For example, Windows users have long been able to go to the Microsoft website to update their operating system, and this could be done automatically, in the background. Microsoft has also been offering Microsoft Office and MS Exchange, its mail server, online.Software suppliers love this idea. At the moment, PC users can buy a program for a one-off payment and use it for as long as they like. Software houses usually have to offer noticeable improvements to get them to pay for an upgrade. Under a rental system,   users pay a monthly fee for ever, or they lose the use of the application - and, perhaps, access to their data. And the longer they use a program, the greater the profits that flow to the software provider and to the ASP.Sean O'Reilly, vice-president of marketing for NetStore, which claims its 16,000 users make it Europe's leading ASP, says: "It's quite a serious adjustment for software houses to move to a recurring revenue model, but they'll find it adds significantly to the valuation of their companies." In other words, the City doesn't like companies with lumpy revenues that depend on when they launch new programs, but it loves ones with regular, guaranteed income streams.The idea is also attractive to ASPs such as NetStore, who buy and run the hardware to host applications. Individuals and companies have to buy enough computer power to cope with peak demand, which may be brief, so most of the time it's not used. ASPs save money when lots of users share the same hardware - just as long as they don't all use it at once.O'Reilly says it sounds like splitting hairs, but it's important to distinguish between ASPs and companies that offer applications over the web. "The idea that someone can simply supply an application is na&iuml;ve and dangerous," he says. "If you're providing a service, you can't leave users   high and dry when things go wrong; people want support."Users who take the ASP route need to know that their applications will always be available and will work at a usable speed, which means signing a service level agreement (SLA). Whether SLAs can easily be enforced is another matter, because of the problems of jurisdiction. As Francis Gurry, assistant director general of the World Intellectual Property Organisation (Wipo), says: "The market is global, the technology is global, but legal systems are national."So Wipo is now working with Aspic, theASP Industry Consortium, to "establish a globally recognised dispute avoidance and settlement mechanism specifically tailored to meet the needs of the ASP industry", according to Aspic's chairman, Traver Gruen-Kennedy. Aspic - which was formed a year ago and now has more than 500 members - is also promoting "best practices" in the new industry. In May, it launched the ASPire Awards to "discover, document and highlight" them.Gruen-Kennedy is, as would be expected, enthusiastic about the ASP business. "This is simply a great idea whose time has come," he says. "Users are not only hungry, they are starving for information about what ASPs are offering."Certainly US analysts are predicting rapid adoption. Late last month, for example, the Giga Information Group said it expected the application server market to grow from $585m in 1999 to $1.64bn this year and $9bn by 2003, although International Data Corporation (IDC) was more conservative, predicting ASP revenues   would grow from $296m last year to $7.8bn by 2004. It's a lot of money, but because ASP definitions are loose and variable, it's not clear how much of it is new money.Although the ASP industry is pushing a trendy new idea, it's not much different from some boring old ideas such as "time sharing" - a staple of the early computer industry - bureau services and "out-sourcing", which have been popular for decades. Companies have always paid other people to take in their dirty washing, or their dirty data processing.Also, it's not clear how much ASP services will cost, and thus how wide a market they will reach. Global Managed Solutions Ltd, based in London, offers a fixed-price ASP service designed for small businesses, for &#163;120 per month per PC.Freedomprovides a wide range of		 services including Microsoft Office 2000, unlimited high-speed net access (without call charges), email, desktop faxing, virus scanning, data   backups, disaster recovery and a help desk 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.Paul Perry, president of GMS, says this is much cheaper than the typical cost of running a PC - &#163;9,000 over three years, according to Gartner Group figures. But it's not likely to appeal to web users who pay &#163;600 for a PC and expect applications and services to be free.Finally, it's clear even from today's web-hosted applications and ISP services that the brave new world of Freedom-style computing simply isn't viable with dial-up modems and telephone call charges. It works only with permanent and reliable broadband connections where users don't have to wait for several minutes while their applications and data dribble down from the net, when they could be loaded in seconds from a PC's hard drive.And for most people, affordable and reliable broadband internet access is still years away.
What happens to society when there are hundreds of microchips for every man, woman and child on the      planet? What cultural consequences follow when every object around us is "smart", and connected? And      what happens psychologically when you step into the garden to look at the flowers... and the flowers look      at you?You might think that such questions would preoccupy anyone involved with computers - namely, all of us.      But you'd be wrong. We think about technology in the same way that a frog thinks about boiling water.You      remember the story: if you drop a frog into the pan when the water is boiling, it will leap out; but if you      put the frog into a pan of cold water, and then heat it steadily towards boiling point, the frog - unaware      that any dramatic change is taking place - will just sit there, and slowly cook.Is technology cooking us? Many hard things are certainly beginning to soften. Products and buildings, for      example, once described as "frozen software", are beginning to "melt". Almost everything man-made, and      quite a lot made by nature, will soon combine hardware and software: intelligence and connectivity are      suffusing ships, aircraft, cars, bridges, tunnels, machines, fridges, door handles, lighting fixtures, shoes,      hats and packaging.The world is already filled with eight, 12, or 30 computer chips for every man, woman and child on the      planet (depending who you ask). Within a few years - say, the amount of time a child who is four years old      today will spend in junior school - that number will rise to thousands of chips per person. A majority of      these chips will have the capacity to communicate with each other. Many of them will sense their      environment in rudimentary but effective ways.The way things are going, as writer Bruce Sterling put it,      "you will look at the garden, and the garden will look at you".       Pervasive computing is not just about flowers. Pervasive means everywhere, and that includes our bodies.      Bio-mechatronics and medical telematics are growing exponentially. The space where human ends and      network begins is becoming blurred. British Telecom, which spends a million dollars an hour on R&amp;D (or is it      a million dollars a minute? I forget) is working on an interactive corneal implant.It is confident that by      2005 its lens will have a screen on it so that video projections can be beamed straight onto your retina.       In the words of BT's top techie, Sir Peter Cochrane, "you won't even have to open your eyes to go to the      office in the morning".By 2010, BT expects to be making direct links to the nervous system. Links to the      nervous system, links from it - what's the difference? Presumably, BT's objective is that you won't even      have to wake up to go to work.       I call this passive acceptance of technology into our bodies 'Borg drift'. It features a million small,      specialised acts. It is what happens when knowledge from many branches of science and design converge -      without us noticing, but only because we don't look.We are designing a world in which every object, every building - and everybody - has become part of a      network service, even though we did not set out to design such an outcome.       Railing against technology per se is pointless. But we do need to reflect on the bigger picture if we are to      have any influence over what it looks like. This is why, to provoke a discussion within the human-computer      interaction industry, I recently circulated some Articles of Association Between Design, Technology And      The People Formerly Known As Users - aka Thackara's Cookery Lesson - which provoked a lively, and      generally positive, response.The articles go like this:Article 1:We cherish the fact that people are innately curious, playful and creative. We therefore suspect      that technology is not going to go away: it is too much fun.Article 2:We will deliver value to people, not deliver people to systems. We will give priority to human      agency, and will not treat humans as a factor in some bigger picture.Article 3:We will not presume to design your experiences for you - but we will do so with you, if asked.Article 4:We do not believe in "idiot-proof" technology, because we are not idiots, and neither are you. We      will use language with care, and will search for less patronising words than "user" and "consumer".Article 5:We will focus on services, not on things. We will not flood the world with pointless devices.Article 6:We believe that "content" is something you do, not something you are given.Article 7:We will consider material end energy flows in all the systems we design. We will think about the      consequences of technology before we act, not after.Article 8:We will not pretend things are simple, when they are complex. We value the fact that by acting      inside a system, you will probably improve it.Article 9:We believe that place matters, and we will look after it.Article 10:We believe that speed and time matter, too - but that sometimes you need more, and      sometimes you need less. We will not fill up all time with content.&#149; John Thackara is director of Doors of Perception, the design conference and knowledge network based in      Amsterdam.www.doorsofperception.comwww.thackara.com
A race against time across cyberspace led Berlin police to thwart a murder foretold, minutes before the would-be killers had announced they would strike.Officers swooped on a school in the southern suburbs of the German capital to arrest one of two teenage boys claimed to be behind a macabre boast to an internet chat forum.The night before, a chatroom user had indicated that he and an accomplice would murder their teacher the next day. The threat was seen by an employee of an internet service provider in the southern German town of Augsburg who noted down the details and alerted the police.By the time the tip-off found its way to the relevant unit, investigators had two hours and 40 minutes in which to track down the source of the threat, acccording to the Berliner Morgenpost newspaper.An ad hoc group of Berlin police officers came together to discuss the case at 9.00 the following morning. The visitor to the chat forum had said the murder would be committed at 11.40, during "long break" at the school he was attending.The threat had been delivered anonymously, but the Berlin police's tiny, four-person cyber-crime unit linked it to an email address, presumably through the service provider. The email address was linked to a pupil at the Nikolaus-August Otto school in the Steglitz-Lichterfelde area of southern Berlin.The school, with 240 pupils, is for "problem children" rejected by other establishments.The cyber-hunt took place at the end of last month. But details began emerging only yesterday in the Berliner Morgenpost's report.The headmaster of the Nikolaus-August Otto school, Uwe Duske, and a spokesman for the Berlin city council's department of education, youth and sport both confirmed the broad outlines of the affair. But neither was prepared to go into details on the grounds that the case was the subject of legal proceedings.Berliner Morgenpost said the two boys had been removed from the school and that they were the subject of a judicial investigation.Mr Duske said he did not believe that a murder would have been committed had the police not intervened."The temptation to use the internet as a springboard to notoriety is very great," he said.Recent months have nevertheless seen a spate of violent incidents planned or committed in German schools. Last November, in the Saxon town of Meissen, a teacher was stabbed to death by a 15-year-old pupil.The following month, police swooped on a school in Bavaria to arrest three 14-year-olds who, prosecutors said, had decided to shoot and kill the headmistress. Police said they had also plotted a massacre of their classmates.Also in December, a 12-year-old pupil in Berlin threatened fellow-pupils and his teachers with a knife. A teacher at another school in the capital had earlier been terrorised by anonymous threatening letters thought to have come from a student.
ONdigital, the pay-television operator, yesterday announced that it would meet its target of 1m subscribers by the end of the year, boosted by its acquisition of rights to English league football and a new television internet service.It said that 774,000 households are now signed up to the digital terrestrial TV network, up 15% in the last quarter. But analysts said there were signs of that the rate of growth is beginning to slow.ONdigital, owned by the ITV broadcasters Carlton and Granada, said it would start a TV internet service in the autumn, and a new premium sports channel next year. The   chief executive, Stuart Prebble, said sports rights were driving up its subscriber base, and it would seek to acquire more.The broadcaster said it had experienced a three-fold increase in subscribers in the past year and was on course to reach 2m by the end of 2002. It would break even at 1m, and had the potential to make a &#163;250m profit when the number of subscribers reached 2m, Mr Prebble said.However, ONdigital admitted that of its 774,000 subscribers 34,000 are yet to switch on their smartcards. It is understood that a further 15,000 have received free or discounted integrated digital television sets.BSkyB, ONdigital's satellite rival, has notched up 3.4m digital subscribers, half of whom did not have digital television before.Mr Prebble predicted that its new internet service, ONnet, which is available with a second set-top box, would help widen internet access across Britain. He said it removed the last barrier to internet access - the cost of a personal computer.When the service begins, subscribers will receive a free or heavily discounted "net-top box". ONdigital said it had already signed up partners for a planned portal, including Abbey National and its new internet bank Cahoot, and was negotiating with nearly 100 more.The "look" of ONdigital's net portal is being developed by    BBC Resources, and the e-business consultancy Rubus is doing the technical development work. Mr Prebble said   viewers would be able to "click through" from television programmes or advertisements to supporting websites - this facility, cross-linking, was a "world first"."The introduction of internet and interactive services provides us with significant opportunities to increase average subscriber revenue levels. And every interactive digital television that is sold, even to non-subscribers, represents a potential customer for ONdigital's pay-per-view and interactive services," Mr Prebble said.ONdigital's premium sports channel will launch next year based on its rights to show English league, Worthington cup and Uefa champions league football, and the ATP   men's tennis masters series. ONdigital now claims it shows more football than any other platform.Mr Prebble said he did not expect the upheavals in the ITV system to affect ONdigital's business plan. Carlton and United intend to merge, subject to the approval of the Department of Trade and Industry, while Granada has signalled its intention to bid for either Carlton or United if their merger plans fail.Analysts believe that if ONdigital were wholly owned by a combined Granada and Carlton its stock market flotation would be hastened.Mr Prebble would only say yesterday that he expected flotation "sooner rather than later".
While the rest of the market was fixated on the debut of Granada Media, the seemingly unstoppable slide ofQXLcontinued.Shares in the internet auction group, which started the year at around the 450p level, closed down 4.5p at 69p yesterday as investors took fright at concerns surrounding its German bid target,Ricardo.Last week Ricardo was identified by widely read German newsletter Platow Brief as one of a number of Neuer Markt stocks facing financial ruin if it failed to secure fresh funding. While analysts say the concerns are unfounded and Ricardo will not run out of cash, it shares continue to fall (declining 18% yesterday) and hurt QXL.According to a note published by Deutsche Bank, the fall in Ricardo has presented an interesting arbitrage op portunity. The steep decline in Ricardo's share price, it claims, has not been matched by the decline in the QXL share price. As a result, the current value of QXL's all-stock offer for Ricardo is around 35% higher than the German group's share price.With the deal likely to go ahead (Ricardo's management team is sitting on 50% of the company's equity) an opportunity to "buy" Ricardo and "sell" QXL until the anomaly is corrected exists, Deutsche reckons.With more than 5m QXL shares changing hands yesterday, it appears some shrewd arbitrageurs have picked up on the idea.But it was not all bad news for new-economy stocks.Durlacher, the internet investment boutique, advanced 2.5p to 62p as investors greeted with relief news that it has managed to raise more than &#163;10m in cash.Durlacher raised the funds through a placing of 15.85m new shares at 65p with a small number of institutional investors.The FTSE 100, meanwhile, ended a lacklustre session marginally higher (up 9.6 points at 6,475.8) as a good    performance from Wall Street offset the impact ofGranada Media, which sucked most of the buying interest out of the market. Shares in Granada Media, trading on a "when issued" basis (that is, before investors have received share certificates), closed at modest 35p premium to the 515p offer price after 125m shares had changed hands.HSBChad another good day, rising 38p to 805p as Com merzbank initiated coverage with a "buy" recommendation and a 913p target price. Commerzbank reckons HSBC offers an attractive mix of high growth via its presence in Asia, and earnings stability from an increasing presence in Europe and the US.BP Amocoalso performed well, advancing 10p to 625p after unveiling some of its masin strategic pointers to City analysts.Diageoreversed early gains, losing 0.5p to 604, after a disappointing trading update, but home shopping groupGUS, managed to rise 6p to 458p as broker Schroder Salomon Smith Barnet lifted its target price to 540pThe FTSE 250 saw a return to form for old-economy stocks.British Energyled the charge, gaining 24p to 220p on unusually heavy turnover after its Bruce Power unit signed a lease deal with Ontario Power Generation for two nuclear power stations.ShipbuilderVosper Thornycroftstood out, rising 123p to &#163;13.90 following news that it will build one of the Royal Navy's three new warships. The deal represents five years' work for Vosper's shipbuilding workforce of around 1,500 people.Regal Hotel Groupsurged 3p to 29.5p after agreeing a 30.5p per share from Regent Corp.Software firmStaffwareclimbed 100p to &#163;22.75 p after winning a contract with Abbey National. The deal, which will see Abbey use its Enterprise Workflow product, is valued at &#163;1.64m.Sportsworld Mediacontinued its good run, 25p stronger at 600p.Icollector takes beatingAs concerns have mounted over the ability of business-to-consumer internet stocks to secure fresh capital, the share price of Ofex-listedIcollector, an online auction site for the arts and antiques industry, has taken a beating.After reaching &#163;16.80 at the height of internet gold rush in March, the shares closed yesterday at 185p. But supporters of the stock claim the foundations are in place for some interesting developments.Yesterday the company   raised &#163;6.5m in a convertible bond issue from shareholders, including the internet investment vehicle of luxury goods magnet Bernard Arnault, Europ@web. According to James Corsellis, Icollector's chief executive, the fund raising gives it enough cash for the rest of the year.With Europ@web promising to play an active role in the development of Icollector - yesterday it placed another director on the board - the shares are an interesting, if risky, punt.
What has gone wrong with Wap? Only six months ago we were being told this was the acronym (it stands for Wireless Application Protocol) that would unchain us from our desktops and bring us the internet in our pocket, wherever we were.Natty little phones would whisk information to our palms, allowing us all to enjoy the kind of experience-rich urban living we've been hankering after for years. Trade emails, secure the best restaurant tables and book those plane tickets, all while waiting to pay for your sushi in Pret A Manger at lunchtime, went the dream.Instead we were landed with handsets too large to fit comfortably in a pocket, and they also became the first mobile phones in history to assume that most grim of PC characteristics - the crash. The blue screen of death was replaced by the tiny grey screen of frustration; handsets even had to be recalled to have their software upgraded.When the things did work, we discovered that all but the simplest of services were painfully difficult to use. It could take hours of fiddling to get the kind of functionality touted by the networks, such as mobile banking, and writing anything but the most terse emails on the numberpad was a frustrating experience. The realisation quickly dawned that this was not the internet, whatever the hype might say  - it was a cut-down, fun-free imitation of it.What a disappointment. But has it killed the Wap dream? Despite everything, maybe not - if those behind the fiasco can learn from their mistakes and others' successes. Should they look to Japan, they will find the perfect example of how mobile information can take off. There, the I-mode system has snapped up an astonishing seven million users since its launch in February 1999.It has caught the imagination of a nation by offering the kind of services people will pay for. Unlike the first versions of Wap, I-mode allows users to pay small amounts for specialist services, with the charges being put on their phone bill.That means 13,000  I-mode sites have sprung up - you can book plane tickets and check your stocks, just like Wap, but you can also download customising images and ring tunes for 60p, play the latest Pokemon games for around 1, or find a new lover for a little more. Aiding I-mode is the fact its call charges are low, in a country with prohibitively expensive fixed-line internet accesses. Wap has never been this useful.Nevertheless, back home, BT Cellnet is still advertising its Wap handsets as the means to "surf the mobile internet", as if we will all be able to leap onto the world wide web and surf away while on a bus in Slough. The company appears not to have equated this over-hyping with its dismal sales figures, announced last week. These showed the company shifted only 175,000 of the 500,000 Wap mobiles it had hoped to by now, with many of those being given away.As we move towards Christmas, expect to see more and more handsets on sale that have Wap built in, whether you want it or not. The industry could even dare to claim a boom in Wap's popularity in the wake of these Christmas sales. And it is also desperately trying to hype up a new, faster standard called GPRS, which might - for a price - speed up the Wap experience, although where and by how much is still open to question.But, until the networks stop touting a "mobile internet" that simply does not exist, there is a chance the cynics' Wapathy will live on for much longer than the rickety technology itself.
The managing director of FT.com, the Financial Times' flagship website, has quit abruptly, sparking rumours that the operation faces a round of cost-cutting.Michael Foster, the man credited with transforming FT.com into a global business portal, is leaving the company after turning down an alternative post within the Financial Times Group.Two senior executives are being brought in to step up the process of integrating the FT Group's on and off-line publications and search for greater efficiencies, a spokesman for Pearson, the FT's owners, said last night.Staff at FT.com fear the development could result in staff cuts. However, Pearson insists that Mr Foster's departure was entirely amicable and that no job losses were planned.Zach Leonard, head of the recently launched FTMarketWatch initiative, and Michael Murphy, head of FT business and of the online publication of group magazines, will as sume overall control of FT.com."FT.com is maturing fast from a start-up to a substantial business with very strong user and revenue growth," said Financial Times group chief executive Stephen Hill."We have already successfully integrated our editorial and advertising teams across our newspapers and our network of business and personal financial websites. We expect major benefits from stepping up the process."Pearson has invested heavily in FT.com over the last year in an attempt to develop a leading global business portal and compete with the online offering of arch-rival the US based Wall Street Journal.Under Mr Foster's stewardship, FT.com monthly page impressions have risen from 7m one year ago to 27m. Revenues are forecast to climb from &#163;5m to &#163;16m over the same period.Mr Hill is determined to build the FT's circulation in the US where it currently lags behind the long-established Wall Street Journal.Useful linksFT.com
It's hard to think that sports cars were once a fundamentally experimental zone - something for people whose motoring pleasure was not complete unless they grazed their shins every time they changed up to third and who liked to emerge afterwards covered in oil and gravel.A new generation of sports cars, many of them Japanese, has tamed the genre, almost to the extent that one wonders whether the word "sports" really applies any more, or whether it would be better replaced by "leisure". Owners of these models, one would hazard, are not much inclined to tinker with the engine at the weekend, but they do get them valeted on a regular basis. These cars cunningly combine the thrill of the open road with the comfort of the homely sofa. They're pushy, but they're also cute. They offer sports car ownership with none of the getting down and getting dirty.Which is fine by an awful lot of people, to judge from the number of Mazdas and Toyotas one sees on the roads. Available in one derivative only, the new Toyota MR2 pitches itself right into the thick of this relatively bullish market. It's taken an envious look at the style and speed of the Porsche Boxster. And it's taken an equally envious look at the sales figures of the Rover MGF, whose price it undercuts. (You can still buy an MGF for a couple of hundred pounds   less than a Toyota, but it will have a less powerful engine.)As a rule of thumb, the closer the back of your neck is to the tarmac, the more authentic the sports car you are driving. In the Toyota, one sits pretty much upright, as in a slightly go-ahead estate car. In fact, I reckon you could just about walk into the MR2 without breaking stride. It's also possible to get out of the car without making tell-tale geriatric noises - a handy aspect given that a sizeable portion of the market for sports cars is men whose physical peak disappeared over the horizon at least a decade ago.Depress the accelerator and the car doesn't exactly bolt you to your seat. Toyota say their engineers thought hard about the MR2's weight and they are able to boast that the car has the best power-to-weight   ratio in its class. It does indeed slip neatly around corners, but it does so quietly and politely. If you stamp down on the pedals you can get something approximating to a boisterous roar out of it, but you have the impression that the 1.8-litre engine would rather, on the whole, that you didn't. Again, some will find this a drawback - or even a sell-out - while others, who don't necessarily wish to drive in a permanent state of white-knuckled frenzy, will respond more warmly.In the English climate, even more than engine performance, ease of opening and closing your sports car's roof is the key consideration. It's something you're going to be doing a lot of, so you don't want to end up with some laughably optimistic mechanism that leaves you looking like someone haplessly trying to   crush an umbrella into a waste basket. (Incidentally, like using a hand-held mobile phone, or eating Chinese food, roof removal is not something one ought to practice while actually in motion. And especially not on motorways, or on the slip-roads leading on to motorways.)The Mercedes SLK has a fully-automatic roof that smoothly does its stuff above your head at the touch of a button. It's impossible to top this for a Bond-style roof removal experience (and working on an appropriately aloof facial expression to hold while the Mercedes' roof mechanism was in business remains one of the most enjoyable projects I have ever got involved with in a car). But the SLK also costs about three times as much as the MR2 and beggars can't be choosers, so with the Toyota you'll have to do the heavy work yourself.To be fair, they've gone a long way towards lightening the burden. Blessedly, there are no poppers involved at any stage of the process. (Anything involving poppers and a piece of slightly rain-shrunken canvas is route one to hell. Go to a rally of Caterham owners: none of them has a full set of fingernails.) You spring the two mildly resistant clips above the windscreen and then hoist the roof behind you. Ideally, the roof would then settle entirely into the recess created for it, but I found I had to get out of the car to tuck the edges in.Yes, I had to  get out of the car . What was Toyota thinking of? At least closing the roof can be achieved entirely from within the vehicle, though, as I reached behind me for the handles and heaved, I tended to find myself assuming the less than dignified position of someone failing to perform a bench press, and MR2 owners on first dates might like to bear that possibility in mind.After removing the roof it would have been nice to have been able to remove a couple of things from the MR2's interior, in particular the ugly Sony hi-fi that comes as standard and the inside door handles, which are tubular and intended to have a sporty aluminium appearance, but actually look like devices from an elderly person's bathroom. Even with those out of the way, there would be, of course, no room in the car for much other than you and a friend.Dispense with the friend, though, and the car does hint at some practical applications. As part of my commitment to testing the vehicle in a broad variety of extreme urban settings, I took it to Sainsbury's, where I learned that actually the Toyota MR2 does function as a family shopping car, as long as you don't buy anything large and unpliable, such as boxes of cereal. Better, of course, to abandon such considerations, push the roof down and find some open road. But - with the MR2 - not too open.The lowdownVerdict:Sedate sports carPrice on the road:&#163;18,4950-62 mph:7.9 secondsTop speed:130mphFuel consumption:urban, 27.9; extra urban 47.9; combined, 38.2Max power:140/6,400 bhp/rpmMax torque:170/4,400 Nm/rpmWeight:975kgLength:12ft 8in/3.88m
National security concerns have prompted a US government investigation into the proposed takeover of an internet infrastructure company by Nippon Telegraph and Telephone of Japan.The investigation, which has forced the telecoms group to delay completion of its $5.5bn takeover of Verio, a US hosting company, underlines the efforts being made by the American authorities to maintain control over law enforcement in the internet age.Takeovers in the communications industry by non-US companies have always been sensitive for authorities such as the FBI. Such concerns are expected to mount as the in ternet makes surveillance more arduous and the number of corporate transactions increases.The FBI is understood to have called for the inquiry into the Verio acquisition, concerned that it would not be able to carry out adequate surveillance at a company owned by a group operating outside its jurisdiction.Law enforcement agencies can access any telecoms network to tap wires or garner information for criminal proceedings. The FBI, which has neither commented on nor confirmed any investigation, is understood to be concerned about its ability to carry out such undercover inquiries.Its fears have been taken on board by the little-known com mittee on foreign investment in the US, a multi-agency group headed by the treasury department. The committee has up to 45 days to clear the deal under a special amendment of the Defense Production Act of 1950 which allows the president to ban any foreign takeover "that is determined to threaten the national security of the United States".NTT confirmed the US concerns over law enforcement but added that it "believes the proposed transaction does not raise national security concerns". It has delayed its tender offer for Verio until the middle of July.A spokesman for NTT said: "The FBI and the department of justice asked us to make a commitment to cooperate in   securing public safety and law enforcement. We naturally agreed to observe US laws and to follow industry practices in the US, but simultaneously we stated that we do not believe that we should be subject to any more stringent requirements than those imposed on any other telecommunications company."28There has been speculation that talks between NTT, the justice department and the FBI broke down over the firm's refusal to accept what it saw as onerous demands on an internet company in a highly competitive area.NTT, which is 53% owned by the Japanese government, is also at the centre of a trade dispute between Japan and the US over telecom fees.
The first day of bidding for Holland's third generation mobile phone licences was overshadowed yesterday by the last-minute withdrawal of two contenders.Just six groups are still in the running in the auction for the five UMTS licences on offer. That boosted industry hopes that the auction will prove less expensive than expected.At the end of the day the Dutch mobile phone group Libertel was well ahead of the other groups, bidding &euro;45.4m (&#163;30m) for one licence.Other bidders were more cautious with newcomer Versatel offering &euro;200,000 for another of the licences while the top bids for the remaining three were all at the &euro;100,000 level.Bidding is expected to quicken over the coming days but analysts believe the final tally could fall well short of the 20bn guilders (&#163;5.7bn) which some had expected.The two companies to pull out yesterday were Hutchison 3G Netherlands and Nogenta Swedish Acquisitions, which is owned by NTL.NTL said its decision reflected consolidation within the industry. France Telecom owns 25% of NTL and 80% of Dutchtone, another bidder.The Hutchison move is seen as confirmation that it, Holland's KPN Telecom and Japan's NTTDoCoMo plan to bid jointly for third generation licences across Europe."The withdrawals support our view that UMTS costs are unlikely to be as high as ther market had been anticipating. This is very positive for the sector," said Bear Stearns analyst Fanos Hira.
Online banking Car maker Toyota hinted it may make a foray into online banking. It has already moved into e-commerce and finance, including credit cards.&#149; In office Work 24, a portal offering products and services to small businesses, yesterday became the first result of the &#163;70m web alliance between Scottish Power and Royal Bank of Scotland . Work 24 provides website building and monitoring facilities, online buying of stationery, computer hardware, software and travel, plus other services such as online conferences, email, document storage and networking.&#149; Out Jeremy Curnock Cook who quit as principal of International Biotechnology Trust last week has now resigned as chairman of Biocompatibles . He is replaced by the a former Northern Ireland secretary, Sir Richard Needham. The shares fell 19p to 322p. &#149; Mobile Italy's largest bank, Banca Intesa , is studying a web banking project with the mobile phone operator Omnitel , controlled by Vodafone AirTouch . Intesa also announced an e-commerce joint venture with the big Italian engineering and defence group Finmeccanica.Useful linksInternational Biotechnology TrustToyota
Cable &amp; Wireless, the global telecoms company, has formed a joint venture withNokiaof Finland to develop an internet platform for mobile phones.The platform will provide web-hosting facilities that package together a range of software applications for mobile internet, tailored to the needs of a variety of customers.Cable &amp; Wireless has identified those customers as ranging from second and third generation mobile phone operators, dot.com companies, internet service providers and large corporations.The announcement sparked some initial excitement from analysts, as it potentially extends Cable &amp; Wireless's revenue stream beyond its core focus of providing data, internet and voice services to businesses."If this works out for them it could be very lucrative," said Jim Ross, analyst at ABN Amro."Going in with Nokia makes a lot of sense as the standards set for the next generation of mobile services are going to be fragmented and dominated by the big phone manufacturers."Cable &amp; Wireless and Nokia declined to reveal details of their investment into the joint venture or the likely revenue   projections, claiming that the information was commercially sensitive.Revenues are expected to be generated from access and web hosting charges, transaction fees and the provision of application service products. One analyst suggested the revenues could eventually be as much as &#163;500m annually.Mr Wallace said the mobile internet platform would be operating by the year end with Cable &amp; Wireless providing the web hosting facilities from its data centres.The joint venture has already signed several customers to the service.Mr Wallace, however, said that the launch of the joint venture would have no effect on the company's financial forecasts.In the next three years 350m people are expected to access internet content via mobile phones.Market analysts Forrester expect internet revenues will soar from $5.3m to $3.8bn in 2005.While Nokia claims the number of mobile phone users will reach 1bn by the end of 2002.Based on these projections, Mr Wallace said it was possible for "loads of money" to be made in the internet mobile platform market."You can see this market's size, it's huge," he said. "By combining the strength of our global internet protocol infrastructure and hosting centres with Nokia's innovative wireless internet solutions and leading position in the mobile market, Cable &amp; Wireless is opening up this new market for its customers."The software applications that Cable &amp; Wireless may provide from its web hosting facilities for the internet platform include news, weather to a service that is able to track a mobile users as they move from country to country and provide them with information that is relevant to their location.Mr Wallace stressed that content for its mobile internet services would be provided by specialists firms.Separately, Independent News' priced its flotation of iTouch at 100p-130p a share. iTouch provides international mobile consumer and corporate services and would be capitalised at &#163;325m based on the mid-price of the indicative range.
Geo Interactive Media says it will consider selling some parts of the company over the next two years to focus on its growth business of video streaming - the technology which sends video signals to PCs and mobile phones.The company said yesterday it was also looking at a trade sale of 6% of its stock to a strategic partner. Shares in Geo tumbled 117.5p yesterday to &#163;10.675, having peaked in March at just over &#163;34.Eli Reifman, executive director of Geo Interactive, said that the directors - who own a total of 55% of the Israel-based company - would not sell any further shares in the next year to "provide a comfort level" to the market. "We don't   believe there should be any other selling now as we don't believe the share price is where it should be," he added.The strategic partnership is expected to focus on Geo's mobile division which is developing video streaming technology for handsets.Video streaming compresses video signals - for example coverage of an event such as Wimbledon - and transmits them at high speed to PCs or mobile phone handsets. Geo is widely considered to be a leader in two-way video streaming.So far, however, Real Networks has dominated the market in video streaming to PCs. This week the American company announced that it had signed a deal with Nokia to target mobile phones - news   which hit Geo's share price.Mr Reifman said that Geo was happy with current trading in all its divisions - mobile, broadcasting, messaging and web radio. First-half revenues had exceeded expectations and the cash burn was in line with the business plan.Analysts have forecast a cash burn of between $1.4m and $1.6m in the first half and twice that for the full year. Geo is expected to make its first pre-tax profit in 2000 of $3.9m, on revenues of $25m.Darren Lauber, an analyst with WestLB Panmure recommends Geo as a "buy" with a target price of &#163;23. He said the company's ability to focus its strategy and the strength of management had seen revenues leap from $950,000 in 1998 to $7.5m in 1999.Useful linksGeo Interactive Media
Any favourite places on the net?I really likeMcsweeneys, a literary site coming out of Brooklyn. There's also another site set up by a woman in the States calledMy Bunnieswhich is a whole website just devoted to her rabbits! At the moment I've been sending greeting cards fromMoonpig.Has the net changed the role of the writer?I haven't written much stuff purely for online. I still have quite a fond attachment to writing I can hold in my hand! It's maybe changed research more radically than writing. I have access to a thing called theLexis-Nexis Databaseat Florida State University and that puts almost every book and newspaper article at my fingertips. Some writers say the e-book is going to change everything and others say that it won't because we love paper too much. I think as long as the story or the content is good it doesn't matter so much how it's delivered.How do you feel about the some of the copyright implications of content on the net?Writing fiction has never really been that much of an exercise in making profit! I think that the people responsible for publishing books will find some way to put people in a vice and get the money out of them somehow.Should companies put more open source content on the web?It would be a great thing if libraries were allowed to put out open source books. I guess some other services in the world would have to be free if good writing was made free. I would say that I've seen it in the past with rock shows or theatre that if people have to pay money they're more attentive.Is information freer in the online community?Tom Paine.comdeals with the freedom of information on the web. I think there might be a broader range and I think the online magazines seem to have a freedom to be more individual. I used to write about the military so I find sites like theFederation of American Scientists' siteinvaluable for letting you know the stuff that the American military don't really want you to know. However, you can't always take all the information on the web to be true.Are you a gadget man?I have a Palm Pilot and I really wanted this thing for it called a Rolodex which was the size of a PCMCIA card but I don't think they do them any more. I'd love to get an MP3 player. I'd also like someone to make me a remote control that I can use to bring my other remote control to me.Shall the geek inherit the earth?I think they already did! There was an article in the New York Times magazine about how high school kids who show an amazing aptitude towards maths and science don't think of themselves as geeks anymore and they don't look like geeks anymore.&#149; For more information on Matt Klam visit:www.matthewklam.com
Basic instinctsI used to do a lot of things on my old Acorn BBC computer using Basic: solving complicated equations, statistical mechanics etc. Do you know of anything that would do the same on a PC?PeterRowlandPeterRowland@compuserve.comJack Schofield:Those were the days, and they haven't quite gone. Although BBC Basic appeared first on the Acorn BBC, an Intel-compatible version has been on sale almost unchanged for 14 years. It was written by Richard T Russell and others at the BBC, and costs &#163;50. You can download an evaluation version of BBC BASIC (86) Plus from Russell's website atwww.rtrussell.co.uk, or try an alternative implementation called BBCBASIX atwww.bbcbasic.com. The drawback is that both were written for MS-DOS, not Windows.If you are nostalgic for the BBC B Microcomputer, there are lots of emulation programs for PC. There's a useful list on The BBC lives! website atwww.nvg.ntnu.no/bbc/emulators.shtml.But if your nostalgia is for the Basic language, why not go back to the source? Basic was created by John Kemeny and Thomas Kurtz at Dartmouth College in the US in 1964. They offer several versions of True Basic for different platforms, including Windows and Mac OS. Prices start at $39.95 for the Bronze    Edition. You can download a trial version fromwww.truebasic.com.Use thisMy photos open by default in Adobe Business. I wish them to open in Adobe Photoshop or Corel. Can I change the default program?Yvonne Kedgey.kedge@lineone.netJS:This is a frequently-asked question (FAQ) because Microsoft has put the control panel where few people think to look for it.First, find one of the photos you want to open in Photoshop and check the three letter extension (it's probably .jpg).Then open an Explorer Window by, for example, double-clicking the My Computer icon. Select View and then Options, and click on the tab for File Types. Scroll down to select the entry for the program that "owns" the .jpg extension (Adobe Business in your case), and click the button that says Remove. Use OK to close the tabbed dialogue box.Go back to the photo you wanted to open in Photoshop, and double click the file. You'll be asked to choose the program you want to load it, so take your pick (Adobe Photoshop or Corel in your case). A tick box lets you make that choice for future files too.You can "associate" each type of file with only one program. However, you can still load a file into a different program by, for example, using the mouse to drag the file from Explorer and drop it on the open program or on its icon.Exit ExciteI have another email address in Excite and would like to be able to get my mail from Excite in my Outlook Express inbox. How do I do that?Lily McloughlinLily@rocastle35.freeserve.co.ukJS:Sorry, you can't do that: Excite has not made its POP3 mail server publicly accessible, and nor have most providers of web-based email. You could, however, switch to Yahoo, which does let you   collect email with Outlook Express.Cleaning up WindowsOur PC has been upgraded from Windows 3.1 to Windows 98. It is functioning well, but the Windows directory is huge. It seems not to have deleted any old files, but just left them there. Because it is on a relatively small 1GB disk, the disk is nearly full. The PC has another disk onto which I load any new programs.How can I reclaim some of the space taken up by unused W3.1 files?Hannes Bothahannes.botha@ntlworld.comJS:Microsoft gives each file in each version of Windows its own time and date stamp. If you sort a Windows Explorer directory by date (go to View|Details then click the Modified tab in Explorer), you will be able to see how many files belong to which version. For example, all the W95 files on my W95 PC were created at 9:50 on 11/07/95.However, deleting files that may still be in use is not recommended. The best approach is to do a "clean" install of Windows instead of an upgrade, but this means reinstalling all your applications too.There are many programs that will analyse the contents of your hard drive and try to identify surplus files. The one I've used with some success is Quarterdeck's CleanSweep, which is now owned by Norton/Symantec. It costs about &#163;35, or half the cost of a bigger hard drive.Deleting temporary (.tmp) files manually may save some space. To do this, close down all programs and restart your PC. Go to Sart|Find|Files or Folders and type *.tmp next to Named. This will find all the temporary files on C:. You can delete them by using Ctrl-A (select all) then hitting the Del key.
Investors wiped almost $13bn from the market value ofComputer Associates, one of the world's largest software companies, yesterday after the group issued a profits warning.Shares in the company opened 40% lower at a 52-week low of $29 (&#163;19). The company warned that its first-quarter revenues would be lower after US stock markets closed on Monday, just before the July 4 holiday. Shares fell as low as $28 yesterday morning from an opening price of $41.A conference call yesterday designed to explain the company's negative outlook failed to satisfy sceptical analysts yesterday. One fund manager described the call with senior executives of the company as not especially helpful.Several investment banks, including Goldman Sachs, downgraded the company as a result of the warning that its revenues in June would be about $300m-$350m short of consensus estimates of $1.6bn. Operating profits were also expected to be lower.Several analysts were angry about the timing of the announcement, which could provoke criticism from the securities and exchange commission. The SEC refused to comment yesterday, while the company said that it had simply made the announcement when it became aware of the shortfall.Computer Associates was also subject to criticism and shareholder lawsuits in 1998 after the company's decision to grant $1.1bn in stock to its three senior executives.The company blamed three things for its profits warning on Monday: weak demand for its mainframe software, a failure to integrate acquisitions as quickly as promised and a disappointing performance in Europe.
She's slick, sultry and coming to a mobile phone near you.Ananova- the world's first virtual cyberchick newsreader - and her parents, the Press Association's new media division, have been bought byOrangefor &#163;95m.Britain's third largest mobile phone operator will use Ananova on its internet   portal. This will complement its established text message news service which delivers information such as weather and stockmarket reports.Orange's video compression technology will deliver full-motion images on mobile phones by the end of the year, using its GSM network. Manufacturers have already been signed up to produce the video hand sets. Ananova, marketed as a cross between Posh Spice and Carol Vorderman, was owned by the Press Association newswire agency.PA put Ananova and the media division, which employs 100 people, up for sale in February after a review of the business suggested that it was ripe for sale.The business is led by its chief executive, Robert   Simpson, and commercial director, Vivienne Adshead, above right.PA said that the deal would return value to shareholders and provide funds for further development of services for media and other customers.The news agency will provide Orange with news and information services as part of the deal.
