It is difficult to think of a stronger contrast between the old economy and the new. In Belfast, Harland and Wolff - wilting under the weight of its industrial history - has just lost a &#163;400m bid to build the Queen Mary II superliner. As a result it faces the loss of 1,700 jobs and maybe closure.Meanwhile, in London,Lastminute.com, an internet start-up company that had income of only &#163;409,000 in the most recent quarter, is about to be launched on the stock market at a valuation that could approach a dizzy &#163;1bn. Lastminute.com is the most innovative of the hundreds of British net start-ups and deserves to succeed. Its business model of selling hotel rooms, flights and other services with a limited shelf life is one of the very few not to have been copied from the United States. In its brief 19-month life it has built up a very strong "brand" in the market place. It has achieved an iconic status among other start-ups and its success on the stock market will be watched very closely by analysts waiting for the dot.com bubble to burst.And burst it will. The valuations accorded to US and UK net companies have long since lost anchor with reality. Their valuations only make sense if they have uncovered a new market in which they will make very large profit margins indeed. They have not and it won't happen. Why? Because of the characteristics of the very internet they espouse. In terms of business-to-consumer commerce, the net is a consumers' not a producers' paradise. As soon as a business looks good hundreds of others around the globe can copy it at relatively low cost. And consumers can surf the web until they find something cheaper. Customer loyalty in the new media age is click deep - even when you build up a big brand image likeAmazon.com, the online bookseller.These two factors alone will make it very difficult to generate the huge profits needed to justify the ludicrous valuations put on net stocks. Nearly all of them are merely selling the products of   the old economy (books, cars, hotel rooms and so forth) in a novel way. The goods, mostly, still have to be delivered. Web commerce was supposed to remove the middle person, but it has merely created a different kind of intermediary (of which Lastminute.com is one). The arrival of internet commerce has generated a deflationary environment in which it is difficult to make serious profits in the market place (as opposed to the market in stocks). It is small wonder that hardly any dot.com companies selling to the consumer are making money either here or in the US. In the old economy a large proportion of new small firms die within four or five years. In the new economy - where thousands of inexperienced wannabe millionaires are trying their luck - the casualty rate will be even higher. A meltdown is inevitable.But not the timing. It is a function of bubbles that no one knows how big they will get before they burst. Remember the Japanese share boom of the early 1990s? Everyone agreed the stock market was overvalued - but also that it was going to be even more overvalued in the future. Those who saw the writing on the wall too early deprived their investors of four or five years of continuing capital gains. But those who stayed on the gravy train too long got scalded. The paper wealth that fuelled consumer spending turned into large capital losses. This stopped the Japanese from spending thereby plunging the economy into recession. That could easily happen in the US. Consumers have been on a spending spree because soaring hi-tech stock prices made them feel wealthy. But if the bubble bursts, this process will be thrown into reverse. Plummeting stocks will make them rein in their spending, thereby stalling one of the main engines of recovery in the US (and in the rest of the world ). There could be a "soft" landing for the markets if investors suddenly re-discover the lure of old economy companies when the dotty.com shares fall to earth. But this will be no consolation for today's investors buying at batty prices. Sooner or later, it will be payback time.
What do comedy and investment have in common? The importance of timing. In both cases the results of bad timing are not remotely funny. Good timing, on the other hand, will always bring a smile to the face, and for an investor can make the difference between a profit and a loss.Most investment advisers suggest that investment is best treated as a long term game since over an extended period the stock market is likely to end up higher than at its start. However, a serious crash at the end of a long period of investment can still wipe out all or at least a significant part of any gains made. Once again, if the plan is to take money out of the market, timing is still crucial even over the long term.Given the surge in day trading on telephone-based and online dealing services, many of the most active direct investors will be familiar with the importance of timing. A hot stock bought or sold on the wrong day, or even at the wrong time of day in the current volatile market, can be a dead loss, or vice versa. For example, until the middle of February Halifax was an out of fashion financial stock.Then it announced its internet strategy Intelligent Finance (IF) and the price shot up, within a week half the gain had melted away, to partly return in the following two weeks. The temptation to sell after a fairly steady decline over the past 12 months would have been strong but the wrong decision given the reaction to the announcement. Equally, anyone who bought the stock at the start of February could be sitting on a 50% gain in the space of a week.In recognition of these issues, netISA, an internet-only financial services company that specialises in individual savings accounts (Isa), has launched an account that allows investors to freeze their Isa holdings with a click of a button. The immunISA is based on a a FTSE 100 tracker unit trust run by Barclays Global Investors. With the help of IG Index, a financial spread betting company, investors in the fund can lock their investment at its current value for periods of three or six months at a time. Provided the investor is sufficiently skilled to judge when the market is about to fall and when it is about to come back up again, this toll can be used to protect the investment.Most protected investment products use futures contracts to cover any risk of a fall. The disadvantage of this is that the cost of such contracts eats into the gains too.According to one estimate, investors in these funds benefit from only 35-40% of market rises on average. When an ImmunISA investor freezes their account, a bet is placed on their behalf with IG Index that the market will fall. The size of that bet depends on the amount by which the market does fall.So, if there is &#163;2,000 in the fund, the investor orders a freeze and the shares in the fund rise in value by &#163;1,000: the fund rises in value by &#163;1,000 but the investor loses the bet with IG Index and &#163;1,000 is automatically deducted from the fund by selling units leaving the balance at &#163;2,000. Conversely, if the value falls by &#163;1,000, the investor wins the bet and IG Index automatically pays &#163;1,000 into the fund again maintaining the &#163;2,000 balance.Richard Carswell, the managing director of netISA and investor in the fund, says he came up with the idea to protect his own investment. He saw the difficulty of getting out of a unit trust quickly when the market crashed in 1987: "People couldn't get an answer on the phone from their fund managers," he says.The product is suitable for sophisticated investors who want more control over their fund or nervous investors who want to exploit this year's Isa allowance but do not like the look of the current market conditions, says Mr Carswell. There is a 1% initial and a 0.35% annual charge on the Isa.Another advantage of using the spread betting mechanism is that investors are not liable for capital gains tax (CGT) as they would be if they sold up in anticipation of a fall. The betting account is run in tandem with the Isa, rather than within it. When the fund is frozen and the market falls the winnings from the bet are paid in as a new investment. If the market rises, the sale of units to pay the debt to IG Index will give rise to a CGT liability.
As the retail investment fund market begins to drown under a flood of technology funds it was only a matter of time before someone took the next obvious step and launched a fund of technology funds.First to step into the breach looks to be Portfolio Fund Management, a fund of funds specialist. Provided the firm can secure approval from Financial Securities Authority (FSA), the City regulator, it will launch a new international fund of technology funds at the start of April.But what is the point of such a fund? The appeal of technology investment is to take big risks in return for spectacular gains. The appeal of funds of funds is that they add an extra layer of diversification and flatten out the risk-reward profile in the process. Surely the two are incompatible.Tim Miller, managing director of Portfolio, says they are not. "It will be less rewarding than the best funds but better than the worst," he says. This is perhaps not the most helpful guide to the fund's future performance, but then Mr Miller says that is part of the point. The Portfolio fund is intended to help investors who cannot decide which technology fund to back, but do not want to miss out on the expertise of active technology sector managers by putting their money into a technology index tracker.Mr Miller says it is difficult for most investors to pick which is going to be the best-performing fund in such a volatile sector characterised by extreme variations. Indeed, he admits that Portfolio has found it difficult to pick them and as yet has not made any final decisions on the fund constituents.Simon Conder of stockbroker Teather &amp; Greenwood is only partly convinced by Mr    Miller's argument. "The style of management and what's in there mean different funds will motor in different markets," he says. The Portfolio idea is, in that sense, a good one, since it could balance different investment styles against one another. But, he says, this is easier to do through a portfolio management service, where the greater degree of control al lows the investor to select a specific geographical diversification.Although he has a point, there is considerable difference in cost between a fund of funds and a portfolio management service. Portfolio charges a 5% initial fee, 1.5% annual fee and accepts a minimum of &#163;1,000; a portfolio service typically costs more. Funds of funds can also offer access to institutional funds that would otherwise be too expensive. One such fund is the Middlebury Technology fund: a highly successful offshore alternative investment fund that invests in internet hardware but has a minimum investment of $10m. Mr Conder says he is already working on opening this up to smaller UK investors, so the race is on.
Halifax is soldiering on with internet-based products, announcing the arrival of Web Saver - a specially designed internet savings account. Details on rates and conditions have yet to be released, but new customers can pre-register via the group's website atwww.halifax.co.ukand existing Halifax Online customers can pre-register atwww.halifax-online.co.uk.Halifax promises unique features and ATM access.The market for online new car buying is heating up with the launch ofwww.freeway.ltd.uk, which allows you to complete the whole car buying process - bar your final signature - over the internet.You've booked the holiday, but what about all those little extras - airport car parking, travel insurance? Buy them in advance throughwww.holidayextras.co.ukand you are promised big savings. The message is pre-book and save money.Concerned about pension charges? Buy from DiscountPensions.co.uk before April 5 and you will only be charged commission at 1/2% of premiums - plus a &#163;25 handling fee. And if you are a basic rate taxpayer, buying before the end of the tax year also entitles you to tax relief of 23% instead of 22% . The site offers pensions from several different providers, including Axa Sun Life, CGU Life, Norwich Union and Standard Life.Buy your mortgage payment protection insurance online from Goodfellow, and get the first three months cover for free. Goodfellow also guarantees that the policy, Securityfirst (www.securityfirst.co.uk), is the best on the market and will pay &#163;100 to anyone who can prove otherwise. If you're short of cash, start looking.
In America, the internet has turned the way people buy and sell homes upside-down. Virtually every home for sale is advertised online and most house-hunters begin their search on the internet.Over here, new technology is certainly starting to transform the house-buying process, but for most people looking to move it is still all about ringing round the estate agents, scanning the ads in the local paper and pounding the streets.However, a new initiative this week could change all that. In an attempt to maintain their dominance in a rapidly changing market, four of the UK's biggest estate agency chains have teamed up to launch a property website which, they say, will offer by far the largest choice of properties.The site, called Rightmove, (www.rightmove.co.uk), is being developed by Countrywide Assured, Connells, the Halifax and Royal &amp; SunAlliance, which between them have more than 1,700 estate agency branches.Within two or three months Rightmove will feature details of almost 120,000 properties for sale - a fifth of all those on the market. With other estate agents, both large and small, expected to sign up for the service, it's planned that by the end of this year more than 50% of UK properties   for sale will be displayed on the site. This would bring the UK property market much closer to that of America, where an estimated 98%-plus of all homes for sale can be found on the net, and more than nine out of 10 estate agents are on one website.James Chapman, at Royal &amp; SunAlliance Property Services, says that if a homebuyer can log on to one site and get access to most of the properties on the market, that has to be a good thing."The last thing people want to do is trawl around an electronic high street," he adds. "In an ideal world we would like to have 100% of UK agents on our site."But critics say that far from offering a better-value way of buying and selling homes, Rightmove is simply another form of advertising space for estate agents - effectively a cyberspace version of the branch office window and the ads they take out in local papers.House sellers cannot put their properties on to the site themselves: their details will be automatically added to the site when they register with a subscribing estate agent. They will pay no extra for this, but they will have to pay the estate agents' usual 1%-2% commission.That said, Rightmove will clearly be useful for many homebuyers, particularly those who don't live in the area where they are house-hunting. The companies behind the initiative are promising that the site will be updated with new instructions on a daily basis.Rightmove is already up and running in a limited form. It enables browsers to access details of close to 50,000 properties on the books of Countrywide Assured estate agents such as Bairstow Eves, Mann &amp; Co and John D Wood.The information currently on the site is pretty basic: a small picture of the outside of the property, price, location and a short description of the basic features.The launch of the site has been partly prompted by the explosion of interest in websites sites as HomeFreeHome (www.homefreehome.co.uk), Easier (www.easier.co.uk) and HouseWeb (www. houseweb.com) which allow people to cut estate agents out of the equation completely by advertising their properties for free or just a small fee.HouseWeb, launched in May 1996, was the first property website in the UK. It charges &#163;40 for sellers to advertise their property, and is now being visited by more than 100,000 homeowners a month. You can upload property details and photos directly from your computer, and amend the ad as often as you want.HouseWeb says the number of people selling their properties privately via the net and other methods is increasing at a rate of knots. What many appear to be doing is using an estate agent and advertising their property on a website as well.Here we identify some of the other leading property sites:Easierwww.easier.co.ukLets sellers advertise their properties for free. The company makes money by passing on details to "carefully selected" partner companies, which will send you information about their products and services. There is no obligation to buy any of these products or services, but if you find marketing mail irritating you may want to think twice about registering.UK Property Saleswww.ukpropertysales.comCharges sellers &#163;39 to advertise a property for three months. It lets buyers search for a home in a specified area and add their name to a mailing list which will notify them when a suitable property comes in. Fee includes a colour photo of the property and a 100-word description.Lootwww.loot.comLoot, the free ads paper, lists information on properties to   buy and rent in London, Manchester and other areas on its site. Information on alternative properties, including hotel and guest houses, houseboats and retirement homes can be found. Advertising is free.Fish4Homeswww.fish4homes.co.ukProvides a database of properties for sale and rent which subscribing local newspapers and estate and letting agents supply and update. Has more than 100,000 properties listed. When you've found a property you are interested in you will then need to contact the agent. Its "Fish4 Me" service will email you with details of homes that come in that match your requirements.Internet Property Finderwww.propertyfinder.co.ukHolds details of 22,000 properties. Estate agents pay to display their properties. It is up to them how much information on a property is put on the site. To advertise your property on the site, you will have to register with an agent who uses the site first.The Home Directorywww.homedirectory.comAgain, estate agents pay an advertising fee and individual homebuyers can use the site for free. Says it wants to become the definitive website for homebuyers, including information on local facilities, mortgages and moving.HomeFreeHomewww.homefreehome.co.ukLets sellers advertise their properties for free. The site allows individuals to upload property details and photos. Buyers will be emailed when properties that fit their requirements are registered on the site.
The wave of internet and hi-tech companies launching on to the stock market shows no signs of letting up despite a warning this week by chancellor Gordon Brown to small investors hoping to make a dot com fortune.Mr Brown urged caution in the wake of this week's FTSE 100 shake-up, which saw several young hi-tech firms push long-established brewers, housebuilders and supermarkets out of the index. His words coincided with unprecedented investor demand for lastminute.com shares ahead of its flotation next week which could value the 19-month-old company, run by 31-year old Brent Hoberman and 27-year-old Martha Lane-Fox, at as much as &#163;1bn.The deadline for applications for lastminute.com shares passed yesterday, but amateur punters are on the hunt for the next IPO (initial public offering) of a hi-tech company. The list of forthcoming hi-tech IPOs includes such names as Team Talk, currently valued at around &#163;200m CountyWeb.com, an internet business directory believed to be worth &#163;25m, and Bizzbuild, an e-commerce development company valued at &#163;50m.But the next blockbuster is likely to be egg.com, the Prudential financial services website, which could have a value running into the billions. A listing of future IPOs is available atwww.iii.co.uk/newissues. But note if the stock is going for a placing (so available only to insitutions) or an offer, where small investors can participate. Check if the stock is floating on the main market, Aim or Ofex. Main market offerings are likely to have more substance. Remember how volatile these stocks can be. A week ago Freeserve saw its value plummet by &#163;1.7bn in one day after alta vista and ntl blew a major hole in its "free" internet proposition.
Messing about in boats isn't just an occasional holiday extra. When your boat doubles as self-catering accommodation, you can be virtually self-sufficient and never grow tired of staying in one place.Canal JunctionIf travelling at only four miles an hour, taking turns to man the tiller, regularly negotiating locks and sleeping in cabins sounds like fun, then head for Canal Junction which offers some basic narrowboat history, suggested cruises and a directory of boat-hire companies.British WaterwaysThere are more than 2,000 miles of canal in England and Wales, and the organisation responsible for maintaining it is British Waterways, who run a very useful site. Visitors can plan their route with the interactive maps and research the attractions on the way - which is very important when you don't have a car and must plan stops carefully.Blakes cruisersBlakes cruisers plies the Thames, Lake Windermere and the Norfolk Broads as well as canal routes. These cruisers can sleep up to 12 people and tend to offer more privacy than barges.According to Blakes, they   are also easy to sail; yachts require slightly more practice. If enough people share a boat and you are able to economise by self-catering, this can also be a very cheap holiday. Hire, insurance and fuel can cost less than &#163;100 per person at certain times of the year.Norfolk BroadsThe Norfolk Broads, incidentally, has its own website, with a special section on boating.Royal Yachting AssociationIf you want to learn how to    sail - which opens up any number of holidays, from enjoying the coast of St Tropez to competitive racing - the Royal Yachting Association has a good list of training contacts. Look here, too, if you are interested in windsurfing or powerboat racing.British Canoe UnionPaddling your own canoe, or kayaking, is covered by the  British Canoe Union. However, you often need a licence to use British rivers and canals.GORPIf kayaking abroad sounds more exciting, try the Great Outdoor Recreation Pages, where the sport is called "paddling". It favours North American destinations, but with the continuing fall in airfares to the States and the high safety standards there - not to mention some breathtaking rivers - you might want to leave Britain behind.
Parents beware. The games console market is set to become even more crowded from next year with the arrival of a console from Microsoft.The X-Box unveiled yesterday in California by Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman, brings the world's largest software manufacturer into the console market for the first time as a challenger to the established manufacturers Sony, Sega and Nintendo.The X-Box, which Microsoft promises will be three times more powerful than Sony's PlayStation 2, will be launched in the US in the autumn of next year and is expected to be available in Britain by Christmas 2001.The announcement was welcomed by UK game developers. Jez San, chief executive of Argonaut Games plc, said: "It's very good for the entire industry. It will enlarge the video game business."Like PlayStation 2, the X-Box can be connected to modems, giving access to the internet.According to indepen dent industry analysts Datamonitor, consoles have the potential to become the sole conduit into the home for digital entertainment such as games, internet access, music CDs and DVD movies."Microsoft has realised that the personal computer, its traditional home ground, is increasingly threatened in its role as the dominant gateway to the internet by devices such as mobile phones, set-top boxes and gaming consoles," said a spokesman."The arrival of the X-Box will be Microsoft's Trojan horse into the living room."The global video game market is worth &#163;12.6bn annually. The games market is worth &#163;1bn in Britain, and is expected to generate more money than the music industry this year.The X-Box is expected to retail for less than &#163;300. It will contain two hugely powerful chips equivalent to the power of two PCs, and Microsoft said it would deliver movie-quality graphics and better, faster games.
Later today in San Jose, California, Bill Gates will  announce plans to go head-to-head with Japan's Sony  Corporation for the games console market. Gates is speaking  at a game developers conference, but Microsoft's console -  code-named X-Box - has already been unveiled in Japan and  in Europe, because of time differences.At the European launch at the Hempel Hotel in London this  morning, Microsoft said its console was designed to deliver  three times the performance of the Sony PlayStation 2, which  went on sale in Japan on March 4. The X-Box will not reach  the market until the autumn in 2001.Microsoft also committed to spending the kind of money  needed to attack the console market, which is currently  being contested mainly by three Japanese suppliers, Sony,  Sega and Nintendo.J Allard, general manager of the X-Box platform and  Microsoft's "Minister of Fun", said: "Microsoft will come  out with a branded product and a clear marketing message,  and the budget we have is astronomical. The launch of  Windows 95 is going to look like a whisper compared with  what we are going to do on the X-Box."The X-Box is based on PC technology including a 600MHz Intel  Pentium processor, an Nvidia graphics chip, 3D audio sound,  and an 8 gigabyte hard disk drive - the first hard drive to  appear in a games console. The operating system - which  will be invisible to the user - will be based on  Microsoft's latest Windows 2000 and Windows' DirectX games  software, though the system demonstrated was running Windows  98.Allard said the machine had three times the power of Sony's  PlayStation 2, which has just gone on sale in Japan, and  would "blow people's socks off".However, the business model is taken directly from the games  console market. Like rival machines, the X-Box will be a  proprietary design with a fixed specification. It will be  manufactured under contract and sold under the Microsoft  brand label, not made by a variety of PC manufacturers such  as Compaq, Dell, and IBM.Allard said Microsoft had looked at the possibility of  licensing the design but - from the failure of earlier  attempts such as the 3D0 console and Philips' CDi (Compact  Disc Interactive) - felt this approach would not work in  the console market.The X-Box will not run games written for PCs, and X-Box  games will not run on PCs. The two types of device will be  kept completely separate. However, games developers will be  able to create one game for both machines with only the  "finishing off" being different."We're not confused: this is a single-function device  entirely focused on the games market," said Allard.Like other console manufacturers, Microsoft plans to sell  its machines at a minimal profit, and rely on sales of games  to make money.Microsoft has been selling games for 20 years, starting with  a Decathlon sports game for the Apple II, but has not so far  had much success in that market.John O'Rourke, Microsoft's director of games marketing, said  Microsoft remained "totally committed to  PC gaming" and  would increase its efforts in the PC games market, as well  as supporting the X-Box.
Games consoles are getting more powerful; PCs are getting
cheaper. What could be more natural than a games console
built using cheap PC parts?That's what Microsoft is proposing with the X-Box, which
will do battle with the latest generation of games consoles
including the Sony PlayStation 2, Sega Dreamcast and
forthcoming Nintendo Dolphin.Personal computers already have about a third of the games
market, and many of the best games: Championship Manager,
Civilization, DOOM, Half-Life, The Sims, Quake etc.However, PCs are expensive - around UKP1,000 for a hot box
- and relatively hard to use. Games consoles are much
easier to use and they cost a lot less, with prices ranging
from about UKP70 to UKP300.The X-Box has the power of a PC, and will be able to run the
most advanced PC-style games. However, its power is packaged
to make it as easy to use as a console, and it will have a
comparable price.But the console design also involves making sacrifices. The
X-Box will not be able to provide the flexibility,
adaptability and upgradeability that makes PCs so useful.
Also, the X-Box that ships before Christmas next year will
have to be functionally identical to the one that ships in
five years time, while the PC design will have gone through
another five iterations by then.Microsoft says it does not see any conflict between the two
types of device, and J Allard, general manager of the X-Box
platform, says about three-quarters of PC gamers also own a
games console. "Sometimes they want to play on their PC and
sometimes they want to play on the big TV in the lounge with
their chums and a table full of pizza. It's a social thing."The console's lack of upgradeability leads to breaks in the
continuity of the games console market. So far, each new
generation of technology has been dominated by a different
supplier. First it was Atari, then Nintendo, Sega and, most
recently, Sony.Sony hopes to be the first company to dominate successive
generations of hardware with the PlayStation and PlayStation
2. Microsoft plans to stop it.
The frenzy surrounding internet stocks reached a new high on the stock market yesterday whenLastminute.com, a 19- month-old loss-making on-line retailer, said unprecedented demand from investors had forced it to hike the price of its share sale by more than two-thirds.Financial bookmakers believe the rush for shares in Lastminute could push the company's value towards the &#163;1bn mark when it floats on the stock exchange on Tuesday. The company's two founders, Brent Hoberman, 31, and Martha Lane-Fox, 27, would see their combined shareholdings valued at almost &#163;200m.Lastminute's announcement came just hours after Gordon Brown urged caution as investors continue to pour money into internet stocks in the hope of making their own instant dot.com fortunes.Concern is growing within the City of London that newly launched internet companies are becoming overvalued and that a shake-out could cause many of their share prices to fall back significantly or some firms disappear altogether. If that occurs private investors and institutions stand to lose hundreds of millions, if not billions, of pounds.The chancellor urged caution when asked on BBC Radio 4's Today programme about the surge in investor interest that has seen several young hi-tech firms push long-established brewers, housebuilders and supermarkets out of the FTSE-100 index."I said we had got to be cautious and I am cautious in most instances," Mr Brown said. "And in this particular instance obviously people will want to look at the performance of each of these individual companies."The chancellor's comments came a day after a warning from Howard Davies, the chairman of the City watchdog the financial services authority. Mr Davies said: "These stocks are extremely difficult to value. These companies for the most part have never made a profit, have never paid a dividend, and have no intention of paying a dividend, so the normal basis on which you value a company is no longer relevant."When a company is valued more on hope than on expectation, then you can expect it to be a volatile stock. We know from previous experience that many of the companies around at the moment will not be around in three to five years, because there will be a lot of creative destruction in a new economy of this sort."Alan Greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board, which sets interest rates in the US, has previously likened investing in internet companies to playing the lottery.Private investors in particular do not appear to have heeded the warnings. Financial bookmakers said frenzied buying among individuals, rather than the big   investment and pension funds, had forced up the price of Lastminute shares."This flotation has generated more interest than any of the others," said David Morrison of Financial Spreads. "We just see buyers coming in. This one has really caught the public's imagination."IG Index believes Lastminute shares could reach 560p by the end of the first day's trading. Morgan Stanley, the investment bank coordinating the float, wants to sell the shares at around 350p each.City analysts believe Lastminute.com could emerge as a definitive test case of the strength of Britain's fast- emerging internet sector. Young, fashionable and fun, the company is everything that the internet is supposed to be.Although revenues are growing fast, turnover in the third quarter of last year, which also included the Christmas buying season, totalled just &#163;409,000 on &#163;4.3m of transactions. Many analysts were surprised they were so low when details were released last month."Lastminute is a wonderful brand but valuing it at &#163;1bn? That's crazy," one said.If Lastminute's valuation does reach the &#163;1bn mark, its 28,687 customers will be valued at &#163;34,858 each.Some sceptical commentators have asked if Miss Lane-Fox could become the Sophie Mirman of her generation. Ms Mirman shot to national fame in 1987 when massive investor demand forced the value of the 30-year-old's Sock Shop retail chain up to &#163;258m.However, strategic errors and an end to the City's love affair with speciality retailers saw Sock Shop slide into administration three years later.Individuals who have opted to invest some of their savings in internet stocks have had a rollercoaster ride. A week ago   Freeserve, the UK's largest internet service provider, was valued at &#163;9.2bn - putting it above Marks &amp; Spencers, Sainsburys and British Aerospace in the corporate heirarchy. On Monday, competition concerns wiped &#163;1.7bn from its share price and further falls left it worth &#163;6.4bn at the end of trading yesterday.Individuals who have registered an interest in buying shares in Lastminute.com have until 5pm today to send in their cheques. They have until 5pm tomorrow to agree to buy shares at the new higher level.
The surfer's dream of unlimited free internet access moved a step nearer this week with announcements from web search companyAltaVista'sUK operation andNTLabout plans to offer 0800-based internet access facilities. And as Online went to press, there were rumours thatFreeservewas about to respond with its own cut-price service.Unlike America Online's (AOL's) 0800 internet service, neither AltaVista nor NTL plans to make a per-minute charge to access the net. The toll-free (unmetered) access will, they hope, be paid for by a mixture of advertising and e-commerce.From an internet user's perspective, of course, how the service is financed is irrelevant, since the money does not come directly from his/her pocket. The service is "free", just like most of the web.There are now more than 200 internet service providers (ISPs) jockeying for position in the internet user community. Last September, Freeserve teamed with Energis, the telecommunications carrier, to offer rebates on internet calls in return for users routing their voice and modem calls via the Energis network.This "indirect access" method works by users prefixing their calls with 162 - Energis's access code - and seeing their calls sent across Energis' network.Rebates of between three and 10 hours' worth of   off-peak (ie evening and weekend) internet surfing are available on the Freeserve/Energis deal, providing the user makes a given amount of voice calls over the Energis network.Partly or wholly-financing offpeak internet access with regular voice call revenues is nothing new. Localtel started an unmetered off-peak internet access service late in 1998, subject to BT phone users transferring their line rental and calls over to the Localtel phone service.The service, known as Screaming.net, was a runaway success, with tens of thousands of BT line users migrating en-masse and overloading Localtel's - and BT's - signup/transfer systems. Even with Oftel's intervention, the farrago is only just settling down.Jeremy Stokes, Localtel's managing director, said on BBC TV's Newsnight current affairs program this week that a typical Screaming.net user makes internet calls around three times as long as a "normal" internet user (ie one paying for the calls).This is the potential problem facing all discount and unmetered call ISPs: make the service free and the floodgates open as users surf the net rather than watch TV.AOL, the largest ISP in the UK, charges &#163;9.95 a month for its service, plus 1p a minute at all times. This strategy, of offering off-peak rates all the time, is sensible, since it spreads the load on AOL's internet access net work. Users don't have to wait until 6pm on weekdays to log on (and save money).BT has adopted a similar, and cheaper, strategy of charging users &#163;9.99 a month, but offering unmetered access between 6pm and midnight on weekdays and all weekend.But BT is nobody's fool. As it runs most of the network and the phone lines leading into our homes and offices, it knows unmetered internet access can place an intolerable load on its network. It too, is planning to offer 24-hour unmetered access under its Surftime service, which will be available through BT Internet and third-party ISPs later this year.BT has been working very   hard since last summer on upgrading its network to cope with the demand that Surftime will create. Charges will vary between &#163;7 and &#163;35 depending on which periods (off-peak, office hours or 24x7) users want unmetered access to the internet. Most serious users will probably opt for the &#163;34.99 service, and surf the net for hours on end.Cable companies, such as Telewest and others, offering unmetered net access at &#163;10 a month, are learning about the problems of demand.Reports suggest that Telewest is rebating some customers their monthly charge because of network access problems caused by customers sitting online for   hours. Telewest has responded by logging off inactive users after a certain period, as well as "rolling" the IP numbers every three hours or so. This stops clever users from hosting their web sites on the Telewest network "on the cheap". Most users are not concerned about such nuances. They can surf the web for hours without watching the clock.AltaVista knows this. That's why it doesn't plan to start its unmetered internet access service until May at the earliest, and will restrict the service to half a million users for the first six months to assess the effect on its network partners.AltaVista plans to charge a &#163;35 signup fee then &#163;10 per annum. NTL's offering is even bolder. From April 17, its unmetered access service will be totally free, provided users sign up for its indirect (ie across BT lines) or direct (cable) telephony service.NTL already offers a discounted net access service, NTLworld, for 1p a minute, plus a handling charge of 3.5p a call. This puts it in the same discount league as AOL.Unknown to many, NTL is actually a major telephony service carrier and a carrier's carrier for many third-party ISPs. Like BT, it knows its network can handle the flood of unmetered access calls.AltaVista has no such luxury. Like Freeserve, with its Energis linkup, it must team up with a third-party carrier to handle its internet calls. That's why it needs three month's lead time on its service.NTL chief executive Barclay Knapp's announcement to the press reflects his company's strong position: "NTL has a vision to bring the internet to all UK homes, either via the PC or the TV," he said, making e-commerce, e-entertainment and e-education available to all."We're able to announce this today because we own a high-quality national network and have a track-record of providing innovative services at great prices," he said.He does, too. As do BT, Cable and Wireless and a select band of other carriers. The rest are also-rans in the dash to offer unmetered internet access.Yes, almost any ISP can offer unmetered access to customers, but to do so requires a link-up with a third-party carrier - one whose network can handle the flood of calls.Suddenly, the number of ISPs capable of handling unmetered internet access shrinks to a handful. Time for Oftel to intervene, perhaps?Web addressesAltaVista&lt;A HREF="http://www.altavista.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.altavista.co.ukAOL&lt;A HREF="http://www.aol.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.aol.co.ukBT&lt;A HREF="http://www.bt.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.bt.comFreeserve&lt;A HREF="http://www.freeserve.net"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.freeserve.netNTL&lt;A HREF="http://www.ntl.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.ntl.comScreaming.netwww.screaming.net
Cap Gemini, the computer services firm, yesterday unveiled a global internet consulting venture with Cisco Systems, lining itself up for a slice of the booming market in bringing companies online.Cap Gemini said it aimed to speed up offerings to telecom service providers, suppliers of internet access sites and media players.Alexandre Haeffner, head of the new venture, said it could have a turnover of more than &#163;550m this year, given the acceleration in Europe towards networks using ISPs.Cap Gemini will hold a 95.1% stake and Cisco, the world's largest maker of internet infrastructure, the remainder.New players like Scient Corp, Organic, and USWeb/CKS Corp are carving out a share in the market for helping traditional companies on to the web, and existing players need to combine skills to catch up.Haeffner said the new venture was designed to "help telecoms services providers and enterprise customers plan, design, implement and run secure and reliable ISP networks."
Softbank, News Corp and Vivendi yesterday announced plans to pour $450m (&#163;284.8m) over the next two years into backing internet start-ups and new business concepts in Britain. The three intend to invest a further $550m in mainland Europe.The move comes just two days after Benchmark Capital, the US fund behind eBay, announced plans to open a London office and invest $500m of its own in European start-ups.Tokyo-based Softbank, run by Masayoshi Son - whose shareholding is on the verge of making him the world's richest man - is the driving force behind both funds.As part of a global reorganisation of its net investment strategy, Softbank is investing $275m in SoftBank UK Ventures. It will be managed by E*partners, a News Corp and Softbank-backed venture fund contributing $150m. Softbank Europe Ventures will be made up of $400m from Softbank, $100m from Vivendi and $50m from strategic partners.Softbank denied suggestions that its entry to the market was late or that it would   merely distort deal prices as a mass of venture capital chases a limited number of quality business plans in London and the regions."We won't participate in any kind of feeding frenzy just to ensure our capital is at work," insisted Eric Hippeau, president of Softbank's international investments.However, E*partners chief executive Mark Booth, the former head of BSkyB, admitted it would be "a challenge" to spend the $450m. "There is no question that there is a lot   more risk capital in the UK than before, that people will make mistakes with their investments and that there will be deal inflation," he said."This offering is not just about the capital, it is about a unique blend of experience, capital and assets."We offer unrivalled speed to a global market and we're very comfortable about what we can bring to the entrepreneur. This is like Christmas for British entrepreneurs."Mr Hippeau said Softbank would seek to take significant minority stakes in ventures. "We will be a very active investor and take board seats, but we do not want control," he said. "The market will dictate the size and number of investments we make."Softbank has already made about 300 net-related investments around the world, Mr Hippeau said.The company is most famous for its 20% stakes in Yahoo and E-Trade. "We expect all our investments to succeed but realistically not all of them will," he said. "The UK in particular has some excellent entrepreneurs but there are also some flimsy business plans out there we need to avoid."The majority of Softbank's investments have been made in privately held companies. Softbank's total investment, including public companies, was estimated at around $2bn by Mr Hippeau. "I'd say the part of our portfolio that is publicly quoted is worth around $50bn."The strategy and investors' appetite for hi-tech stocks has transformed the company into one of the world's most valuable, at around $60bn.Mr Son's claims that Softbank holds more than 7% of the publicly listed value of the world's net firms. His holding has put his personal wealth on a par with that of his friend, Microsoft chairman Bill Gates.Mr Hippeau said Softbank's enormous exposure to hi-tech investments did not put the company at undue risk, even if the 15% to 20% correction in internet valuations many analysts predict does materialise."These changes are as profound as the industrial revolution. They are not an overnight phenomenon ... We are long term believers, and will not be put off by a selloff. I'm not going to wake up one day and say, 'Oh my God, it was just a figment of my imagination'."
This week may well be remembered as the time Britain made a giant stride towards Tony Blair's vision - and Al Gore's over a decade ago in the US - of cheap, universal access to the internet. But we are not there yet. British Telecom's new tariffs announced yesterday (including &#163;29.25p a month for unlimited web access) are an improvement on previous offers, but are not cheap enough to deliver the internet to a mass audience. But remember, there is no such thing as a free telephone call. NTL's "free" service, revealed earlier, requires customers to subscribe to its cable TV and phone system.No one is going to spend billions building a network simply to give calls away free - especially if free access creates unlimited demand. The important thing is to ensure that the (global) downward spiral of prices is not thwarted by BT overcharging on its monopoly of the last bit of wire to the home through which most of the "free" calls of internet service providers must ultimately travel.The trouble is that BT instinctively acts to preserve the monopoly revenues it draws from its captive customers. Yet the UK desperately needs cheap internet access to close the two-year lag behind the US in net usage and e-commerce. The cheaper the access, the more people will use the internet and the more scope companies will have to sell their wares. It is now technologically feasible for either the mobile phone or the television set (especially digital versions) to deliver mass access to the internet, with all that this implies for progress in education, entertainment and business. Britain is well placed to seize a world lead in mobile telephony and digital television, as long as the price is right. If BT were an internet start-up company, it would probably be giving its services away free to build up a mass customer base. Instead it has a huge customer base but does not quite know what to do with it. Let it keep cutting. To keep customers in - and the competition authorities out.Useful links:BTCampaign for Unmetered TelecommunicationsCampaign for flat rate callsOftel
A little over seven months ago, Gameplay.com consisted of "two 40-year-old blokes called Mark with mobile phones, no business cards and a serviced office" according to the chief executive.A year ago the two blokes, one from Leicester, the other from Somerset and both professionals from the technology industry, had not even come up with the idea for the company. Yesterday, the closing price of Gameplay's shares valued the company at close to &#163;625m.The shares owned by chief executive Mark Bernstein - the one from Leicester - were worth &#163;30m. Those owned by chairman Mark Strachan were valued at &#163;42m.Along the way they have also made a multi-millionaire of Dylan Wilk, a 25-year-old from Leeds, by buying the mail-order computer game company he set up in his mum's council flat.He promptly lost his driving licence after speeding in his new Ferrari."It has been an extraordinary and thrilling few months," Mr Bernstein said yesterday after reporting Gameplay's maiden interim results for the 26 weeks to January 31. The company, which   allows gamers to buy and play games online, now has 789,000 paying customers following a recent acquisition in Germany.The optimism is despite losses of &#163;5.9m before goodwill and tax on share options and a turnover of &#163;5.83m. Gameplay, which floated for &#163;50m in August, claims it is now the leading player in online gaming in Britain and has now set its sights on continental Europe, particularly Germany and France.BT and BSkyB have backed Gameplay by taking 10% stakes each.Telewest and Cable &amp; Wireless are also partners. Institutional investors have bought &#163;50m worth of new shares since the flotation to fund expansion.Analysts believe the German media group, Kirch, and France's Vivendi are interested in backing the European roll-out.Mr Bernstein admits Gameplay floated at a fortuitous time. "It's fair to say we caught the wave of investor enthusiasm that has propelled our share price."But we are not complacent. There is now a lot of expectation on us delivering. The challenge now is to attract, retain and monetarise more customers."
News streamFew things are as fascinating as historical newsreels, whether they're as old as Tsar Nicholas II's coronation in    1896 or as recent as Nelson Mandela's inauguration. Now, Newsplayer, has assembled more than 10,000 newsreels and television news reports from sources such as Paramount, Empire News, French Pathe, Reuters and ITN and put them online in Windows Media Format. There's a catch - full access costs &#163;25 a year - but the free samples are well worth the trip towww.newsplayer.com.School deathThe shooting of a six year old schoolgirl by a classmate shocked America last week,    and theMichigan Education Association's websiteoffers a focus for information. Technically the school was in Beecher, just outside Flint, but television pundit and anti-General Motors campaignerMichael Mooreconsiders it a home-town affair. It remains to be seen what effect the shooting will have on the US presidential elections, where Doonesbury's cartoon candidate, Duke, is campaigning with the slogan: "I believe every American - man, woman or child - should be in a position to return fire." Seewww.Duke2000.com.Arresting polar picturesGreenpeace has set up camp in the arctic just a mile from "BP Amoco's dangerous oil project, Northstar" and is reporting its campaign atwww.greenpeaceusa.org/arctic. It does have some great pictures - including the shots of polar bears being arrested at a US protestwww.greenpeaceusa.org. Meanwhile in Iceland, Keiko, the killer whale made famous by the Free Willy movies, is being returned to the wild. The Ocean Futures Society is following his progress in KeikoWatch atwww.oceanfutures.org.Skipping over the worldAnyone curious about the world - or just desperate to finish that geography homework - will find much of interest in theWorld Skip. Pick a region, then a country, for a growing set of links in a wide range of categories. It may not be the first place you'd turn for information about the economic giants, but the coverage of dozens of small countries is invaluable.Top of the popsUK-basedWorldpop.comhopes to become the leading music portal for teenagers and young adults who follow the pop charts. As well as interviews and Radio 1/ Top Of The Pops-style chat, its offerings include a world singles charts based on sales in 52 countries.  The rivalClickmusic.co.uksite is offering a No.1 Game which provides a "warts 'n' all insight into the workings of the music industry".Remember me this wayA new website wants your memories, and is offering to archive them. More accurately, it's offering to put them online so that other people can browse them by    date, by name or by subject.Random Access Memoryis described as an "experiment in collective recollection", and once you've registered to gain access, it is an entertaining place to browse. Whether any meaningful themes will eventually emerge is another matter.In passingCloning may one day become affordable, so rather than just having Fido or Tiddles stuffed, you can store its DNA and have it cloned later. That, at least, is the idea presented by the punningly-namedGenetic Savings &amp; Clone, which also covers livestock, and plans to store samples of endangered species.Reel worldThe Oscars are fast approaching, and the official site atwww.oscar.com(orwww.oscars.com) has all the nominations, while Yahoo is providing links to further coverage at http://movies. yahoo.com/oscars/ . Fingers are crossed here for Pedro Almod&oacute;var's witty weepy, AllAbout My Mother.In briefBookseller Bertelsmann Online has launchedBOL TVwith an interview with Jeffrey Archer.Virtual Sportis welcoming the Formula One season with the chance to manage a team or predict both grid positions and race results, whileZOO footballis still fomenting arguments about the kicking game. Radiant Knowledge Systems has launchedePlace"which "will enable professionals to reap the benefits of web conferencing anywhere in the world".Top Tableis offering a way to book chic restaurants. Games Domain has addedKids Domain, an excellent "children's channel" for the UK, whilePCindexis giving price comparisons on PC parts and peripherals.
How long have you been involved with the net?About three years. I never really had a great deal of interest in it before my involvement with mobile phones. My main interest now is trying to deliver a service to a small-screen device and to access that content quickly and smoothly.Any favourite sites?I'm a Leeds United supporter so I visitwww.lufc.co.ukall the time. I'm also a regular visitor to theBBC site, and when the Superbike racing is on, I visit the Yamaha site atwww.yamaha-motor.com.How important will mobile technology become?Penetration of PCs is so small, but the penetration of mobile phones is reaching 40 to 50% even in quite under-developed countries. So there's now this massive potential to deliver a service through an internet backbone to the real populous. I started getting interested when I found that you could put an internet-type browser on the SIM itself. Every single mobile phone has got a little smart-card and it's only really used for security. There's loads of spare capacity.How secure are mobiles for e-commerce?Mobile phones are capable of delivering a digital signature that is acceptable for legal documents. If you can accept that as a signature then you can start using it to sign leases, buy cars and all sorts of other things. The public infrastructure for smart-cards isn't going to be secure enough to be acceptable until about probably this September. In the meantime there's Symmetric Security which basically means you do a little sum on the SIM and a little sum on the network then compare the results. If you both have the same result then it's taken as being correct. However, that's only really as good as anybody who trusts you as an operator.Do you see it as an extension or an alternative to the internet?I don't think anyone can really envisage themselves browsing the internet on their mobile phone - tiny little screen, tiny little keyboard. If, however, someone enabled you to view the top10 albums or the Premier League football results then that's the kind of information you want to know when you're on the move. It's more a kind of internet buddy which gives you information and e-mail while you're mobile, but doesn't try and swamp you with stuff.How do you see the net developing?I really think that the net is going to take on the fact that mobile is big - providing that it can be delivered over the mobile range. I have a little browser that we developed which is set up to send me only the information I'm after.Anything you dislike about the net?Intrusive advertising. You get a page up and you have to go through another six pages before you get to what you want! If that's the only way people are able to pay for their sites then the fewer people visiting the site, the more advertising they'll need for revenue. Hence less of the information you want to look at is there for you.
Alive and wellAny internet "visionary" that thinks the book is dead (Online, March 2) should get out more. Indeed, anyone old enough can remember the prophets of doom saying much the same thing about video recorders. If memory serves me well, the argument was that video would kill the cinema industry and also time shift TV viewing habits.In the end, the cinema industry was reborn and I've still never met anyone that can figure out how to record anything in advance.  Books have have a number of advantages over e-publishing. They don't crash, you can snuggle up with them in bed, tear bits out and recycle them. They also feel and smell good.Just because you can technically make something doesn't necessarily mean people will want it. Don't confuse movement with progress.Richard Watsoninnovation@easynet.co.ukPhone tortureAs I am one of the thousands mentioned in Sarah Wilson's story (Online, March 2) who suffer the torture of broken connections and unusably slow data exchange, her article shed some light on my situation.Having contacted BT many times and had clueless BT engineers to the house, the truth is revealed: the problem for those of us who cannot afford Home Highway is insoluble. The creaking network we have to use is simply not up to the task.BT's attempts to meet the requirements of the market place are clearly woefully inadequate. Why, for example, do they push ISDN when ADSL is clearly the sensible option for the future? Maybe they think the Americans have got it wrong.Given the growing importance of online communications, the revelation that our ability to keep up with other first world countries is doubtful, is nothing short of a national scandal to rival that of the state of our railways. It's a situation the government   ought to be addressing.Failing government intervention, we can but hope that BT's position will weaken and that it will bought out by some enterprising company willing to drag this dinosaur into the 21st century.Peter Robinsonprob46@madasafish.comAfter reading Sarah Wilson's article, I thought I would write in to explode the myth about how great internet access is in America.True, some parts of the US have blinding internet access using ADSL or a normal phone line, but this is generally restricted to the major cities and some highly populated areas. ADSL is becoming more widely used, with AT&amp;T's @Home service racing ahead. But this is still not available in many parts of the US, and to those that have it, it comes at a high price.For phone line users, free local calls come at a price averaging $20 a month (around &#163;12-&#163;15), and you will find that most local call providers will also guarantee the line for voice calls only, much the same as BT. I have friends and family there who are annoyingly disconnected from the internet at random - just as here in the UK.I have stayed in many areas of the US and was constantly disappointed with internet access. Free ISPs still have not become the norm, and the average person will pay around $15 per month (around &#163;10) to access the web (on top of their monthly phone line charge). The free ISPs that are available nearly all provide huge banners with advertisements you can't get rid of, and you are forced to use their software to dial up.The average connection speed achieved through a phone line in many parts of the US is around 28-33 Kbps, and I was glad to get back to my BT phone line and achieve an average of 40-44Kbps.As much as I dislike BT in the way they concern themselves with the internet in this country, the average service around Britain is not that bad.I use Claranet for my internet access in the UK and I pay &#163;15 per month for 35 hours of free call time at evenings and weekends and use a non BT phone company for my international calls.  Together that does not work out much different from what my counterparts are paying in the US.Marcus Purvisp0key@clara.co.ukFlash folliesIt's surprising that the government is using Flash to deliver its content (Online, March 2); what is not surprising is that the new media company the DCMS commissioned for the site has used it as an opportunity to show off .Flash is rapidly becoming an industry standard, as it can deliver rich media content at low bandwidth and interface with other systems.  However, its versatility seems to encourage practitioners to be as incomprehensible as possible.But you do not have to go down this route; just because something can be done does not mean that it should be done. Developers should concentrate on how to use Flash's power to deliver content, not obscure it.This does not mean, therefore, that the tool should be condemned. There is nothing wrong with Flash intros, as long as they are accessible and intuitive. This is the real skill of a web artist/designer, not how clever your code is.Nik Kraakenespink_wizedd@hotmail.comBoys v girlsFiona Campbell-Howes's letter (Online, March 2) accuses me of talking "rubbish about girls and low scores" on computer games, and says that girls are more co-operative than competitive.This assertion does not detract from the point that (on average) males score higher than females in points-based computer games. The difference in spatial ability skills between males and females may itself be a reason why females prefer co-operative as opposed to competitive games.Gender differences in "competition vs co-operation" has been well researched in relation to the effect of computers (rather than computer games) on educational learning.It has been clearly demonstrated that girls working together on computers will complete tasks faster than boys working together because boys will compete rather than co-operate with each other.However, when boys are explicitly told to co-operate, they complete problem solving tasks on the computer just as fast as girls.Dr Mark GriffithsHead of Psychology,  Nottingham Trent  Universitypink_wizedd@hotmail.com
Delusions of GrandiaGrandiaSony PlayStation &#163;34.99 Game Arts/UbiSoft ***"If you're a fan of the Final Fantasy games, get ready to be enthralled by Grandia!"With the proviso that "enthralled" may not be the quite the right word, this PR boast is for once not far off the mark. In fact, Ubi Soft's new role-playing game plays for all the world like Final Fantasy VII's slightly anaemic younger brother: not quite so   big, not quite so clever, and not quite so annoyingly self-important.All the familiar elements are here: world screens, town screens and dungeon screens; repetitive random encounters; a sophisticated combat system involving spells, items and special attacks; 150 different kinds of baddie; endless pages of dialogue; and cartoonish backgrounds that give you no idea where the exits are. All of which promises around 80 hours of monster-mashing, level-  building, pixel-hunting fun.And, despite the decision to make the protagonists 14 years old - surely they're too busy fighting their own hormones to take on green slimes and squid kings? - the end product is indeed quite entertaining.The plot, needless to say, is ludicrous, but in a radical break with tradition, the dialogue is not. Ubi Soft has actually put some effort into the translation, resulting in some refreshingly comprehensible humour. The other   new departure is the rotatable isometric view, although what this adds in dimension is generally lost in ease of navigation.Anyone committed enough to complete Final Fantasies VII and VIII probably wouldn't find enough of a challenge here. But for those that were put off by the archness and complexity of Square's epic RPG, Grandia could be just what the doctor ordered.  (AB)This bike game is no triumphSuperbike 2000Sony PlayStation &#163;29.99 EA Sports **The good news is that Superbike 2000 is not just a scrappy bike game: it's a simulation of the 1999 SBK Superbike World Championship with "real" riders, "real" bikes and 13 "real" tracks.The bad news is that it's not very good. The graphics are pixellated and you get very little impression of speed: doing 150 doesn't feel any faster than doing 50.In fact, it often feels as though the bike is stationary, and only the road is moving.The roar of 150 horsepower   and a pounding soundtrack ought to increase the level of excitement, but the engine noises lack depth and the musical accompaniment is more likely to send you to sleep.It's not even hard. Just staying on the track is almost enough to ensure a win.On paper, Superbike 2000 has got everything right. You can set up the bikes, practise before races, sustain damage, and suffer from random weather effects. There's even a race commentary by Sky Sports' Keith Huewen.If you really want a bike racing simulation, the PC version of the game, released in January, probably fills the bill.But if you want a thrilling arcade-style dice with death (from the comfort of your armchair), the PlayStation version doesn't deliver.  (JS)Cartoony but fearfully effectiveFear EffectSony PlayStation &#163;39.99 Eidos ****Featuring a twisting Manga-style plot and a curvaceous anti-hero, Fear Effect is a new PlayStation action/adventure from Eidos.Initial impressions are mixed. While you admire the lovingly-created character animations and soak up the Blade Runner atmosphere, the camera angles and annoying controls are just far too reminiscent of the Resident Evil series.But look a little closer and you'll notice moving backgrounds rather than pre-rendered stasis.Play some more and, after solving some derivative puzzles, you'll soon be switching between three characters and getting wrapped up in the Oriental futurisms of the plot.Playing as Hana and her two co-mercenaries, your aim is to rescue a Triad leader's daughter. Cue graphic violence, betrayal and some infuriating puzzles.Actually, it's quite disconcerting that a game that places so much value on celluloid characteristics - widescreen, heavy script - allows illogical, code-breaking conundrums to interrupt the flow.With age doing PlayStation visuals few favours, it's nice to see a developer try something different.The aforementioned moving backdrops may be constantly looping but the illusion of life is maintained.Similarly the cartoony visual elements allow seamless transition between cut-scene and game, thus keeping the movie vibe intact.But it's a shame that loading times couldn't be speeded up as the high difficulty level leads to too much time spent staring at the loading screen.Thankfully the controls eventually become second nature and soon you'll be blasting zombies - sorry, "cursed villagers" - with the best of them.Despite borrowing the cinematics of Resident Evil and the tiptoe aesthetics of Metal Gear Solid, Fear Effect manages to transcend these influences and create something plot-driven and enjoyably different.  (GH)
Colour PalmPalm Pilot has become a must-have fashion accessory as well as a pocket-sized organiser for millions of people. For anyone used to    lugging an ever expanding filofax around with them, it is easy to see why. It is a combined electronic notepad, address book, diary and To Do list with facilities to download email and other goodies, including the Guardian's news service, from the internethttp://AvantGo.com. This can be done either directly through a mobile phone (as long as the software is installed) or via your desktop computer. The Palm fraternity even bond with each other by exchanging digitised business cards through the infra-red link.The latest version - which   I tested over the weekend - is the Palm 3c which hits the streets today. It adds a colour screen to the Palm's familiar assets and has the new 3.5 operating system, with 8MB of memory. It was surprisingly easy to use the pad that coverts your handwriting letter by letter into digital text - a vast improvement on Apple's failed experiment with the Newton (Moral - never be a pioneer).When you hook the Palm up to a PC, which backs everything up, there is a useful automatic facility for synchronising contacts book and diaries to make sure they have   the same data. You can add an entry to the backed up version, press one button and it makes the same change to the Palm version - and vice versa.The backlit screen is bright and stunningly easy to read (much better than previous Palms) and one of the most user-friendly I have come across. You simply flip open the top, press the on button and today's diary, split into hours, fills the screen. It's easy to see why it has swept America, culminating in last week's flotation which valued the company at a dizzy $45bn on Friday.Mind you, it's not designed for anything longer than a short note. To write this review I had to fall back on my trusty Psion Revo which has a small but usable keyboard.  The Revo hit our kitchen scales at exactly the same weight as the Palm (22 grams) and has more than 50% more screen area. The colour Palm 3c costs &#163;349.99 against &#163;299 for the (monochrome) Revo.It's a question of horses for courses. In terms of world-wide sales the Palm has shown a clean pair of heels to Psion proving, maybe, that sassiness and marketing are even more important than technology.&#149; Guardian Unlimited and 3Com are giving you the opportunity to win a PalmV. Just visitwww.guardianunlimited.co.uk/eventsto enter, or see the advertisement on this page for more details. (VK)WAP's newThe few people in Britain who have managed to lay their hands on a WAP mobile phone have a funky new service to play with from Virgin Radio. In what the station is claiming is a world first, listeners will be able to interact with the station while on the move.The most interesting feature is one which allows listeners to find out which song is playing at the moment, and even buy the music online, thus ending any reliance on some tiresome DJ telling you what he, or she, has just played. There's also scheduling information, Virgin's playlist and interactive games and competitions.The move, like many in the WAP world, is less interesting for what is going on now, but how it will develop in the future. It's no coincidence that the most popular interactive feature on Virgin Mobile is one that   allows you to listen to chart music over an ordinary mobile. Next generation mobile devices, much more powerful than today's, are due to arrive in a few years' time, with bidding for licences happening now. Might we begin to see radio and data come over the same device? Virgin Radio seems to be betting on it.Internet TVTelevision maker Alba is to team up with Pace to launch internet-capable television products. The range will include televisions with built-in internet access, starting from under &#163;200, and set-top boxes for under &#163;100, and should go on sale in May. The internet appliance market could hot up in the months to come: watch out for announcements from Amstrad, Sony, Microsoft and even Apple later in the year.  (NM)
Microsoft will announce its plans for the games console market tomorrow, perhaps unveiling prototypes of its long-rumoured X-Box. And because of the time difference, when the company's co-founder Bill Gates makes his keynote speech at a game developers conference in San Jose, California, British enthusiasts will already have heard the news.According to rumours, the X-Box will be a $299 games console based on PC technology, and it will plug into a TV set instead of using a monitor. It's expected to sport a Pentium-compatible Athlon processor from AMD, an Nvidia GeForce graphics chip, and a modem. The rest of the specification is malleable, but the new machine is unlikely to promise anything that hasn't been developed for the PC games market. It's using PC parts, and Windows software, that makes the enterprise viable.The key questions are, first, is Microsoft going into the hardware business, or can the   X-Box be made by anyone who fancies the idea? And second, when will it be available? With Sony's PlayStation 2 already on sale in Japan, isn't the rumoured Autumn 2001 date leaving it too late?It would send shockwaves through the industry if Microsoft decided to market the X-Box under its own name. That would mean going head-to-head with Sony, Nintendo, and Sega - and Sega is a Microsoft customer, using Windows CE in its Dreamcast console. But it's not impossible, because Microsoft has already built a healthy market for hardware add-ons including mice, keyboards, joysticks, and steering wheels.Microsoft's usual approach is to provide operating software to all comers and let them duke it out in the marketplace. That way, consumers get a variety of hardware to choose from, and competition drives down prices. Some of the hardware suppliers may lose their shirts, but Microsoft usually wins.Usually, but not always. Microsoft has been in the games business for two decades, and has already had at least two goes at the consumer market.The first effort came in the 1980s, with a system called MSX. At the time, the home computer market was struggling with a lot of incompatible formats from companies such as Acorn, Amstrad, Atari, Commodore and Sinclair Research. Software houses couldn't keep up with them all. Microsoft tried to rationalise the business with a single system, MSX, supported by numerous manufacturers.Canon, Panasonic, Philips, Sony, Toshiba, Yamaha and another dozen companies all made MSX machines, but the system was not very successful outside Japan. Partly this was because it wasn't good enough: MSX was designed to be a versatile home computer but most buyers wanted a hot games machine. It was also too late. The home computers that MSX targeted were already being replaced by a   new generation of more powerful models such as the Atari ST and Commodore Amiga.Microsoft had another skirmish with the consumer market a decade later when CD-rom seemed the format of the future. The idea was a versatile "edutainment" player that would sit under the TV in the living room and run audio CDs, encyclopedias and games. Philips and others tried it with the CDi (CD Interactive) system, Commodore with the Amiga-based CDTV, and Apple and Japan's Bandai with the Mac-based Pippin. They all flopped. Hardly anyone noticed the Microsoft offering - a $699 VIS (Video Information System) running "Modular Windows" - which was sold in the US by Tandy.Although it was meant to capitalise on the success of Microsoft Windows 3, only about two dozen companies offered VIS titles. The bare handful of games included Chuck Yeager's Air Combat (Electronic Arts), Lemmings (Psygnosis), and The Manhole (Activision).However, Microsoft soon got serious about games, for very good reasons. It wanted consumers to move to Windows 95 but the games market was still dominated by DOS. Indeed, the Software Publishers Association said that at the start of 1996, DOS games were outselling Windows 95 games by 10 to one. But installing DOS   games was a messy business; some people could never get them to work. It was also bad for strategic reasons: how could Microsoft get rid of DOS if the games market depended on it? The growth of games companies such as Electronic Arts also suggested that - altruism be damned - there was money to be made.To succeed, Microsoft had to put better, faster games technology into Windows, which it did with its DirectX system. Not all versions of DirectX were fully debugged, and it sometimes seemed that every new game installed a new version of DirectX, but eventually the idea worked.Microsoft also had to forget about writing everything itself and work with third-party developers. In January 1996, it announced link-ups with four US-based developers: Atomic Games, Crystal Dynamics, Rainbow America and Terminal Reality.To bump up its in-house expertise, Microsoft also bought the Bruce Artwick Organization and hired Alexey Pajitnov. Artwick had developed Microsoft's best-selling DOS game, Microsoft Flight Simulator, while Pajitnov, a Russian, had created the compulsive puzzle, Tetris.Another astute move was to put a keen gamer, Ed Fries (rhymes with fleece), in   charge of the entertainment division. He'd already spent a decade at Microsoft and had worked on Word and Excel. At the time, he said: "I would like to be the number one games publisher. That won't mean I'll have 80% of the market - if you had 15% you'd be number one today. I think the games market will always be very fragmented, but being number one is always the right target. And the way to be number one is to make the best products."The results have been mixed. Microsoft's games division has grown rapidly. But it has only had one huge hit, the Age of Empires strategy game produced by Ensemble Studios. The good products have been outnumbered by average ones, and some have been dross.Last year, when Microsoft bought Mechwarrior developer FASA Interactive, Fries said it showed a commitment to "growing our business with a smaller portfolio of top-quality games". That's a good way to make money, but not to become number one.Microsoft's strategy has been a success in that almost all PC games are now developed for Windows/DirectX rather than DOS - but that's the way the market was going anyway.Certainly it hasn't done as well with PC games as it has on the internet, where Dataquest analyst Chris Le    Tocq says Microsoft is the market leader. Not only has itsGame Zonewebsite become hugely popular, it has just launched a highly regarded multiplayer game, Asheron's Call, produced by Turbine Entertainment.None of this proves the X-Box will fail. But it suggests Microsoft doesn't have the track record or games market share to guarantee its success.
The season to be JolieMost of the week's idle gossip has been dedicated to the forthcoming Tomb Raider movie. What's reasonably certain is that the Paramount Pictures film will be directed by Simon "Con Air" West and written by Michael Werb and Michael Colleary, of Face/Off fame. Other snippets, in decreasing order of reliability, are as follows: &#163;20m-&#163;30m budget; Rene Russo and Brian Blessed to play Lara's parents; opening sequence somehow incorporating the Millennium Wheel; and Angelina Jolie, well-turned star of Hackers (above), The Bone Collector and Girl Interrupted, in negotiations for the leading role. If the film gets as many sequels as Eidos's game, Ms Jolie would be a fool to say no.The game of the filmLast year's Film Most Likely To Be Made Into A Game seems to have realised its potential at last. Rumour is that Interplay is about to sign a deal to publish a title based on The Matrix, the techno phobic special-effects blockbuster starring Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne. No word yet on whether any of the movie's stars will be involved; if so, they might even have to do some acting.Best of inmatesEver wondered what would have happened if Kingpin had been caught? Find out later this year in Gothic, a real-time 3D role playing game from German developer Piranha Bytes which begins, of all places, in the slammer. In the first part of the game, you must bribe, intimidate and fight your way up the prison pecking order. Then, of course, you break out and start cutting up goblins. After three years in development, the game will be presented at the E3 exhibition in May. Seewww.piranha-bytes.comThe final frontierThe massively multiplayer boom continues with the announcement that Activision is to release Star Trek: Conquest Online. Some time later this year, Trekkers worldwide will be able to join forces in order to obliterate alien hordes (or, more likely, find a mutually beneficial solution). Expect lengthy squabbles about who gets to wear the red Starfleet uniform.Shot downCodemasters has revealed plans to rewrite Sensible Software's Cannon Fodder for the Game Boy Color. The miniaturised version of this highly addictive real-time strategy game - granddaddy of such giants as Total Annihilation and Command &amp; Conquer -will reportedly feature full-motion video and cut scenes.Potter plotWhat is this Japanese obsession with teenagers and magic? Latest reports suggest that Nintendo is plotting to publish a game adapted from JK Rowling's Harry Potter books. If all goes to plan, the orphaned apprentice wizard will star in his own title on Nintendo's next-generation console, codenamed Dolphin, possibly in time to coincide with the release of the proposed Harry Potter film.Study timeGood news for all you youngsters whose studies interfere with your videogaming: now, at last, you can combine the two! As of this autumn, the university of California at Irvine will be offering an "interdisciplinary gaming studies programme", with modules on games psychology, sociology, graphic design and human kinetics. Needless to say, anyone found using cheat codes will be expelled.
It's time to still the animations, crunch the applets and halt the movies. For now the great web design challenge is to make something very, very small indeed.Canadian webmaster Stewart Butterfield is challenging the whole web to design a great web page that weighs in at less than 5 kilobytes by April 2.To give an idea of how small that is, many pages on the web - weighed down with ever more complex   multimedia elements - tip the scales at between 80K and 150K.Is a decent looking page for 5K not impossible, then? No, says Butterworth, whose homepagewww.sylloge.comcould serve as inspiration to potential entrants."There's a lot of bloat on the web," he says."Last summer I found I'd lost sight of what I liked about the internet. It's not about commercial web design for big companies."Reflecting that old-style internet antipathy towards big money, the prize for cooking up something good with limited resources is modest.The winner will walk off with 5,120 US cents - the same number as the bytes allowed on your page.But as well as "fifty bucks", the winner will also earn the admiration - and envious looks - of web designers world wide. See:www.sylloge.com/5k
George Kurtz's hacking team is any system administrator's worst nightmare. A typically harassed systems boss doesn't know when Kurtz and co have gone to work - at least, not until it is too late. But he will find out, eventually, because they tend not to fail. When this squad gets working on a computer system, it is only a matter of time before it gives up its deepest secrets.The Rampart crew came together only recently, but individually they've been hacking systems for years, tunnelling their way past defences guarding the most sensitive information you could imagine. Each member of the team is a specialist in their field, be it Unix, Java, Windows NT or one of the other languages and systems found on the world's biggest computers. Each knows the weak links to probe for and is ready to exploit them.Even more terrifying for our oblivious systems chief: the crew has been hired by his bosses to test his skills.This is no collection of spotty youths working from a bedroom but an elite "tiger team" of ethical hackers, employed to uncover - any way they can - the systems' weaknesses, before someone   else does. With recent events proving even the biggest dot com names vulnerable, tiger team attacks are even becoming part of the "due diligence" process start-ups must go through before they win their vital venture capital."We're having a hard time keeping up," says Kurtz, who is chief executive of Rampart, the company he founded after years working on tiger teams at the accountancy giants PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst and Young."We're working with both dot com companies and established ones. If a dot com doesn't get its security right, they can be out of business before their funding dries up. On a larger scale, more established businesses like financial institutions have just as much to lose because the majority of their business is now is being shifted over to the internet."Computer security has quickly taken over the mantle of the Y2K bug as America's biggest hi-tech concern. Fuelled by recent "denial of service" attacks on major websites including Amazon and Yahoo!, businesses and the government are desperately looking for   ways to beef up their defences. The climate of fear even led to the unlikely scene of Kevin Mitnick, America's most notorious computer hacker and high-tech fraudster, appearing before the senate committee on governmental affairs last week - less than two months after completing a near five year jail term for his crimes.A smart pin stripe suit and a tie replaced his trademark jeans and sneakers, and the committee room was packed for his testimony. The senators were, according to one observer, "star struck". He was there to help them understand the murky world of hacking. Mitnick's message was simple: the problem is not as   straightforward as you would think. While recent attention has focused on attacks launched from the internet using freely available software, Mitnick made it clear that these should not be the biggest concern: the big problem is human fallibility.Mitnick knows just how to exploit those human weaknesses. During his appearance, he confessed to further crimes - committed, he was quick to add, in 1992, beyond the applicable statute of limitations - where he hoodwinked employees from the US internal revenue service and social security administration into disclosing confidential information over the telephone.David Buchwald, Vice President of New York-based Crossbar   Security, would agree. He has had plenty of first hand experience of naivete regarding computer security, sometimes from the most unlikely culprits."I know someone who worked for a small bank, as a technology manager," he says. "We were trading email addresses, and she said 'oh - just send email to my bank address. I just use PC Anywhere from home to access that'."Buchwald goes on to explain that PC Anywhere is a program which allows users to dial in directly to their PC over a phone line from a remote location. The problem is, security built into networks is bypassed: a hacker finding that PC would have a direct route on to a company's network. "This is someone who should be technically aware - who should really know better," he says. "And here she is using this simply to trade email for her and her daughter, and putting the security of a bank at great risk."But, while mistakes do happen, a company should not think that simply educating its staff will prevent security breaches. It also needs to defend against mali cious acts by its own people. Some computer security experts say up to 75% of hacking is done by this enemy within.Buchwald confirms this. "The majority of computer crimes which actually cost money - not downtime like denial of service, but actual theft and fraud - aren't being done by the 17 year old hacker in their home. They're being done by an insider, or somebody working with an insider who already has access to a company's resources."Hacking from inside systems can be painfully easy. Kurtz, who has also co-written a book on hacking, says that is a weakness that has been known for a long time."We can come in on an intranet PC and not know anything more than where the network jack is in the conference room," he says. "In two weeks - actually, it's two or three days - we'll be able to compromise most of the systems on the network."We were doing a job a couple of months ago at a financial institution. In one hour I had complete control of all their Unix servers. They had all their customers' records on them - the most sensitive information that organisation had was lying on those servers, and within one   hour we had control of all 15. They were horrified. Three days later we had full administrator control over all their NT domains. In the space of three days, we had pretty much taken over the whole network."And that means that it's not just external security that needs to be maintained. Everything, from locking doors in sensitive areas to making sure paper waste is properly shredded, comes under the tiger teams' remit.'We start with zero knowledge," says Crossbar's Buchwald. "The company will hire us, but not tell us anything about how their systems are structured. Just going from public information, it's amazing the amount of information you can glean from looking at web pages, public records, public filings. Even job advertisements &#91;for IT specialists&#93;, which list the kind of systems they are running."Then, using a combination of internet probing and scanning, and looking to see if there are dial-up lines, we try to gain access to the network. Once that is done, we try to show them their prized resource is actually not secure."The teams will even test physical security, seeing how many locked doors and secure areas prevent them walking in and moving around buildings, from department to department."It shouldn't be easy for somebody from, say, the sales group to saunter up three floors, walk into human resources, and peruse their large bins and find things," says Buchwald.This combination of attacks - which the likes of Mitnick have proved so effective in their "real" attacks - rarely fail, either at established companies or fresh-faced dot coms. The Crossbar team - which boasts a 100% success rate - has worked its way into a phone company's switches, bank customer databases and even a credit card issuer's authorisation systems.How do their customers react when they find their security has been brushed aside so easily? "Clients usually are not surprised," says Buchwald. "They pick us on reputation, after all, and know we deliver this kind of service."It's usually more embarrassment, and then at that point we work with them to fix the network problems, and set up policies to prevent things like this happening again."
Universities are dead. Campuses are defunct and everyone gets their degree online. Welcome to the future. Or is it? It's a spectre that haunts the education system, and it is already sending ripples of change through the world's learning communities.In almost all areas of modern life, the internet revolution has smashed down barriers and blurred boundaries. And education is no exception.  Education and employment secretary David Blunkett recently announced plans for a global education alliance - provisionally called the Worldwide Universities Network (WUN) - which will involve eight British and American institutions. He also outlined plans to invite bids for Britain's first e-university, which will be able to award degrees.If the future of learning is online, who are the key players? And what aspects of education, as we know it, will remain?  Revolutions have to start somewhere. At the lowest level, we know the internet allows discussion via email, chat rooms and newsgroups. Next there's the idea of online groups, learning as the "community mind", where you both gain from, and contribute to, collective understanding.  Beyond this point, ideas become more hypothetical, like those offered by Xerox chief scientist and distance learning theorist Dr John Seely Brown.He sees the internet generating a shift from linear learning in books to the idea of "multiple intelligences".   Multiple formats such as hyperlinks (highlighted phrases you click on within a body of text, which lead to another web page), video, sound, graphics, all embedded within an online page, mean students learn in more flexible ways. "Learning is a fundamentally social process," Dr Brown says."The power of the internet is not just that it provides the content... it provides communities of specialised interest in which to facilitate learning."   The institution at the forefront of distance learning over the past 30 years has been theOpen Universitywhich has shown that such education can be of high quality. So is the OU rushing to put all its degree courses online?Professor David Sewart, director of student services, is responsible for the delivery of education to the 156,000 students. He says they are "looking to attract the widest possible market". With half of its students online, the OU looks to provide learning through a wide variety of media.  Sewart not only has the OU Business School MBA degree, he teaches it. It uses the First Class conferencing system, where students learn as part of an online community. Each has access to chat and gains from other students and teachers online.The technology to obtain a degree purely through online study does not exist yet. Sewart even says he "remains to be convinced that online learning is going to take over completely within any time frame yet definable"."Students simply don't want anything to get in the way of their learning experience," he says, adding: "Few technologies teach more effectively than the book."  "It's portable, you can access multiple pages at once and annotate them too. Screens just aren't as easy to read from. We find with web courses people are printing more and more."   But with companies like Xerox and Microsoft developing technologies to improve text clarity on screens, a challenge is being mounted to the printed page.  Would you trust a doctor with just a virtual degree? There is a strong argument for saying certain experiences simply can't be digitised.Pilots can be trained in simulators, but there comes a point when a surgeon needs to see someone's insides. This is one reason the OU has never offered distance medicine courses. But it does have one completely online course: T171, You, your computer and the net.  One of the T171 students is called John. He's no ordinary student. Most people call him Sir. Sir John Daniel is the Vice Chancellor of the OU. "  It was a practical way of finding out what I thought of T171 as a teaching tool," he says. "I was glad I took T171 because it attracted over 18,000 applications this year. That makes us the biggest university in cyberspace."Because of our history we have a level of sophistication that allows us to be more cautious than those who rush in from scratch. It sets us apart from those who just put their notes on the web and think they have a wonderful distance learning course."  There has, nonetheless, been a rush by academic institutions into the distance learning market. It remains to be seen whether those first online will clean up. Unlike books, where Amazon has done so well, what sets education apart from many "products" is the requirement for service after the initial "sale".  In the US, large ventures have begun to make an impact online. Phoenix university has also set up more than 60 campuses worldwide employing university lecturers on a consultancy basis.Jones International, a for-profit university, recently caused controversy by gaining full degree accreditation.  The traditional universities have had it good for some time and might find the going getting tougher as overseas institutions start selling distance learning courses .   A forthcoming report, Borderless Education, and a recently issued Foresight report both issue warnings. "British universities are ill prepared to cope with the rising forces of globalisation," senior academics have been told."Universities need to wake up and see what their role is," argues Dr Robin Mason, a global education expert, based at the OU. What is increasingly possible, she suggests, is collaboration. Cambridge and MIT recently announced an 85m link-up.   So are universities dead and campuses defunct? Many people will always want the campus experience. Harvard business school, with its invaluable old boy network, simply wouldn't translate on to the net. Professor David McConnell, of the department of education studies at Sheffield university, points out: "Students need a sense of belonging to learn."He is one of the British academics looking at how to create that magic social interaction online.  For most students, the campus learning experience has always extended beyond the lecture hall. It also educates students in what Sir John Daniel describes as "love, liquor and life".   "The death of the campus is grossly exaggerated," he adds. But the shift in online possibilities, coupled with the introduction of fees, has meant students increasingly perceive higher education as an investment. And students expect high returns.One organisation with its roots in online life-long learning is the University for Industry (Ufi). Dr Brian Sutton, director of information and computer technology, says: "We're trying to attract new learners, people who dropped out of the education system early."  The university offers "byte-size" courses that can be as short as two hours. It's learning without a big commitment, in a way that fits into people's lives. Ufi is conducting free trials now, and plans to be fully operational by the autumn.The big movement in educating industry has come from within. Over recent years many corporate big guns have been wielding serious money in the name of education. There are now more than 1,200 "corporate universities", most of which are based in the US. Take for example software giant Microsoft and computer hardware company Cisco Systems, the first and third most valuable corporations in the world respectively. Their computing qualifications, now available to the public, are more highly valued than a degree.Targeting a completely different market is a new Channel 4 online service, Homework High. Launched in mid January, the site is a well-designed balance of functionality and good looks. Aimed at nine-16 year olds, it is a free service designed to help with homework and revision. Twice daily, Monday to Friday, teachers go online and help tackle pupils' emailed problems. So do kids like it? "The response has been fantastic. Our server melted recently,"  says Sophie Walpole, Homework High's managing editor of interactive services. But she does stress: "We do not give out all the answers."Parents can rest easy.   What is distance learning going to be like in 50 years time? "The only generalisation you can make about the future is that all generalisations are false, including this one," concludes the OU's Sir John Daniel. But for now the view looks good.   Education is online and it is in campuses. It is in commerce and in pieces of every size. There are more players in the field, appealing to more sections of the global public, than ever before. Indeed, it is as fractured and diverse as modern life is itself. "Living and learning are two sides of the same coin," concludes John Seely Brown.   Here's to a life of both.I may live in Munich, but I go to my classes in Milton KeynesThree weeks into her Open University MA in Open and Distance Education, Frieda Pattenden's experiences have not run to cybersex in freshers' week, although she doesn't rule it out as a possibility some students might wish to explore in the virtual campus's cybercafe.Pattenden, who teaches English at Munich's Ludwig Maximilian university, has paid &#163;2,500 for the privilege   of studying from home, and that's just for one module (you must complete three to gain the MA). But she and the other students, many of whom are already designing courses, are convinced that online learning is a growth area, and some of their employers have contributed towards their fees.A lot of thought has gone into creating a smooth-running campus, says Pattenden, and there is a real sense of community within her 10-strong tutorial group. The other tutees are based all over the world - Canada, Greece, Portugal - and back in Milton Keynes, the tutor, John Pettit, encourages students to introduce themselves,   and be as relaxed with each other as possible."The first time you log on, you are invited on a guided tour of the virtual campus, the student union, the library, the tutorial area, where your tutor group conference discussions take place. Each member of staff has a smiling photo alongside their name."A debate is under way about whether students should post their own photos on site. "Such debates are integral to the course. Through collaborative learning via computer conferencing, we are trying to assess how online education can be productive and worthwhile," says Pattenden.The course is not trying to emulate face-to-face   courses. "I don't feel I'm typing into a void. People's personalities come through clearly in the comments they post up on the conferencing system," she says.Motivation, it seems, is high. The tutor gives the students a task, and as a group, via the conferencing system, they must present their findings. "Collaborative learning reflects what employers want in the workplace - team players - whereas traditional university courses encourage competition between students," says Pattenden.Next month those who have graduated will be presented with their certificates. And the ceremony will, of course, be online .Lucy BlincoeLearn onlinewww.aln.orgA forum for online networks.www.jonesinternational.eduFirst online accredited universitywww.bbc.co.uk/education/gcsebitesizeRevision guide for GCSEwww.blueu.comIT and corporate trainingwww.homeworkhigh.comChannel 4's kids learning site.www.uophx.eduUniversity of Phoenix onlinewww.cisnet.com/~cattales/Deducation.htmlLibrary of online courses.www.hungryminds.comDatabase of 37,000 courseswww.theNode.orgOnline forumwww.open.ac.ukOpen Universitywww.ufiltd.co.ukUniversity for Industry.
I saw a television advertisement the other day, in which a young executive conducts a business meeting over a cellular phone - while standing at a urinal.  When it is time to zip up, he cradles his cell-phone on his shoulder and goes on talking. But then the phone slips out from under his chin, and tumbles - splash - you guess where.  The answer to this dilemma, according to the ad, is a new "hands-free" cellular phone service.The real answer, of course, is not to bring one's business into the bathroom.   But today, no place, and -more importantly - no time is sacred. In an internet-accelerated transaction society, we are to be available to our business associates  through our mediating technologies at any hour, day or night. We are "on call" 24/7 (web-slave slang for working 24 hours, seven days a week). We feel we are beating the game if we've programmed our cell phone to ring with a unique melody, so that we don't reach into our coat pockets when someone else's phone rings in the same restaurant.Thanks to the way that technology accelerates and exacerbates nearly every cultural and economic trend, an increasing number of people, including me, are coming to the conclusion that our time, and by inference our lives, are no longer our own. We work six-days or more, usually answering work-related email well into the night, then use our nominal "day off" to go to the mall and shop - or, if we're feeling particularly guilty, take our kids to a historic shopping centre like Covent Garden instead. There, we buy products at a store with a name like Ye Olde Kite Shop instead of Toys "R" Us, and rationalise that it's an educational, family activity.We live in an age when online marketers measure human attention in quantities called "eyeball hours." Any moment spent thinking instead of spending, or laughing instead of working is an opportunity missed. And the more time we sacrifice to production and consumption, the less any alternative seems available.   My radical proposal to combat the contraction of personal time has been borrowed from the book of Exodus, and it's called the Sabbath. What if we all decided that for one day each week, we would refrain from buying or selling anything? Maybe the ancients didn't pick the number seven out of a hat. Perhaps they understood that human beings can only immerse themselves in commerce for six days at a stretch before losing touch with anything approaching a civic, social, or spiritual reality.Sabbath is a way to reclaim one's time and, as American kiddie-television hero Mr Rogers might tell us, celebrate that we are special, even sacred, "just the way we are." We don't need to do anything to justify our existence. Not answer the phone, not go online, and not pull out the Visa card. It doesn't require that we retreat to the backwoods, purchase generators, and live off the land, only that we find something to do with our friends or family that's not about money.   No, the ball game and movies don't count. Try playing ball in the park, or telling your own stories, instead. You might notice just how few public parks and community activities we have left.   If the Sabbath's religious overtones offend your secular humanist sensibilities, then call it the "one-seventh rule."Take back just one-seventh of your time.   I imagine it would throw America into a recession - as well as any other nation that has decided to adopt corporate capitalism as its sole cultural imperative.   It's not as if we'll get all that buying and selling done during the other six days. We already spend every waking minute doing that as it is. No, it would mean we would buy and sell one-seventh less stuff. And worse, once we get a taste of what that's like, shopping and spending might even lose some of its appeal. I can't imagine what that would do to the Nasdaq index. They'd call it a bloody revolution!   Is a whole day too much to ask? Okay, okay, then. Do it one step at a time.   Just promise not to take the telephone into the bathroom.
British Telecom yesterday launched an unmetered internet package costing almost &#163;30 a month, which industry groups attacked as too expensive.The offer is part of a wider BT internet package called SurfTime for business and residential customers wanting limitless internet usage for a fixed fee - &#163;29.25 for residential customers and &#163;29.74 for businesses. However, residential customers who wanted unmetered access only at night and weekends could get a monthly package for &#163;5.99, with an additional &#163;9.26 for line rental.One of the company's biggest rivals, AOL UK, said the BT cost of unmetered internet access was still on its research "twice what the consumer wanted to pay"."Pity the consumer in this," Mark Peacock, communications director for AOL UK, said. "It's not the way to grow the medium nor build users in this country or to build the   new economy that Tony Blair wants."Sustained pressure from the government to lower the cost of using the net has seen announcements from new entrants such as American cable company NTL this week to offer free "unmetered" access to the internet for a third of the BT package.The government has said it wanted internet costs halved by 2002 to match US prices and that every British customer should have access to the web within five years.Industry experts said the former state-owned company was more concerned about protecting its cashflow than its customers.The Telecommunications Managers' Association said: "We get these price improvements only after gentle prodding from Oftel and more vigorous prodding from the government." The TMA director general, David Harrington, said. "I think they are scared about what it's going to do to their traditional revenues."BT defended its package, which will not be available until June 1 after a review by the government phone watchdog Oftel. Peter Macleod, managing director BT UK markets, said: "We are doing our best. I think what we are doing is opening up the internet. It's a good deal for the customer."In particular he emphasised that the offering of unmetered access to business for a flat fee of almost &#163;30 monthly meant BT was delivering the government its new economy.Mr Macleod said his challenge to the government was now "let's see every civil servant on the net". Asked about BT's product yesterday, the prime minister's press secretary, Alastair Campbell, said: "It is certainly them engaging in what they recognise as a very competitive market place".BT's SurfTime package also should offer users a choice of internet service providers such as Freeserve, VirginNet, Tesco or AOL UK. It has not confirmed if any of those internet service providers would con tract to use BT SurfTime. VirginNet confirmed it was talking to BT yesterday and Freeserve welcomed any product which would entice more users on to the net.However, AOL UK's Mr Peacock said contracting to BT SurfTime could actually increase the cost of customers access to the web. "You need to look at it very closely," he said. "We would want some answers from BT."&#149; Mobile phone masts, which have triggered planning battles across the country, may be replaced by "flying teatrays" patented by British university scientists,  writes Martin Wainwright.An electronics team at York university has won European funding for a system of high altitude telecom platforms, attached to balloons, light aircraft or even airships. Known as Haps, for high altitude platforms, prototype "teatrays" should be airborne within two years.Useful links:BTCampaign for Unmetered TelecommunicationsCampaign for flat rate callsOftel
Just over four years ago Tony Blair stole a march on the Tory government by announcing plans to link thousands of schools, colleges and hospitals to the internet. His chosen vehicle was British Telecom.Yesterday, in a clear dig at his erstwhile ally, the prime minister urged BT - and others - to bring the cost of internet access down to US levels, in a reprise of the attack by the chancellor, Gordon Brown, on the former state monopoly.The chancellor's demand that BT open up its local network to cheaper, faster suppliers helped wipe billions off its market value. BT feels under siege: from the government, the city and its competitors.Yesterday the company defended itself against this barrage of criticism, claiming it is developing products that are competitive and will lower the cost of connecting to the internet. But the City believes that BT, which claims to have 2.5m online customers already, will be forced to adopt more radical change.Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, a stockbroking firm, said the move towards free internet services would force suppliers such as BT to offer free voice connections - much as in the US, where local calls are free. This would severely dent BT's revenue.Steve Thorpe of the Telecommunications Users Association said: "I would expect to see BT alter its position. It   wouldn't want to be left out of this with a package that could be seen as old hat."But a BT spokesman denied the company faced pressure from government and industry. "We've got no beef with the government. We are pretty much at the forefront of this and in what we are offering people," he said.BT has an internet package priced at &#163;6.99 per month that offers customers a flat rate and unlimited access at night and at the weekend. It is also developing a package called SurfTime for users to surf the net on an unmetered basis for &#163;34.99 a month plus VAT.The onslaught of service providers such as Freeserve, AOL UK and AltaVista which offer free unmetered access, threatens BT's internet market share, said Doug Wight, an analyst at Commerzbank AG."I think the competition will bring down prices in parallel with the US," said Mr Wight, who predicted that the emergence of faster internet connections in the next year would lead some customers to prefer metered access to the web rather than a monthly fee.Government dissatisfaction with BT's internet charges comes at a bad time for the company. It has been overtaken by European former state monopolies and is considering a management shake-up and the float of businesses such as Cellnet, its mobile phones network, to boost its value. Probably not something Mr Blair contemplated when in opposition.
The second day of bidding for third-generation mobile telephone licenses ended yesterday with Orange taking the lead as the highest bidder, offering some &#163;186.7m for the single licence being targeted by its parent company, Vodafone AirTouch.The bidding moved slowly in the second day of the auction as the prices offered for each of the five licences inched only slightly higher than those set as reserve levels.Orange put in the highest offer on licence B at &#163;186.7m, followed by Vodafone, BT and the Virgin-led SpectrumCo consortium, which each offered &#163;185.4m. Licence B is the largest of the four licenses for which the existing mobile phone operators can compete.Industry observers are bemused by Vodafone's strategy, given that it is selling Orange   later this year as part of the conditions of its acquisition of German-based Mannesmann.If Orange - Britain's third largest mobile carrier - fails to win a licence, it would affect the sale price Vodafone would achieve for it.But some analysts believe Orange could yet be sold to a new entrant in the third-generation mobile market.NTL Mobile overtook Canadian cellular group TIW in the battle to win licence A, which is reserved for new entrants.NTL bid &#163;178.5m against TIW's &#163;170m. Telefonica, 3GUK and One2One emerged as the highest bidders for the remaining three licences.The auction of the operating licences - which will run on the universal mobile telecommunications system - are expected to raise as much as &#163;5bn for the treasury's coffers.The licences are due to come into effect in 2002.
An influential Wall Street analyst indicated yesterday that Microsoft wanted to reach a swift settlement of its anti-trust battle with the US government.Rick Sherlund, technology analyst at Goldman Sachs, said in a note to investors that the settlement talks with an independent mediator "may be heating up as we near the end" and he was "hopeful" that an agreement would be reached.He predicted that such a settlement would lift the group's share price, which has been depressed by the legal battle in the past two months. Shares in Microsoft rose 6% to more than $96 at midday yesterday,   valuing the company at more than $500bn (&#163;323bn).Mr Sherlund, who helped take Microsoft public 13 years ago, issued the note after a meeting with Microsoft's new chief financial officer. In it, he stressed that "management appears very focused on settling the &#91;Department of Justice&#93; lawsuit" and "there appears to be a flurry of activity on the settlement front".However, he warned that Microsoft would not comment on the state of the talks and suggested the company had ruled out "any self-imposed break-up". Such a refusal has been at the heart of disagreements in the legal dispute.Government lawyers have indicated that the extent of the company's monopolistic be haviour demands a structural remedy. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson is expected to publish his findings in the next month or so. Any sign of a breakthrough in the settlement talks, being conducted by an independent mediator, could delay this judgment, however.Other analysts have also suggested that the severity of Judge Jackson's earlier ruling against Microsoft could encourage the company to concentrate on an appeal. George W Bush, the presidential front runner for the Republican party, has voiced opposition to the anti-trust case.The analysis by Goldman Sachs also offered a bullish revenues outlook for the company. In his meeting with the bank,   John Connors, Microsoft's new chief financial officer, said March sales were likely to return to double-digit growth partly because of the launch of Windows 2000 and receding millennium bug fears.Microsoft also announced yesterday a strategic alliance with NDS, which provides software for digital set-top boxes. Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation owns 80% of NDS. The London-based software group is likely to be one of the companies included in the sell-off of satellite operations being considered by News Corp. Microsoft has been in talks with News Corp about buying a stake in the satellite business.Abe Pele, chief executive of NDS, said yesterday that there   had been no discussions involving Microsoft taking a stake in NDS. He said that the two companies would work together on improving digital televisions for clients."Microsoft's adoption of NDS's open system solution for enhanced television will be a major boost to the industry as it builds momentum throughout the world," he said.Under yesterday's agreement, Microsoft and NDS will pool marketing and engineering resources in development of digital television products.&#149; Microsoft is supplying "boxes and boxes" of documents to the European Commission's inquiry into the Windows 2000 operating system, a spokesman for the company said yesterday.
Tony Blair's vision of a Britain where people can surf online for free for as long as they want moved a significant step closer yesterday when the cable company NTL announced plans to offer free unmetered access to the internet.The move from the American company follows sustained pressure from the government to lower the cost of using the net and was welcomed by Mr Blair. It is also likely to spark a price war among the major internet access providers that will cause the biggest shake-up yet experienced by the nascent web industry and from which the consumer is poised to be the eventual winner.High call charges - or "bill shock" as the industry describes the reaction when customers see what their internet calls   have cost - are often identified as one of the major barriers to people, particularly those with low incomes, from using the net.ntlworld will be launched on April 17 for internet access by personal computers, with web access through the television coming soon after. Homes with direct links to NTL cable will gain access as part of a &#163;9.25-a-month telephone and TV package.Customers on other networks, such as BT, will pay a one-off &#163;10 fee for a line adaptor and then pledge to spend more than &#163;10 per month on NTL voice calls.Barclay Knapp, chief executive of NTL, said: "ntlworld will help the UK in a drive to lead the world in making e-commerce, e-entertainment and e-education available to everyone."Mr Blair, speaking at an internet conference yesterday, reiterated his desire to see internet costs cut to help the UK keep up with the online world and get all Britons on to a "people's internet" by 2005."Our goal must be to see prices comparable with anywhere in the world, including the US," he said.Mr Blair fears that unless call charges are cut, Britain will lag behind as the "new economy" develops and the internet could become the preserve of the   wealthy and highly educated.His message appears to be getting through to leading net providers. AltaVista, the US search engine, said on Monday it would offer unmetered access for an initial signing-on fee of up to &#163;50 and an annual renewal fee of between &#163;10 and &#163;20.Established companies such as Freeserve, the UK's largest internet service provider, and AOL, its biggest rival, are examining ways of matching their rivals to protect their market position. Freeserve, which relies on telephone calls for much of its revenue, has most to lose from the move towards unmetered access. Yesterday its shares fell 19% to 712.5p, wiping &#163;1.7bn off its value, as the stock market reacted to NTL's move.A recent report by the internet specialists Durlacher said unmetered access in the UK would treble the time people spent online.The cable company Telewest was overwhelmed by demand when it launched its "unmetered package" last month and has since been forced to limit the number of subscribers it is signing up.Mary Martin, a 33-year-old freelance sound recordist from Bristol, spent most of yesterday logged on   through Telwes while she was building a web page for a musician friend."I've been online pretty much since I got up this morning, done a lot of work and not once worried about the cost," she said. "Cost was definitely one of the reasons stopping me from doing more on the net."In most European countries, the big telephone companies provide web access for the general public.Britain's web sector is unique - partly because BT failed to act and let in rivals such as Freeserve and AOL.But it is the American model that Britain is seeking to emulate. Average internet usage in the US is twice as high per person as in Britain.Andrew Mitchell, AltaVista's UK managing director, de scribed his company's offer as a "kick-start" to the UK industry. "What we need is predictable, understandable and clear charges," he said.Despite the move towards free calls, City analysts believe many consumers will still pay subscriptions for access to guarantee better reliability and high quality content.Ajay Chowdhury, managing director of LineOne, which has around 800,000 customers, said: "Internet users have a variety of different tastes so internet providers will make available a selection of different flavours to match their appetites."Teething problems included AOL Europe being overwhelmed by calls yesterday after a portion of its 0800 network went down.
In the boldest move yet to grab customers in the internet market, NTL, the cable TV operator and telephone company, today unveiled plans for Britain's first totally free service.The company said subscribers to the service - to be called ntlworld - would pay no subscription fee, no fee for connection to the net and no phone charges. Barclay Knapp, chief executive of NTL, said: "ntlworld will help the UK in a drive to lead the world in making e-commerce, e-entertainment and e-education available to everyone."NTL's announcement came just one day after AltaVista, the US internet search engine, promised unlimited access for an initial fee of no more than 50, with no phone charges. These two initiatives, coming in quick succession, underline the quickening pace of competition to get people online, and they coincide with a promise by prime minister Tony Blair for every British citizen to enjoy unhampered access to the internet within five years."There was a lot of talk that the telecommunications business was holding back the internet," Mr Knapp said, "our announcement today proves that is just not true. We can economically provide this service on a free basis to the British consumer."NTL said "ntlworld" would start on April 17 for net access via personal computers, with a TV internet service coming soon after. Homes in areas covered by NTL cable will get net access as part of a package of phone and TV services that starts at 9.25 a month.Other users with British Telecommunications phones will pay a one-off charge of 10 for an adapter and would be required to spend at least 10 a month on voice calls via NTL. NTL's acquisition of Cable and Wireless Communications is pending government approval and NTL said CWC customers would be covered by the offer if the takeover goes through.The offerings from NTL and AltaVista set a new standard for cheap web access in the UK, which the government says lags the US for internet use because people have to pay phone charges for every minute online. Analysts believe that unmetered access could treble the time UK users spend online.The plans for unmetered access plans are likely to spark a price war among internet service providers (ISPs), causing pain for established players, such as Freeserve, Britain's largest internet service provider (ISP). Freeserve's stock fell 13.4% to 762 pence in morning trading, extending a loss of 5%  on Monday in reaction to AltaVista's move.But Freeserve and American Online UK, its nearest rival, are understood to be working on plans to match AltaVista's commitment to offer unlimited access to the web in return for an upfront fee. The big two players could have their offerings in place by the time AltaVista's package is expected to come on stream in June. But now they have to contend with NTL's gambit.Useful linksNTLGuardian e-finance special report
Tony Blair has responded to fears of a growing divide between the information-rich and the information-poor by announcing his intention to ensure everyone in Britain has internet access within five years.In a speech today designed to boost his government's internet credentials, the prime minister told Knowledge 2000, a joint CBI/TUC conference, that "the knowledge economy must be an economy for the many and not the few"."Universal internet access is vital if we are not only to avoid social divisions over the new economy but to create a knowledge economy of the future which is for everyone," Mr Blair said. "We cannot accept a digital divide for business or for individuals."For people who cannot afford internet access via a PC, mobile phone or digital television, the prime minister promised to "ensure there is a nearby public access point".Highlighting the government's energetic approach to new internet technology, Mr Blair outlined a number of Labour's commitments including:&#149; A national grid for learning, connecting schools and libraries to the internet by 2002;&#149; 1,000 information technology learning centres;&#149; 100,000 refurbished computers for low income families;&#149; Discounts of 80% on basic information technology courses by September this year.One in six people in Britain already had access to the internet, a 200% increase in a single year, and were spending on average 12 hours a week online, more than their continental counterparts.Britain headed the European "e-league" of countries using the new technology, the prime minister declared, pointing to a report by management consultants Booz, Allen and Hamilton showing Britain carried out e-trading worth $1.89bn, compared with 1.65bn in Germany, 1.2bn in France and a European average of $484m.The education and employment secretary David Blunkett also announced to the conference the government's plans for an online service linking vacancies, skills programmes and careers advice.Mr Blunkett said jobseekers would be able to look for work by surfing the internet either at home or in shopping centres and pubs through the Learning and Work Bank.The scheme, to be launched later this year, will include a website with hundreds of thousands of vacancies from jobcentres and recruitment agencies."The bank has the potential to revolutionise the labour market by matching jobs to workers, taking learning out into the community and eventually giving people access to jobs throughout Europe, all at the click of a button."It promises to be the most comprehensive dot.com jobs, skills and careers service in the country," Mr Blunkett said, although the service would rely on the more old-fashioned telephone call to follow up any jobs.
Freeserve, Britain's largest internet service provider, and AOL UK, its nearest rival, are understood to be working on plans to match AltaVista's commitment to offer unlimited access to the web in return for an upfront fee.Analysts believe that the heavyweight duo could have their offerings in place by the time AltaVista's package is expected to go live in June, heralding a war of attrition between the leading internet service providers and cheaper net access for consumers.AltaVista said yesterday that it will connect people to the net via a freephone number for a one-off joining fee of &#163;30 to &#163;50 and an annual renewal charge of &#163;10 to &#163;20. It hopes 1m customers will sign up for the service within a year, citing the cost of calls as one of the biggest obstacles to people connecting the the internet.Merrill Lynch analyst Peter Bradshaw said the dominant operators were unlikely to let their positions be eroded. "The other free ISPs are likely to come out with similar or improved packages within the next few weeks," he said.Miles Saltiel, technology analyst at West LB Panmure, echoed his sentiments. "It puts all the big ISPs on their mettle," he said. "Those with the deepest pockets will win."Freeserve admitted that it was working on its own low-cost packages and ways of reducing its 4p per minute call charges. "We have always said that connectivity will become a less significant contributor to revenues," a spokesman said. "We welcome any moves that get more people in the UK online." Its shares closed down 47p at 873p, however.Oftel, the telecommunica tions watchdog which has asked internet service providers to lower subscription costs and call charges in an attempt to encourage more people online, said the news was "excellent".Tony Blair, who has called on British Telecommunications to lower the cost of its internet call charges and help prevent the web from becoming the preserve of the wealthy, also welcomed the move.BT is committed to launch unmetered access but is still negotiating terms with the regulator and other ISPs.Around one quarter of the   British population is online but in the US, where local calls are free, the figure is closer to one half. Durlacher analyst Nick Gibson believes unmetered internet access could treble the amount of time British users spend online.Mr Bradshaw said AltaVista's move signalled the death of access-only internet service providers and switched the focus towards the content, community and commerce. "It's all in the portal now and not the connectivity," he said.However details of the AltaVista package remain sketchy. Rivals suggest that users who   sign up are likely to be heavily targeted by advertisers.MCI Worldcom has been rumoured to be the company's chosen telecommunications provider, but AltaVista's European marketing director, Vesey Crichton, refused to confirm or deny whether a partner had yet been found.Advertising and e-commerce revenues will offset the cost of subsidising calls, Mr Crichton said. Subscribers will be limited to 500,000 so AltaVista can cope with demand.The managing director of one of Britain's largest ISPs estimated that if AltaVista customers follow the pattern of US users and spend an average of 15 hours a month online, and the company attracts its targeted 1m users, the exercise will cost upwards of &#163;50m in call charges alone in year one. "They're going to subsidise the hell out of this," he said.AltaVista has attracted 2m users in the US since launching the same model there. However, AOL UK's Matt Peacock questioned whether advertising and e-commerce revenues were enough to sustain AltaVista's model.
FreeserveBritain's biggest internet service provider (ISP) was launched on in September 1998 by Dixons, the electronic retailer, as the UK's first major free internet service. There are no registration or set-up fees and no monthly subscription charges. But you have to pay the local phone rate, which can add up. Freeserve has 1.6m users.BTBritain's dominant telecommunications giant offers free internet access  weekends and weekday evenings, for 9.99 per month. It is committed to launching unmetered access but is still negotiating terms with Oftel, the telecommunications watchdog, and other ISPs. BT has come under government pressure to lower the cost of its internet call charges.AltaVistaThis California company began life as search engine, helping users to find sites and information on the net. It was sold last year by Compaq, the computer manufacturer to CMGI, an investment group. It has galvanised the internet market in the UK with a plan to scrap phone charges for customers using its internet services. But they would have to pay an upfront fee of up to $50, and a renewal fee every year.America Online UKThe British offshoot of America Online, the world's biggest ISP, has 1.2m subscribers, making it the second biggest internet player in Britain behind Freeserve. It is said to be working with Freeserve on plans to match AltaVista's scheme to scrap phone charges for internet access.TelewestTelewest Communications is a leading provider of cable television and residential and business cable telephony services in the UK.As of December 31, 1998, TeleWest and its franchises provide cable services to approximately 33% of the homes in Britain for which cable franchises have been awarded. Telewest last week suspended registrations for its 10-a-month 'SurfUnlimited' tariff - which offered free unmetered calls - after access problems led industry publications to damn it as 'SurfVeryLimited'.Useful linksFreeserveBTAltaVistaAOL UKTelewestGuardian   e-finance
Media groupPearsonclaimed yesterday it will become a key supplier of educational content on the web following a tie-up with internet service providerAmerica Online.The agreement with AOL builds on Pearson's Simon &amp; Shuster division which the group bought in 1998 to make it the world's biggest educational publisher.Pearson will become the preferred supplier of educational content to AOL and the pair will work together to develop original services aimed at primary school children through to adults. The business which will be licensed to schools may be spun off at a later date.Shares in Pearson climbed almost 8% to &#163;24.85 following the announcement of the deal and year-end results at the top end of expectations.The educational network will begin in the US with content tailored to local curriculums. Pearson chief executive Marjorie Scardino, who is also a non-executive director of AOL, likened educational content at present online to rummaging through a car boot sale. "The quality is variable, you don't know if you can trust it or if it is related to your curriculum. We aim to change all that."The plans are part of the internet strategy outlined in January when Pearson raised &#163;250m to ease its passage on to the web. A handful of investments in dot.com compa nies already operating in the educational sector was also announced yesterday.Among other plans, FT.com, Pearson's online version of the Financial Times will be relaunched with a marketing drive in the US next week while FTMarketWatch, the online service for retail investors, is poised for launch in Britain.Last year FT.com tripled revenues to &#163;6m and page views per month to 22m. "The internet is integral to everything we do," Ms Scardino said. "But we are not interested in it for itself but for what it can do for our customers." Pearson's incursions online have prompted a rerating of the group in the past six months and caused its share price to double.Pearson reported a 15% increase in pre-tax profits to &#163;402m on a 39% growth in turnover to &#163;3.3bn. Revenues from internet-related ventures reached &#163;500m last year.The Financial Times newspaper raised profits by 33% to &#163;56m but the wider FT group reported flat earnings of &#163;114m after &#163;36m of investment in online operations. Pearson Television increased operating profit by 11% to &#163;68m and Penguin was 35% higher at &#163;65m.Education, which was transformed by the Simon &amp; Schuster acquisition, is now more than half of the group and posted an operating profit of &#163;257m.The company announced plans to seek a dual listing for its shares on the New York stock exchange.
Sonysaid yesterday it had sold 980,000 of its PlayStation2 video game consoles since the Saturday launch, nearly matching its sales target of 1m for the first two days.That was more than 10 times the sales scored by the original PlayStation console in the same period when it was launched five years ago, the company said. The figures included consoles sold over the internet but not yet delivered to customers.Sony's shipments seemed to have fallen short of demand and it admitted that production was 10 days behind schedule due to a shortage of memory cards.Of 380,000 units sold online, only 120,000 had been delivered, the company said, adding that deliveries should be completed in two weeks.Sony said it expected the memory card shortage to be solved by mid-March and for total PlayStation2 shipments to reach 1.4m units by the end of the month. It originally forecast shipments of 1.5m by that time.It also said it had shipped 1.3m PlayStation2 games and that the console, which can play digital video discs, had boosted DVD sales, with video stores having ordered double to quadruple their usual number of DVDs since Saturday.Many analysts have said the console, priced at &#165;39,800 (&#163;240), takes home entertainment to a new dimension with life-like animation as well as the capacity to play DVDs and surf the net.The PlayStation and the games that go with it are a rich profit seam for Sony, which already holds 70% share of the world games console market.
Michael Gapes, Labour MP for Ilford South, told the Commons yesterday how his father as a postman would have to deliver letters to a certain place where they were opened then resealed before continuing their journey to the recipient's house. He was speaking during the second reading of the controversial regulation of investigatory powers (RIP) bill. Everyone knows that interception takes place and that it is the duty of the authorities to hunt down drug-pushers, paedophiles and money-launderers by all legal means. The RIP bill still fails to strike the right balance between an individual's right to privacy and the state's duty to track down criminals. Even Jack Straw at his most avuncular could not explain why the right to authorise interception should rest with him (and his less avuncular successors) rather than with judges as in many other countries.The bill contains powers that seem to be saying RIP to basic civil liberties. If you encrypt data on your home computer and forget the key (or did not have it in the first place) you are presumed guilty until proved innocent. Straw says that courts will easily distinguish between genuine memory lapses and criminals withholding information - but   why should there be a presumption of guilt in the first place? Meanwhile, child pornographers will refuse to decrypt - and get a mere two years in prison instead of the long stretch they deserve.The bill requires, for the first time, that internet service providers such as Freeserve install systems allowing the authorities to track their subscribers' communications traffic. Mr Straw argues that this is just an extension of what existing telecoms operators (and Mr Gapes' dad) have been doing for years. The difference is that internet mapping technology enables the authorities to build up networks of peoples' relationships with others. Fortunately, information gathered clandestinely is still not admissible in court - but neither is it admissible to the people being surveyed. They will never know even if they have been proved innocent. How all this squares with Britain's plans to attract e-commerce companies from all over the world is a mystery. We will soon know because Ireland is doing the opposite. It will be illegal for the authorities to force encryption users to hand over their codes. It remains to be seen whether inward investors find the grass greener on the other side of the water.
Last Autumn Ford's chairman and managing director Ian McAllister took out full page advertisements in national newspapers promising car buyers that they could buy a new Ford with confidence, because despite all the "rip-off Britain" talk Ford's new car prices weren't about to be slashed. And to back this up he promised anyone who did buy a new Ford a refund if the company did subsequently cut prices; although that guarantee only lasted until the end of last year.If you took Mr McAllister at his word and bought a new Ford Focus last autumn you might be advised to look away now, because last Friday Ford dropped - or "realigned" in Fordspeak - the prices of their Focus range by up to &#163;1,000. So the 1.4 litre CL 5-door Focus, previously &#163;13,000, has just come down to &#163;12,000 - a cut of just over 7.5%.The Consumers' Association has enraged much of the British car industry with their ceaseless attacks on what they see as rip-off car prices, and Phil Evans, their senior policy adviser, is in no doubt as to the significance of Ford's announcement: "Every pound taken off the price of a Focus is an admission of guilt. This announcement is proof that they   have been taking British consumers for a ride and makes a mockery of their so-called 'price promise'."Another explanation for Ford's decision is that competition has simply got stiffer, not least because private buyers have been giving car dealerships a wide berth for months, and Ford has simply been forced to respond to market movements. During the few months in which Ford has been trying to hold the line on prices many other car makers have cut theirs very substantially. Recently Mitsubishi cut their prices by an average of 10%, and other car makers have been doing much the same, albeit more subtly.Saab and others have been enhancing the specification of their models substantially without increasing prices, while Nissan used the launch of their new Almera, which went on sale last week, to radically alter their pricing structure. The new Almera is an altogether superior car to the model it replaces, yet the new 1.5 litre E model is priced at &#163;10,700 - some &#163;800 less than the outgoing equivalent. And what's even more significant is that even at Ford's new prices the &#163;12,000 Focus 1.4 litre Zetec 3-door is still &#163;1,300 more than the equivalent Almera.Ford doesn't only have its direct competition to worry about either,   because the internet is causing problems too. Online buyers can now cut out British franchised dealers and simply import their new cars from Europe. The Consumers' Association will launch their own carbusters.com import service at the end of this month, and they expect to undercut even Ford's new prices. For instance the Focus 1.6 LX 5-door is now listed at &#163;13,500, down &#163;500, but that saving seems insignificant when carbusters.com claims that it expects to be able to sell you the same car for just &#163;10,323.Meanwhile Vauxhall has stolen a march on Ford when it comes to selling in cyberspace, because their ".com" range of cars is only available over the net and is attractively priced. For example the Astra.com costs &#163;11,500 - excellent value against the nearest equivalent Focus at &#163;13,500. To make matters worse for Ford the online brokers offer good deals on the Focus too: newcarsdirect.co.uk was offering the Focus 1.4 CL for just &#163;11,851.55 when I checked, and that was based on the old list price of &#163;13,000. However the list price is now down to &#163;12,000, but newcarsdirect.com's MD Richard Sanders says that Ford's realignment will simply allow him to cut the car's online price further - maybe right down to &#163;10,850.So does all this price cutting and on-line competition suggest that prices still have further to fall? Once again Phil Evans of the Consumers' association is in no doubt. "Prices must be cut further across the board. Our message to consumers is to hold off from buying a new car in the UK as your pressure on the car manufacturers is beginning to bite."However some trade observers such as CAP, which publishes the trade car price bible, the Black Book, suggests that this analysis is simplistic. What really matters is the actual selling price of a new car - called the transaction price - rather than the list price. CAP's senior editor Daren Wiseman says that "the list price tends to be a starting point for negotiations, and by waiting for it to come down consumers are missing out on some tremendous deals". And CAP's chief economist Mark Cowling adds that he thinks that at the new prices the highly-rated and in-demand Focus represents "a very good buy indeed".So Mark Cowling's view is that the new Focus's prices won't fall further    in the short term, but this doesn't mean that he thinks everything in the market is good value now, nor that overall prices haven't got further to fall. "Overall we expect prices to stay flat or to fall slightly, and I'd expect to see some good tactical deals this summer on cars that are in the middle of their life cycle, or are that bit older." As an example Cowling points to the   deals available on the Citro&euml;n Saxo at present, and he adds that while the VW Golf's price is unlikely to fall there may be special deals on the older, less fashionable Passat.The complicating factor in all this is that trade and industry secretary Stephen Byers has now received the competition commission's report into car pricing, and although the   department of trade and industry can't say when the report will be published it seems likely that it will see the light of day within the next two months. Some rumours suggest that Byers will come down hard on the car industry, which would almost certainly mean further price cuts, but even if he doesn't it's hard to see car prices going up again in the short term.So unless you need a new car badly I'd be inclined to hang on a little longer, although it's worth doing some shopping online, using car brokers like newcarsdirect and vehicle locators like Autohit.com. And don't forget the real world dealers, because they're hurting badly and the car makers are trying to support them with juicy marketing incentives - which all helps to bring that all-important transaction price down. Because of this, Mark Cowling of CAP argues that this is a good time to go out and see dealers and listen to what they can offer - just don't buy until you see the tears in their eyes.
As all integrated transport fans know, we're spending far too much time in our cars. Well-informed biologists will also point out that wherever humans hang around, a parasitic convoy of small creatures happily follow. Whether it's the moist delights of the air conditioning or the sumptuous comforts of the upholstery, your car is becoming a des res for all manner of creepy crawlies.Some are so small that you have no chance of spotting them. Take the itch mite  Sarcoptes scabiei, measuring just a quarter of a millimetre. Responsible for the (pre-car) deaths of Herod, Antiochus and pope Clement VIII, the bug can stop over on textiles before boring under your skin, so causing the unpleasant irritation known as scabies. Sarcoptes is usually transferred between very friendly humans, but merely sitting in a recently occupied car seat can facilitate its transmission.Parasitologist professor Dennis Jacobs of the Royal Veterinary College says Sarcoptes has the ability to survive in car upholstery, though he stresses that we should be more concerned about the cat flea (Ctenocephalides felis), which likes nothing more than a human meal and is a far more successful car-seat parasite. "Cat fleas live on cats and dogs and when you're transporting either, the fleas' eggs can drop off into the upholstery, where the first life cycle stages take place, before the parasite moves off to feed. We advise pet owners spraying their homes for fleas to always fumigate their cars as well."Then there's the common dust mite Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (see right), a mere 0.3 mm long but similar to a rhino in shape. These mites feed on skin scales that have been predigested by mould fungi, and, particularly if you have dandruff, are not averse to hanging around on your headrest. Their airborne excrement can   trigger asthma and other allergic reactions.There are more visible hazards of course. Zurich Insurance recently paid out against a write-off after the driver lost control of her car because a spider was dangling from her sun visor. Winged bugs, say insurers, can be just as lethal. Dundee driver Ross Keany got into such a flap that he wrote his Ford Escort off when a wasp buzzed him. "By the time I'd got it out of the window" he said, "I looked around to see a stationary car in front. I slammed on the brakes, but it was too late."Still, Norwich Union's research of bug invasions suggests that the nastiest incidents are in hotter countries. "There's a particular problem in Florida where air conditioning vents   are big enough to allow creepy crawlies through," says a spokeswoman. "One woman driver set off and switched on the air conditioning, whereupon a scorpion shot out of the dash and onto her lap. She then crashed."Air conditioning houses other nasties, too. If you find your nostrils being assailed by a   stale whiff when you prod the AC button, your system has contracted a sort of air-con flu, caused by a range of germy micro-organisms. Larry Morgan, the boss of VRS, London's biggest air-conditioning fitting specialists, says the bacteria like to colonise insulation material and the evaporation box, where it's warm and wet. "Systems need to be regularly cleaned with manufacturer-recommended biocides," says Morgan.The AA is taking a keen interest in research on the air-conditioning stink. "Although they are not likely to cause human infections, they may, in the worst cases, trigger asthma-like symptoms," says technical expert John Stubbs. "The main problem is inexplicable smells."The smell is attributable to airborne particles from the resident bugs. Cleaning your car will not remove such odours, but Rentokil advise that   a tidy interior is one that is less likely to be blighted by unwanted organisms of all sizes.It's not just creepy-crawlies who will move in and call your car home. Mice will too, given the opportunity. According to classic car collector Teri Olcott, "Mice eat through seat covers and chew off pieces of foam and padding for nests and stuff it into air vents and other small places." They also, she says, chew up wires and generally cause a stench. "They can squeeze through tiny holes. If you can stick a pencil through any hole in your car, a mouse can get in."Predictions of a warmer climate suggest UK cars will become even more of a target for pests, some of which may be quite unexpected. Specific orders of insects can live only within certain sets of seasonal temperatures, so if our mean temperatures jump just a notch, we may well play host to the kind of exotic crawlies that are, just for now, safely abroad.
What are you driving?A new green Mercedes S500.What does that say about you?I like comfort.What do you like about it?It does everything for you. The steering wheel lifts up to let you in and the doors lock themselves. I particularly like the GPS navigation system. I can programme in my local pub or restaurant and it takes me there. It's big enough for all my 5 kids to squeeze into. There's a radar so if anything comes close it lets me know. The only downside is that it's large so parking can be a nightmare.Why did you buy it?I want to be comfortable when I'm driving and not hassled.What kind of driver are you?I need to drive slowly because my daughter suffers from car sickness.Any bad habits?Once in Ibiza I ended up on a crash barrier. I was banned for a year for drink driving. I learned my lesson.What was your first car?A mini, which cost &#163;60 from a scrap garage.What do you use your car for?Going to restaurants, pubs, tootling around town and theme parks for the kids.Have you ever experienced roadrage?No. I don't understand it.What sort of state is your car in?I like to keep it perfect and beautiful. I get annoyed with people who drop sweet wrappers. I do smoke in the car but the ash tray is tucked away.What's in the boot and the glove compartment?Nothing but manuals.Have you ever had sex in a car?Yes, but not in this one. Not yet. I did in my Porsche. It's true what they say with the windows - they do get steamed up.What do you listen to on the road?I hate having music on. I've gone off radio with DJs chattering like idiots. I love the silence of a quiet car. I just listen to the computer's instructions.What would be your dream car?I'm driving it. I've had all the cars I want: Ferrari, Porsche, Bentley.Who would be your dream passenger?It would be me. When I was banned I enjoyed being the passenger. It's tiresome having to steer. I enjoy looking around. I don't like people who chatter.
Wanting to buy or sell your home throught the Internet? A new online domestic property service,www.easier.co.uk, allows you to advertise your home for free on the Internet. Following the Government's announcement last month that it will allow property contracts to be agreed electronically, easier.co.uk will develop the site with the Society of Licensed Conveyancers 'to allow clients to track their conveyancing transaction' on the Internet.You can already use the Net to buy Individual Savings Accounts because they do not need a handwritten signature. Legal &amp; General has a special offer on Isas bought from its site,www.landg.com. Buy before 30 April and escape   the annual management charge, if you hold the Isa until the end of the year.People who pick their own Isas are offered an execution-only service with commission rebated by broker Berkeley Morgan onwww.isaweb.co.uk. This firm is registered with the regulator, the Financial Services Authority, but others may not be. You can check by accessingthe FSAand looking up the 'central register'.For stock market investors wanting to find out about new share issues and flotations,www.shareissues.comoffers details. You have to register first, however, either for a weekly email bulletin of future offers, or for a scheme which will give your details to stockbrokers who will contact you directly.Professionals wanting part-time, contract or freelance assignments can visitwww.swiftwork.com. You register your CV online and record a short audio version. Employers inspect them and pay a fee if they follow them up.
Try to remember this set of initials: CMGi. Few people in Europe have heard of the company, but it is perhaps the most talked about Internet business in the United States at the moment. Its reputation as an Internet investment vehicle is mercurial, a fact reflected in the jaw dropping pace at which its share price has headed upwards.CMGi has been the best performing stock in the US over the last five years. If you had invested $100 in CMGi when it floated in 1994, you would now be sitting on a paper fortune of around $80,000 (&#163;50,000). Today the company, which last year had a turnover of $500 million and has stakes in more than 60 Internet companies, is worth almost $40 billion. And soon it will be over here - over-financed and over-acquisitive - under its European head, a former manager of the rock band Genesis.CMGi's stellar reputation is cited as one of the reasons why Richard Li, the new media entrepreneur and founder of 10-month-old Pacific Century Cyber Works, was this week able to initiate a merger with Cable &amp; Wireless HKT, beating off the more established SingTel in the process (See opposite page). The fact that Li's business has an alliance with CMGi helped to convince C&amp;W's chief executive, Graham Wallace, of the bid's credibility.Last week CMGi cemented its relationship with Li when, in conjunction with US venture capital firm Hicks, Muse, Tate &amp; Furst, it launched a $1.5bn global investment fund called @Ventures Global Partners.CMGi likes to see itself as a hybrid, a venture capital firm that offers more of a 'hands on' incubator fund approach: an active adviser to its investments. 'Some companies like Softbank &#91;the Internet venture capital firm&#93; have portfolios of interests, others, like Microsoft, have a variety of companies which they manage. We have both,' said Marcus Bicknell, president of CMGi, Europe.A cursory glance at the company's CV, however, might make more staid members of the investment community run for the hills. For a start, it began life as a direct marketing company.Under the guidance of its chief executive officer, David Wetherell, the College Marketing Group initially concentrated on selling college course lists to textbook publishers.By 1993, however, as the World Wide Web was taking off, Wetherell, a former software engineer, had realised how technology could help his business. His idea was to sell books through PCs. This required the creation of a Web browser whose construction immediately excited the interest of America Online. Wetherell sold the browser to AOL in return for shares in the online company.Wetherell then focused the business on Internet technology companies. Lycos, the search engine in which CMGi has almost a 20 per cent stake, was one of his first investments. The fact that Lycos's share price plunged soon after CMGi took a stake alarmed Wetherell's co-directors and at one stage he nearly took the company private.The company's investors, who saw the value of their shares rise by 870 per cent last year alone, will be glad that he didn't. Today CMGi (the name is derived from its Nasdaq ticket symbol) is capable of doing mega deals on the strength of its shares. The most high profile example of this came last year when it bought 83 per cent of the Alta Vista portal from computer giant Compaq for $2.3bn.Wetherell's image as an Internet investment guru has earned him from Bicknell the epithet of 'the man who puts his money where his mouse is'.And Wetherell's reputation as a decisive investor is matched by the speed at which he makes management decisions. Bicknell who, after managing Genesis between 1969 and 1971 went on to become European head of A&amp;M Records, helped establish Star TV in the Far East   and worked on the launch of BBC World, explains how Wetherell recruited him following a speech at a media industry event. 'He came up to me and said "When do you start?" I said "I've never heard of you". He said "Here's the salary, here are the stock options, this is what we do".'CMGi's success on Wall Street has spawned imitators. Bicknell says CMGi's secret is that it views its investments holistically, not separately. Each acquisition is viewed in terms of how it would benefit or benefit from CMGi's existing portfolio of investments.CMGi has made investments in companies across the Internet spectrum. It has stakes in businesses which specialise in content, infrastructure and e-commerce. Content draws the punters in, allowing CMGi to make money from them once they are on the Web. Bicknell describes the approach as pragmatic. 'Content doesn't make money. We give that away free. What makes money is advertising and e-commerce,' he said.So, for example, a Web surfer could click into Alta Vista and then visit Thingworld.com, an online collectibles site (35 per cent owned by CMGi). From this site the surfer could then check out online jewellery seller Mondera.com,   another CMGi investment. Ads on many of the sites visited will be sold by Adsmart. The effectiveness of the ads will be monitored by Adforce, which like Adsmart, is 90 per cent owned by CMGi.Wherever the surfer goes CMGi lurks in the background, often suggesting services which are owned by... yes, you've guessed it. 'While the dot com companies are the public face, we're making money underneath. Every company in the group has three or four contracts with other companies in the group,' Bicknell said.And while the user has been surfing its websites, CMGi has been learning about what he or she likes to visit, allowing it to build up a profile which can then be used to create bespoke advertising and services for individual users.Of course, the problem is that a Web surfer might bypass Alta Vista altogether and thus become irrelevant to CMGi's virtuous circle business plan. No surprise, then, that Wetherell talks of turning the search engine into a 'megaportal', one which surfers would be compelled to visit. This also explains why a major marketing campaign promoting Alta Vista Europe is now underway.Bicknell says that what CMGi is trying to do is really not that far removed   from the company's original aims. 'The Internet is just an electronic extension of direct marketing, that's why he &#91;Wetherell&#93; wouldn't look to move into other areas that he doesn't understand.'So far, Wetherell has shown just how much he does understand the Internet. But building CMGi's holistic world vision is predicated upon riding the Internet wave successfully. Most analysts predict there will be a shake out in the sector at some point. If this were to hit CMGi's share price, its ability to do deals would be hamstrung. Bicknell admits investors might be wary of pouring money in, considering CMGi's vertiginous share price. 'It's frightening in a way. Investors might think all the growth has happened already.'But Bicknell argues that CMGi's approach to investment, both by owning or by taking minority stakes in companies, means that Wall Street appreciates it is worth more than the sum of its parts. Certainly when the Internet sector slumped 25 per cent between April and July last year, CMGi still managed to climb 10 per cent. Nevertheless, a slump in tech stocks would still send shockwaves through its share price. And if the market were to fall, CMGi would have further to fall than most.
Like many people in my line of business, I buy a lot of stuff from Amazon. It's by far the slickest, most efficient e-commerce operation on the Web. Unlike many of its competitors, it has cracked the 'fulfilment' problem - the tedious business of stuffing the goods into packets and getting them to my home in a stated period.It is also one of the few e-commerce operations to understand that maintaining its website is a serious  editorial job rather than a mere technical function.Some time ago, the Amazon folks came up with an ingenious wheeze for harnessing 'cookies' - those tiny files that sites can deposit on your hard drive. Why not,   they reasoned, use cookies to save customers the tedium of entering their personal details, credit card number and the like every time they make a purchase. So they crafted a system, christened 1-Click Ordering, which made this possible. If you've opted for this system, all you have to do after finding a book or a CD in the Amazon catalogue, is to click the button and the order is on its way.Neat, eh? Too neat, as it happens, because 1-Click is very bad for one's financial health. It makes it too easy to buy stuff on impulse. Worse still, it makes it easy for your nearest and dearest to order books and records on your credit card - which is why    many of us have learned to avoid 1-Click like the plague. In fact, it's so effective that one ofAmazon.co.uk'sown people told me she'd switched it off on her own machine because even  her share options wouldn't cover the resulting bills.Having conceived this excellent wheeze for parting intellectuals from their money, Amazon then did something naughty - it applied for a US patent on 1-Click. And, for some unfathomable reason, it got one, even though I cannot for the life of me see why. Where is the 'prior art' in 1-Click? It's merely a clever use of an established, open technology - the cookie protocol. Granting Amazon a patent on this wheeze is tantamount to granting a patent on a business process, like perhaps being able to patent going shopping on a Thursday afternoon in a yellow car.Now the first law of intellectual property is that it has   no value unless you defend it, and so when Barnes and Noble, the leading off-line bookseller in the US, decided to offer on their website a service similar to that provided by 1-Click, Amazon sued for infringement. B&amp;N decided (rightly) to fight, and currently teams of m'learned friends on $600 an hour plus expenses are arguing among themselves.As it turns out, Amazon was not the first company to exploit the idiocy of US patent law in this regard (though that's no excuse). It was simply following the path blazed by a guy named Jay Walker &#91;sic&#93;, the founder ofPriceline.com, who holds 18 patents on Internet business ideas and has about 250 more pending.The implications of this crazy situation are alarming even to the brain-dead business community, which sees the Web as the new Klondyke. For if it's possible to patent a business process   (rather than a genuine technology), commercial use of the Web will grind to a halt as lawyers slog it out over every new business idea.And because the Web is global, the fact that it's US law that's defective is no consolation for Europeans. 'The time is fast approaching,' one leading UK lawyer said to me recently, 'when the first person every UK Internet start-up will have to hire is a US patent attorney.'Meanwhile, another idiocy of filtering software has emerged. A reader reports thatwww.purenz.comthe major New Zealand tourism site on the Web, is blocked by the software in use at his local public library.Could this be anything to do with the fact that its outdoor activities section is labelled 'Thrill Zone'?john.naughton@observer.co.uk&#149; For links and background seewww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
British Mountaineering ClubDo you know your crampons from your gaiters? When it comes to waterproof gear, have you considered your midlayers? The answers to these questions can all be found on the web, and the British Mountaineering Club's links section is a good place to start, even if the foothills of Snowdonia are as far as you intend to climb.BerghausBerghaus provides a slightly ropey interactive gear selector. Despite being little more than an online flow chart with some sections missing, it might prove helpful. But the site is too sloppy to fulfill its promise, and functions best as a research tool.Oswald BaileyOswald Bailey is an altogether more useful online shop, which specialises in camping equipment and clothing.Cotswold Outdoor ServiceThe Cotswold Outdoor Service is temporarily offline as stock is updated, but looks promising.Pete's Gear PagesFor impartial advice on hiking poles, down equipment (sleeping bags, chiefly) and packs, try Pete's Gear Pages. Pete, by his own admission,   is a "terminally sad gear junkie" who has assembled some excellent tips on buying and using equipment.All the sites mentioned above cater for occasional climbers and walkers, and even if you expect temperatures to be comfortable and the conditions favourable, they are well worth visiting. Plenty of hardcore British stores have an online presence, and many of these are linked from the British Mountaineering Club's site.1.ski.comSkiing is still the most popular type of sports holiday, and the need for advice on equipment is being recognised by the proliferation of ski sites. 1.ski.com  offers useful advice on equipment. Choosing the price you want to pay and your level of experience will return a list of items in printable format.
Rupert Murdoch'sNews Corporation, which backed the losing bidder in the battle forC&amp;W HKT, is now cosying up to victorPacific Century CyberWorksby stating both are "very committed" to pursuing an internet and pay television joint venture.Mr Murdoch's youngest son, James, said News Corp wanted to work with Richard Li, who controls PCCW, the 10-month old internet start-up.News Corp earlier this week announced it had withdrawn a $1bn investment in Singapore Tele communications, the losing bidder in the &#163;24bn takeover of C&amp;W HKT.
More than a billion pounds is likely to be added to the stock market valuation of retailer Kingfisher with the flotation of the first French internet service provider on the Paris Bourse later this month.The Libertysurf ISP - modelled on the UK's Freeserve, which was developed by Dixons - was backed by Kingfisher and French tycoon Bernard Arnault's private investment company when it was created last year. The two backers each poured 50m euros (&#163;30m) into the venture, taking 45% stakes. Less than 12 months later they are sitting on stakes valued at only a little less than &#163;1bn each.France's bourse regulator confirmed yesterday that shares in Libertysurf would be priced at 35.5 to 41 euros each, valuing the ISP at 3.05bn to 3.52bn euros.Libertysurf is raising 518m euros by selling 12.6m new shares but the two main backers are not reducing their holdings. They will be left with 40% stakes.Shares in Kingfisher, which owns the Woolworth, B&amp;Q, Comet and Superdrug chains plus a network of European retailers, climbed 35p or 6.9% to 545p as details of the float were disclosed.Analysts say the flotation is bound to be oversubscribed and believe Libertysurf will increase the scale of the offer. "It is the first offering to give a pure French internet play," said an official from Deutsche Bank France, the issue's lead manager.
If you believe the hype, library stacks are quaking, paper manufacturers are white as their sheets and publishers are taking cover. Why? Because, according to internet visionaries, the book is dead.Yes, the book, that hand-held paper and print creation we've loved for around 1300 years, is going to become extinct. We won't stop reading or writing. It's just that, as Dick Brass, Microsoft's vice president of technology and development said, by 2020 "90% of everything you read will be delivered in an electronic form".We've been moving that way for a while. Anyone with access to the net can visit virtual bookstores and download virtual texts. You can even buy an "eBook", a portable, compact, device that can store several weeks' worth of reading material at one time - enough surely for any beach or long-haul diversion.Internet booksellers are leaping on this bandwagon. Barnesandnoble.com is selling NuvoMedia's Rocket eBook, which weighs 22 ounces and is about the size of a paperback. Along with it you can buy electronic editions of books or periodicals (encrypted in the Rocket Edition format). Memoirs of a Geisha, in ebook form, could be yours for only $11.20. And Barnesandnoble.com has recently announced plans for an e-bookstore that will sell thousands of texts using Microsoft Reader software.But if you can't get hold of a Rocket eBook, or a similar device, there's nothing stop ping you from downloading books on to your home computer or handheld device. If the choice of ebooksellers seems baffling you can visit a wide range of elibraries instead and "borrow" books, often for free.Sounds exciting? Well, it is. As long as your literary standards are, shall we say, flexible.The problem is that the ebooks you can download vary massively in quality. The classics are a good bet. The philanthropicProject Gutenbergis a free library where you can download literature that's "light" (Alice in Wonderland) or "heavy" (the Bible), or reference books, all in plain text (I downloaded an Edith Wharton novel, free, in only five minutes).Or there's Netlibrary.com which claims to be the world's largest elibrary. The free "public collection" lets you look at books on the web, but you can download only from the "private collection". At $30 a year, this holds some books still under copyright.The most impressive selection arrived when a    "real" library went online. Last month theFrench national library (BNF)became the largest single library available online  with 15 million pages to download. The books, and the website, are largely in French and downloads are laborious, but the BNF says it will offer an English version by the end of this year. It's apparently the only national library so far to put entire books online - the British Library, for instance, offers only samples of texts on the net.Still, with competition hotting up, Dick Brass could have been right when he recently advised the Seattle Library Board to make sure the stacks in its proposed multi-million dollar library could, in future, be used for something other than books.Epublishers with names likePulpless.com, are springing up all over the place too. But standard publishers are not going to go bankrupt overnight. If you want to get your mouse on the new Joanna Trollope right now you could be disappointed. Only a handful of new titles seems to be available in e-form and the much-hyped sites such asFatbrain.com, a stockmarket darling that began as an online technical bookseller and now sells "eMatter", are crammed with self-pub lished authors. There may well be an eAlex Garland lurking out there, but you'd have to be pretty diligent to seek him out.The publishing industry is, however, seeing the dollar signs. Penguin signed a deal last October with Microsoft to use its Reader software on Penguin classics. "The ebook market is definitely going to grow" says Joanna Prior, Penguin's head of corporate publicity. As with the music business and their struggle to regulate MP3, says Prior, the copyright issue is key. "The Publishers' Association, the Society of Authors and lawyers all over the world are grappling with it", but she's convinced that copyright, "along with other barriers to success, like legibility and portability" will soon be overcome.So should we kiss goodbye to hours spent browsing through dusty library stacks or lattes sipped while flicking through the latest Waterstones offerings? Probably not. At least, not yet.Recently, shares of Fatbrain.com lost one-third of their value. This slide was said to be largely because matter hasn't taken off as predicted. More than 5,400 writers have signed up to self-publish: not something any sane person would want to sift through. But perhaps the greatest challenge is generational: the love of the book as an artefact runs deep in our veins. This might change, as technology makes ebooks more accessible. Until then, rumours of the book's demise may have been greatly exaggerated.
Lastminute.comhas enjoyed its status as a dot.com star but a series of system failures could knock the gloss off its success.In the past two months several customers have discovered that money has been deducted from their account without them purchasing any travel or gift products from its website.Charlotte Brett, a London-based customer, was   one of 80 Lastminute.com customers who suffered transaction problems with the internet firm. She said that in January and February &#163;50 was deducted from her account on three occasions by the online travel agency even though she had not made a purchase.The money was recredited to her account but Ms Brett claimed this took four weeks and was only done only after she alerted the company to the problem."I'm a very angry customer," Ms Brett said. "In my experience they have failed on the three most key areas - technology, customer service and internet capability."Brent Hoberman, the chief executive of Lastminute.com, said the problems were caused by its third-party credit authority firm. He said the money had been refunded as quickly as possible and customers affected offered gift vouchers. "We did everything possible to remedy the situation," he said.Lastminute's spokesman, Ian Jones, apologised to Ms Brett, explaining the flaw was being investigated. But Ms Brett said he failed to address why the money had been deducted without any purchase being made.
