Sony has ended one of its worst-ever years on a high note, with the launch of its cutting-edge handheld console, the PlayStation Vita, in Japan.Several Tokyo shops opened at 7am on Saturday to mark the PS Vita's debut, although attention was focused on the Tsutaya store in the trendy shopping district of Shibuya, where the machine's first official customer was presented with his purchase by the world's most high-powered shop assistants, Kaz Hirai and Andrew House – the former is executive deputy president of Sony and chairman of Sony Computer Entertainment, its video games wing, while House is president and CEO of SCE.The PS Vita was certainly well received in Tokyo: Kensho Monden, one of the first people to buy it, said: "I think its screen, in particular, is very good. I've bought Ridge Racer, and I bought the 3G version [the base model is Wi-Fi enabled only, but in Japan, Wi-Fi hot-spots are surprisingly thin on the ground] so I can play it across the network with my friends."Hundreds of customers braved freezing temperatures to queue outside Tsutaya for the launch, in a noticeably more orderly manner than is typical for similar launches in the UK, where much fewer shops are involved and the formalities take place when midnight signals the arrival of the designated day.Many commentators have singled the PS Vita out as a barometer of the state of the games industry, arguing that the rise of mobile phone gaming is eating into its traditional base and suggesting that Sony's replacement for the PSP could struggle as a result.House contended that: "PS Vita is designed to deliver the ultimate portable entertainment experience. It offers a new group of gaming experiences that were never possible before, through a unique combination of interfaces and features, and brings a wider variety of genres to portable gaming."It nods heavily towards mobile phones by including native support for social networking staples such as Facebook, Twitter, Skype and Foursquare, and House singled out an initiative called PlayStation Suite, which will essentially allow developers to deliver more casual games across Android mobile phones and the PS Vita.He said: "We'll be happy to welcome in a new audience and migrate them to a deeper experience." And there are plenty of keen portable gamers out there – the PSP, in seven years on sale, has sold a cumulative 73m units, according to House.The PS Vita avoids one trap into which Nintendo's initially unsuccessful 3DS fell: it was supported by a healthy portfolio of 24 games – "The largest number of launch titles in PlayStation history," according to House.Which is an impressive achievement, given that Sony's manufacturing was hit in 2011 by the Fukushima earthquake and subsequent tsunami, the flooding in Thailand and even the outbreak of looting in London, which saw its giant Sony DADC warehouse in Enfield burned to the ground.UK consumers will have to wait until 22 February to buy the PS Vita, which will cost from £229.99. And even if the mobile phone market does eat into its popularity, Sony took the precaution of buying out Ericsson earlier this year, so that it now wholly owns the Sony Ericsson mobile phone concern.But with an impressive 5in OLED touch-screen – the largest ever seen on a portable gaming console – and a wealth of features including motion-sensing and a rear touch-pad plus, crucially, dual analogue joysticks to give hardcore gamers the control they crave, the PS Vita has more than enough ammunition to take on the mobile phones and tablets.
A quick burst of 16 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy the iPad Is the most hated gadget (but not by consumers) ever &gt;&gt; Cult of MacHated, that is, by those trying to compete with it, or which have found their businesses overrun by it. "The success of the iPad made HP and RIM vastly over-estimate demand..." But makes in vertical markets, PCs, netbooks - they all have reason to grind their teeth too.Facebook Application Metrics: iPhone v AndroidThe Android Facebook app has passed the iPhone Facebook app in terms of daily average users (though oddly not monthly average users - yet). Signifying broadening use of Facebook on Android, logically enough.AT&amp;T, Sprint: Carrier IQ tracking agreed to by customers &gt;&gt; Huffington Post"More than two weeks ago, security researcher Trevor Eckhart posted a video about Carrier IQ, an obscure software installed on approximately 150 million smartphones. The 17-minute video sparked a firestorm not only because it alleged the software logged numerous details about users' activities, but also because it did so without their knowledge. "But this week, two wireless carriers that use Carrier IQ's software said customers should not have been surprised that some of their activities were being tracked. In letters to Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.), who asked them to explain how they used the software, AT&amp;T and Sprint said Carrier IQ's capabilities were clearly outlined in their privacy policies."Hummingbird-shaped US drone in action &gt;&gt; Marbury"This is a demonstration video for a new gadget from DARPA (the Defense Advance Projects Agency), an agency of the Pentagon responsible for coming up with whizzy gizmos like this metal hummingbird. As a commenter on YouTube remarks, although you might think this is just like a remote controlled toy, it's actually an incredibly advanced piece of aeronautical design. Nobody's ever designed a flapping-wing flying machine before, except nature. I'm not quite clear on its raison d'etre, however. Are enemies really going to mistake this for a harmless cute little birdie?"Review: real life with the Galaxy Nexus Android 4.0 smartphone &gt;&gt; Danny SullivanGood review which points out the advantages and drawbacks - particularly, that it's hard to adjust from Google 2.x to 4.x because so much is switched around.BBC iPlayer: Designing the iPhone app &gt;&gt; BBC Internet blog"In fact a staggering 16.5 million programmes were watched on mobile this October 2011 alone. A large proportion of those mobile views were on iPhone. This significant user demand provided an opportunity to create an improved user experience more appropriate to the iPhone as well as introduce enhanced features and interactions to our audiences. In an initial brainstorm, the team identified a series of questions to answer such as: -How might we let people plan their TV viewing? -How might we improve the Live TV/Radio Experience? -How might we encourage people to explore more programmes? We also had to consider the various restrictions and opportunities that designing for a mobile device offered us. These included: The difference between portrait and landscape orientations; gestural interactions; screen size."Fusion Garage disappears as PR team quits, customers left in the dark | The VergeFormerly Joojoo. We're trying to find out from the UK PR team; no word yet. From The Verge's review of the Fusion Garage 10in tablet: "Any discussion of the Grid10?s hardware has to begin with the 10.1-inch 1366 x 768 display: it's among the worst I've ever seen on any device." Tablets seems to be a brutal business, though Fusion Garage didn't look like it had the capital to make a big mark. Interesting approach to Android.Home | Mugeda - Cloud Based HTML5 Animation Platform"Mugeda is a cloud based HTML5 animation platform, where you can create, share, and publish organic HTML5 animation contents, all in your browser, without any download or installation. The created animation content can be used in a wide range of applications like ads, games, tutorials, cartoons, and can be viewed on any devices including PC, smartphone, and tablets." Awesome.This is not the Net you thought you knew &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"The Classic Web is beginning to look like a kludge. Mostly because it was. Slowly, fitfully, three-steps-forward-two-steps-back, the tech community is finally refining it into something more secure, streamlined, and powerful. The last time something like this happened was when AJAX support hit modern browsers. Non-techies don't realize it, but it was that innovation which ushered in Flickr, Google Maps, and the whole Web 2.0 boom. I expect HTML5 -- greatly aided by the little-known back-end iterations I've tried to itemize above -- to have a similar effect on the web and everything we do there." Score 5: insightful.$1.7 million in BlackBerry PlayBooks stolen from an Indiana truck stop | The Verge"Last Thursday, a truck carrying 22 pallets of BlackBerry PlayBooks (estimated to have 5,000 units) was stolen from an Indiana truck stop while the driver was busy eating and taking a shower. With no tracking device on the vehicle, there's little word on the thieves or where they're headed, although a local police spokesman has named Miami as a popular destination for stolen goods."Apple falls to third place in the Chinese smartphone race &gt;&gt; Fortune TechPhilip Elmer-Dewitt: "There's a nugget of unanchored news in a report Reuters filed Friday. "'In the third quarter,' wrote Lee Chyen Yee, 'Huawei overtook Apple as the No.3 smartphone vendor in China.' "Without identifying its source or specifying market shares, Reuters reported that Apple (AAPL) now trails Nokia (NOK), Samsung and Huawei, companies it characterized as more "nimble" and "flexible" than Apple. "'Nimble' is not what I would call Nokia, but it's true that Apple's failure to strike a deal with China Mobile (CHL), the world's largest mobile carrier (600 million subscribers), has hurt it." Of course the Nokia sales are Symbian. How long are those going to last? Android is going to own the China market.Verified by Visa? &gt;&gt; CounterMeasuresRok Ferguson: "What would a criminal do if they access to your card details but not your password? Of course, there's that handy "I forgot my password" link. Let's see how well protected that is.   "The first step in the password reset procedure is to enter your card number, obviously to ensure you are resetting the password for the correct account. Once that number is entered the system now requires some corroborating data to be sure that you are the legitmate account holder, let's have a look at that "Identification" phase." What you then discover will make you despair of the design of card security systems.A Sweet Update: Flash Player 11.1 and AIR 3.1 for Android 4.0 &gt;&gt; Adobe AIR and Adobe Flash Player Team Blog"As we've mentioned before, we're focusing on enabling amazing Flash based experiences via apps on phones and tablets, and this release will be the last major version of the mobile browser plug-in. Just let that sink in for a moment. "The most stunning, innovative content and games for mobile devices are delivered and consumed through apps. The most impactful, engaging experiences on the desktop are delivered through the browser. With Flash Player for desktop and AIR apps for mobile, Flash allows you to craft and deliver beautiful experiences for both." However, since smartphones will be on par with PCs in terms of installed base within a couple of years, don't bet on the Flash experiences for that much longer.Kindle sales &gt;&gt; Amazon Media Room"Amazon.com today announced that Kindle devices remain the hottest products this holiday season - for the third week in a row, customers are purchasing well over 1 million Kindle devices per week, and Kindle Fire remains the #1 bestselling, most gifted, and most wished for product across the millions of items available on Amazon.com since its introduction 11 weeks ago. To learn more about the all-new Kindle family - the $79 Kindle, $99 Kindle Touch, $149 Kindle Touch 3G and the $199 Kindle Fire - visit www.amazon.com/kindle. "Kindle Fire is the most successful product we've ever launched - it's the bestselling product across all of Amazon for 11 straight weeks, we've already sold millions of units, and we're building millions more to meet the high demand. In fact, demand is accelerating - Kindle Fire sales increased week over week for each of the past three weeks." Amazon has never specified Kindle sales before. It hasn't really here either, but it's a lot more than it has ever said previously.Data storm: Making government data pay &gt;&gt; BBC NewsMichael Cross, co-founder of the Free Our Data campaign: "Earlier this week, the vice president of the European Commission, Neelie Kroes, called for action to turn this information into gold. "'Taxpayers have already paid for this information, the least we can do now is give it back to those who want to use it in new ways that help people and create jobs and growth,' she says. "She was following a lead set by the UK government. In his autumn statement last month, Chancellor George Osborne promised to open for re-use government data sets covering transport and especially health. "'Making more public sector information available will help catalyse new markets and innovative products and services as well as improving standards and transparency in public services,' the Treasury said. "The presumption is that all Crown Copyright data will be available under an 'open government licence', which allows its re-use in apps and other commercial products without the need to seek permission. "The Europe-wide policy announced this week would take this even further."Apps are too much like 1990's CD-ROMs and not enough like the Web &gt;&gt; Scott Hanselman"Native apps have the advantage of a richer experience right now.  But the water level is rising and every time I think I've seen it all on the open web someone goes and ports freaking DOOM to HTML. Yes, JavaScript, HTML and CSS is a mess and it's hard, but it won't always be. As browsers get smarter native apps will introduce new interaction models, hardware accesses and new features. Those will get folded into HTML 9, then HTML 10 and the cycle will continue. I agree with Dave Winer that the real win is linking. That's the one thing that the Web brings that apps have yet to replicate." This, after he describes how he's addicted to a game app that requires no linking nor connects to the web. Not sure that really helps his argument.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, thesecond-largest investorin Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, has taken a $300m (£193m) stake in Twitter.Alwaleed, who has a net worth estimated to be just below $20bn, has taken the stake in conjunction with his Kingdom Holding Company investment firm.Applying an $8bn valuation figure for Twitter used by some analysts, the investment amounts to a 3.75% stake.In a statement, Kingdom Holding said that the investment was "the result of several months of negotiations and comprehensive due diligence"."Our investment in Twitter reaffirms our ability in identifying suitable opportunities to invest in promising, high-growth businesses with a global impact," said Alwaleed.Ahmed Halawani, executive director of private equity and international investments at KHC, said social media will "fundamentally change the media industry landscape in the coming years"."Twitter will capture and monetise this positive trend," he said.Alwaleed also holds a 7% stake in News Corporation through KHC.In August social media investor DST, which also owns stakes in Zynga and Groupon, took a$400m stake in Twitter.KHC also owns a 29.9% stake in Saudi Research and Marketing Group, which owns a variety of publications.Last year Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation took an initial 9.09% stake in Rotana Media Group, Alwaleed's film, TV and music business, with an option to increase this to 18.18% over the course of 18 months.
A selection of 22 apps for you today:The Sims FreePlayThe Sims has been a roaring success reimagined as a Facebook social game, but now it's getting the freemium treatment for iOS too. The Sims FreePlay sees players cultivating a city full of virtual people, while earning Simoleans currency and – so EA hopes – buying Lifestyle Points via in-app payment to speed its growth.iPhone / iPadCyclepediaJust in time for Christmas comes Cyclepedia from Thames &amp; Hudson and Heuristic-Media: an iPad app showcasing a collection of 100 "bicycles that changed cycling history". They're all spinnable and zoomable, naturally, and accompanied by videos, manuals, plans and catalogues.iPadDead SpaceEA has ported the iOS version of Dead Space to Android, offering a great-looking sci-fi horror game, with weapons and modules that haven't been seen before in the Dead Space console games.AndroidBjork: SolsticeHaving released new album Biophilia as an iOS app earlier in 2011, Bjork has a festive spin-off for Christmas. "At the center of the app is a sun from which the user pulls rays of light to form a circular harp of strings plucked by colorful orbiting planets; tilt the device and the orbital planes turn into the branches of a three-dimensional Christmas tree, the stars becoming snowflakes," explains the App Store listing.iPhone / iPadGone WishingSlovenian developer Fi Production has released a lovely-looking book-app called Gone Wishing, about "a tiny genie with a giant secret". Characterful visuals are accompanied by mini-games and interactivity.iPadFoodnationUK-focused iOS app Foodnation is all about organic farms, farm shops, vegbox schemes and other community-oriented sources of food. It has more than 35,000 listings sorted by category, and is based on the website of the same name.iPhone / iPadLondon: Condé Nast Traveller City GuideLondon follows Barcelona, Paris, New York and Rome in getting a Condé Nast Traveller guide app, free thanks to a sponsorship from Omega. It offers 500 listings for bars, restaurants, hotels and tourist sights.iPhoneModern Combat 3: Fallen NationGameloft's latest take on the Call of Duty: Modern Warfare genre makes its way from iOS to Android, offering a gripping solo mode and online multiplayer. Be warned, it needs a whopping 1.37GB of space to install.AndroidOxford Bookworms appsOxford University Press has released another tranche of apps in its Bookworms ELT series, using classic literature to teach people English. It includes apps based on Through The Looking-Glass, Huckleberry Finn, Pride and Prejudice, A Christmas Carol, Gulliver's Travels and others.iPhone / iPadThis Day In Bob DylanHardcore Dylan fans will love this app, which is a Bobcat calendar offering trivia and historical data for every day of the year, alongside song notes on every track on his first 12 studio albums. It follows previous This Day In apps for Led Zeppelin and Pink Floyd.iPhone / iPadNursery Rhyme KaraokeThe team at Dot To Dot Productions made their name devising popular children's TV shows including Big Cook Little Cook and Get Squiggling. Now the company is turning its hand to karaoke kid-apps, encouraging children to sing along toTwinkle TwinkleandOld MacDonald. Excellent cartoon graphics and interactivity accompanies the music.iPhone / iPadFireman Sam: Junior CadetMore from P2 Games: it's bagged a deal to release the first Fireman Sam app for iOS, aimed at pre-school children. It includes five mini-games and a virtual sticker album.iPhone / iPadMiss SelfridgeUK retailer Miss Selfridge has an iPhone app now, enabling people to browse and buy from its online collection, but also share photos of their clobber with friends. Barcodes can be scanned in-store to buy online, while Facebook check-ins are rewarded with offers.iPhoneJohn LewisAnother retailer hitting the App Store (just) in time for Christmas is John Lewis, whose app also enables products to be scanned in-store, although in this case, people are actually linked to the company's mobile site to buy the products online. The app is the work of Usablenet.iPhoneFotopedia Wild FriendsFollowing its recent photographic tourist app for Japan, Fotopedia has followed up with an app offering spectacular shots of wildlife, from turtles and polar bears to ghost sharks and arctic foxes.iPhone / iPadStreamBox7Got a Dropbox account full of music and a Windows Phone? Admittedly, a niche. StreamBox7 is targeting it though, with an app that enables you to stream your cloud collection to your smartphone.Windows PhoneTrenches IIAnother game from EA in its busy pre-Christmas period: Trenches II is a World War II-focused tower defence game offering global multiplayer as a key selling point.iPhone / iPadAirVinylThere are numerous iOS apps that play your MP3s as if they were virtual vinyl albums, but this one has a dash of music biz credibility. AirVinyl is the work of London recording studio Air Studios, and makes the ambitious claim that it will "recreate the ambience, warmth and experience of vinyl recordings, transforming your MP3 and digital music collection into your record collection, bringing back all the warmth of analogue harmonics". Bappz is the developer responsible.iPadJeremy Fish: Listen And LearnThis app started life as a real-world exhibition of "sound paintings" by artist Jeremy Fish: his artworks accompanied by story readings from celebrities including Snoop Dogg, Kimya Dawson and Aesop Rock. Now it's been digitised for iOS.iPhone / iPadPure LoungeImagination Technologies has released an Android app for its Pure Lounge, offering internet radio and podcasts. It also ties in to the new Pure Music cloud service, which will cost £4.99 a month for streaming access to 15 million songs.AndroidInternational Snooker 2012Big Head Games' snooker sim returns to iOS with a new career mode and online multiplayer, as well as using Apple's Game Center and a virtual referee voiced by real-world ref Michaela Tabb.iPhone / iPadNet-A-Porter KarlFashion site Net-A-Porter has bagged exclusive rights on Karl Lagerfeld's new range, so is promoting it with an iPhone app offering a sneak peek at the clothing, unlockable content and a mini-game.iPhoneUpdate:Publisher P2 Games has confirmed that Peppa Pig Christmas, an iPhone app that was included in this morning's Apps Rush, is a fake – despite being listed as a P2 Games application. We have removed it from the post: thanks to commenter @acaffrey for initially drawing this to our attention.
British Telecom is claiming billions of dollars of damages from Google in a lawsuit filed in the US which says that the Android mobile operating system infringes a number of the telecoms company's key patents.The lawsuit, filed in the state of Delaware in the US, relates to six patents which BT says are infringed by the Google Maps, Google Music, location-based advertising and Android Market products on Android.If successful, the suit could mean that Google or mobile handset makers will have to pay BT royalties on each Android handset in use and which they produce.That could be expensive: Android is presently the most successful smartphone platform in the world, with its handsets making more than 40% of sales, equating to more than 40m produced every quarter. Googlerecently said that more than 500,000 Android devices are activated every day.BT's move – which could also be repeated in Europe – means that Google isnow fending off lawsuits against Android from six large publicly-traded companies, according to Florian Müller, an independent expert who follows the twists and turns of international patent litigation. BT joins Apple. Oracle, Microsoft, eBay and Gemalto, a digital security company.A BT spokesman told the Guardian: "BT can confirm that it has commenced legal proceedings against Google by filing a claim with the US District Court of Delaware for patent infringement."The patents in question relate to technologies which underpin location-based services, navigation and guidance information and personalised access to services and content. BT's constant investment in innovation has seen it develop a large portfolio of patents which are valuable corporate assets."A Google spokesman said: "We believe these claims are without merit, and we will defend vigorously against them."In the filing, BT cites a number of US patents which were applied for and, apart from one, awarded in the 1990s which it says Android is infringing. BT has a long history in the mobile business, having been one of the original providers of mobile phone services withthe Cellnet joint venture in the UK in the 1980s.Müller says: "Android already had more than enough intellectual problems anyway. Now Google faces one more large organisation that believes its rights are infringed. BT probably wants to continue to be able to do business with all mobile device makers and therefore decided to sue Google itself."Google is fending off multiple lawsuits relating to Android, while a number of handset makers including HTC and Samsung have yielded to patent claims by Microsoft against Android and are paying a per-handset fee for every one they make.Many of the alleged infringements made by Android would also seem to apply to Apple's iPhone and iPad mobile devices – such as the "Busuioc Patent", which detects whether a mobile device is connected to a cellular or Wi-Fi network and allows streaming dependent on that.Apple's iTunes Match service, launched in the US earlier this year and last Friday in the UK, also detects what sort of connection the device has before allowing file uploads or downloads. It is not known whether Apple has licensed use of the systems from BT, or whether BT has decided they do not infringe its patents, or whether litigation is pending.BT points in the lawsuit to its large patent portfolio, from research at its Adastral Park centre near Ipswich, and that it has a portfolio of more than 10,000 patents.The new lawsuit marks a return to attempts by BT to monetise its patent portfolio over web use.In 2000it asserted a patent claim in the US against Prodigy, one of the biggest internet service providers, claiming a patent on the hyperlink– the method by which people follow links between pages on the web. But embarrassingly for BT the claim was rejectedwhen a judge said that no jury could find that the patent was infringed.
Ho ho hooooooo no – it's just a week 'til Christmas! Have you made sure Santa knows what games you want? Our Top 20 games of the year, starting at some point today, should help you out!
Feeling bored and listless? Well, try this. In Firefox, open "preferences", click on the "privacy tab" and then click on the link that says "remove individual cookies". Up will pop a dialogue box labelled "cookies", which tells you that "the following cookies are stored in your computer". If you're an intensive user of the web, it will be a very long, scrolling list. On my laptop, for example, Amazon has deposited 29 cookies, YouTube nine and Google a whopping 53. (For instructions for how to inspect cookies in other browsers, see theNetLingosite.)Cookies are small text files, typically of letters and numbers, downloaded on to a computer when its user accesses a website. The first thing to say about them is that they do not make for bedside reading. For example, one of my Amazon cookies begins with the phrase "%20s_dl%3D1%7C131818459" and goes on like that for four and a half lines. To Amazon's web server, however, this gibberish is riveting stuff because it provides useful information about how I use the site. Maybe it reveal details of my browsing history. Or provides information about what I bought recently. The point is that I can't tell how the cookie crumbles: that's something that only Amazon knows.The idea that websites secretly deposit files on your computer – without your consent – will strike some people as creepy, and indeed in some ways it is. But it does have some positive benefits. For example, it makes the web more useable by enabling sites to bypass a lot of procedural stuff that would slow things up. Thus a cookie is what enables a site to recognise returning visitors so that they don't have to log in every time they show up. And in some cases cookies are essential – for example in online retail sites, as shoppers accumulate items in a shopping basket on their way to a virtual checkout.So cookies are an important, and in some cases vital, component of web technology. But like any technology, they can be – and increasingly are –abused. For example, advertisers and websites use cookies to build detailed profiles of users and their browsing habits. Some time ago I went to the website of a leading British retail chain looking for information about digital cameras, and for ages afterwards ads from that chain kept popping up on other – unrelated – sites that I visited. This was almost certainly accomplished using cookies.This kind of "tracking" behaviour eventually attracted the baleful attention of the EU, which since 2003 has required anyone using cookies to provide clear information about them. In May this year these rules were dramatically tightened: now, anyone depositing cookies is required not just to provide clear information about them but also to obtain consent from users to store a cookie on their device. The only exceptions are cases where cookies are essential for the provision of a service (as in an online shopping basket). So since May, anyone setting a cookie without obtaining the explicit consent of the user is technically breaking the law.Needless to say, this intrusion of EU red tape into Britons' ancient right to do as they damn well please generated much heated commentary. The jackbooted thugs of Brussels were, we were told, going to "kill the internet". But the law is the law and, alarmed by the lack of preparedness of British industry, the government negotiated a year-long "lead-in period" to give businesses time to adapt to the new reality.We're now midway through that period, and the information commissioner – the guy who will have to enforce the new rules – has just issued ahalf-term reporton how things are going.  His verdict, he writes, "can be summed up by the schoolteacher's favourite clichés: 'could do better' and 'must try harder'. A report that listed the URLs of sites that were perfectly compliant from day one would be very short indeed. This is not a surprise to anyone who recognises that redeveloping and redesigning is no easy task."That's putting it mildly. A random survey of some prominent websites by this columnist suggests that their owners haven't yet appreciated what the new rules require. Mostly they bury information about cookies in a link labelled "privacy policy" in small type at the bottom of their home pages. The link explains that the company deposits cookies before going on to say that if the user declines said cookies, the company "cannot guarantee that your experience with the site will be as quick or responsive as if you do receive cookies". If this is what British companies regard as seeking the informed consent of users, then they have a nasty shock coming. And the information commissioner is going to be busy from next June onwards.
Apps may offer plenty of excellent, graphically impressive games, but they still can't match a console for processing power. OnLive (free, android/kindle/iOS) changes that. The service, which streams games to PCs, Macs and TVs, is now available for tablets (although the iPad version is still awaiting Apple's approval at time of going to press).Download the app (which for now comes with the excellentLego Batmanfree), and there's access to a plethora of new and old releases that would otherwise be beyond the device, streamed directly into it, in much the same way as BBC's iPlayer operates. Games can be bought, rented or accessed through the PlayPack bundle (free for three months to BT Broadband customers). Some adapt for touchscreens (such as the upcoming LA Noire), others use the default onscreen pad, but all work with the Bluetooth OnLive controller (£39.99). It's dependent on a solid wifi connection, but offers unparalleled mobile gaming; full-sized consoles may be living on borrowed time.
For anyone who was playing games in the late 1980s, the gamer's favourite anthropomorphic egg was always Dizzy, protagonist in a successful series of platform puzzlers who has returned to spawn a new generation of followers with a revamp of his most critically acclaimed title.It's been given a graphical lick of paint with HD cartoon visuals replacing the 2D sprites, while keeping the playful tone familiar to fans. The game itself remains largely untouched – with Dizzy busily helping out everything from a lion to the grim reaper.The touch controls are slightly awkward, but they're responsive and putting them on either side of the screen, not in one corner, makes it easier. It may well see a new generation take to the classic character and further titles updated. Let's hope so; they deserve a wider audience.
A triumphant return, then, for Master Chief, Cortana, Sergeant Major Johnson and innumerable marines destined to be cannon-fodder in this full HD re-run of the game that both launched and became synonymous with the Xbox. Despite a decade passing since its original release and being buried in the Christmas big-game melee, it is as gripping and challenging as ever and will be of interest to both veterans and greenhorns alike.Sticking to the original campaign but for nostalgia purposes utilising the back button as a switch that shifts the graphics between the originals and the HD update (3D too, if you have the equipment), there's more detail, more colour and it offers what feels like a new experience. Long-time fans will also enjoy the addition of terminals that share addedHalolore and suggest at hints to possible future events, but the use of Microsoft's most recent innovation – Kinect control – adds little to the enjoyment.Online multiplayer, too, has been updated, bringing six of the original and best multiplayer maps in remastered HD as well as one brand new Firefight map based around the Halo campaign level.  Compatibility with the latest release,Halo Reach, also allows gamers to incorporate theirReachplayer profiles.Not just a cynical cash-in but a welcome chance to re-experience a fine title,Anniversarymay not make the must-have list over the holidays but for anybody who has yet to play it, there is a real treat in store.
King of Fighters XII, released in 2009, saw the series in the throes of what football pundits like to call a "transitional period": the hi-res, hand-drawn graphics were splendid, but the skimpy character roster and lack of balance were disappointing.ThankfullyXIIIfixes things, adding a host of classic fighters and tweaking the game system to encourage flamboyant, attacking play – a pleasing change fromStreet Fighter's more considered bouts. Mission Mode, where players are schooled in each character's more demanding moves, is another nice addition, and proves how deep the game is: in terms of dexterity and recall, mastering a fighter is a real challenge. As such, anyone lacking the necessary commitment (and finger flexibility) is likely to founder pretty quickly, especially in online competition. Fans, though, will relish seeing this venerable series hitting its stride again.
Price £22,295MPG  53.3Top speed  124mph"It's the Hyundai i40. Lovely to look at, isn't it? Handles well, really responsive, but the turning circle is crap." It wasn't the words that surprised me, but who said them – my wife. Clearly there are many women who know a lot about cars, but Juliet is not one of them. Last week, she even sent me an email saying: "Rob Andrew has to resign!" Cars, rugby… Is it a&nbsp;worry when your wife's emails start to sound a bit blokey? What's next? A&nbsp;beer and curry night? Movember?I decided to type the question into theMen's Healthonline forum: "What does it mean if your wife starts to share your interests?" Traffic was slow at first, but then Dex responded: "Watch out, mate. I am now getting a divorce from a woman who had no interests. After six years of marriage she finally found a hobby of her own – a guy from work." Oh dear…Anyway, Juliet's right – about both things. Rob Andrew has to go, and  the i40 is a lovely car to look at.For the past decade, Hyundai has been persuading us that its selection of city runarounds are the way to go: cheap, well-made and with a&nbsp;five-year warranty. In a dumbed-down world, it really is a no-brainer. But stretching its tentacles upmarket was always going to be much trickier. We've already got the Mondeo and the Insignia – both well-priced, handsome and trusted family cars. So how would Hyundai capture our attention? Up the warranty still further, drop the price through the floor, offer free Korean lessons with every car? No, they've done the exact opposite. No price cuts, no freebies, no gimmicks. In a&nbsp;bold gesture which smacks of self-confidence and a refreshing belief in their product they've said: "Right, here's the i40. You'll want to buy it because it's a great car. Period."Certainly it's got the looks.  I think you'd be hard pressed to find a better-looking estate on the road. I don't mean that literally. I'd hate to think of you out there with your clipboard, rating estates as they go by. But how many others have headlights with wave-shaped LEDs that glow white in daylight? It's a big car but its curved panels and heavily raked tail give an impression of lightness and agility. It's been designed and engineered at Hyundai's German facility, but will be built in Korea.Inside, every detail says: "We mean business." The displays are crisp and sophisticated; there's the full sweep of cruise control, satnav, dual-zone aircon, parking cameras, folding mirrors, stop/start, privacy glass and automatic wipers. There's a&nbsp;1.6 or 2-litre petrol engine to choose from, though the practical choice will be the 1.7-litre turbodiesel which  is economical and, as Juliet has already told us, responsive. I think she's wrong about the handling,  it can feel heavy at times, but it's  a real mile-muncher, lolloping up the motorway in effortless strides.When people see me in a test car they often ask: "What's it like?" Over the years I've learnt that they only really want a one-word answer. For the i40, it's "grown-up".
What? What were you saying? I'm sorry. I was distracted; I was too busy trying to remember which of the 35 tabs I have open in my web browser is the most important. Also my phone just told me I have another email, and Facebook just popped up with a message that someone wants to chat. I've got a newDMfrom someone on Twitter that I have to pay attention to. I've completely lost my train of thought: what were we talking about?Ah, yes: the web and its effects on our brains. Of course. Sorry. My apologies. You have my full attention.What is the web doing to our brains? Are the machines really mucking around with our neurochemistry and transforming us from level-headed concentration kings into dumbed-down, quick-fix click addicts?I'm afraid the jury's still out on this one. Unfortunately, unlike most of the topics I've written about this year, there's no definitive answer and a whole lot of contradictory evidence. More than any other topic I've untangled from the web since November 2010 – from sex to social change, from disability to death, from laughter to love – this is the one that really gets people's knickers in a twist. Because our cognition is ultimately who we are.How is the Internet Changing the Way You Think?asks the front cover of a new collection of thought pieces from the digerati. One of the contributors, Nicholas Carr – the author who brought us the polemicThe Shallows– reminds us that Google is making us dumber by delivering the lowest common denominator information based on the wisdom of crowds. Harvard professor Steven Pinker is adamant that "electronic media aren't going to revamp the brain's mechanisms of information processing". And neuroscientistSteven R Quartzreminds us how little we actually know about thinking in the first place. Many of the claims are a synthesis of hunches, agendas, anecdotal evidence and a response to the general paranoia that dogs us when faced with something unknown. The book is ultimately a calling card for the go-to experts with Opinion X on the subject matter. The proponents say their opponents are spouting rubbish. And on and on.But that's the rhetoric. Let's have at the evidence.Susan Greenfield is on the record as saying the web infantilises our brains. She maintained, in a2010 all-party hearingunder the heading, "What is the potential impact of technology, such as computer gaming, on the brain", that the here-and-now of screen culture doesn't allow for the development of an understanding of metaphor, abstract concepts and imagination. She said as much to me in the BBC documentaryThe Virtual Revolution. Then she said we are transforming into childlike, literal creatures with short attention spans because we're spending so much time playing games and poking our friends on Facebook.Baroness Greenfield's position has been widely criticised for its lack of empirical evidence.Also at the parliamentary hearing wasDr Vaughan Bell, neuropsychologist and co-author of theMind Hacksblog. Bell's commentary offered not only empirical evidence that technology may actually be improving our attentions but also the context that history has a tendency to repeat itself: new technologies – whether the printing press, the telegraph, the railway or the web – produce exactly the same concerns about our cognitive capabilities. How quickly we forget.There has not been enough time to address whether the web is actually rewiring our brains; it will be a few years before any longitudinal studies can offer evidence one way or another. And by then we'll be plugging the web directly into our spinal columns and browsing with our minds.This has not quelled the appetite for the continuing debates taking place in pubs, around dinner tables, in waiting rooms, in taxis and elsewhere about this new possible panacea/possible scourge. Despite the empirical work undertaken by researchers, we still maintain that it's the web's fault when we can't find our car keys or remember a friend's phone number. Astudypublished inSciencein August, Google Effects on Memory: Cognitive Consequences of Having Information at Our Fingertips, does suggest that we are now using the machine to store things we once used to keep in our transitive memories, but this is something we've been doing since we first put pen to papyrus. Now, instead of using our newfound cognitive space to solve world hunger, we're spending it laughing at videos of cats.Our consciousness is so subjective that our own experience of sentience is all we have to rely on to tell us that we exist. Any apparent modification of this – or even the possibility of something that might affect it negatively – challenges us to face who and what we are. And so, as Bell pointed out in parliament, new technologies get to the very heart of us. How we adapt to the new thing reminds us of our limitations as human beings.And I've distracted myself into a philosophical discussion…Over the last year I've insisted again and again that the web is not doing anything to us; that it merely presents us with a mirror that challenges us to face ourselves. The only way we can untangle ourselves from the web is to pay attention to this, and to reflect on what it is, in the 21st century, we do to ourselves and to one another.
Internet giant Google has deployed a seasonal touch to its search engine, greeting at least one festive query with a decorative flurry of snow.In the latest of a long line of tweaks to the service, users searching for "let it snow" are greeted to a decorative cascade of snowflakes in their browser.In a further twist, as the flakes continue to fall, the list of returned links begins to frost over.The list – including YouTube videos of Dean Martin, Frank Sinatra and Kylie Minogue singing Let It Snow – is restored to full visibility by clicking on a "defrost" button that eventually appears.Google regularly swaps its traditional multi-coloured logo with 'doodles' celebrating key dates or the lives of cult or influential figures.
Though release schedules were as skewed as ever towards Christmas, enough games arrived in the early part of 2011 to ensure that there are already some gems in the bargain bins. Whether you like to play on your phone, computer or massive TV, it's been a very good year.Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword, WiiNintendo has made what may be the world's most perfect adventure game, with a plethora of new ideas and motion control that feels as though you're actually using a sword without compromising playability.Nintendo, £32.99-£34.90Portal 2, Mac, PC, PS3 &amp; XboxPlunging you back into the world of comedy human experiments administered by robot ring-mistress, GLaDOS, Portal 2's puzzles are as magically inventive as ever while its surrounding drollery has been refined to an art.Valve, £12.99-£20Deus Ex: Human Revolution, PC, PS3 &amp; XboxExploring the dark side of human augmentation in a near future in which we can upgrade ourselves, Human Revolution rewards you for more than just butchery, weaving a Byzantine plot where good and evil can be tricky to differentiate.Square Enix, £19-£34.99DiRT 3, PC, PS3, XboxThe allure of rallying is obvious, with its absurdly powerful cars spraying fountains of gravel as they tear around the track, and the sport has never looked as gorgeous or felt as visceral as it does in DiRT 3, the current benchmark for off-road chaos.Codemasters, £22.85-£29.99Frozen Synapse, Mac &amp; PCUse tactics and guesswork about what your opponent might be scheming to plan their units' downfall in fanatical detail, before watching it all go unpredictably awry in practice. Demanding total concentration, it's what unhealthy obsessions are made of.Mode 7, £9.49LA Noire, PC, PS3 &amp; XboxThe first title to boast "digital actors", meaning its onscreen characters look like expressive humans rather than the usual collection of wall-eyed mannequins, this is a game of thought and intuition rather than dexterity.Rockstar, £16.91-£29.99Cover Orange, iOSWith its weird artwork and no less peculiar concept – protect an orange (or oranges) from destruction at the hands of an evil rain cloud by dropping a series of objects into its levels – Cover Orange is actually huge and wonderfully addictive.FDG Entertainment, 69pUncharted 3: Drake's Deception, PS3Francis Drake's scion returns for more charmingly engaging global adventuring, taking in grand puzzles, gunfights and good old-fashioned punch-ups set against truly spectacular scenery. Holding a joypad has rarely felt so swashbuckling.Sony Computer Entertainment, £24-£38.98Driver: San Francisco, PC, PS3, Wii &amp; XboxThe Driver series returns from years in the wilderness with this crazy tale of a comatose hero who can beam at will into any car in the city at any time. It's a mechanic that supplies near-endless driving fun and much comic silliness.Ubisoft, £17.99-£31.99The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, PC, PS3 &amp; XboxSkyrim is the closest you can get to exploring a mythic, dragon-infested land. Indescribably vast and beautiful, you can play for hundreds of hours and still make fresh discoveries. It's less a game, more a temporary way of life.Bethesda, £24.95-£39.95
For many years now, I've been unable to understand why anyone would take the bus when they could cycle. Why, I always asked in what I only now realise was a highly superior and irritating fashion, would you prefer to be stuck under someone else's armpit in a traffic jam when you could be nipping through it on a bike and be home in half the time? Then I moved temporarily to a&nbsp;foreign country and bought myself a cheap secondhand shopper with capricious brakes, a saddle offering all the comfort of a dry stone wall and three gears that shifted when I&nbsp;coughed. And I realised: riding a&nbsp;rubbish bike is no fun at all.It was against this backdrop that I&nbsp;took delivery of theBatavus Lento. Cycling away that night was a revelation. It was like having sex with somebody who knows how to do it after years with a&nbsp;blundering novice; like tasting real pesto after a lifetime eating it out of&nbsp;a&nbsp;jar. Turning the pedals was effortless. A light tap on the brakes brought me to a firm yet peaceful stop. The front light, powered by a&nbsp;dynamo in the wheel hub, was so&nbsp;bright that I had enormous fun deliberately dazzling friends while pretending to beMulder or Scully with their industrial torches. There was a cute little pump built into the rack on the back, not that I ever needed it. I was in love.Batavus is a Dutch brand, but unlike traditional sit-up-and-beg Dutch bikes, the Lento is a pretty speedy number. The seven gears offer an excellent range, though living in the north German plains, I&nbsp;never needed to dip below number two. If I was ever in top gear, usually barrelling home down Berlin's ridiculously wide and flat Karl-Marx-Allee, I was really flying. The fact that it looks a&nbsp;little ploddy may be a disadvantage to some, but being underestimated by men on racing bikes is one of my favourite things. I love swooshing past while they're fiddling with their clip-on shoes at the traffic lights.But like most love affairs, reality kicked in eventually and I started to nit-pick. Even though the frame is&nbsp;aluminium, it was still a hulk of a&nbsp;bike that was difficult to carry up steps and fit through narrow doorways. The back rack was too chunky to clip my pannier on to. I couldn't understand why the back light required batteries. And I resented slightly that the step-through ladies version came only in a tediously girly white or purple, whereas the men's model, with a crossbar, was offered in black or blue.But those are the sort of quibbles you can live with, a toothpaste squeezing/seat-up sort of violation rather than grounds for divorce. The&nbsp;Lento is a true joy to ride – and&nbsp;far better than taking the bus.Batavus Lento DeluxePrice€699/£717Gears7-speed Shimano NexusBrakesShimano rollerbrakesFrameAluminium (also available as male model with crossbar)ExtrasMini pump integrated into the back rack, rear wheel lock, lights
The US House Judiciary committee considering the controversial Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) abruptly adjourned Friday with no new vote date set. The surprise victory for the tech community came amidst a barrage of online criticism and in spite of the fact that most politicians on the committee appeared to support the act.On the second day of discussions committee chairman and chief sponsor of the legislation, Rep Lamar Smith (R-Texas), conceded to calls for further investigation of claims that the legislation will damage the infrastructure of the internet.Top media firms, including some of the biggest names in Hollywood, have been lobbying hard for the legislation claiming online piracy is costing them billions in lost sales and jobs.But executives from Google, Wikipedia and other high profile tech firms have accused the committee of pursuing the same strategy used by China to censor its internet and claimed the legislation as drafted would damage the Internet's global structure.The online community has rallied against Sopa. Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales threatened to pull his website offline if the legislation wasn't amended. The hashtag Sopa has been trending on Twitter this week as people worried about its implications.But Sopa isn't dead. Smith said the hearing would resume at the "earliest practical day that Congress is in session." With the Christmas holidays coming, the next hearing will be weeks away at the earliest and with the 2012 election looming it will become increasingly difficult to schedule an early vote.At the hearing, Rep Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) urged Smith to postpone the session until technical experts could be brought in to discuss the impact of altering the internet's domain-naming system to fight piracy.The tech industry's biggest names have come out against Sopa, including computer scientist Vint Cerf, one of the founders of the internet. He recently warned Sopa would begin "a worldwide arms race of unprecedented 'censorship' of the Web." Stuart Baker, former homeland security assistant secretary has also warned Sopa would do "great damage to internet security."Given that the majority of the committee's members seemed to be in favor of the legislation, the decision to delay will come as a major blow to the media firms that have lobbied hard for its passage. Holmes Wilson, co-founder of Fight For The Future, a lobbying group, said: "It's a huge victory, if a temporary one. This is not what they wanted."He said it was clear that the number of people watching the proceedings online and discussing it on Twitter and Facebook made it difficult to pass the bill without greater scrutiny. "In the past legislation could just have been passed with few people noticing. That isn't possible anymore," he said.The legislation is not the only anti-piracy bill now passing through Washington. Another bill, know as Protect IP, is also pending.
What is Microsoft up to, exactly? In the past few days it has released a slew of apps for the iPad and iPhone:Xbox Live(released on 7 December),Windows Live Messenger(updated on 5 December), the barcode-readingMicrosoft Tag(updated 5 December), the Xbox gameKinectimals(13 December).Most remarkable of all:Skydrive, its cloud storage service (released 13 December) andOneNote, its productivity solution formerly seen only on Windows tablets, which got a release and then update on 12 December. There's alsoHalo Waypoint(released 10 December) and theAge of Empires Crafting Guide(released 8 December).You can see thefull list of Microsoft iPhone apps in the UK store; sorted by popularity, on the iPhone so far it's Windows Live Messenger, Xbox Live, Photosynth, Skydrive and OneNote.On the iPad, there are just four: Xbox Live, OneNote, Kinectimals and SkyDrive (in order of popularity). They're all free apart from Kinectimals, which is priced at £1.99, although OneNote has an "introductory pricing" model: the first 500 notes are free, and then it costs £2.99.(The US Store also includes"Onit"for the iPad and iPhone andWonderwall, which are basically MSN condensed.)If you know, as we do, that Microsoft will be offering Windows 8 for tablets next year (as Steve Sinofsky showed off earlier this year), then this looks suicidal. Why would Microsoft bolster its rival's business by offering products which will keep them away from its prospective tablets? It looks like madness.Another viewFrom another point of view, it makes perfect sense for Microsoft - which derives around 90% of its revenue and even more of its profits from software - to makes its software available on every platform it can. For example, Excel wasavailable in GUI form on the Mac before Windows, and Excel 3.0 was the first third-party product to support Apple's System 7 software.So Microsoft is just trying to rake in the cash - right?Not really. It might get some money from those OneNote users, but probably not enough to cover the development costs (which, knowing Microsoft, will be pretty high; at a rough estimate, you could probably bill the time at around $1m, which means it would need to sell something ahead of 300,000 upgrades to make it work.If not that, then what? Including Xbox Live is a really clever move: it's putting the Xbox platform right there on the most successful handheld gaming console in the world.That's a move as neat as Apple's when it launched iTunes for Windows (including the iTunes Music Store) in October 2003. That astonished and enraged Microsoft executives, who saw Apple using the ubiquity of their platform to build a new empire with the iPod and digital music sales. And we knowhow that turned out.Well, the boot's on the other foot now. Microsoft is using Apple's success in the tablet space (where third-quarter figures from an analyst company I know give the iPad 77% - and that's on shipment numbers, so expect that sales figures favour the iPad even more) to boost its own position and prepare for Windows 8 next year.Learn, don't copyConsider that Apple is doing everything that Microsoft wants to do with ARM-based Windows 8 tablets (which are distinct from Windows 8 desktops, and from - if they appear - Intel-based Windows 8 tablets). It has an App Store. ARM-based Windows 8 tablets (hereafter ABW8s, pronounced ab-weihgts) will have an app store. Apple vets app before they go on sale. Microsoft will vet ABW8s apps before they go on sale. Apple has a revenue split deal. Microsoft will have a revenue split deal. And so on.You can also be sure that Microsoft is watching every bit of data that flows from app downloads and interaction with Xbox Live and OneNote.Every single bit. And its engineers will use that information to figure out the best implementation of their apps on their tablet version.In one respect, the iPad does something for OneNote that Windows 7 couldn't: it gives Microsoft lots of hands-on users. There will probably be more users of OneNote on the iPad by the end of this year than there have ever been on any tablet version of Windows.Which leads us to the next big and really key questions. Easy one first: will there be a version of Office for ABW8s? Hard one after it: will there be a version of Office for the iPad?To answer these, you have to remember that Microsoft is now a beast which moves forward by protecting the revenues and profits of its two principal products, Windows and Office. Anything - any decision - which threatens to undermine those (rather than add to them, or extend them) is rejected at the highest level.Office on Windows ARM?So, the first question.Answer: obviously, yes. Notice that with each ABW8, Microsoft has protected its Windows monopoly, so that's a good first step. But will they be full-price Office? That might be hard to make work on a tablet - though you can be sure there will be people calling for it.  (Some people don't know when they're in User Interface hell, and just want it worse).Also, the price of Office on a tablet would be hefty, and it isn't light on space: thestandard install of Office 2010 requires 3GB(thanks, Nick Radcliffe), which would be constraining if you're starting with a tablet that meets theminimum Windows 8 requirements of having 16GB of space(PDF). You'd quickly run out of space. Contrast Apple's iWorks for iPad (Numbers spreadsheet, Pages word processor and Keynote presentations program), which weigh in at around 300MB in total - one-tenth as much.But Microsoft would like to get the Office revenue - and by this time next year, all tablets will probably ship with 32GB of storage as standard. Office wouldn't be such a weight then. Microsoft will produce a version of Office for ABW8s, and it will charge as much as it can get the market to bear for it.Possibly that won't be a lot; possibly it will be like that on the Windows Phone platform - using Office 365 to synchronise content. That would allow it to charge, but not so much. Expect though that it will try to produce the feature-complete version and charge lots for it.Office on iPad?Protect Windows revenues; protect Office revenues. Those are Microsoft's mantras. It has put Xbox on the iPad because it extends the platform. It has put OneNote on it too because it gives it vital information about how people use the app.Now, the challenges. To begin with, Office would compete with iWork - where buying all three apps costs a grand total of £20.97. (No missing decimal; it's just under £21.) They can read Word, Excel and Powerpoint files, though without Office's more advanced bells and whistles.Office has a rather higher price. If Microsoft were to offer Office on the iPad, would it cannibalise its sales on the PC? Probably not at present - anybody who has an iPad either has a computer with Office. If they don't, then any sale is additive.What about further down the line? Would the iPad version take sales away from a future ABW8 version? That's where it gets more tricky. Will iPad owners get ABW8s? Probably not in a hurry.But: would they get them if Office were only available on ABW8s, and didn't appear on iPads?That's much harder to answer. But it's the presence of doubt - the possibility that Windows revenue might be lost by putting Office on iPads (because people wouldn't buy ARM tablets) - which suggests to me that Office won't appear on the iPad. If there's the possibility that the iPad might become a platform that would threaten either of the pillars of profit, then Microsoft will shun it.OneNote is easy to make available: it's not core Office functionality, and it provides good feedback for the future. But despite the flurry of mobile apps from Microsoft, and those on iPad, I think that putting Office on it would be a step too far. Microsoft won't do it - or if it does, then either the price will be astronomical, or the functionality will be severely limited. But of the three, avoidance sounds like the best alternative for preserving the business.
After months of hype and speculation, Zynga, the 4-year-old games company behind FarmVille and Words with Friends, has had a disappointing debut on the Nasdaq stock exchange.Many tech firms enjoy spectacular first-day "pops", with stratospheric rises in their share price in the early hours of trading. Zynga's shares, priced at $10, rose 11% initially, before closing out the day at $9.45. Wall Street, it seems, isn't playing Zynga's game. At least not yet.The company, which claims 60 million people a day play its games, raised about $1bn from the share sale, and is worth a total of $7bn, far less than the $20bn that had been expected earlier this year.Founder Mark Pincus, who named the company after his pet bulldog, now owns a stake worth over $1bn. He cashed in some of his shares ahead of the sale, selling a small portion of his holding for more than $109m back in March, according to regulatory filings.Unlike many other young web companies, Zynga is profitable. The company makes money by selling virtual goods in its popular games such as CityVille, FarmVille and Mafia Wars. In the first nine months of the year, Zynga's revenue doubled to $829m from a year earlier, but its net income declined 35% to $31m.Zynga is highly dependent on Facebook, whose users account for 94% of Zynga's revenue, according to analyst Arvind Bhatia of Sterne Agee Group. Bhatia issued a negative report on the company Tuesday claiming growth is slowing at the company and its margins are under pressure.Facebook takes a third of the game firm's revenues, and analysts expect Zynga to use its new cash pile to expand into the rapidly growing mobile gaming market and away from its social networking.John Wilson, partner at San Francisco law firm Sherman &amp; Sterling, said Zynga was a major beneficiary of the Facebook effect. "It's in the social network space and it's affiliated with Facebook," he said. Facebook gives the company an "extraordinary reach. And they are able to leverage that relationships with the most remarkable company story since Google," he said. "The real test is where will it be six months from now."Perhaps Zynga's lack of zing isn't such a bad thing. Many recent tech IPOs have enjoyed a first-day pop only to quickly lose steam. Groupon surged 31% on its debut as a public company, and business-focused social network LinkedIn jumped 84%. Both are now trading well below those prices.According to Birinyi analyst Kevin Pleines, tech IPOs have popped an average of 31% from their IPO price after the opening bell on their first day of trading. But 18 of the 30 stocks he looked at are now below their IPO price, and 24 of the 30 are below their opening price on their first day of trading.Wilson said the pops were part of the process and that the big winners in technology, such as Google, had similarly leapt up in price on their first day of trading but gone on to outperform."The issue now is that there is so much money on the sidelines," Wilson added. "Pension funds, hedge funds, private investors. And they are getting so little from fixed income investments that when something with potential comes along, there's a stampede."Zynga's debut is the latest test for an IPO market that took a hit after a summer slump. Many other new tech firms were planning IPOs earlier this year before stock markets were thrashed by the crisis in Europe and the debt ceiling row in Washington.Wilson said he expects many of those firms to go public next year, led by Facebook. Figures leaked this week suggest Facebook will aim for a valuation of $100bn when it goes public next year – about the same value as soft drinks and food giant Pepsi Co.
So long, Delicious. It's been fun, but in the end the combination of Yahoo's indifference and the attempts by your new owners Avos to turn you away from being something like the plumbing for the net, and into a sort-of news windows, haven't worked out for us.The upshot is that we're moving from your free service to the paid-for bookmarking service provided byPinboard. It's the end of a longstanding relationship, but at the end of the day (and into the night) we needed plumbing.And our experience might be educative for those who are looking for trends going into the new year. With the economic noises off getting more and more gloomy, web services with no visible means of financial support might struggle a bit; whereas those which take money at the door at least get rapid feedback on how things are going.For those not up to speed, which is probably almost everyone: Guardian Technology's linkbucket (as we call it) of links that we think are interesting, which is updated through the day, and then collected each morning for the Boot Up post, has changed. Not visibly; just behind the scenes.You shouldn't see any difference. The Boot Up post will still contain stories and links that we think are important, educative, informative, entertaining, or just plain weird, but always notable in some way.Both Delicious and Pinboard do pretty much the same thing: they let you bookmark sites through the day, add some text to your bookmark, add some tags, and store them either as private or public bookmarks on their site under a particular username. The sites get the benefit of being able to see what sites are trending, and what gets bookmarked, and which tags people are deploying over the same or different sites. Given enough analysis, you might figure out something useful about online trends.Delicious was (we think) the first to do this; we had high hopes for Joshua Schachter's site when it wasbought by Yahoo in December 2005. It seemed like one of the first wave of web 2.0 sites, in that it let users show what was interesting - rather as Digg and Reddit were doing. Yahoo suggested (through then-exec Brad Horowitz) that the site was looking to build up the idea of "social search", since it would be able to see what a huge span of people was looking at.Well, that didn't quite happen, but Delicious remained useful because it let you bookmark things, and it had RSS and an API. Together, those meant you could build useful things with it. The price Yahoo paid - estimated at around $100 per user at the time - didn't make much sense, but then that was often the Yahoo way. Yahoo never charged for use of Delicious.Then things got tight. In December 2010, Delicious was marked for "sunset" by Yahoo's executives, and in Aprilit was sold to Avos, which is run by Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, the founders of YouTube (who cashed out some time back) for an undisclosed sum, but almost certainly a long way south of what Yahoo originally paid.And since then? Avos has been tweaking the look and feel, changing the way that tagging was done, altering the RSS feed, and doing a lot of server maintenance.Unfortunately our needs weren't for social search. We just wanted somewhere we could dump our links and then reconstitute them (via calls to the API and a little bit of PHP scripting using curl) into a post, ready bright and early each morning.Pinboard logo: the bookmarking service that's happy to be paid-forSplitting it upThat in turn meant that any time the API was tweaked so that the feed changed, or whenever the server was down for maintenance while we were up for tagging a page, or when the method of tagging changed (moving from using the tab key to autocomplete and offering a list of suggestions as you typed, to full typing, no autosuggest and a comma to separate tags) we fell a little more out of love with Delicious. It was like any longstanding relationship without a financial commitment: you know that sorting out who owns which CDs and books will be painful, so you put off doing it.But eventually earlier this week Delicious began adding even more detail to saved pages (an image of the site; quite why that's thought useful we don't know, but it's their site..) while for hours its servers remained inaccessible for our key task - bookmarking pages.And that's when the relationship had to end. I had set up a Pinboard account some time back, and paid the required amount for it; we'd also kept the account synchronised so that pages bookmarked in Delicious would already be in Pinboard. So we were ready to go.A few tweaks to the PHP and we were ready; and since Wednesday that's what we've been doing.No regrets, no debtsAt which point we have to emphasise: Hurley and Chen are completely within their rights to do as they like with Delicious. We didn't pay them anything; they owe us nothing. The most unpleasant sound online is the keening of the falsely entitled; this is emphatically not a complaint that we didn't like where Delicious is/was going. It's simply pointing out that if they wanted to keep us as users, then we were demanding a particular uptime. They didn't meet it, but that's completely fine. They've got other objectives.(That same sort of keening noise has come from some people who have used Google's Reader, andhaven't liked the changes there. Sorry, folks, but if you don't like it, find something else. Not even Google owes you.)So we wish Hurley and Chen well with what they are aiming to do - which seems, judging by the front ofDelicious.com, to be to create a sort of "social news" service with a side order of broad interest - a bit like Flipboard but for the web. That holds all sorts of promise. (If they want to get in touch and explain, that would be great.)Unfortunately, what Delicious is doing doesn't quite mirror what we want out of it - which is a piece of plumbing where we can store our bookmarks and then extract a subset daily. Plumbing is dull. Plumbing is also essential. That's why you pay money when you get it done.Pinboard, it turns out, isn't into "social news", but it is in to taking our money.The vault of golden coinsStarted in mid-2009, Pinboard has an interesting business model: the one-off fee for joining rises as more people join. If you got in on the ground floor, it would cost you a few cents. When we joined, back in December or so (when Delicious was looking ropey), it cost about $4. Now the price is above $9.50. That's for a lifetime, note - not monthly or annual. Still looks like a good deal.In a post on the Pinboard blog entitled "Don't be a free user",  Pinboard's founder Maciej Ceglowski notes that getting paid makes all the difference to a startup - and that people shouldn't resent it.What if a little site you love doesn't have a business model? Yell at the developers! Explain that you are tired of good projects folding and are willing to pay cash American dollar to prevent that from happening. It doesn't take prohibitive per-user revenue to put a project in the black. It just requires a number greater than zero.He adds (somewhere ironically, you suspect): "DISCLAIMER: I run a paid bookmarking site. Every morning I wake up and dive into my vault of golden coins."He alsopointed out last December, when Yahoo's executives first told the Delicious doggie to hop in the boot because they were going to go for a little ride in the mountains - prompting the first big exodus of Delicious users - that"If Pinboard were not a paid service, we could not have stayed up on December 16, and I would have been forced to either seek outside funding or close signups. Instead, I was immediately able to hire contractors, add hardware, and put money in the bank against further development."Pinboard is a very effective service which Ceglowski designed to be exactly compatible with the first version of the Delicious API (and he seems to have been able to follow its feints since). There are also browser bookmarking systems with autocomplete tags (bliss) where you tab to the next one (more bliss) and the return key sends it (even more bliss) and if you want to update the tags or comments on a page, you return to it and hit the browser bookmark and it doesn't re-bookmark it (nirvana).Sometimes, you don't need glitz; you need plumbing. We're unpacking the CDs and books even as we speak.• You can find theGuardian Technology linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest links,tag a link there with "gdntech".
"I'm better connected to people who I'd deliberately lost touch with over the years than I am with people that I really care about," says Stuart Arnott, by way of explaining the background forMindings- a service designed to keep families in contact."I walk about with a mobile phone tweeting, sending texts and broadcasting my life on Facebook, but the one person I'd like to be better connected with is my dad, who's in Scotland on his own, virtually housebound and can't use a mobile phone or a computer."Arnott's father was a key part of his presentation at BlueVia's recent Power Of One conference in London, when he pitched Mindings to an audience of mobile developers and industry executives. The startup subsequently became one of five winners at the Cambridge Wireless Discovering Start-Ups 2011 competition.Here's a video trailer explaining how the service works:Mindings didn't start life as just an app. London-based Arnott built his own wirelessly-connected digital photo frame to give to his father after his mother died. The idea: he'd send photos to it from his mobile phone, and manage them from his device too.Then he added the ability to receive text messages, then a calendar that he could remotely add events, appointments and reminders to. And crucially, Arnott got feedback from the frame to his phone, letting him know that his dad was seeing all this content. This home-made device (well, service really) is what has become Mindings."It's not about me controlling him: it's helping him live independently," he says. "Give him a Mindings device, and he can look at pictures of his granddaughter, text messages and reminders of the things that are important to him. And there is a stream of information coming back to me that dad is alive, well and interacting with the world."After building that first device, Arnott found that whenever he talked to people about it, they wanted one too. But he encountered a chicken-and-egg dilemma: he needed funds to get a production line up and running to sell to customers, but potential investors all wanted him to already have a few hundred people using it, rather than just one man in Scotland.And thus, Mindings became an app, rather than a physical photo frame. It runs on iPad and Android tablets, but there's also a desktop PC application, depending on what device people have bought for their elderly relatives."I realised that this is the way to get it into people's homes and get them using it," says Arnott. "Mindings is a service, not a device. This week, we've had the first version of the software through from our developers, running on my battered old Sony Vaio laptop from 2005, a £100 Binatone Android tablet and an iPad."In late January, Arnott plans to get a few hundred people beta-testing the Mindings apps, to get some feedback to show those potential investors.Mindings isn't just about elderly people, though. In the summer of 2011, a clinical study was conducted in a hospital in London, with five of the prototype Mindings frames given to patients recovering from major brain injuries."We found that their ability to remember events was amazing," says Arnott. "A picture would appear in the frame in the morning of a party they'd been at, and they'd be sitting looking at it recalling the events. When a family member came in, they'd talk about it."Arnott stresses that this is why Mindings is not a substitute for visiting elderly relatives or talking to them on the phone. In fact, he sees the service as a way to spark conversations and give people more to talk about, rather than less.Mindings is likely to be a subscription-based service, with families paying a small monthly fee. Arnott agrees that there is scope for selling it in to care homes and hospitals in the future too, although more trials and feedback will be required before that happens.He's excited about the potential for Mindings to help other families connect in the way he and his father have. "It's almost broken me financially, working for a couple of years to get it out there," he says."I can't wait. I can go into a shop to buy a burglar alarm, a baby monitor or a blood pressure meter, but where can I buy equipment to help me communicate and look after my family? This is what Mindings can be."
Ben 10 Galactic Racing ...Xbox 360/PS3/DS/3DS/Wii; £29.99 cert 3+; D3If you're after a fun, cartoony racing game that looks good, play well and is more than a little reminiscent of Mario Kart, then get yourself Sonic and Sega All Stars Racing – the existence of which renders this Ben 10 Galactic Racing pretty much redundant. Not that it's bad – it's surprisingly slick given the fairly undistinguished (if hugely popular) cartoon it's based on. There are 15 playable characters and 25 courses – some basic, some eye-poppingly psychedelic, most somewhere in between. Dotted around each is a standard selection of power-ups, ramps and hazards. It's clearly targeted at younger gamers, although it's difficult enough to challenge players of most abilities. If you're on the look out for a Christmas present for a young Ben 10 obsessive, it would certainly be a decent choice, and one likely to keep him or her amused well into the new year. However, of all the cart racers in all the world of video games, it does nothing to stick its head above the pack.Adam BoultGo Vacation ...Wii; £39.99; cert 7+; NintendoGo Vacation is a mini-game compilation firmly in the Wii Sports Resort vein. You're a visitor to Kawawii Island, with four different resorts boasting a dizzying array of activities for you (and a few friends, ideally) to get stuck into. As well as the games, Go Vacation encourages you to explore the island, collect daft outfits and even furnish your villa. The 50 activities aren't all perfect, but most are well-executed and challenging enough in both single-player and multi-player modes to be interesting and fun. If you're not a fan of mini-games or party play, you'll struggle to get much out of Go Vacation, but for everyone else, it's a surprisingly deep and enjoyable experience.Mary HamiltonKirby Mass Attack ...DS; £34.99; cert 3+; NintendoThis is a brilliant platformer that showcases much of what people love about Nintendo. HAL Labs has succeeded in getting the most out of the DS's abilities to create a game that's highly original yet easy to get the hang of. Present and correct are an idiosyncratic lead character, a fantasy game-world with consistent aesthetics and internal logic, and an extremely strong focus on putting gameplay first and making sure the whole thing is as fun as possible. Kirby, in case you've not been introduced, is a pink blob with arms and legs who resides in the land of Popstar. As Mass Attack begins he's hit with an evil spell that splits him into 10 tiny versions of himself. It's up to you to guide the mini-Kirbys, using the DS's stylus and touchscreen, through the game's many imaginative levels – solving puzzles, swarming over enemies and collecting fruit along the way. In these days of 3D handheld gaming, a 2D platformer like this might initially appear a little old fashioned, but don't be deceived – it's easily one of the most enjoyable games of the year.Adam Boult
Apple has launched its music streaming and "cloud" storage service iTunes Match in the UK, allowing the technology giant and music industry to generate revenue from years of illicit downloads.The ambitious upgrade to Apple's iTunes Music Store was introduced in the US in November, but was made available to UK users yesterday.The service replicates all music stored on a user's computer – including illegally-downloaded material and tracks ripped from CDs – with better-quality alternatives from its own "cloud" for £21.99 a year. The music service forms part of iTunes in the Cloud, Apple's internet-based locker that allows users to view photos, videos and other media across a number of devices.The launch comes as internet rivals Apple, Google and Amazon battle it out with a new generation of services, such as music streaming sites Spotify and Deezer, for users' time and money online. Google and Amazon earlier this year launched similar versions of Apple's iTunes in the Cloud – whichlaunched in the UK in Octoberwithout the ability to synchronise music – after striking US-only deals with the four music majors.The launch represents a significant marker for the music industry which has been plagued by years of illicit downloads and is traditionally wary about new digital services by technology companies. iTunes Match users are able to stream and store up to 25,000 tracks, including those ripped from CDs and not purchased from iTunes, with the new system.Mark Mulligan, an independent music analyst, said the launch was a significant moment in the music industry's battle against online piracy."This wouldn't happen with any other company. Apple basically owns most of the music industry's most valuable digital customers," said Mulligan. "This is not so much the music industry saying 'we've lost the fight' [against piracy] but more pulling out the troops and saying 'let's make money from that which has already happened'."The world has changed. There is a recognition from record label executives that the fight against piracy can't be definitively won. Apple is saying [to labels], 'we're going to give you revenue if you give us licences. The whole debate about iTunes Match amounting to an amnesty is a red herring. This is the world's most valuable digital music service investing in something that's actually incredibly valuable to the music industry."A spokesman for PRS for Music, the UK trade body for songwriters and music publishers, said Apple had "done the right thing" by obtaining licences before launching the service.Failure to reach royalty agreements with the major music groups – Universal, EMI, Sony and Warner Music – delayed the expansion of iTunes Match from the US.
So This is England is over again. For three luminous, heart-wrenching nights, the lives of Shaun, Woody, Lol and the crew completely transformed the mood and quality of advent TV, giving us a break from the mawkish seasonal "treats" we're more familiar with.Shane Meadows' semi-autobiographical series has become known for its gritty realism, its grasp on the dank, cold colours of crumbling council estates, but also for the warmth of its brilliant cast.Interestingly, capturing the feel of these places and these lives has been as much about technology as it has about Meadows mining his own childhood and teen years for inspiration. Behind the scenes, This Is England charts how Meadows has struggled with budgetary limitations throughout his career, and how the digital revolution has allowed him to revel in his own style of filmmaking.I met Meadows back in April, when the current series was still being filmed. We sat in the brilliantly chintzy front room of a large semi-detached house, set to be the venue of a student party. It's also where Shaun is offered his first and probably last ever olive by the over-ingratiating dad of his new middle class college mate."It spins back to some autobiographical stuff, from when I first went to college," Meadows expains. "I started to break away from that gang and went to further myself, if you like. But Shaun only went to study drama because there was a ratio of 13 boys to 16 girls, and two of those boys were gay."So, one alpha male and loads of girls. Which is based on my own story. I got access to this whole other world. I was going to houses like this, I had all these mates in Uttoxeter – it was the first time I'd ever seen a fucking chicken kiev."This is England 88 has been made entirely with digital cameras – and for Meadows, that hasn't just been about money, it's been about creative emancipation. When he started making shorts in the early nineties, he was using cheap home video cameras rather than film, and came up against a barrage of snobbery."I went to a film club and said I want to submit my tape for a competition," he says. "They asked for a 16mm print, and I asked, 'what's that?' and handed them a video cassette. They said, 'no, we only screen film'."Unperturbed, he arranged his own festival, hiring out a local porn cinema as a venue. "It was only on a very small scale," he says, "no fucker was flying over from the States to see it. But we were quickly over-subscribed. It turned out there were loads of people making videos and there was nowhere to get them exhibited. There were only 15 seats in this old porn cinema and 80 people turned up, so we had to run the same tapes about six times."While home camcorders were cheap and light, what they produced always looked like video – it was unavoidable. But as digital cameras first started arriving at reasonable prices, Meadows quickly found that the footage they produced was more malleable, and closer in look to film."The dream was a 35mm chip in a camera I understood," he says. "I wanted to be able to have that quality without bastards telling me that it's not achievable or affordable. And that's only just happened with digital really."So for the first time ever, I am able to bring my own personal camera on to set. I've been shooting alongside theRed cameras, which, once you start adding all the bits to them, are very expensive and very cumbersome. It's like what happened with music 10 years ago – you didn't have to go to a studio any more because you could get 32 tracks in your bedroom for a couple of hundred quid. That's coming in to the film world."Another benefit, of course, is that there's no film to develop. Meadows shoots a lot of footage; he allows long languorous takes to extract every ounce of emotion from intimate scenes, and he films all his rehearsals with the actors, just in case there's a spontaneous, irreproducible moment of brilliance that would otherwise be lost forever.The day before I visited the set, he shot four hours of footage, experimenting and messing about with the cast, developing scenes on the fly. "With my movies in the past, I couldn't really go beyond two or three takes, because it was so expensive to develop the materials," he says. "I improvise everything, but the 20-30 minute takes I wanted were impossible on film. Ten minutes was the maximum.""And we were always under financial pressure," says Mark Herbert, Meadows' longtime producer. "There were always people on my back, and then I'm on Shane's going, 'you'll have to cut down on the film stock, it's costing too much'. Those conversations just don't happen any more."Right now, Shane is in the house, rehearsing with his actors. We're not watching it, but he gets the scene working – just about. Then we go in, the director of photography does his thing, and we can just keep shooting. There is no mag changing and all that – we're shooting considerably more material than we did on the first This is England."There's also that quality, of time and subtlety, that have made, say, the quiet, harrowing scenes between Woody and Lol more moving."We can be much more intimate," says Herbert. "We can be really, really close; there's no one shouting, come on, we've got to move on. Also, we have a guy in a van checking the footage: you can just go, 'did that work alright?', and he'll come back five minutes later and say, 'yeah, it's all fine, the focus was fine, we didn't see that satellite dish'. So you know you can move on; you're able to get more footage."Keen to mess around with the possibilities of digital movie-making, Meadows gave every cast member aSony Bloggie, a tiny camcorder that looks like a mobile phone but shoots in decent HD. The idea was that they'd produce lots of behind the scenes material, which could then be used as teasers, or as extras on the DVD release.The cast embraced the concept wholeheartedly. Andrew Ellis, who plays Gadget, is a tech-fan who has been recording non-stop. George Newton, who plays Banjo, took the camera and filmed himself having a gold tooth fitted. There was just one rule. "I've introduced  a £1,000 fine for penis shots," says Meadows. "And if they put their willy on someone else's phone, we'll have to do a line up – that'll be a double fine. Actors are very cunning, they're very deceitful people."But there are also serious creative possibilities here. "It comes down to this lovely freedom that musicians have always had," says Meadows. "They can write and experiment with their songs on an acoustic guitar, and there's a purity to it that's better sometimes. But as a filmmaker, it used to be that you'd shoot on ropey 8mm or Hi-8 and it never really showed your talent. Now, I shoot a lot on phones and Bloggies, because they're always to hand, they're always in your pocket."I've been going through ideas with Mark. I don't think we're far away from a film being made on one of these £100 buy-at-Currys jobs. What happened with the Blair Witch Project is only a step away from shooting a movie on a phone, and getting it released. Obviously, you have to be realistic about your subject matter – you couldn't make Star Trek on one."At the close of our interview, we wandered outside into the front garden, temporarily a mass of trailing wires and camera equipment. It was here a few weeks before filming, that This is England 88 took another of Meadows' apparently typical last-minute narrative detours."As we were walking down the drive, there was this contraption that the house owners had dumped in the garden – it looked like a robot out of Star Wars," he explains. "It was actually this old one-man sauna. And it made me completely change the basis of what the family were and how the party scene would work."I wanted the whole thing to open with this queue of lads, tops off, shouting 'hurry up, you dirty bastard!' You think they're all waiting to have sex with the same person, but when the door opens, Gadget's in the sauna, his head above the parapet."So yes, I wrote the script, but then I turned up on location and just went, 'fuck me! Right, the mum's going to be a beautician!' The whole casting and everything changed based around someone leaving this bloody dirty device in the garden!"This is England 88 can be watched now on4oD.Filming for (almost) nothing – the Shane Meadows processMeadows shot This is England 88 mostly on a Red, a high-end digital camera used extensively throughout the movie industry. But he also has a much cheaper Sony PMW-F3 handheld."I'm not really one for bells and whistles," he says. "I want a camera that's great in low light so if I've not got a crew I can still make something with my mates. If I want to make something like a Le Donk and Scor-zay-zee, I can take that camera and shoot it. Here, we're adding £15-20,000 lenses with matt boxes and a little screen. But I can take all that off, get an adaptor put a Canon zoom on it and shoot at no cost."The whole post-production experience has also been demystified in the digital era. Meadows complains about going to colour-grading labs in the nineties and being told the look he wanted for his early movies wasn't achievable."With film, you used to get your look through lighting," he says. "Now, you do that a bit, but you try to get everything quite flat – your black levels are low, your whites aren't peaking – so when you get to the grade, you master the look afterwards. That was an alien concept 15 years ago."The DoP was having to burn the look into the film really because the twats in the lab were no help. They'd just go, do you want it to look warmer or colder? And I'd say, it's not a fucking central heating advert!'. That was their basic range. I asked if they could add more contrast and they'd say, 'It's impossible, what are you talking about" Three or four years later everyone's doing it and those people lost their jobs."
Max Payne. Maximum pain. Never has a video game character been stuck with such an autobiographical name. We were, after all, introduced to this archetypical tough New York cop just as drug addicts slaughtered his wife and baby.In the game's sequel, sadistically subtitled The Fall of Max Payne, he forms a spiky relationship with assassin Mona Sax, only to see her gunned to death by a Russian mobster at the downbeat finale. Even for a tough New York cop, that's got to hurt.Fast-forward eight years and things aren't getting any rosier. Max is unemployed and living in a dingy apartment in Hoboken, New Jersey. He's washed up, washed out, addicted to painkillers and propping up bars like some reject from a Bukowski poem.With a pitiless eye for detail, the art team at Rockstar Vancouver has crafted a nightmarish bachelor hovel for the character, all empty takeaway packets, peeling wallpaper, busted furniture and god-knows-what staining the carpets and mattresses.Then on a snowy night in New York, Payne bumps into an old colleague, Raul Passos. Raul tells him there is lucrative security work available in South America; he says there's a job Max is perfect for. "What, you can get me work sitting in a bar all day feeling sorry for myself?" Max growls in that distinctive monotone. "Where do I sign up?"But Payne needs an escape route – he's just killed the psychotic son of a notorious mob boss, Anthony DeMarco, and pa is out for revenge. Back at the wretched flat, Passos is selling the job to Payne, when DeMarco and his mob turn up for a shoot-out.And we're into the action. "This game is all about the mechanics," explains Rockstar's VP of development, Jeronimo Barrera. "We wanted it to be the most fully-realised third-person shooter ever made; it needed to have the craziest physics, the most accurate and responsive controls. It had to be visually stunning. Running around shooting people is essentially what you do in this game – but it had to be the most fun you've ever had running around shooting people."As Payne bolts through the rotten corridors of his decomposing building, bullets smash through windows and heavies can be heard clambering upstairs, shouting insults. Although the Rockstar spokesperson showing me the game stresses that this is not a cover shooter, there is an "intelligent" cover mechanic – on the Xbox 360, hitting X makes Max stick to any nearby wall or object suitable for protection. From here, he can spray bullets in any direction, angling his gun around or over the obstacle.There is environmental damage, too. As Max fires back, the window frames shatter; objects smash and fall. It's a detailed, intricate world.It's also typical Rockstar.Just as Max appears to be cornered at one point, a mad-eyed Vietnam vet bursts out of a nearby apartment with a shotgun, blasting down a couple of mobsters, and shouting: "Come to me you sinners, you evil men – you will be cleansed in fire!"Later, we can sidetrack into his apartment, which is stuffed with bomb-making equipment, the walls covered in scrawled messages. It's the sort of surreal interlude that harks back to the previous Payne titles, but is also heavy with the movie references we know from GTA and Red Dead.So Payne escapes and heads down to the vast Brazilian metropolis of São Paulo ("You've been kicked out of the force … and you've killed a lot of people," says Barrera by way of explanation). There he takes on a job protecting wealthy real estate magnate Rodrigo Branco, whose trophy girlfriend has been kidnapped by a street gang. Naturally, they want a suitcase full of cash for her safe return and Payne is going to be the transfer man.This all takes place in a nervy, exciting sequence in a huge football stadium. The drop is due to be made on the pitch, but things go awry when a paramilitary group turns up and starts blasting at everyone else. Cue a desperate series of chases and shoot-outs as Max and Raul race through the labyrinthine complex, looking for the gang member with the cash.We also witness one of the game's many interactive cinematic experiences, where the speed slows down and Payne gets to attempt a ridiculously showy stunt. In this case, he gets onto a gantry above the stadium's press box where a sniper is looking to take out Raul. Max grabs a rope and swings down into the chamber, shooting his way through the glass screen and into the face of the would-be assassin. Game over.It's a function designed to empower the player and capture that sense of invulnerability inherent in the great action movie characters. Players will find that during these sequences, their ammo will top up and they'll be harder to injure. It's about not just capturing the obvious tropes of action cinema – the visuals, the gunplay, the choreography – but also the underlying narrative systems. The cheats.There's another similar feature named Last Man Standing, which comes in to play if you're fatally wounded – on the way to the ground, you'll get one final chance to shoot the enemy, via a shaky reticule. Take him out, and the game will instantly employ any unused painkillers you're carrying to boost your health and revive you.Also in the spirit of the classic Hong Kong action movies, Payne is never far away from a discarded gun; all of which can be picked up and wielded. The weapon wheel system will be familiar to any Red Dead Redemption veterans. To access an item, you hit the button to bring up the wheel and cycle through Payne's available armoury. He can carry two single-handed weapons, dual-wielding them if he chooses – he'll happily leg it around with a Beretta in one hand, an Uzi in the other. He can also carry one rifle or carbine.Of course, the defining weapon in the Max Payne armoury has always been bullet time. Initially inspired by the bullet ballets of John Woo and Ringo Lam, it allows players to trigger a slow-mo action sequence in which multiple enemies can be targeted and shot without fear of recourse. There's a lock-on system in place, but players can choose to free aim their way through these encounters. However you go, it remains a gameplay concept of skewed genius, simultaneously boosting the player's abilities and providing moments of breathtaking cinematic clout.In Max Payne 3, the system functions in the same old way – access to bullet time relies on a dedicated power gauge, which is filled during shoot-outs. But of course, what's new is the impressive graphical fidelity, and the sheer fluidity of the movement.Rockstar has employed NaturalMotion's Euphoria physics-based animation system – every leap, roll or fall is procedurally driven, based on a richly detailed 3D character model, susceptible and reactive to all the forces of velocity and impact. The physics system also comes into play via the contextual bullet contact, which ensures that leg, arm, body and headshots all lead to very different reactions. Enemies never go down the same way twice.Furthermore, the animation has none of that floppy "rag doll" feel that cursed early experiments in physics-based movement. During the stadium sequence, we see Max leap across corridors and crunch into walls, bracing himself for impact at the close of the dive. He'll also chuck himself backwards over low walls, landing with sickening solidity on his back, guns firing between his legs.Cleverly, however he lands, you retain multi-direction control over shooting. If he leaps across a room and lands on his back, you can stay prone, turning and blasting in all directions, before getting back on to your feet. It gives the game a sense of physical fluidity and adaptability, which also heightens the cinematic feel. Midway's Strangehold got close to bringing us the athleticism of the Hong Kong action flick, but Max Payne 3 ramps up the sheer physicality.Next, Rockstar shows me a sequence that takes place later in the game, but still before Max transforms into the bald-headed, hulked-up figure we've seen in the screenshots and trailers. He's at an old bus depot, looking after Raul's girlfriend Giovanna, when that pesky paramilitary group turns up again. There are shoot-outs in an old bus cemetery, where the rusting skeletons of ancient vehicles provide the only cover. Yep, it's an escort mission, but Giovanna will generally run and hide, taking care of herself, while you engage the masses of black-clothed soldiers.Inside a bus repair garage, Payne climbs the scaffolding to an upper level, and we get another slow-mo sequence. This time, he grabs hold of a rope that's running to the floor level and slides down it, taking out enemies en route. There are, it seems, plentiful nods to Die Hard as well as the likes of Killer and Hardboiled.Next, Max bursts his way into an office area and, during our shotgun shoot-out, blasts an enemy though a window, showcasing the animationandenvironmental destruction in one gloriously OTT second. Each shoot-out ends with a bullet-cam moment, as we follow the projectile from chamber to final enemy, the impact complete with a requisite spray of claret. It's gruesome stuff, but guiltily satisfying.This section shows how Max Payne 3 will transition between scenes using a new variant on the comic books frames that told the ongoing story in the first two titles. Now. We'll see 24-style animated story sequences – or "motion comics" shot from multiple views, as we're taken between narrative chapters and locations.Shoot-out sequences are also intercut with story and dialogue moments, though Rockstar has been keen to keep the flow between mo-capped plot sequences and the physics-based animation of the game as smooth as possible. Indeed, the mo-cap sequences with Max actor James McCaffrey and the rest of the cast were all filmed at Rockstar's own studio in Brooklyn.The team apparently built elaborate sets to replicate game maps, allowing the actors to interact much more naturally with their environment, and allowing closer parity with the in-game action. Plus, every non-interactive story section will feature Max carrying the weapons that you're actually holding in the game at the time; it'll also show any scars or blood stains that he's picked up during play – a small point, but a cool one in terms of continuity.Our demo ends with Max and Giovanna bolting into a bus, with paramilitary goons in hot pursuit, one of them wielding a grenade launcher. Giovanna gets behind the wheel and decks the accelerator as Payne shoots out a nearby fuel depot and AI enemies scatter. Panicking, she drives the bus straight into a brick wall. Another fine mess for Mr Payne.Elsewhere, Rockstar has revealed a major multiplayer component to the game. The range of 16-player modes are all designed to capture the campaign's cinematic intensity and emphasis on acrobatic gunplay. Alongside standard deathmatch and team deathmatch options the key draw is likely to be the innovative 'Gang Wars' newcomer, which, like the multiplayer in Uncharted and Assassin's Creed, brings a narrative slant to the action.Built around set-piece locations from the campaign (with previously inaccessible areas like rooftops, now opened up), teams compete to achieve a series of objectives, all accompanied by Max Payne's usual gruff monologue and book-ended by the graphic novel cut-scenes.Somehow, Rockstar has managed to incorporate bullet-time into the action. When a player triggers it, everyone in their sight line is caught in the slow-mo treacle, making for bunch of easy, rapid kills. There's also a range of new special abilities known as bursts, which become available when the player fills an adrenaline gauge.Killing enemies and looting their bodies builds the meter, and each burst power has three levels of power. Participants can loot the bodies of fallen enemies to find ammo and painkillers. XP is earned though kills and assists unlocking new weapons and bursts. It's also possible to start a vendetta against any player that kills you twice – get them back and you earn bonus XP.It sounds like an interesting concept, and married with the visceral combat and dark narrative of the single-player, suggests we're in for the first essential shooter of 2012. Whether Rockstar can work its peculiar magic on such a linear experience is the main question.Players can briefly explore certain areas of each location, but this is a narrative ride, with no open-world freedom. Remedy, the original developer of the first two titles is no longer involved – now a group of Rockstar Studios, including Vancouver, the creator of school-based adventure Bully, are at the helm.There is a realisation that this is a significant undertaking. "Max Payne invented a lot of the vocabulary of the third-person shooter," says Barrera. "It was one of the first to really tell a story through the action."Yet, on the flip side, the linearity has allowed Rockstar Studios to absolutely cram each locale with scene-setting detail. San Paulo, from its mansions to its slums, has been rendered with a real eye for the diversity of the place; members of the design team went out there for six weeks, soaking up the atmosphere, the music, the culture and photographing everything.There's mass poverty, but also great wealth (Barrera delights in telling me this place has more helicopters per capita than any other city on Earth), and apparently, you'll meet resistance from all areas of society during the game, battling both highly trained military squads and favela gangs – all with their own AI behaviours.The story of Payne's quest for redemption looks to be a classic action thriller arc – the stuff of Brian de Palma or Tony Scott (Man on Fire is apparently a favourite movie with the Houser brothers). And at some point in this story, as in all wayward action flicks, the anti-hero realises he's got to stop running and face whatever's coming for him.That's when the clippers come out and the new Max emerges. We can expect all hell to break loose – it's what Rockstar always promises and usually delivers. One way or another, the pain is going away.•Max Payne 3 is due out in March 2012 on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
A selection of 17 apps for you today:Collins Big Cat appsCollins Education has released two iPad book-apps under its Big Cat brand, which aim to help children not only practise their reading skills, but their writing skills too.It Was a Cold, Dark Night Story CreatorandAround the World Story Creatorare both interactive book-apps with the option to record your own voice narration, and test comprehension with a quiz. The Story Creator section, meanwhile, gets children to make their own stories using the pictures, characters and vocabulary from the main story.iPadSports TrackerFitness-tracking app Sports Tracker has been a hit on Nokia's Symbian smartphones, but now it's hoping to take the company's new Lumia handsets – and other Windows Phones – by storm too. It tracks workouts and runs, and enables them to be shared with friends or analysed on the device.Windows PhoneAdobe Flash Player 11Adobe's decision to soon stop updating its Flash player for mobile devices is well known, but there's one last hurrah for Android users: a version that runs on devices with the new Ice Cream Sandwich software.AndroidBreakout: BoostAtari's mission to revive its most famous games for the apps era continues with Breakout: Boost, which has the familiar ball/bat/brick action with additional power-ups, balls and a freemium model where levels are sold via in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadReal Football 2012Gameloft's FIFA rival Real Football returns for the 2012 season, and has also adopted a freemium model: it's free to download and play, but you pay in-app for "piggy bank" credits. New social features have been added too.iPhone / iPadHipstamatic DisposableHipstamatic may not have the profile of rival Instagram, but it's still one of the most popular iPhone photo-sharing apps. Now it has a social spin-off, designed to be used by groups of friends. They each take shots on their own iPhones, and these are then pooled and sent back to every contributor, with the option to share albums on Facebook and Twitter.iPhoneSummitX Snowboardingcom2uS has released SummitX Snowboarding, its take on SSX-style winter sports action with impressive visuals and a licensed music soundtrack. The link above is for Android, but you canfind the iOS version here.Android / iPhone / iPadHistory of RockFrom Elvis to Nirvana and beyond, this iPad book-app takes in the last 60 years of rock music, with YouTube videos and iTunes links bringing in the music to complement the chronological storytelling and themed sections.iPadPocketCloud ExploreWyse's PocketCloud Explore is an Android app to help people search, view and organise the files stored on their computers. The idea being to provide quick and simple access to photos, music and documents. It works with a companion desktop application, and supports up to two remote computers.AndroidRocks In My SocksOne of the most convincing uses for augmented reality technology so far is entertaining kids, and that's the theme for Rocks In My Socks. The iPad app ties into the book of the same name, with eight mini-games accessible by holding the iPad over the book to trigger the augmented content. One possible flaw: won't kids need a parent to do the iPad holding so they can focus on touching the screen?iPadLondon Bus Checker HDThe London Bus Checker iPhone app has been very popular, but now it's been upscaled for iPad. It draws in real-time data on buses in London, with more than 20,000 stops in its database. There are also maps for all of the capital's 700 bus routes.iPadPunchforkFoodies will love Punchfork, an app based on the equally stylish cooking website. Both involve scraping recipes from a range of other sites and blogs, and presenting them in a visually-appealing way, ranking recipes using data on what's being shared on Twitter and Facebook.iPhone / iPadPrime Location Property SearchHousehunting site Prime Location has had an iPad app for a while, but now it's available on iPhone too. It offers details of properties around the UK, adding in augmented reality technology for a different view of places around the user's current location.iPhoneBig Nate: Comix By UNight &amp; Day Studios' latest iOS app is based on the Big Nate series of books, with the twist that children can create their own comics based on the characters. The app lets them start from scratch, or fill in frames and speech bubbles from partially-finished versions.iPhone / iPadSan Diego ZooWhy would people elsewhere in the world want to download an app from a zoo in San Diego? We'll tell you why: PandaCams. The app includes live streams from the zoo's panda and polar bear enclosures, with the ability to comment.Android / iPhoneiSqueakTVFreeview has an iPhone app! Does it let you watch digital TV on your device? Nope. Does it let you speak words into your microphone and have them turned into a helium-voiced version a bit like Talking Tom Cat without the Talking Tom Cat? Yep.iPhoneAwesome! NotifierDeveloper MobileMerit wants to put a rocket under Android notifications, from SMS and Gmail to social networks. It adds in avatars and full-screen notifications, as well as customisation features.Android
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle's response to Siri is codenamed Majel, could be released by end of year &gt;&gt; Android and MeTaylor Wimberly: "I wrote about Google's response to Apple's Siri voice assistant several months ago and over the last couple weeks I received further details about the secret project. For starters it is codenamed Majel, which comes from Majel Barrett-Roddenberry, better known as the voice of the Federation Computer from Star Trek. "Majel is an evolution of Google's Voice Actions that is currently available on most Android phones with the addition of natural language processing. Where Voice Actions required you to issue specific commands like "send text to..." or "navigate to...", Majel will allow you to perform actions in your natural language similar to how Siri functions." The arms race continues.Not even making it to the airtight hatchway: Execution even before you get there &gt;&gt; MSDN Blogs"Today's dubious security vulnerability comes from somebody who reported that the Load­Keyboard­Layout function had a security vulnerability which could lead to arbitrary code execution. This is a serious issue, but reading the report made us wonder if something was missing." What was missing was a security vulnerability. Collateral damage of the ease of vulnerability reporting.Dell quits netbooks, says 'thin and powerful is where it's at' &gt;&gt; The Verge"Dell confirmed for us that it is no longer making consumer netbooks (the business-aimed Latitude netbooks are still available on Dell.com). Not only are the Inspiron Minis being put in the grave, but the company confirmed for us that it will not be releasing new netbooks based on Intel's forthcoming Cedar Trail platform. In other words, it is done with the category. "That said, it did clarify that its netbook / tablet hybrid -- the Inspiron Duo -- continues to sell well, and although it isn't in stock on Dell.com right now, it would available again before the holidays are over." Is anyone keeping a count of the sectors that Dell is abandoning? Android phones, netbooks... but it is a sort of canary in the PC coal mine. If Dell quits it, there's no money to be made there any longer through commoditisation.Why Apple is cheap &gt;&gt; Asymco"Imagine it's late 2005. Apple's fiscal year just ended and they reported their performance. You're an analyst whose job includes forecasting the company's performance for next year. This is a weighty responsibility.  Your forecast will be blended with those of your peers and used as a "consensus" average. That consensus for the next year will be used to measure the current value of the shares in a ratio called the forward PEG or Price/Earnings/annual earnings Growth." This hilarious - really - narrative shows how apparently rational choices don't always lead to good forecasting.The fall of Microsoft's Andy Lees: inside the Windows Phone power shift | The Verge"Over the past couple days we've gotten some additional details surrounding the circumstances that led to Andy Lees' removal from his role at the top of the Windows Phone org chart inside Microsoft. "First off, we're told that although Lees still reports to CEO Steve Ballmer, his ill-defined new role "focused on driving maximum impact in 2012 with Windows Phone and Windows 8" is, in fact, a demotion -- the exact phrase that was used with us was that 'he's been benched.'" We link to this for completeness, but parts of it don't fit with what's known - for example the idea that Lees drove Motorola away. It reads as though the source is someone with cause to dislike Andy Lees, ex-head of the Microsoft mobile division. (Thanks @avro for the link.)Google Zeitgeist 2011 &gt;&gt; GoogleLots of searches to play around with; the consumer electronics ones suggest that Amazon has done very well with the Kindle Fire. Or else that a lot of searching is in the US.Yes, People Are Lining Up for the Galaxy Nexus &gt;&gt; Phandroid.com"Hey Verizon, when was the last time people lined up outside your store waiting for the release of a phone? Was it the Motorola Droid RAZR? The HTC Rezound? We'd have to go all the way back to the launch of the iPhone to probably find our answer. But lo and behold, the Samsung Galaxy Nexus is drawing a crowd, and not just a little one, might I add." What's the next Samsung ad going to look like?IE to start Automatic Upgrades across Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 &gt;&gt; IE BlogRyan Gavin, Internet Explorer GM for Business and Marketing: "We want to make updating to the best protection possible as fast and simple as we can for Windows customers. IE is how millions of Windows customers connect to the Web, so keeping that part of Windows updated at all times is critical to keeping them safe online. With automatic updates enabled through Windows Update, customers can receive IE9 and future versions of Internet Explorer seamlessly without any "update fatigue" issues. "Wider deployment of the most up-to-date browser benefits the Web in other ways as well. Developers and online businesses can rely on better browsers to deliver richer and more capable Web experiences. We built IE9 with a focus on modern web standards and interoperability so that developers could spend less time coding for specific browsers and spend more time building the next big thing on the Web. More of the Web running an HTML5 capable browser, vs. something built ten years ago, is a great thing for developers and the businesses they support." An unalloyed good move.Stolen iPhone? Your iMessages may still be going to the wrong place &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaStolen iPhones despite being wiped on US network Verizon still hold iMessage data. "'I can only speculate, but I can see this being plausible," Zdziarski told Ars. 'iMessage registers with the subscriber's phone number from the SIM, so let's say you restore the phone, it will still read the phone number from the SIM. I suppose if you change the SIM out after the phone has been configured, the old number might be cached somewhere either on the phone or on Apple's servers with the UDID of the phone.' "In other words, iMessage may be pulling the old phone number from a cache somewhere and continuing to use it on the device if the SIM was removed after it was configured as a new phone. We were unable to test this theory (and keep in mind that it's just a theory), but it certainly sounds like one of the more logical explanations for this phenomenon." One wonders too why Verizon and US carriers don't, like the UK carriers do, block IMEIs of stolen phones. That would stop it too. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
While Apple and Samsung battle it out in the courts over the design of the iPad compared to the Galaxy Tab, and vie for top spot in the smartphone market, the US company is relying on its rival for the essential processor in its tablet.The A5 processor – used in the iPhone 4S and iPad 2 – is now made in a sprawling factory in Austin, Texas, which is owned by Korean electronics giant Samsung, according to people familiar with the operation.One of the few major components to be sourced from within the US, the A5 processor is built by Samsung in a newly constructed $3.6bn non-memory chip production line that reached full production in early December.Nearly all of the output of the non-memory chip production from the factory is dedicated to producing Apple chips, one of the people said. Samsung also produces NAND flash memory chips in Austin.The South Korean giant began supplying the A5 processors to Apple from the Austin plant this year, the people said.Apple declined to comment, saying it does not detail supplier relationships. A Samsung spokeswoman declined to comment on its customers and the specification of the chips made in its Austin plant, but said the company expanded the factory to include a production line to make logic chips. The A5 is one such chip.The powerful A5 processor, which uses technology licensed from Britain's ARM Holdings, is designed by Apple in California, by a team formerly part of PA Semi – an American chip design company that Apple bought in April 2008.The A5 chip debuted in Apple's iPad 2 in March and now also powers the new iPhone 4S. The chip is twice as fast as its predecessor, the A4, which is also made by Samsung, according to reports from teardown firms that have taken Apple's devices apart.Apart from Austin, Samsung has only one other non-memory logic chip factory, in South Korea.Apple relies on its main contract manufacturer for gadgets, Foxconn, to assemble them, mainly in its factories in China and Taiwan.Semiconductor companies are attracted to Austin because of a steady supply of educated employees from the University of Texas' engineering school. Also based in Austin are Freescale Semiconductor and other chip companies such as ARM, Intel and Advanced Micro Devices.Samsung has added about 1,100 jobs to support the new non-memory chip production in the factory, which produces 40,000 silicon wafers every month, a Samsung spokeswoman said. The rest of the 2,400 employees in Samsung's Austin location work in its NAND flash memory factory by the logic chip factory, she said.The Korean company, which began the US plant in 1996 to make its NAND flash memory chips, continues to produce them there alongside the A5.Samsung's factory is the largest foreign investment in Texas with a total investment of about $9bn, according to the Austin Chamber of Commerce.Austin is also home to an Apple customer call centre that deals with customer complaints in North America, Apple's biggest market. The Cupertino company employs thousands in that facility, who deal with calls ranging from complaints to support.
Friday! Come on then, what are you playing over the weekend?
Owners of iPhones could be charged for using mobile data to download apps even though they think they have disabled it in the phone's settings.The effect could mean that thousands of pounds are being spent when people go over their mobile data allowances.The flaw cost one user more than £50 when he downloaded a number of apps while in Spain, on roaming data. He told the Guardian that he began setting his iPhone up by loading five apps from Apple's App Store while in a Wi-Fi zone, but then walked out of it - but the apps continued downloading, eventually using up 76MB of data. He was then charged for roaming data use by Vodafone.James Morris, who says he was the victim of this flaw, says that Apple has ignored his complaints about it. He has confirmed it that it exists from iOS 4 onwards, on both the iPhone and iPad. "Thankfully I had an EU cap on the phone, although unfortunately when I realised what had happened, Vodafone was sending me an alert for every 5MB downloaded (almost every few seconds), hindering my ability to turn off data all together in time," he told the Guardian.While Apple has made no official comment, sources have indicated that Morris's experience is blamed on a misunderstanding over the wording of the settings in the iPhone.The setting in question can be found in the "Settings" app of the iPhone, under "Store". That has a heading saying "Automatic Downloads" which includes on/off switches for Music, Apps and Books (for those using Apple's iBooks). Beneath that is explanatory text which says "Automatically download new purchases (including free) made on other devices."Under those switches is another switch saying "Use Mobile Data" which by default is set to Off. Beneath that it says "Use mobile network to download purchases."The "Store" setting on the iPhone in iOS 5: the "Use Mobile Data" switch does not in fact control whether the phone uses mobile data to download new purchasesMorris says that he understood the "Use Mobile Data" switch to control whether apps would be downloaded over the mobile network, and that if it was off that there would be no download.But others say - and the behaviour of the phone confirms - that the "Use Mobile Data" switch is only meant to apply to the three categories directly above it where people are synchronising their apps across multiple devices, and that it is not a switch to control whether apps, music or books can be downloaded for the first time directly from the App Store.That is clearer in the US, where Apple has enabled the iTunes Match service which allows people to synchronise their music libraries with the cloud. There, the setting (which reads "Use Cellular Data" and defaults to off) has explanatory text saying "Use cellular network for iTunes Match and to automatically download purchases."The US version of the App Store setting: this more clearly refers to the use of the mobile network for synchronising data. (Screenshot via The Next Web.)The omission of "automatically" in the non-US version of the software means that it can be read to indicate that the toggle prevents any mobile data downloads from the Store - rather than preventing mobile data downloads of existing purchases.Versions of iOS before 4.3 do not offer the synchronisation option: iOS 3.1, used originally on the iPhone 3GS, offers only "View Account" and "Sign Out" under the "Store" setting.Downloads are limited to 20MB per item over mobile networks, but the majority of apps and songs are less than that - which means that people could, like Morris, be downloading more content over mobile data than they think they are.Morris told The Guardian: "the manual Apple provides, the text on the settings page, and the fact Apple Care seem to also not fully understand what the setting does by multiple members of staff stating that it should not allow any Apps to download fullstop over the cellular network, how is the average consumer able to either?" He added:  "Given I work in the IT field I felt this was extremely misleading, especially when there are other settings under the "Automatic Updates" title unrelated, such as the default Apple ID for the whole store app which lead me to believe this setting which is separate also given the manual doesn't state at all it is for automatic downloads and just for app store purchases."To prevent the device from downloading data content over mobile networks, users have to disable the mobile data connection in the iPhone's settings.
Facebook is sitting on a $3.5bn cash hoard, according leaked figures, and is making far more money than had previously been estimated.According to internal figures leaked to Gawker, Mark Zuckerberg's social network had operating revenues of $2.5bn between January and September this year. The company has assets of $5.6bn, including $3.5bn in cash, and made a net profit of $714m.If true, the figures suggest Facebook will far surpass the estimated $70bn valuation the firm is expected to attract when it sells shares in an initial public offering (IPO) next year. The Wall Street Journal recently reported that the firm was hoping for a valuation closer to $100bn. At that value, Zuckerberg's 24% stake in the firm would be worth $24bn.The company is believed to be planning an IPO that could come as early as April next year and would be the largest tech IPO since Google joined the stock market in 2004. The money would allow Facebook to go on a spending spree as it faces increased competition from Google, now developing its own social network, Google+.The report follows earlier leaks about the privately held firm's finances. In September, Reuters reported that Facebook's revenues had doubled to $1.6bn in the first six months of 2011. If the latest figures are correct, it suggests Facebook is still growing revenues rapidly despite some recent controversies over privacy and increased competition.Facebook earned $355m in net income in the first nine months of 2010 on revenue of $1.2bn, Reuters said, citing documents that Goldman Sachs provided to clients. Gawker's latest figures suggest that Facebook made more than twice that in the first nine months of 2011.The company said it would not comment on its financials.The numbers come as Zynga, the social gaming firm, prepares an IPO on Friday. The Farmville and Words With Friends company is hoping to raise at least $1bn.
Hollywood's most powerful executives and Silicon Valley's billionaires have been glued to the goings-on in a frills-free Washington committee room.At the cost of thousands of dollars an hour, their army of lobbyists and lawyers spent much of Thursday watching a young woman reading – as fast as she could – a bill that has set the old and new media at each others' throats in a battle both sides claim is a fight to the death.The reading and discussion of the amendments to the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) at the House Judiciary Committee looks set to continue Friday as committee members clashed over the impact of the bill.In an opening statement, committee chairman Lamar Smith said: "Laws equip US authorities and rights holders to take action against criminals who operate within our borders. But there is no parallel authority that permits effective action against criminals who operate from abroad."He argued that the amended bill would support US business while leaving the internet intact.But fellow Republican and committee member Darrell Issa repeatedly clashed with Smith and other Sopa supporters. He said the bill "retains the fundamental flaws of its predecessor", and threatened the integrity as well as the entrepreneurial culture of the internet.The drawn-out and contentious hearing is set to resume Friday. The debate was delayed for sometime after committee member Steve King tweeted: "We are debating the Stop Online Piracy Act and Shiela Jackson has so bored me that I'm killing time by surfing the internet."Committee member Jackson demanded an apology, and a side debate ensued on King's first amendment right to tweet.Both Hollywood and the tech community have spent millions as they battle over the future of the internet is regulated – but Hollywood appears to have the edge.According to figures compiled by the Center For Responsive Politics, the film, music and TV industries have spent more than $91m so far this year lobbying for the approval of the bill. Disney, News Corp, the NFL, Time Warner, Sony and Viacom made a last-ditch effort to get the act through to the next stage this week."Every day, internet criminals use illegal foreign websites to steal from New York companies and hard-working Americans," they wrote in an open letter published in major media outlets. "These illegal foreign websites are destroying American jobs and causing billions in lost revenue."Despite a concerted effort from the tech industry, the bill, with some amendments, could be finalised this week before going to the vote early next year. Another similar bill, the Protect IP Act, is currently with the Senate.But the tech world has hit back hard. In a joint letter, Google's Sergey Brin, Twitter's Jack Dorsey, Huffington Post's Arriana Huffington and others warned Sopa and Protect IP will stifle innovation, undermine security online and give the US government powers to censor the web "similar to those used by China, Malaysia and Iran."The bill has been amended to address some of the tech world's concerns, according to the committee. Smith said the bill's critics were "spreading lies about the legislation in an attempt to stall efforts by Congress to combat foreign rogue websites."Companies like Google have made billions by working with and promoting foreign rogue websites, so they have a vested interest in preventing Congress from stopping rogue sites."Lamar said America's intellectual property industries provide 19m high-paying jobs to the US economy and accounted for more than 60% of US exports."Congress cannot stand by and do nothing while some of America's most profitable and productive industries are under attack," he said.But critics charge that even the modified bill still threatens to stifle creativity in the tech community and threatens the very plumbing of the internet. Art Brodsky, communications director at Public Knowledge, a Washington-based public interest group, said: "If there is a theft problem then there are a lot of better ways to deal with it. The issue here is about the solution."Sopa would allow the US government to restrict illegal file-sharing sites by blocking their Domain Name System (DNS), which provides a website with its online address. The technique is the same as the one used to block unwanted sites in China and has alarmed free speech advocates.But it has also worried internet firms from a technical, as well as an ethical, point of view. DNS is a global system that allows the same address to be reached from any internet-enabled device. The proposals threaten to undermine the integrity of that system while failing to tackle pirates who are used to re-routing their websites to avoid the authorities, argue Sopa's critics."We have the facts on our side but they have the numbers. It's not at all certain what the outcome will be," said Brodsky.Holmes Wilson, co-founder of Fight For The Future, a lobbying group, said the amendments he had seen so far were "superficial and ambiguous" and Sopa remained a grave threat to creativity and freedom online."The internet has such a boon to society, it has allowed so much change and given people the ability to challenge the establishment, he said."Sopa is establishment interest fighting back."
Zynga, the social gaming company behind Farmville, Words With Friends and other online games, is preparing to go public on Friday in what could be the biggest initial public offering of a tech firm since Google's debut.More than 60 million people a day play Zynga's games. The firm is hoping to raise at least $1bn (£650m) and was expected to set a price for shares on Thursday night.Zynga would be valued at $9bn, less than half the $20bn it anticipated in July before stock markets started to slide. Nevertheless the sale would make it the largest internet listing by a US company since the $1.9bn IPO of Google in 2004, according to Dealogic. The flotation precedes an expected share sale by Facebook next year, in what is likely to be the largest ever social media IPO.Zynga, based in San Francisco, is profitable. In the first nine months of the year, its revenue doubled to $829m from a year earlier, but its net income declined 35% to $31m.It plans to sell 100m shares for $8.50 to $10, equal to 10% of the company. The demand for social media shares, combined with their scarcity, has led other firms who have followed this path to enjoy spectacular first-day "pops" in their valuations.Daily deal site Groupon surged 31% on its debut as a public company. LinkedIn jumped 84%. Both are now trading well below those prices.Zynga faces risks. Analyst Arvind Bhatia, of Sterne Agee Group, issued a report on the company this week predicting it would "underperform" and set a price target of $7. He said Zynga's growth was slowing and its margins under pressure.Whatever the outcome, the IPO is likely to catapult founder Mark Pincus into the league of the super-rich. Pincus owns more than 105m shares with another 7.2m "issuable pursuant to stock options". At $10 a share, his Zynga stake is worth $1.05bn.And this isn't Pincus's only shot at social media billions. The 45-year-old also has a stake in Facebook that he bought for $40,000 back in 2004. According to Forbes magazine, that is now worth about $140m.
We will be getting a new Windows 7 laptop this Christmas, after many years' familiarity with XP. Computers don't seem to come with physical media any more, just a recovery partition on the hard disk, and they all seem to come with free trials of various things I don't want. I think I'll need to create proper backup disks from the recovery partition, remove as much freeware/trialware as I can, install the software I really want, and so on. What I really need (and I suspect many others would like) is a "Jack's procedure for what to do after you open the box".Richard CowlingThat's a lovely idea, but it would need about five blog posts. However, setting up a Windows 7 PC is much the same as setting up an XP machine. You still have to enter the date and time, create user accounts, run Windows Update, and so on. It's not fun, so if you're giving a laptop to non-geeky user, try to do all this beforehand, so they can just unwrap it and start using it.There's an argument for making a backup straight away, but I don't do this myself, and I suspect no one else does, either. I prefer to go through the initial set up, customisation and basic software installation, then do an image-based backup. It's certainly worth backing up the recovery partition, and laptops often include a small utility that prompts you to do it. However, the version of Windows on the recovery partition will be out of date. If you have to use it, you may well have to do everything again.Once you've set up an admin account with a password, you are ready for ACTION, which is my way of getting people to remember the next step: click the Orb (former Start button), type that word into the search box, and select Action Center from the menu.This makes two points. First, forget the XP idea of trying to remember where to find files and folders. Windows 7 is a search-driven operating system: find things by typing a few letters into the search box or Help system or whatever. Second, the Action Center is a little starter hub for things like security settings, backups, problem reports and other information.Use the Action Center to make sure the firewall is running, that the machine has virus protection, that the network security settings are OK, and so on. When you are ready to make backups, you can do that from the Action Center, too.The other key word to type in is "network", which finds the Network and Sharing Center. This has wizards for connecting to your home network, though plugging in an Ethernet cable should work just as well. Either way, get online and use Windows Update to download all the essential security patches, and also to install the IE9 browser. (It's much better than IE8, which doesn't have enough HTML5 support for today's web.)After updating a laptop, I install Microsoft's free anti-virus program, Microsoft Security Essentials (MSE). You may want to replace it later with your favourite AV program or a full security suite from Kaspersky, AVG or similar company. However, MSE is fuss-free and doesn't get in the way. It's handy to have it around.At some point, I also install most of theWindows Live Essentials 2011suite, if it has not be pre-installed by the laptop's manufacturer. This includes Windows Messenger, Photo Gallery, Mail, Live Mesh and so on. Many of these used to be part of Windows, which meant they were very rarely updated. Now they're downloaded from the web, they can be upgraded every year, and they have improved dramatically. (Windows Live Essentials 2011 doesn't run in Windows XP.)Removing "crapware" can be a tedious job, but the crowd-sourcedSlimCleanercan help a lot. Click on Uninstaller and it will tell you which programs are installed, and how highly they are rated by the SlimCleaner community. SlimCleaner will also uninstall selected programs. If you're not sure about a program, click the More Info button to see how many people have voted for or against keeping it, and read their comments. The Optimize button shows which programs and services are being loaded when your PC starts up, though it's not as powerful asAnVir Task Manager Free.SlimCleaner is one of three Windows programs that I now suggest everyone installs. The others are Secunia's Personal Software Inspector and All My Apps (and I'm pleased to see that All My Apps has now added PSI). For "road warriors", I might addAnchorFree Hotspot Shield,LogMeIn Freeand the phone/laptop tracking program,Prey. If your laptop is stolen, Prey could help you get it back.Microsoft's Windows code used to be the main target for malware writers, but Microsoft invested heavily in processes to create more secure software. Malware writers have therefore shifted more of their attention to Sun/Oracle's Java and programs from companies that have not followed Microsoft's example, such as Adobe and Apple. So, it's not enough to keep Windows updated, you now have to keep Java, Adobe Reader, Apple iTunes etc up to date as well. PSI helps. It checks the versions of programs you have installed (though it doesn't cover everything) and tells you which ones need patching or replacing. Clicking a button that says "Install Solution" means you don't have to hunt the web for the latest version. Recently, PSI has added Auto Updating.All My Appsis a personal application manager that works on individual PCs and across several of your devices. Its main attraction is that it is a safe way to download and install more than 15,000 applications. The list includes Chrome and Firefox, AVG and Malwarebytes, Skype, Amazon Kindle and FoxIt Reader, the full K-Lite Codec Pack (recommended), WinRAR, Notepad++, Paint.net and XnView, WinAmp, Audacity and Spotify. More recently, All My Apps has started to back up your apps to the cloud, and update apps automatically.Personally, I keep tight control over everything that's added to my PCs, and I use Mark Russinovich'sProcess Explorerto make sure nothing happens without me knowing about it. However, I can see that most users will be better off if they set Windows Update and All My Apps to update their PCs automatically.Finally, many laptops now come with the hard disk divided into C: and D: drives. I set up directories for documents, photos, movies etc on the D: drive. This makes it easier to back up data separately from the Windows and program code on the C: drive. If you have a home server, you can set it up to do backups automatically. If your laptop moves around a lot, you can use something likeFreeFileSyncto do backups to an external hard drive.Remember, the only backup you really need for Windows is the Product Key from the sticker on the bottom of your laptop. With that, you can install a clean copy of Windows 7 from any DVD or ISO download. However, your photos and other personal files are irreplaceable.
A selection of 25 apps for you today:Grand Theft Auto 3Could the biggest mobile game of Christmas 2011 be a decade-old console title? Rockstar Games has launched Grand Theft Auto 3 for iOS and Android, with touchscreen-friendly controls. The link above is for Android, but you canfind the iOS version here.Android / iPhone / iPadMagic GuitarMusic apps developer Smule had a big hit with its Magic Piano app for iOS. Now it's followed up with Magic Guitar, initially on iPhone. It involves holding the device like a guitar neck while tapping notes to play, with a catalogue of songs from the Rolling Stones, Kiss, Coldplay and others to learn, and social features to show off.iPhoneBizzy Bear on the FarmHow to follow up the beautiful Cinderella book-app? Publisher Nosy Crow has chosen to use one of its existing print books as the basis for a playful iOS app, where toddlers get to help Bizzy Bear with his chores around a farm.iPhone / iPadDave Mustaine: Guitar ProdigyMegadeth mainman Dave Mustaine has launched an iOS app called Guitar Prodigy, which blends game-like elements and education to teach people to shred just like he does. Well, almost – parts can be slowed down for fans whose fingers aren't quite up to the job. "These songs were officially gone over by me, so no more bunk transcriptions and bad tabs," promises Mustaine.iPhone / iPadLife 75Life magazine is celebrating its 75th anniversary with a photographic app for iPad, with more than 200 pictures and magazine covers, accompanied by explanatory video and audio clips.iPadForestVilleZynga has launched a new social game for iOS, based around turning a magical forest into a bustling (yet ecologically fitting, obviously) community. With animals. It's the company's sixth game to be launched on mobile first rather than Facebook.iPhone / iPadDK Tom Ang's Digital PhotographyMore iPhotography here from Dorling Kindersley, based on the popular print book How to Photograph Absolutely Everything. It offers 85 guides to make you a better digital snapper.iPhoneuberHypeStill waiting for hipster music service Hype Machine to port its iPhone app to Android? uberHype may offer an alternative. It uses the Hype Machine platform to aggregate and serve up the songs being tipped by bloggers around the world.AndroidMarathon 2: DurandalBefore there was Halo, there was Marathon – a first-person shooter from Bungie that was subsequently opened up for developers to tinker with. One result in 2011 is this sequel on iOS.iPhone / iPadBattlewagonIronsun Studios has released its hotly-tipped medieval game Battlewagon for Windows Phone, with players tasked with battering their way through 68 levels to defeat four nefarious barons.Windows PhoneRockmateApple's GarageBand just got some cut-price competition with Rockmate, which offers a similar mix of virtual instruments, smart chord progressions and sharing features. Oh, and one selling point is the ability for four people to gather round a single iPad to bash out a tune.iPadSonic CDSonic the Hedgehog arguably hit his peak with Sonic CD, and now the game has been updated for mobile and tablets, complete with the original Japanese soundtrack. The link above is for iOS, but find theAndroid version here.Android / iPhone / iPadThomas &amp; Friends: Engine ActivitiesCallaway Digital Arts' latest Thomas &amp; Friends app is less a book, and more a collection of creative activities: colouring, matching games and puzzles based on the famous tank engines. Additional packs will be sold through in-app purchase to keep it fresh.iPhone / iPadStonehenge ExperienceVisiting Stonehenge? This iOS app lets you point your device at the stones to get a computer-generated reconstruction of the monument from every angle, using augmented reality technology. It's also usable away from Stonehenge though, with activities including excavating prehistoric artefacts. It's the work of developer Ribui.iPhone / iPadShredder – Synth for GuitarIn a big day for music-making iOS apps, Shredder wants people to plug their guitars into their iPads and start making a racket, using its analog synth engine settings. "Raspy synth swells? Gotcha covered. Bass-doubled riffs? Yup. Strings 'n Things for beefing up the mix? Ditto..."iPadFrontline CommandoA single commando taking on an entire army? Why has nobody thought of this before?! Okay, the premise may be as old as Sly Stallone, but Glu's freemium game Frontline Commando looks like a polished third-person shooter, with more weapons than you can shake a great big gun at.Android / iPhone / iPadMarie Claire's Backstage Beauty TrendsMagazine Marie Claire has a new iPad app promising to educate users in the latest beauty trends from catwalks across the world, tapping Hollywood makeup artists for their latest tips.iPadWoodcraftCarpenters? There's an app for them. Woodcraft wants to help people make decks, benches, furniture and sheds – well, any woodwork project – offering a mix of 2D and 3D views of projects to sketch them out in advance. Projects can also be shared with other users.iPhone / iPadVenture TownsJapanese developer Kairosoft remains our preferred purveyor of quirky yet fearsomely addictive simulation games. Venture Town is its latest effort, as you "assume the reins of a mega-conglomerate to build your very own metropolitan utopia".iPhoneJasmine V: Up Close and PersonalUS teen-pop star Jasmine V has her own iPad app, courtesy of startup Mahalo. Fans should expect beauty tips, choreography, advice about "love, boys and relationships" and episodes of her YouTube series Just Jasmine.iPadToy ShotGamevil's latest iPhone game looks great fun: a physics-based action game where you battle your way through more than 100 levels filled with toys.iPhonePlunderland FreeIf you've not played marvellous piratical game Plunderland on iOS yet, you've missed out on a treat. Now developer Johnny Two Shoes has launched a freemium version to give more people a taste of the high-seas action.iPhone / iPadSeal ForceNordisk Film and Tactile Entertainment have launched their new iOS and Android game Seal Force, which blends two popular mobile genres: line-drawing and endless running. The link above is for iOS, but you canfind the Android version here.Android / iPhone / iPadLet's Toddle!Brand Cow &amp; Gate has launched a free app for parents to help them track toddler milestones, tagging each with photos, frames and captions.iPhoneMiLockerMiLocker claims to be "the most powerful unlock screen app" for Android, offering features including side-slip, vertical slip, multiple points and animation unlocking. It's the work of MIUI.Android(spotted byAndroid Police)
US federal investigators are looking into claims that software from Carrier IQ, which is installed on about 150m mobile phones, has been used to track user activity and send data to carriers without customers' knowledge.The Washington Post reportedthat executives from Carrier IQ travelled to Washington earlier this week to meet officials from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), which is in charge of enforcing privacy laws to protect consumers, and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).Meanwhile,the FBI has deniedthat it has ever sought any data from Carrier IQ for any of its investigations – though its director, Robert Mueller, said it was possible that some data that the FBI had received from mobile carriers might have been collected by Carrier IQ's software.Speculation had followed the result of a Freedom of Information request in which the FBI was asked how it used that data, and responded with a "standard exemption".Three of the four biggest US carriers – AT&amp;T, T-Mobile and Sprint – have said they use the company's software in line with their own privacy policies. In the UK, none of the carriers say that they use the software.Apple has said that a future software update will remove the software from the iPhone, where it is used for anonymised diagnostic reports that are sent back only with the customer's agreement. The software is installed by carriers on millions of phones using Google's Android software.The second-biggest US carrier, Verizon, says that it does not use Carrier IQ's software, which is usually installed on phones by manufacturers at the request of carriers.However, Verizon has emailed customers with an "important update regarding your privacy" in which it says that it will be collecting anonymised details including addresses of websites that people visit, including search terms, the location of their device, and their app and device feature usage.In the email, seen by the Guardian, Verizon says it will also collect information about peoples' use of Verizon features, including data and calling features, and will also use demographic information "such as gender, age range, sports fan, frequent diner, or pet owner" provided by other companies.Verizon says the data will not be shared with outside companies. The purpose, it says, is to provide more accurate mobile adverts to customers – who can opt out of having the information collected, but not from seeing the ads.Allowing the information to be passed on will make the ads more relevant, Verizon says in the email.Controversy over Carrier IQ's role blew up in mid-November whensecurity researcher Trevor Eckhart blogged about his findings, which suggested that the software logged every keystroke made on the phone.A spokeswoman for Carrier IQ told the Washington Post that company executives were cooperating with federal investigators. "This week Carrier IQ sought meetings with the FTC and FCC to educate the two agencies … and answer any and all questions," said Andrew Coward, the senior vice president for marketing, adding that he was not aware of an official investigation.Earlier, Mira Woods, a public-relations contractor for Carrier IQ, told the Post in an email: "We are complying with all investigations at this time as we have nothing to hide. We have been completely transparent through this process." In a follow-up email and conversation, she asked the Post to change the word "investigation" to "inquiries."The US senator Al Frankenhas written to Carrier IQsaying that it needs to respond to Eckhart's claims and that it has a lot of questions to answer.Carrier IQ has said that its software is not designed to log keystrokes or message content, but that it could have done so by accident.Eckhart disagrees, and Google's chairman Eric Schmidt said last week that the product is "a keylogger", while his company has insisted that it was not installed on any of the "reference" Nexus models that it helps design.Carrier IQ chief executive Larry Lenhart and Andrew Coward, the company's senior vice president for marketing met with federal regulators at the FTC and the FCC. The Carrier IQ executives also met with some congressional staffers.Carrier IQissued a press release on 1 December, saying that it collects information about carrier networks, data transmission speeds, phone numbers called, web sites visited and battery life.The company also released a statement about Carrier IQ and the FBI, saying that the data "is not designed for law enforcement agencies and to our knowledge has never been used by law enforcement agencies". Any request for data would be referred to carriers, the company said.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe academics of Anonymous &gt;&gt; The Washington Post"[Professor Gabriella] Coleman has spent the past decade studying hackers, meeting with members of the hacking community and using formal academic tools to understand this emerging sector of society. She joined Richard Forno, director of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County's Cybersecurity Program, and Paul Rosenzweig, the founder of Red Branch Law and Consulting and former assistant secretary for policy in the Department of Homeland Security, at Brookings. The group was convened by Brookings's Director of the Center for Technology Innovation, Allan Friedman. "I tend to say they're geeks -- they're geeks and they're hackers," said Coleman when asked about the demographics of the hacking populace, "and yet, when you say geeks, often times the problem with using the term like that is that it kind of conjures one image, and one image alone: basement, pimples, and psychological pa­thol­ogy. That is wrong." Coleman has met with a "remarkably diverse group," with people who "are near royalty" in Europe and others who are "below working class" and "at the bottom of the barrel at some level."HP has a new logo! And they can do it in CSS | Christian HeilmannNeat. Hope it doesn't use CSS shaders (see below).Flipboard Adds 1 Million Users Its First Week On The iPhone | TechCrunch"Only one week after Flipboard's highly anticipated launch on the iPhone (and iPod Touch), the company is announcing it has added 1 million users to its service and has tripled its engagement. According to the company, that means it now has over 5 million users in total using the app across the iOS platform. "Before last week's release, Flipboard had registered 650 million flips per month on the iPad. Now it's trending towards 2 billion flips per month."Scheme/Host/Port: Timing Attacks on CSS Shaders &gt;&gt; Adam Barth"CSS Shaders is a new feature folks from Adobe, Apple, and Opera have proposed to the W3C CSS-SVG Effects Task Force.  Rather than being limited to pre-canned effects, such as gradients and drop shadows, CSS Shaders would let web developers apply arbitrary OpenGL shaders to their content.  That makes for some really impressive demos.  Unfortunately, CSS Shaders has a security problem." The explanation of the way that the security problem arises is very complicated, but essentially means your information could be leached.Aviva rolls out BlackBerry PlayBook to staff &gt;&gt; silicon.com"Aviva commercial property surveyors who carry out risk assessments on UK premises are being issued with PlayBooks to record commercial risk. The devices are currently being used by 10 commercial property surveyors and will be issued to 120 staff over a six-month period from early 2012." Thanks to @jforbes for the link. Hope they're buying them at the new, lower price.We show what you downloaded &gt;&gt; You Have DownloadedWorks off your IP address and consults what looks like a database of those seen downloading files. Registered to "XMLSHOP LLC" in Trevrose, Pa. Obviously, will get lots wrong through (a) shared IPs (b) not having you on the database.What's in (and missing from) Microsoft's latest batch of Azure cloud updates | ZDNetThe "what's in" easily outweighs the "what's missing". Azure now looks like a very comprehensive service.iOS concept designer Jan-Michael Cart to start intern position at Apple &gt;&gt; iPhone in Canada Blog"Looks like hard work and a creative talent pays off. Jan-Michael Cart, known worldwide for his iOS concept videos has announced he has achieved his goal of working for Apple as an intern, as posted on his updated blog:" "Welcome to the new blog section of my website. Soon I will be embarking to California, where I will be interning at a fruit company for seven months. I will be updating this to chronicle my adventures and misadventures in the Bay Area for my family, friends, and followers online. Stay tuned, I leave in less than a month!" Though his Notifications designs are hefty - too busy compared to the phone's UI. Very interested to see how this pans out.Are electronics safe on planes? Ask the pilot &gt;&gt; Salon.com"...the main reason laptops need to be put away is to prevent them from becoming high-speed projectiles in the event of an impact or sudden deceleration, and from hampering an evacuation. Your computer is a piece of luggage, and luggage needs to be stowed so it doesn't kill somebody or get in the way. The same holds for iPads and Kindles. Sure, a book can weigh as much as a Kindle, but this is where the line is drawn." (Via @jforbes. Great stuf)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
It's Thursday and the weekend is drawing closer. What are your plans? Last-minute Chistmas shopping, you masochist? Remember, nothing says 'I love you' better than a last minute copy of Super Mario 3D land...
A royal wedding, a briefly-wedded celebrity, a Twilight film and a TV series arguably in the twilight of its existence all topped the list of "fast-rising" searches in the UK, according to Googlelatest "Zeitgeist" lists.Thus the royal wedding – and its principal star Kate Middleton (though not her sister Pippa) – rank highest in the new searches for this year collected by the search engine, which dominates search in this country. Second on the list was an object that didn't exist: Apple's fabled "iPhone 5", expected all year long to be unveiled in June, then July, then August, then September, until the company finally in October unveiled … the iPhone 4S. The company also appears for its iPad 2 product, after the first version appeared in the top 10 last year.The impact of video games on our lives is also clear: Fifa 12 and the online game Minecraft both appear in the new "rising searches". Meanwhile Ryan Dunn, the Jackass star who died in a car crash, and the singers Adele, Rebecca Black and Ed Sheeran all appear – compared with the lone human appearance of Justin Bieber as a name among the new searches last year. (Bieber can rest easy: he has now crossed over to become one of the most searched-for news terms.)Kim Kardashian, whose short-lived wedding made her news fodder everywhere, was the most searched-for celebrity in the UK. She was followed by Victoria Beckham, Harry Potter star Emma Watson, Scarlett Johansson, Jennifer Aniston, the ever-present Britney Spears, Megan Fox, Ricky Gervais (the only male on the list, apparently on the strength of his Golden Globes presenter spot), Jessica Jane and Angelina Jolie.Among films, Breaking Dawn – one of the Twilight saga – set the pattern in which remakes ruled. It was the most searched-for new film, followed by a rash of franchise films: Final Destination 5, Mean Girls 2, True Grit (a remake), Conan The Barbarian (another remake), Scream 4, The Inbetweeners (an original UK film), Little Fockers (third in the franchise), Transformers 3, and Unstoppable - the only other original film on the list.Meanwhile "X Factor 2011" was the fastest-rising search, despite its sliding TV ratings compared with last year. After that came the Apprentice 2011, X Factor USA, and then NCIS, House, Glee, Thundercats, Big Brother, Supernatural and Smallville. It's unclear if people searching for the US series names are trying to find download links or information about them; Google said it doesn't have any insight into that.For deputy prime minister Nick Clegg, the news that the top "what is…?" search was "what is AV" (answer: the alternative vote system the Liberal Democrats were proposing to replace first-past-the-post elections) will confirm why the referendum was lost: too few people could understand it without resorting to the internet. But they're also – judging by the other "what is?" search terms – puzzled by sauteed shrimp ("what is scampi?"), underground fungus and/or chocolates ("what is truffle" [sic]), while also seeking to do some medical self-help ("what is piles").The squeeze on UK living standards is also apparent from the food searches, which this year are headed by Asda, recipes, Tesco, Sainsburys and pizza. Close behind those budget-conscious choices, and pointing to even tighter times ahead, are chicken, chocolate, Dominos (the pizza delivery company), Morrisons (supermarket chain) and Argos. Those compare with the same category for last year, whichGoogle's press release thenshowed as starting with Tesco and recipes, and then Asda, pizza, wine, Sainsburys, Jamie Oliver, Morrisons, cakes and curry.Meanwhile the new "How to…" category indicates that the nation's youth increasingly turns to the internet for advice on key tasks, some of which may be worrying in their naivete: the searches, in order, try to find out how to revise, snog, reference (as in learned papers), wallpaper, draw, sleep, flirt, geek (which turns out to be instructions on computer maintenance), pronounce and shuffle.Fastest-rising searches1. Royal wedding2. iPhone 53. Fifa 124. Groupon5. iPad 26. Ryan Dunn7. Adele8. Minecraft9. Rebecca Black10. Ed SheeranFastest-rising people1. Ryan Dunn2. Adele3. Rebecca Black4. Ed Sheeran5. Amy Winehouse6. Charlie Sheen7. Steve Jobs8. Kate Middleton9. Nicki Minaj10. Darren CrissHow to …1. How to revise2. How to snog3. How to reference4. How to wallpaper5. How to draw6. How to sleep7. How to flirt8. How to geek9. How to pronounce10. How to shuffleWhat is …1. What is AV2. What is scampi3. What are truffles4. What are piles5. What is 4D6. What are cookies7. What is copyright8. What is zumba9. What is iCloud10. What is probateFastest-rising movies1. Breaking Dawn2. Final Destination 53. Mean Girls 24. True Grit5. Conan the Barbarian6. Scream 47. The Inbetweeners8. Little Fockers9. Transformers 310. UnstoppableFastest-rising sports terms1. Haye vs Klitschko2. Olympic tickets 20123. Arsenal transfer4. Six Nations 20115. Wimbledon 20116. Grand National 20117. Wrestlemania 278. Copa America 20119. Randy Savage10. Dan WheldonTop food and drink1. Asda2. Recipes3. Tesco4. Sainsburys5. Pizza6. Chicken7. Chocolate8. Dominos9. Morrisons10. ArgosTop travel destinations1. Las Vegas2. New York3. Disneyland Paris4. Jamaica5. Orlando6. Barbados7. Hawaii8. Caribbean9. Florida10. CubaTop UK searches1. Facebook2. YouTube3. Hotmail4. eBay6. Google7. BBC8. Amazon9. Argos10. YahooNews top 10 (top searches on news.google.co.uk)1. BBC News2. Arsenal3. Facebook4. YouTube5. Cheryl Cole6. iPhone 57. Liverpool8. Kate Middleton9. Manchester United10. Justin BieberFastest-rising football searches1. Anzhi Makhachkala2. Arsenal transfer3. Liverpool rumours4. Joey Barton Twitter5. Sky Sports transfer6. Fifa ultimate team7. Eric Abidal8. Copa America 20119. Billy Sharp10. Demba BaTop celebrities1. Kim Kardashian2. Victoria Beckham3. Emma Watson4. Scarlett Johansson5. Jennifer Aniston6. Britney Spears7. Megan Fox8. Ricky Gervais9. Jessica Jane10. Angelina JolieFastest-rising TV programme1. X Factor 20112. Apprentice 20113. X Factor USA4. NCIS season 95. House season 86. Glee season 37. Thundercats 20118. Big Brother 139. Supernatural season 710. Smallville season 10Top tickets1. Train tickets2. Cheap tickets3. 2012 tickets4. Theatre tickets5. Ticketmaster6. BBC tickets7. Concert tickets8. O29. Liverpool tickets10. Leeds ticketsBargain hunting1. Cheap flights2. Cheap holidays3. Cheap hotels4. Cheap tickets5. Cheap insurance6. Cheap cars7. Cheap breaks8. Cheap shoes9. Cheap dresses10. Cheap clothes
After months of planning and a low-key beta period, an intriguing new online marketplace for independent games has opened to the public today.IndieCityis designed to provide small studios with an easy way to get their titles in front of a global audience, while gamers can use the built in recommendation engine to discover new titles, without having to browse through masses of menus."The idea mainly came about from our own frustrations with the current marketplace, and how it was overly focused on the mainstream," says project lead, Chris Swan. "Although some of the more notable indie devs were well covered, we found that there was a huge number of overlooked indie games that were scattered and hard to find across the web. We wanted to provide an open marketplace where developers were more in control of their games, and a site where gamers could discover the full breadth of what indie gaming truly has to offer."Star Sky: a game that describes itself as a midnight stroll with unlockable encounters.Interestingly, the site has a specific idea of what it means by the term 'indie' – "Games should be cool, arty, experimental and fun, not manufactured and recycled," goes the blurb that comes up when you search for IndieCity on Google. And the 60 or so games currently available for download reflect that ethos.Trauma, for example, is a strange photographic odyssey into the mind of a traumatised woman, created by designer Krystian Majewski, while Star Sky byMarten Jonssonis effectively a simulation of a midnight stroll, andMontyGames' Mobiloid is a robot construction puzzler.Discovery is the key element. IndieCity users download a client on to their PC that manages access to the catalogue, and this will also automatically retrieve demos and trailers of games that it thinks the user will enjoy, based on previous purchases. It's a concept borrowed from retail sites like Amazon, and the idea is to make 'shopping; for indie titles more accessible. developers are able to set their own prices, with the current selection ranging from 70p up to £12.Mobiloid: build your own robot from spare parts then shove it through a series of puzzles.Swan also reckons IndieCity is a good bet for developers who may have found the selection and approval process of leading games download site Steam somewhat esoteric. "Our community-approval process means that we are not the gate-keepers for what goes on IndieCity: essentially so long as your game is stable, virus-free and considered 'indie' by our community reviewers then you'll be approved. We provide some of the best revenue share available to developers, with those integrating with our SDK getting 85% of the revenue."Based in Leamington and originated by veteran independent developer, Blitz Games Studios, the site is also looking into the possibility of arranging Groupon-style revenue share models with developers, as well as GameJams. "We work closely with our developer community as we create and add more features to the site," says Swan. "The forthcoming Underground area, for example, allows them to try out 'Pay to Finish' business models and build a fan-base while their games are still being developed."Clearly then, IndieCity also has one eye on spotting and nurturing the next Minecraft...
Since before the introduction of the Kindle Fire about a month ago the pundit class has been chattering wildly about the pros and cons of Amazon's entry into the tablet space. After mixed early notices, with more praise than pans, a second wave of analysishas featured some pessimistic second thoughts.I finally got a chance to put mine through some paces. As the holder of a small amount of Amazon stock, I take no joy in saying that If I didn't need to keep the Kindle Fire for some work-related experiments, I'd send it back, stick with the tablet(s) I've been using, and wait for the next version. For what I like and need in a tablet, notably versatility, this one just doesn't measure up.Of course, as a technology industry executive once reminded me, I'm not a normal user. And it's true that, for many people, this device will be more than good enough – provided their main reasons for getting it are a) indulging in various kinds of media consumption (especially media provided by Amazon); b) shopping on Amazon; and c) playing around with apps like Angry Birds.As a Kindle e-reader that also plays audio and video, it's terrific. Although the 7in screen isn't as easy on the eyes as the traditional Kindle's e-ink display, it's more than good enough for even lengthy reading sessions. Streaming video playback for both Amazon and Netflix was problem-free, though the video player wasn't as capable as the one I use on other mobile devices running the Android operating system.Other uses are less rewarding. Web browsing feels at best sluggish, and sometimes actions are jerky. Privacy settings are pretty much non-existent. Amazon says it's readying a software update to remedy such defects, but the clunky nature of this early release suggests it was rushed out for the holiday season.Amazon's version of Android is not recognizable to anyone who's used the operating system on other devices. It's more locked down, and has far fewer features, and the home screen is a bookshelf metaphor, not a collection of apps and services. Again, this may be fine for people who want to live in the world Amazon has created – a world that does, to be fair, include a curated app marketplace – it is nonetheless overly restrictive. Users can load unauthorized apps, but doing so isn't trivial for novices. The hacking community is hard at work figuring out ways to make the Kindle Fire a full-fledged Android device, but this is also not for novices.The physical deficiencies are even more problematic. Weirdly, Amazon put the on/off/sleep button on the bottom, a perfect location for accidentally stopping what you're doing. There's no camera or hardware volume control. Nor is there a slot for extra memory, a serious issue given the relatively paltry 8GB of built-in storage. Amazon's apparent assumption is that we'll be doing so much media consumption from the fabled online "cloud" that we don't need more local storage: not me, at least not yet.Some of the criticism aimed at the Fire has struck me as unfounded, or at least likely to be less relevant in a few months or a year. Some naysayers complain that web pages that look fine on a 10in tablet screen are too scrunched up on the smaller 7in device. True enough: this is a problem for all smaller tablets, and it's high time software developers and web designers start caring about this form factor, which is not going to disappear despite the iPad's overwhelming (and deserved) market dominance to date.I'm absolutely convinced that the 7in size is ideal for many uses. Reading is one. If I read a book on an iPad and don't use both hands, I quickly discover that it's a heavy machine to hold in one hand for very long. I also fly frequently, and the smaller tablet is ideal for video entertainment and games in a cramped economy seat. For checking email, using Twitter and some web browsing (usually using sites' mobile mode), I'm just as happy with the smaller size as I would be with an iPad or one of the larger Android tablets.It's widely believed that Amazon's $200 price – wifi only, no connection to telecom carriers – means the company is taking a small loss on each unit sold, just as it almost certainly loses money on the other Kindle hardware. The point in each case, of course, is the virtual merchandize: books, etc, where Amazon makes money.It's also a given that the Fire hardware will improve with the next version. No doubt there'll be a larger model (there's a larger regular Kindle), but the current size will be appealing – if the device gets better than this first try.For now, I'm sticking with a year-old Samsung Galaxy Tab 7in tablet for my main tablet tasks. Now that I've updated the software – I had to do it myself, because Samsung and its mobile partner, T-Mobile, couldn't be bothered to support their users – the device is just fine for my immediate needs.As I said when the Kindle Fire was announced, this isn't really an iPad competitor. The Fire is a Toyota Corolla, and the iPad a Lexus. Nothing I've seen changes my mind, but keep in mind that a Corolla gets people where they need to be, which is more than good enough for most people.Amazon's rating system goes from one to five stars. For now, I've given the Kindle Fire three.
There is still no confirmed date for the 4G spectrum auctions in the UK. This market is now officially the laggard in the European telecom industry.That's a position made all the more damning by the fact that Europe as a whole is itself a long way behind the rest of the world when it comes to advanced mobile services.Delivering LTE – or 4G – services is complex. It requires specific radio spectrum, which is, arguably, among the most valuable commodities we have access to.That spectrum is owned by governments, and they have full control over when, how and to whom usage of the spectrum is licensed.The disjointed governments across Europe have failed in coordinating the licensing of spectrum. The effect is a kind of European infanticide.The continent was once a global leader in the mobile industry; it is now years behind the US, Japan and South Korea. Opportunities, innovation and jobs have been stifled by governments and regulators.Europe's most advanced LTE networks can claim subscribers in the tens of thousands. NTT DoCoMo in Japan had, at last count, just short of 500,000. That puts them in second behind Verizon Wireless in the US, who can happily boast millions of subscribers and a phenomenal growth rate.These countries are also ahead because all parties – operators, regulators and governments – are leveraging scale and homogeneity to be a leader in mobile. Not every country can be a leader, but for Europe to lose a leadership by so many years in such a short space of time is remarkable.In 1991, the countries of Europe worked together to launch GSM – a mobile standard that is still used today, every day around the world. This is the foundation for the mobile industry that we have now.The unified, standardised, coordinated approach taken in Europe enabled rapid development of the industry, brought about by scale and a clear centre of gravity.European operators are investing much slower in LTE, and with little coordination, because there's no consensus, no common drive and common goal in Europe to develop networks together. Europe can compete with the US, but only if its countries act together to bring vital scale and harmonisation – of both spectrum and action – to bear.Only a handful of countries have commercial LTE in Europe – including the Scandinavian countries, the Baltics, Germany and Poland. How can a few operators in these few markets, with their relatively tiny combined subscriber base, compete with Verizon and NTT DoCoMo?The spectrum auctions represent perfectly Europe's problem in the industry. All that governments and regulators see now is short term financial gain from spectrum auctions, rather than long term economic progress.The licensing of spectrum is uncoordinated and focused entirely on making as much money as possible. But that is money that comes out of the industry, meaning less to invest in infrastructure and services.The spectrum auction saga in the UK is a particularly sad tale. The UK was a powerful force in Europe's domination of the mobile industry for more than 15 years. Things began to go awry with the 3G spectrum auctions of 2000, which saw the government pocket around £20bn for spectrum – that's £20bn taken out of the industry in the UK alone, and the numbers were even higher in Germany.Now, Ofcom has been unable to find any way to host an auction that keeps the big operators – Everything Everywhere, O2 and Vodafone – happy. Those UK operators will now likely be three years behind the US in offering mobile users the fastest, most advanced service available.The UK operators say that it doesn't matter that there's no auction yet. The "digital dividend" spectrum won't be available until analogue television is switched off next year, and they have sufficient 3G spectrum to handle data usage. Clearly they are reluctant to play the auction game with Ofcom again.The reality is that the operators are going to wield all of their considerable power to ensure that the spectrum auction happens exactly the way they want it to, when they want it to. No operator can afford not to get the spectrum they need, yet there is barely enough for all four UK operators.But there's so much more to investing in mobile technologies than just offering faster network speeds or having the capacity to handle mobile data.Being at the centre of the mobile industry – of any industry, in fact – creates jobs. When the innovation was all happening in Europe, the telecom infrastructure vendors in Europe were thriving.Alcatel, Ericsson, Nokia, Nortel and Siemens led the industry. The US had Motorola and Lucent, evolved from Bell Labs, but Europe was where the power was.As that power has faded, and other regions – particularly China through Huawei and ZTE – have taken the initiative smartly out of Europe's grasp, and the telecom vendors have suffered terribly. Nortel has gone. Alcatel merged with Lucent to become Alcatel Lucent. And Nokia and Siemens merged to become Nokia Siemens Networks.That merger recently announced that it would be reducing head count by 17,000 jobs as it desperately tries to remain profitable. Cutting 23% of a skilled workforce is devastating for a company, and particularly so in this economic climate, but it is a true sign of what is necessary to survive in Europe.In the main, it is revenues from US operators – the ones investing in LTE – that are keeping Ericsson and Alcatel Lucent profitable.The opportunity for Europe has gone. The debate about how and when to auction spectrum is redundant as far as LTE is concerned.The hope of the industry is that Europe's governments and regulators can see the devastating impact that they've had and revert back to a coordinated, harmonised approach in time for future spectrum auctions. There will be more licensing in the coming years, but they have missed a golden opportunity with LTE.•Bengt Nordström is the chief executive of telecom consultancyNorthstream
Why are so many notable apps still only available for iPhone (and iPad) rather than Android? It's a state of affairs that has sparked controversy on our daily Apps Rush posts due to the fact that on some days, the roundup of new apps is iOS-heavy.We've always argued that the post is a reflection of what's being released, although we've been working hard to find more sources to ensure apps for Android, Windows Phone, BlackBerry and other platforms aren't slipping through the net.Will more developers remove their iOS blinkers in 2012? There is some new research to chew over on this matter. We'll start with analytics firm Flurry, which regularly publishes stats on trends among the 55,000 developers using its tools in their apps – around 25% of all apps downloaded from the App Store and Android Market, so a credible sample.Itslatest blog postexplains that of new app projects started so far in the fourth quarter this year using Flurry's tools on iOS and Android, 73% were iOS apps and just 27% were Android apps. That compares to a 63-37 ratio on the first quarter of 2011.Flurry highlights the launch of the iPhone 4S, and Apple's expansion beyond its single-operator deal in the US with AT&amp;T to distribute iPhones through Verizon Wireless and Sprint as key factors, along with the launch of the iPad 2.Yet as it points out, more than 200 million activated Android devices and one billion Android Market downloads a month show the momentum behind Google's OS. The US in particular has become a booming market for Android smartphone sales:new research from NPD Groupclaims that between January and October 2011, 53% of smartphones sold there were running Android, ahead of iPhone's 29% share and BlackBerry's plummeting 11%.So why the iOS blinkers? Money. Flurry has some stats here too, which it says support anecdotal claims by developers that if they release an app for both iOS and Android, they'll make three or four times as much money from the iOS version.Flurry has crunched data from a sample of "top apps with versions on both iOS and Android", although its analysis focuses on in-app purchases rather than download fees or advertising. "Running the numbers, we find that, on average, for every $1.00 generated on iOS, the same app will generate $0.24 on Android," claims the company."Despite installed base numbers and daily activations, the almighty dollar still drives business decision making among application developers.  And with the critical holiday season upon us, developers are betting on iOS for Christmas 2011."Flurry has been tracking new project starts across iOS and AndroidThere's a big caveat here, though, which is this: some developers who do support Android are capitalising on the relative lack of competition compared to iOS. Checkthis post on the Games Brief blogby Rubicon Development's Paul Johnson about porting its Great Little War Game from iOS to Android."As usual the haters have it wrong. Very wrong," he writes. "Sales from the first three months have matched the iOS equivalent period very well indeed." Rubicon saw its game featured as part of Google's "10 Billion" promotion where apps were sold for $0.10 on the Android Market, resulting in peak sales of 400 per minute."We're on track to have taken around $125,000 by the end of this first sales quarter and that's not too shabby a return in my book," writes Johnson. "If you have an iOS game that's pretty decent and you're wondering about porting to Android, just do it."Elsewhere, social game developer Gameview has said its Android gamesmake 30% more average revenue per user(ARPU) than the iOS versions.That's contradicted by another developer, Godzilab, which has said it saw anARPU three times higher on iOSthan Android for its Stardunk game – yet the company also said the two versions were earning roughly the same due to more people playing on Android.Elsewhere, apps like Evernote's Skitch (3m downloads in four months) and productivity app Any.Do (500k downloads in 30 days) are showing how free apps can ramp up quickly on Android too, providing a base to try to make money from in-app purchases, advertising and/or subscriptions.The issues with Android that have put many developers off supporting Google's platform – piracy, device fragmentation, a perceived unwillingness to pay for apps for example – have not been solved, but the number of success stories indicating that Android fortune favours the brave are mounting.It remains to be seen how many developers will take up Google chairman Eric Schmidt's invitation todevelop apps for Android firstby mid-2012. Some app genres – notably social games – are moving faster than others towards a point where developers strive to release apps across iOS and Android, if not simultaneously, at least in quick succession.Read much of this research, and you're sucked into thoughts of a market dominated by iOS and Android. Yet 2012 may be the year when more developers look beyond this pairing – and we don't just mean BlackBerry and Windows Phone.Mobile industry consultant Tomi Ahonen has published along blog postaggregating data from Netsize, Informa, Google and Ipsos to try to compile credible figures for the number of mobile devices in use globally. It's based on figures from 42 major countries which he says cover 72% of the world's mobile phone users.The key figures: Ahonen calculates that there are now 745m smartphones in use – "this is a very solid number" – out of a total 4.6bn mobile handsets in use. That would mean a 16% penetration rate for smartphones globally.Ahonen goes on to break the smartphones down by manufacturer and operating system. In the latter case, he estimates that Android and Symbian are neck and neck with 190m in-use smartphones and a 31% market share each, followed by iOS (114m / 17%), BlackBerry (93m / 14%), Windows Mobile (17m / 3%), Samsung's Bada (8m / 1%) and Windows Phone (5m / 1%), with other operating systems accounting for 33m smartphones and a 5% market share.Wondering why this adds up to 649m rather than 745m? Ahonen explains that these market share figures are based on actual sales rather than estimates, meaning they include the final quarter of 2009 rather than the final quarter of 2011 in his two-year analysis. It's explained fully in the piece.The point? There are opportunities beyond iOS and Android, depending on what kind of app a developer is making, who they're aiming it at, and where those people are in the world.Yet guessing which platforms developers will support in 2012 is about much more than in-use handset figures. Developers will be taking their decisions based on how much money they think they can make, set against the likely costs of development and the human resources available to them.They'll be trying to gauge which platforms may grow sharply in the next year – for example whether Nokia's belief that teenagers arebored by iPhone and baffled by Androidis true – as well as investigating any inducements being offered by the platform owners to port their apps.And yes, often they'll be guided by their own predjudices, or those of their investors.
People who don't like Abba aren't even really people. If your soul is incapable of being touched by the strong brew of teenage lusts and grown-up heartbreaks set to crisp and wistful power pop, then it isn't just faulty – it's probably not even there. Sorry to have to break it to you like that. Consider it an early Christmas present.Abba are a fantastic candidate for a dancing game, and not only because their generation-vaulting popularity makes them an easy win for parties. As a proper pop band, the dancing is built in from the start.There's nothing clumsy or contrived about attaching a group routine to Knowing Me, Knowing You or Hole In Your Soul – these songs are made for movement.The choreography across the 27 tracks (well, 25 plus "Dancefloor" and "Prom" versions of Dancing Queen) is well-suited to the music. Stupid booty grinding is avoided in favour of pleasingly Abba-ish arm movements and turns (and yes, it is difficult to follow the on-screen prompts while you spin away from the telly, but dear God it is pretty much impossible to get Brits to crunk without making them too sauced to hold the Wiimote first).You will need friends, though. Playing alone is possible, but given that the routines are all for four dancers and involve various amounts of hand-holding and side-stepping around each other, you'll feel pretty lonely pretty fast if you can't round up a trio of friends.Once you've drawn them in with the promise of kirsch, meatballs and perky songs about divorce, you can keep them there by exploring some of the extras on the disc.There's a score-free karaoke mode featuring original videos, which is no challenger to the mighty SingStar Abba and does require you to handle a hateful, plasticky, third-party mic, but is nice to have.There's also a World of Abba slideshow factsheet, which is strictly for people who can't access books or Wikipedia to fulfil their need for banalities about Anni-Frid, Björn, Benny and Agnetha.Better is the mini-musical mode. This is a nod to the Mamma Mia! juggernaut without the hassle of licensing, which builds four songs into a Grease-alike story for three girls and one guy (a smart move, given that the dancing games market isn't as gender-balanced as Abba themselves).It won't keep you going for long, though, and it's a reminder of just how limited dancing games on Wii are. But for a relatively tiny price, you get to pretend that you're a part of the greatest pop group ever, and it's a pretty convincing show.• Game reviewed on Wii
Just in case you haven't yet managed to navigate to the Games section of your new Xbox 360 interface, have a look now because, until 19 December, Microsoft has a selection of four Japanese shoot-'em-up classics at half price.I wouldn't usually blog about such offers, but two of these excellent titles are etched forever on to my charred memory banks. Radiant Silvergun was released in 1998 by Treasure for the Sega Saturn console and for the ST-V arcade board, one of the first pieces of coin-op hardware to be based on a home console technology (see also Namco's System 11 board, based on the original PlayStation). It's a glorious vertical scroller with a compelling weapon power-up system that fused shooter and RPG dynamics into one engrossing experience.Also from Treasure is N64 and Dreamcast legend, Bangai-O, a multi-directional mech-shooter that has influenced so many indie blasters it's ridiculous. While I was working at DC-UK magazine, this was a mainstay on our import Dreamcast console – until I plugged it in without using the step-down transformer and blew it up.Also in the offer are Konami's Hard Corps Uprising and Cave's top-down slaughter-fest, Guwange, both worth a look for their cool visuals alone. Bangai-O and Guwange are 400 points each, the other two are 600. If you've ever played a retro-tinged indie or Xbox Live Shooter, grab one of these and find out where they got their ideas from.
A selection of 20 new apps for you today:Skulls by Simon WinchesterCritically acclaimed book-app publisher Touch Press' latest iPad app is Skulls, collecting 360-degree models of more than 300 animal skulls, with author Simon Winchester providing explanatory text. Audio clips and links to the Wolfram Alpha database are also included.iPadRara.comRara.com is the latest streaming music service competing with Spotify and the rest.Launched by Omnifone, it promises a catalogue of more than 10 million tracks for £4.99 a month, or £9.99 if you want mobile access to. With that in mind, the Rara Android app is available already in Google's Android Market, with an iOS version to follow.AndroidToca KitchenToca Boca's latest marvellous app for children is Toca Kitchen, which gets them to slice, fry, boil and microwave a fridgeful of ingredients. The idea being to teach kids about cooking for four characters with their own likes and dislikes.iPhone / iPadRussell HowardComedian Russell Howard has got his own iPhone app, launched by Avalon Entertainment using Mobile Roadie's DIY platform. It offers fans a mixture of news, videos, live date information and tweets, as well as a Fan Wall to contribute their own thoughts.iPhonePlants vs. ZombiesPopCap's Plants vs. Zombies isn't new to Android, but it's new to the Android Market, emerging from its previous exclusive distribution deal with Amazon's app store. The game remains a fearsomely addictive undead take on the tower defence genre.AndroidYouSendItOnline service YouSendIt has been helping people send big files for years, but now it has mobile and tablet apps. People can send files, share folders and store their videos and photos in the cloud. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadPaper Toss 2.0The original Paper Toss remains one of the most popular casual games for iOS with 100 million downloads, but now developer Backflip Studios has released a sequel. You can now chuck paper balls at (virtual) office colleagues as well as a bin, while also laying hands on bananas and grenades. In-app purchases are now also part of the game.iPhone / iPadSkyDriveMicrosoft just can't stop releasing apps this month. The company has launched an app for its SkyDrive cloud service for iPhone and Windows Phone, building on the way the service is integrated into the latter OS. It lets users browse their entire SkyDrives, share folders and files with contacts, and managing their content.iPhone / Windows PhoneSkyscannerFlight search service Skyscanner's app has been downloaded nearly five  million times on iPhone and Android, but now there's a new Windows Phone version. It uses the Mango Live Tiles feature to help people monitor the price of a desired flight, diving in to book when it's at a low point.Windows Phone(spotted byWPCentral)KinectimalsWe've already covered Microsoft's Kinectimals game for Windows Phone, but the company has sprung a surprise by porting it to iOS too. People can play with their own virtual cub on the go, and use the app to unlock five more for the Xbox 360 version of Kinectimals.iPhone / iPadMicrosoft OneNote for iPadMicrosoft has launched a new tablet version of its OneNote productivity application for iPad, a year after its iPhone debut. It helps people track shopping lists, recipes, events and travel planning among other activities.iPadPeggleMore PopCap fun for Android Market customers comes with Peggle, which sees players firing balls onto a screen full of pegs. Which sounds simple and unengaging, but the gameplay is famously moreish.AndroidJotlyFeeling sceptical about hyped social location apps like Oink and Stamped? Jotly may be the antidote: it started as an imaginary app spoofing the "rate everything" trend, before being worked up into an actual product. It's still for laughs: "Search for nearby items. Even if it's a piece of lint, it might be really awesome... Like ducks? Jotly will show you big and little ducks."iPhoneSkeen Social Meetings &amp; EventsThis social app is in beta, and aims to help people create meetings and events and invite friends and contacts. Private group chat is included, as are Google Maps to help guide people to the meeting spot.AndroidGoop City GuidesStartup Goop has launched its first City Guides app for iPhone, promising "a New Yorkers' guide to NYC". One of those New Yorkers being actress Gwyneth Paltrow, who is one of the founders of the Goop.com website. Guides for London, Los Angeles and other cities will follow.iPhone / iPadFord FusionFord's new iOS app is all about the Ford Fusion car, which is due to be unveiled on 9 January. The app will let people drive virtual versions of the vehicle around 19 tracks, while also offering videos.iPhone / iPadCall2Call2 wants to save people money on their voice calls, getting them to choose a contact, then getting a call back from the company to connect the call for a cheaper price. It's been out in beta on iPhone for a year, but there's a new BlackBerry version with Android to follow.iPhone / BlackBerryOverkillCraneballs Studios' Overkill game has been a big hit on iOS with more than six million downloads. Now the freemium shooter has made the leap to Android, using the same Overkill Medals virtual currency.AndroidStrawberry Shortcake Comics ReaderApe Entertainment has launched a new iOS app for the Strawberry Shortcake comics, starting with four issues including a free preview. Other issues will be sold via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadCotton PopsThere's an interesting story behind iOS game Cotton Pops, which is a collaboration between developr RM Productions and students at the University of Central Lancashire. The students were challenged to come up with a game idea as part of the Made in Preston initiative.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft to capture 12% of western Europe smartphone sales in 2012 &gt;&gt; MarketWatch"Tom Kang, Director at Strategy Analytics, said: 'western Europe smartphone sales will reach 117m units in 2012, growing 12% from 105m in 2011. We forecast Microsoft Windows Phone to be the fastest growing major platform next year, doubling its share of the western European smartphone market from 6% in 2011 to 12% in 2012. Increased distribution and marketing support from major hardware partners such as Nokia, Samsung and HTC will help to drive growth for Microsoft.'" First: Windows Phone has 6% of the western European smartphone market? Second: see Tomi Ahonen's commentary below.Changes to the DFID website &gt;&gt; Department for International Development"The homepage of the projects database has a new look. There is a list of our latest projects and the most recently published project documents, including new business cases. You can search by sector and keyword, or by finding a country on the world map. When you view a project, instead of just seeing the title and description, you now see a colourful pie chart showing the project budget by sector. Hover over each sector with your mouse to see the latest budget for that sector. This is an excellent way of illustrating how DFID-funded projects can target a variety of priorities." What's not visible is the number of very smart people who are working in the background to get more and more government websites not just up to date, but to incorporate some future vision.Dragon Tattoo marks 4K milestone &gt;&gt; Reuters.com"The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo is the tenth film this year to be released in 4K, a new ultra high resolution digital film format that Sony hopes will become the industry standard." It says it has four times the resolution of previous digital formats: getting closer to film. Of course if Sony can get it adopted then it will at least have one space where it's making money.Patch Tuesday analysis for December 2011 &gt;&gt; Naked Security"As always on the second Tuesday of the month Microsoft and Adobe release their monthly security bulletins. "This month Microsoft has released 13 bulletins, although they had originally announced there would be 14 this month. In the final stages of QA, Microsoft discovered a application incompatibility with a major software vendor." It's very hard to grasp just how complex the process of introducing, checking and verifying patches is - but it's probably one of the hardest tasks Microsoft has. And it's almost perpetual - the Sisyphean rock of software.How bad will Nokia Q4 be in smartphones? Worse than you thought &gt;&gt; Tomi AhonenTomi Ahonen is a former Nokia executive: "So when Q4 results come in, we will hear that Nokia smartphone market share crashed further to about 10%, and Nokia's ranking has fallen to fourth place in the best case, or as bad as fifth place. The Nokia unit sales are literally down to half they were only a year ago - this while the industry had its best year of hypergrowth ever - and Nokia average sales prices hit a record low. The total revenues of the smartphone unit will be down to 1.8 Billion Euros generating only about a fifth of Nokia's total sales. And profits? The smartphone unit will continue to be in the red and all of Nokia will struggle to achieve zero profitability for the end of the year Christmas quarter." You may be able to spot that he isn't happy about Stephen Elop's plan.FAA approves iPads in the cockpit; American Airlines to start Friday &gt;&gt; ZDNet"In June the Allied Pilots Association noted that American Airlines (AA) conducted the first tests of iPads for all phases of flight. AA pilots received Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) approval to test iPads with electronic charts this summer and asked to take it to the next logical level: replacing most of their paper books and charts with digital documents on the iPad. "Seattle Pi notes that a 1.5 pound iPad replaces about 35 pounds of paper saving an estimated $1.2m worth of fuel per year." Don't worry - they won't be used to run Photoshop. Real computing is still safe from these incursions.Killing spam on Google+ &gt;&gt; Pras Sarkar"The quality of conversations on Google+ is something we take very seriously, so we're happy to announce that we've finished rolling out our new comment spam moderation system. "Now, if we identify a possibly spammy comment on your post, we'll immediately mark it for your review." If Google+ is getting spam that's actually a good sign - spammers don't bother with places where nothing is happening. But you have to review your own? Bet that people won't, for the most part.Adblock Plus and (a little) more: Allowing acceptable ads in Adblock Plus &gt;&gt; AdblockPlus developmentTypical comment: "I will not be using adblock if I can not disable this new feature." The new feature will show some ads. So if you stop using it... yeah, that'll show them.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
HTC, the world's fourth biggest smartphone maker by volume, said on Wednesday that a US court has further postponed a final ruling on its lawsuit against Apple, which is seeking a ban on sales of HTC devices in the US market – and perhaps on all Android devices there.With outside legal expertssuggesting that HTC may lose the case, an HTC official said the International Trade Commission, a US trade panel that investigates patent infringement involving imported goods, would deliver its ruling on 19 December.She added that the ITC did not disclose a reason for the delay.The ruling is crucial for HTC, which has struggled with legal battles and stiff competition with Apple and Samsung, since it could result in a ban on the sale of HTC handsets in the US, a market that accounts for 50% of the company revenue.The suit is seen by some as a proxy for the larger fight for market share between Google's Android cellphones and tablets, many of which HTC makes, and Apple's product line.The ITC had earlier scheduled a ruling for Wednesday 12 December, postponed from the original date of 6 December."It's hard to say whether the delay is good or bad because we don't know the true reason behind," said Yuanta Securities analyst Bonnie Chang."We hope the ruling will come as soon as possible so we can predict where the bottom is and whether there will be a settlement, and then we can have a better view of HTC's fundamentals in the coming year."Florian Müller, an independent analyst who has followed the twists and turns of the many patent and infringement battles going on around the world between mobile phone companies,said the delay doesn't have any implications for either side: "The ITC has a huge workload these days, and this is a case involving four distinct patents. In July, an Administrative Law Judge found HTC to infringe two Apple patents while holding at the same time that two others were not infringed. HTC requested a review of the decision with respect to those two patents, and Apple had asked for a contingent review, asking the ITC to take a look at the other two patents as well if it grants (as it quite expectedly did) HTC's request for a review."Atlaw.com, Sapna Kumar, an assistant professor of law at the University of Houston Law Center who is a former patent litigator and follows the ITC closely, said: "I think it's pretty likely they'll affirm the decision [that Apple's patents were infringed]."The first patent covers the ability for data such as a phone number to be made into a hyperlink which, when tapped, will trigger the phone to call a number. That would be relatively easy for HTC to avoid.The second is broader, Müller said, and deals with the structure of software and how it is organised, and so would be much harder to work around.In a filing to the ITC, Michelle Lee, head of patents and patent strategy for Google, wrote: "Eliminating all of the major Android device manufacturers from the United States – as Apple is attempting – would allow Apple to establish virtual monopoly in the mobile device industry. Excluding the HTC Android devices from the US would threaten the viability of the Android platform. The damage to consumers and the public welfare from reduced competition in this nascent industry would be severe."Google has already tried to help HTC in the fight,assigninga number of patents to it in September which HTC has then used to sue Apple separately in the US.The patents were acquired by Google from a number of sources, with some originally deriving from Palm and its software spinoff Palmsource.Korea's Samsung Electronics, which also makes Android products, is locked in similar court fights with Apple.
