There's a simple way to measure your "computer intelligence": divide the number of folders or directories on your personal computer by the number of files and multiply the result by 1,000. If you have, on average, a hundred files in each folder, your CIQ will be 100, which is enough to function properly. If you have up to 500 files in each folder then it is time to re-organise your hard drive.Hard drive organisation is important, not just so that you can find things easily, and back them up, but to keep Windows running smoothly. Windows keeps a "swap file" on the hard drive where it stores things when it runs out of real memory. When it starts to run out of this "virtual memory" (swap space), Windows' performance declines dramatically.Organising a hard drive is like planning a library: you want to have the right number of shelves for different types of book, and you want to be able to find individual books quickly. It makes sense to reserve different folders - or different drives, or different drive partitions - for the operating system, your applications,   and your data. You may also want separate sections for any particularly large collections of data, such as MP3 files.You can then subdivide these main areas by creating folders for different applications and different types of data.Microsoft has tried to encourage this approach in recent versions of Windows. The system files are stored in the Windows directory, and applications programs in a folder called Program Files. There's also a folder called My Documents where you can store your data (files created with word processors, spreadsheets, paint programs and other applications). This may also include subdirectories such as My Library, My Music, My Pictures, and My Webs.Highlight the My Documents folder in Windows Explorer, then select File|New|Folder to create as many subdirectories as you like, such as My Downloads and so on. And if you don't like Microsoft's approach to directory names, you can do the same thing independently somewhere else, such as D:\Data.Keeping all your personal data together makes it much easier to take back ups (security copies) in case of a hard drive failure. The operating system and applications can be re-installed from original copies, but if your data is lost, it has gone for good.Unfortunately, not many of Microsoft's applications programmers, and very few outsiders, have got the message. Outlook and Outlook    Express, for example, do not store your vital mail files in My Mail. They hide them away where you can't see them in files with extensions such as .dbx, .mbx and .pst. My OE5 mail, for example, is stored in C:\WINDOWS\ Application Data\Identities\ {C333B700-C32C-11D3-8602-B49B824D1277}\ Microsoft\OutlookExpress\Inbox. dbx , and how rational is that?Also unfortunately, Windows is incapable of keeping track of files so you can't easily move them. However, you can make a habit of copying them to (say) My Mail and backing them up regularly.But many programs can be set up to save files in a particular directory by default. You could, for example, store Word files in a My Word folder in My Documents. And many files - documents, images, MP3 files etc - can be stored anywhere. You can send these to the My Documents folder by right-clicking on the file name in Windows Explorer and selecting Send To then My Documents. Go to My Documents and sort them out later, creating new subfolders whenever a directory gets too big. The aim is to have enough sub-folders so that you can find files easily.It can, of course, be tedious to navigate to very deep folders. However, you can always add your most frequently used folders to your Favorites list. This was designed to store web links, but you can add folders to the My Computer section.
There's only one way to arrive in Las Vegas, and that's by plane. Flying in - at least by daylight is the required mode of transport because it places in context this expensively kitsch temple of artifice. Las Vegas, surreal home to downsized Eiffel Tower and Empire State Building replicas, enormous black glass pyramids, Roman temples, French rococo overstatement, gambler's avarice and showgirls' breasts. Everything least pleasant about human nature luxuriates in Vegas, hidden behind the fabulous and costly interiors and exteriors of extravagant hotels built on money gambled and lost.But flying high above the desert, the visitor has an achingly beautiful view of some of the most stunning and desolate scenery in the US.Below are the ancient lands of the Navajo and Hopi tribes and the cliff-side dwellings of the legendary Anasazi, who were there first. Then comes the real heartstopper: the southern rim of the Grand Canyon.Arriving in Vegas, you lose all sense of context and reality and enter the heavily hyped land of the unnatural. And that's doubly true of Comdex, which heaves with 250,000 technology aficionados, 2,000 exhibitors, and a motley army of journalists waiting to hear about the Next Big Thing.Vegas has been the home of Comdex, which stands for Computer Dealers Exchange, for more than two decades. At first, the contrast between 1970s-era bewhiskered geeks and big-time Vegas gambling, glitz, showgirls and legalised prostitution must have been pleasing. The cliched image of guys eternally without girlfriends went so humorously well with the city where flesh was easily purchased and vice a civic virtue.Nowadays, perhaps no city anywhere on earth more suitably, lovingly, pairs with the technology industry. Las Vegas, meet IT: new money, squandered money, money and reputations gambled and lost, vast riches questionably or skillfully or riskily won,   bloated clouds of hype, a surface veneer of glamour, a desire to spend and spend and spend some more, the desperate longing of the not-yet or never-will-be successful, the self- satisfaction of Those Who Have Made It. Stretch limos (and this year, weirdly, stretch Humvees, those odd flat little vehicles used in the Gulf War), scantily clad women, enormous parties, live entertainment, and a fixed, sometimes grim, determination to have fun, fun, fun!And Comdex, too, is great fun if you have a sense of context, a well-developed sense of irony, a good dash of skepticism, and a willing suspension of disbelief at crucial moments. You will be shown demos of things that do not work. You will be subjected to a non-stop barrage of marketers. You will fall in love, over and over, with the possibility of certain products, certain visions - the wireless revolution! The connected home! Ubiquitous computing! The entire Las Vegas Convention Center is inside a reality distortion field of epic proportions.J ust go back and read the coverage of previous Comdexes, the excited babble back then about products and trends and sexy tech futures that never materialised.But very little eventually gels in the world of gadgets or computing that didn't make its first stage appearance at Comdex in some way. This is why it's so utterly addictive - Comdex is the opportunity to see the future, to hear the talk, to meet the names, to watch the demos, to try the products that will shape tomorrow. If only the way were clearer and the hype not so overwhelming. If only one didn't have to battle a quarter of a million people all looking for a shuttle bus back to their hotel at precisely 5pm when the exhibit hall closes. But that's the IT industry and that's Las Vegas and it's just as well always to have that 34,000 foot perspective in your mind's eye because it's the only way to keep your feet firmly on the ground.
When Bill Gates showed a tablet PC during his keynote speech at the opening of the Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas last week, Jon-Erik Prichard was well pleased. Microsoft does not make tablet PCs, but Prichard's Californian company, Aqcess, does."We applaud &#91;Microsoft's&#93; effort, because it legitimises the tablet space, so we have less of an argument to convince buyers. But what Gates showed was a stripped down version of what we have today," said Prichard.Pads and tabletsThe first version of Aqcess's Qbe ("cube") personal computer tablet was a Best of Comdex award winner last year. This year the company unveiled a smaller, lighter model, the Vivo (seewww.qbenet.com). This runs Windows Me or Windows 2000 and therefore lacks the "digital ink" feature that allows handwriting to be manipulated like word processed text, while retaining the annotations people typically make in paper notebooks. (They put words in boxes, or ring them, and add links or arrows.)Naturally, the Qbe will get "digital ink" when it is added to Windows. In the meantime, it has handwriting recognition, voice recognition, wireless networking, and a built-in camera. The Qbe models are not available in the UK but Prichard says the company is talking to European distributors.Tablet or pad-style computers have been around for more than a decade, GRiD's GridPad being a notable   example. However, they have not been successful with consumers, though they have been used for industrial and commercial applications, including the police and health services.More recently there have been attempts to sell tablet computers as mobile "internet appliances" (IA). This trend started at Comdex two years ago, when National Semiconductor unveiled a reference design for the WebPad as a way of encouraging sales of its Intel-compatible Geode processor (seehttp://ia.national.com). It was continued last year, when Gates demonstrated "MSN companions" during his keynote speech, using a Compaq device.Most of these tablets are not PC-compatible but use an operating system requiring fewer, cheaper hardware resources. Examples include Linux, Be's BeOS, and Windows CE. But the market has yet to take off.Honeywell launched its version of the WebPad only last month (Online, October 26), but at Comdex, NatSemi unveiled a revised version, the Geode WebPad Metro. This has been co-developed by Metricom, which runs theRicochet wireless network, and has a built in 128kbps Ricochet wireless modem.The WebPad Metro measures 19.8 x 24.3 x 2.8cm and weighs 2.5lbs. It runs Windows CE 3.0, though Be's BeIA and Linux will available next year.Sweden's RSCalso showed a new variant of the NatSemi design in its second-generation RSC WebPad. This is also cordless (wireless) but can use a DECT   PadCard, wireless network card (802.11b) or Bluetooth or GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) connection.Ezex showed a string of similar pad-like WebBooks, offering a choice of Intel StrongArm, Mips, and Transmeta Crusoe processors. All run Windows CE 3, with the option of Linux to follow. The WebBooks are targeted at the traditional markets: healthcare, hospitality (eg ordering systems), sales and manufacturing. Seewww.ezex.net.The advantage of PCTs (Personal Computer Tablets) such as the Qbe Vivo is that they offer the full power of a standalone PC running Windows Me/2000 in a mobile package. They are also easy to connect to other PCs and compatible devices. WebPads have the advantages of being simpler and cheaper. Both types of device are limited by the lack of wireless networks and the high price and slow connection speeds of cellular (mobile phone) networks. Sales seem unlikely to take off until cheap, fast mobile services become widely available.PalmtopsGerry Purdy, founder of the Californian research company Mobile Insights, billed it as the Battle of the Century. The fact that Comdex took time out to debate whether Palm-compatibles were better than PocketPCs showed palmtop computers were being taken seriously. Far more significant was the fact that a dozen similar machines were on show in the halls from a wide range of Asian companies, including Acer, from Taiwan, and China's giant PC supplier, Legend.The three major stands - Palm, Handspring, and   Microsoft's PocketPC arena - were all mobbed. Handspring's partner companies were showing a very impressive range of plug-in modules for its Springboard expansion slot (not available on Palm's systems). But when it came to new devices, Microsoft's PocketPC/Windows CE 3 was the only system to score.Leading the way was theCyberbank Multipalmfrom Korea. This includes a palmtop with a built-in mobile phone and unlimited wireless internet access. The 4in colour screen provides full VGA graphics with 640x480 resolution, which is four times as good as a PocketPC and more than 10 times what you get on a Palm's 160x60 screen. Like other new CE-based devices, it also includes MP3/Windows Media Audio software.PC-EPhone, which will sell the Multipalm in the US, says it expects the device to be manufactured by Samsung in the first quarter of next year.InViso, an optical design company, also showed its remarkable eCase handheld with a small viewfinder that used advanced optics to provide a sharp, legible display that looked like a full-sized screen - particularly useful with the built-in Internet Explorer browser. The display meant giving up the touch-screen operation of most CE devices but Steve Timmerman, InViso's vice president of sales and marketing, said the built-in microphone provided "the ideal interface: speech in, web out".The InViso device could be in production by next summer (estimated price about $600). Pictures of the device are atwww.inviso.com.Casio showed a range of   PocketPCs running the palmtop version of Windows CE 3. The newest model, the E-500, should be slower than Compaq's popular iPaq, but the fast screen redraw made it feel very responsive. It was also available in a range of colours. The Japanese company also showed the E-125V, an updated version of the E-115, and two rugged industrial models: the IT-700, featuring a 10-key numeric pad, and the EG-800.Legend, which has been selling Tianji Windows CE-based palmtops in mainland China since July 1998, now has an even bigger range, with seven models. Two include pager facilities that enable the systems to download stock prices every 20 seconds. Legend also showed a Linux-based palmtop: a spokeswoman said the CE machines were targeted at the high end, and the Linux version at the low end of the market.Linux was used in the lightweightAgenda VR3 palmtopmentioned earlier in Online, and in Mobile Data Processing's DAT500 industrial handheld (Seewww.4p-online.com). Agenda is selling systems to software developers now, and will have a finished version for   consumers next year.Penbex Data Systems, from Taipei, Taiwan, is also hoping to benefit from a boom in palmtop computers, and has adapted its Penbex OS operating system for the task. Palmtops using Penbex OS include the Cadmus Billionton, and the Procomp, sold in China by TCL.Gerry Purdy's Comdex debate between the PocketPC and the Palm had ended with forests of hands. More than two thirds of the audience voted that the PocketPC team, led by Microsoft's Phil Holden, had won the argument, though more than half felt that Palm-compatible machines would still be the market leaders two years from now. No-one voted for Penbex OS, but with Asian languages favouring a stylus rather than a keyboard, there could soon be more palmtop users in China, Korea and Japan than there are in Europe and the US.TransmetaMost people don't really care very much what kind of processor their computer uses, as long as it is fast and runs the software they want. David Ditzel's Transmeta Corporation, based in Califor nia, is trying to change that with its power-saving Crusoe chip, which was at the heart of a dozen machines shown at Comdex 2000. Sony, NEC, Hitachi, Fujitsu, Casio and Gateway were among the companies using it.The Crusoe's selling point is that lets manufacturers produce portable devices with much longer battery life.But how much longer is open to debate. Sony's C1VE ultraportable PC running Windows Me, reviewed here on November 9, managed more than three hours, compared with half that for the earlier PCG-1, though it also ran somewhat slower than notebooks with 600MHz Intel processors.At Comdex, Casio claimed its Cassiopeia FIVA subnotebook PC, shown in prototype form, would be able to keep going for "between six and nine hours when equipped with a large-capacity, long-life battery". This compares with three to six hours for the FIVA MPC-102, which is based on the National Semiconductor Geode processor, originally developed by Cyrix.The Crusoe-based FIVA is A5 sized, less than an inch thick, and weighs 2.1lbs. It has an 8.4in colour LCD screen, and will be launched in the first half of next year.Hitachi hedged its bets with a more powerful notebook PC that can be supplied either with a Transmeta Crusoe or with an Intel Pentium III with SpeedStep power-saving features. Hitachi's Mini-Notebook has a 12.1in screen and weighs 3.7lbs, and has a bay that can be used for a CD or DVD drive, a second hard drive, or an extra battery.Hitachi also showed a 2.6lb webpad based on a Transmeta Crusoe chip and Mobile Linux. A spokesman said it was already on sale in Japan but there were "no plans at the moment" for a European launch.However, IBM, which manufactures all Transmeta's chips under contract, was not sure David could beat the Goliath known as Intel. IBM had customers try the Crusoe in test versions of its ThinkPad 240 ultraportable PC before deciding not to support the chip at the moment. A week or so later, IBM appeared at Comdex with a ThinkPad 240 sporting a power-saving Intel Mobile Pentium that will not be launched until next year.Transmeta spent five years developing its chip, and claimed it had a five-year lead over Intel. If it is just a year ahead, or less, this is one battle that David could lose.And the restOlympus grabbed the attention of digital photography buffs at Comdex by showing the world's first 4 megapixel camera. The Camedia E-10 is a black, professional-looking system with a 4x 9-36mm zoom lens (equivalent to 35-40mm on a 35mm camera).It offers a range of exposure systems and can be used in manual and autofocusing modes. It should be available in the US next month for $1,999.InViso showed a headset that was much smaller and provided a much sharper image than rival systems such as the Olympus EyeTrak and Daeyang E&amp;C's Cy-visor (Seewww.personaldisplay.com). It can be used with any operating system and any device that provides a digital RGB colour output, such as a portable DVD player.When it goes into production, InVisio expects the initial market will be among America's 7.5 million frequent flyers who want to use their notebook PCs or watch movies in privacy.Both Iomega and Photela showed devices that plug into a TV set to display images without requiring a computer. Iomega's FotoShow has   the edge because it can use high-capacity 100MB and 250MB Zip disks. You can also connect the FotoShow to a personal computer and use it as a normal drive. Photela's TV Slideshow is a similar device but based on a floppy disk drive.And finally, for the family that has everything else, the e-alarm clock.Simple Devicesshowed the SimpleClock internet alarm clock which lets you go to sleep listening to your favourite MP3 tracks or an internet radio station, and wake up to updated information from the web and your personal information manager. The SimpleClock has a colour LCD screen, and a wireless connection to your home internet network.Sea Star Clock International'sE-clockis a simpler device that links to a Windows PC and lets you download up to 50 seconds of sound for use by the alarm. If you want to wake up to the sound of, say, a cock crowing, this will do the job.
Trade and industry secretary Stephen Byers has put tackling regional disparities in business startups and new technology at the top of the government's policy agenda.Speaking at a Local Government Association regeneration conference in Liverpool, Mr Byers said action was needed to tackle the "digital divide".He highlighted government figures showing that one in five north-east businesses do not have internet access, compared with just one in 20 in London. While a third of companies in London traded online, less than a quarter did so in the north-east and south-west.Business startups were also lower in the north-east, with no part of the region hitting the UK average of 38 new firms per 10,000 residents in 1999. In Camden, London, the figure was 146.Mr Byers said: "Action is needed at a local level to encourage new businesses to grow and to help existing and traditional industries in all of our regions to adapt to the new global internet economy. The UK simply cannot afford to allow the development of a digital divide."Money from the government's £30m phoenix fund, aimed at helping new businesses get off the ground, will be directed at boosting e-enterprises in deprived areas, Mr Byers said.The government has already announced a range of proposals to develop e-business. These include a team of e-commerce advisers and "internet incubator" projects to provide new online companies with support.Mr Byers said, however, that the disparities were more complex than a simple regional divide. The government has always maintained that inequalities within regions are as significant as those between them.As an example, Byers pointed to the low rate of startups in London's Greenwich - just 32 per 10,000 residents. On the other hand, the east midlands towns of Wellingborough and Mansfield had 90 and 23 start-ups respectively.
UK plc is well on the way to becoming a knowledge-based economy, and we are certainly operating in global marketplace, but we are still not good enough at learning.  Around a third of the workforce has never been offered any training by their current employer.  Among small firms, only a third provide any kind of off-the-job training.Last year's Moser Report reminded everyone involved in lifelong learning that one in five people still can't use the Yellow Pages to find a plumber.On the other hand, we know that knowledge-based industries require high added-value skills - not just IT skills, but communication and higher literacy skills, problem-solving and interpersonal skills as well.  We also know that there is a strong link between learning, earnings and job prospects; and we know that more people would get back into learning if it was easier to  access.One way of removing some of the barriers which put people off from learning, or make it hard to come by, is to deliver it at the time, place and pace that people and businesses want it.  This kind of flexibility has been a watchword for adult education and company training for at least the last decade.  But it has been difficult to achieve.  This is because of the in-built inflexibility of much traditional face-to-face learning.  There are timetables with fixed classes; there are the cash and time costs involved in travelling; there are childcare costs; and, for employers, there is downtime, which can be particularly difficult for small companies and owner mangers.At last, with the arrival of the internet, real flexibility is within reach and a revolution in adult learning is under way. At the heart of this revolution is the internet's capacity to cut through many of the usual barriers to learning.  It can deliver high-quality courses directly to the desktop - at work, at home, at on-line learning centres or cybercafes, even abroad.  In fact, it can deliver learning anywhere the learner can get internet access.  So it is not surprising to find that, according to a recent MORI poll, three out of five internet users have already searched the web for training opportunities and one in five has identified a course they could not find elsewhere.Skills gapsOn-line learning works for companies as well as individuals, and at relatively low cost.  Small businesses can use e-learning to offer employees short intensive bursts of training to fill immediate and pressing skills gaps.  Large companies can use it to add value to their existing IT investment, typically by networking on-line training materials across the whole company and even its supply chain.  e-learning also makes it easier than ever before to offer employees individually tailored, self-managed learning.All this is happening not just in the area of IT skills, but across all subjects and levels.  On-line learning opportunities linked to occupational standards and national qualifications are now available or being developed from entry level right through to specialist courses supporting continuing professional development.Learning through using computers, wanting to be able to use the internet and being part of the digital society are also emerging as strong motivators which can draw adults with poor levels of literacy and numeracy into learning.As e-learning is still in its infancy, skills and standards in on-line support, tutoring and mentoring are still being developed.  However, early feedback to Ufi from learners experiencing e-learning for the first time through learndirect is very encouraging.  They like e-learning and nine out of ten surveyed have said that they have or would recommend it to other people.Classrooms may not yet be, and may never be, a thing of the past; and there are some hands-on skills that do not lend themselves to an e-learning solution.  But there is little doubt that as competition between the telecommunications companies reduces internet costs and improves connectivity, e-learning will transform the adult learning landscape.&#149; Dr Anne Wright is chief executive of Ufi Ltd, the government-backed lifelong learning initiative, which is creating learndirect, the nation-wide on-line learning network.&#149; learndirect is Ufi's network of on-line learning and information services, which is being rolled out nationwide across England, Wales and Northern Ireland following a successful national pilot.&#149; A Fresh Start by Sir Claus Moser was issued in March 1999, as a result of the working group set up to advise the government on developing and supporting basic skills provision.
In a decision that could have repercussions for internet users around the world, a Paris judge yesterday ordered the US web giant Yahoo! to bar French surfers from a US site selling Nazi memorabilia.Jean-Jacques Gomez confirmed an earlier ruling that Yahoo!'s US auction pages - which invite bids for Nazi paraphernalia such as SS daggers and swastikas - are "an apology for Nazism, a contestation of Nazi crimes, and an offence to France's collective memory".Acting after complaints from Jewish and anti-racist groups in France, Judge Gomez said Yahoo! must abide by French laws prohibiting the advertisement, exhibition or sale of any objects likely to incite racial hatred.He gave Yahoo! three months to implement the ruling or face fines of up to &#163;1,000 a day. Although its French-language portal, Yahoo.fr, does not offer such material for auction, French web surfers can access the offensive memorabilia in English.Yahoo! has argued that Yahoo.com is governed by US legislation and that auctions of Nazi memorabilia are legal under the US constitutional right to freedom of speech. It said it was technically impossible to identify all French users and block their access to the sites.This month, however, experts concluded that it would be possible to block up to 70% of French web surfers from the offending pages by using a filter to identify the address of their internet service provider or ISP.A further 20% could be blocked by checking the keywords used in their searches and through a voluntary declaration of nationality surfers would be asked to complete before entering the site.Yahoo! said it was studying ways to appeal against the verdict. Christophe Pecnard, a lawyer for Yahoo!, said: "We hope that other countries won't take the same route."
In a landmark ruling, a French court has ordered the internet giant Yahoo! to block French web users from its auction sites which sell Nazi memorabilia.The decision closed a seven-month court battle started by several anti-racism groups that accused the California-based company of trivialising the Holocaust.Yahoo! shares fell sharply at the news, down 5.4% to $48.50 (£35) in late morning trade on the Nasdaq stock market.The court gave Yahoo! three months to find a way to block French users from visiting English-language auction sites where Nazi books, weapons, SS badges and uniforms are offered for sale.Although Yahoo!'s French portal does not host Nazi memorabilia auctions, French users can easily click over to the company's English-language services, where such auctions are available. In France, it is illegal to sell or display anything that incites racism.When that three-month period is up, Yahoo! will be subject to a 100,000-franc (about £9,500) fine for each day it does not comply, the court said.Internet experts are concerned the case could set a legal precedent regarding the right of one country to reach across borders and impose its own laws on online material that is stored in other nations.During the trial, Yahoo!'s lawyers argued that blocking the site from French web surfers would be technically impossible. The internet has no borders, they said, and there is no effective means of preventing its users from travelling where they like."We regret having to put in place measures that won't be effective," said Christophe Pecnard, a lawyer for Yahoo!, adding that he hoped "that other countries won't take the same route." Pecnard also said he would study ways to appeal the decision.The trans-Atlantic legal battle began seven months ago, when two Paris anti-racism groups sued Yahoo!, angry that French people had access to more than 1,000 objects of Nazi memorabilia on the site at yahoo.auctions.com.In May, a French judge ordered Yahoo! to pay £1,000 (£720) to each of the two advocacy groups that sued, ruling that the company had offended the nation's "collective memory."The judge also ordered Yahoo! to find ways to block French users from its Nazi auction sites or other Yahoo! sites with content deemed to be racist.The advocacy groups that sued Yahoo! have argued that there is a moral high ground in this case that should shield the French from the commercialisation of Nazi objects.Laurent Levy, a lawyer for the Movement Against Racism and for Friendship Between Peoples, called the decision "exemplary." Levy said: "It resolves the question of borders on the internet."In its ruling, the Paris court said that it is technically possible for Yahoo! France, the company's local subsidiary, to block at least 90% of French users from the sites in question.Earlier this month, a team of Internet experts testified that it was possible to keep some French web surfers from seeing the sites, though one specialist, American Vinton Cerf, expressed concern about hindering internet freedom.Related articles:The issue explained: regulating the netRelated special reportNet newsLinks: in the dock:Yahoo! WWII auction siteYahoo! FranceLinks: the technologyBlocking technology: InfosplitLinks: campaign groupsJuriscomInternational League against Racism and Anti-SemitismSimon Wiesenthal centreHatewatchCampaign Against Censorship of the Internet in BritainNetFreedomGuardian Unlimited is not responsible for the content of external websites.
Favourite sites?Well ours, obviously. Also, ft.com and the Telegraph. I find easyjet very good for buying flights and I use British Airways as well. When I'm at home with my seven-year-old son I tend to migrate to the formulaone.co.uk website which is a good one for youngies as well as oldies like me.Last online purchase?An item of leisure clothing on rohan.co.uk.Most recent technological faux pas?I think the most embarrassing thing for me is that my son knows more about these things than I do. Not knowing how to do things properly is always something I find difficult.Main news sources on the web?ft.com for the business news and the Telegraph because it's a paper that a lot of our customers read and I don't take the paper copy.Most persistent spam emailer?I suppose there is a number of staff here who sometimes bombard me. My fear for the company is that people will email each other in place of talking. At home, my son is registered with a Pok&eacute;mon site so they send spam everyday.Time spent on the web?No more than an hour a day. I'm not a lengthy surfer.Next boo.com/clickmango?Anyone who is putting short-term investments before long-term benefits. A lot of people thought the web was going to bring reward very quickly but I think it has to be seen as a long-term investment if it's going to be a success. The whole thing would scare me very much if we were a stand-alone business. We're very lucky because we've got established bricks and mortar behind us and we've got experience of mail order custom as well.Least useful site/s on web?Any site that tries to be too clever. Too many flashy things and banner advertising really turn me off.Most useful site/s on web?The news and the airline schedules are really useful, I think.What screensaver do you use?I don't.Most irritating thing about the web?The speed still. And the fact that there's no standard way to navigate your way around sites because they're all so different.Do you bother with old media?Very much so. I still take papers and a lot of journals. Maybe they're there and I just haven't searched properly for them yet, but at the moment I'm happy getting them on paper.&#149; Stuart Gates is MD of Fortnum &amp; Mason which is selling a range of Christmas hampers and gifts on its website fortnumandmason.com
Dot.coms in trouble do the strangest things (no 1): Beleaguered youth website ebop is going for the business-as-usual approach despite running out of cash and shedding staff. Although it is still only November, the office manager - one of four people left - was clocked putting up Christmas decorations after seven staff were laid off without pay. Why? He's American and thought it might cheer up remaining workers. Let's hope the Christmas cheer did the trick.&#149; On Tuesday the Daily Mail whipped itself into a frenzy about Oftel's long-overdue nudge to BT to increase unmetered access capacity, and splashed the story across the front page. Other papers gave the story proper treatment. Funny thing is that not only is the Oftel faux-pressure irrelevant to most ISPs because they don't give a monkey's hoot about unmetered access, but the next day Oftel was pummelled by the DTI for its lily-livered approach to the whole issue. The irony is that while the Mail got giddy over Oftel, it completely missed Jack Straw's cybercop initiative aimed at stamping out internet paedophilia. Is it posssible that the Mail has a confused internet policy?*Compare and contrast. January 2000: "Wowgo is clearly positioned to become the market leading brand serving this valuable &#91;teen girl&#93; community," says Geoffrey Chamberlain, chairman of Durlacher, not ing that investors spent "two years of extensive research and development" on Wowgo. November 2000, statement from Wowgo and backers: "The company has been unable to raise further funding to continue development of its operations". Why did Durlacher and Unilever pull out? Another case of dot.com over-indulgence perhaps. The market is perplexed as to how Wowgo ever managed to spend &#163;6m in less than six months. When will they learn?*Only four days left to nominate the sexiest male and female in new media for the second Boobnight (Boobnight.co.uk) awards in December. It promises to be a controversial, fiercely fought-out affair with those strident boobnight honchos sticking their necks out and banning Martha Lane Fox because she's never found the time to make it to a Boobnight. How cruel.*Welcome to Surfed, another pointless free monthly internet magazine. The launch issue of "the first free internet magazine that will change your life" offers readers the chance to win a vacuum cleaner. Fantastic. The mag, distributed in Sainsbury's and Tesco stores, even has fallen-from-grace Mirror city slickers Anil Bhoyrul and James Hipwell giving stock market advice. No doubt supermarket shoppers will love it though.&#149; Amy Vickers is new media editor of mediaguardian.co.uk &lt;A HREF="mailto:amy.vickers@guardian.co.uk"amy.vickers@guardian.co.uk
New York is big. Not only is it big, it's also wired. So the city that never sleeps is always on. New jargon, old truths. That's what I told everyone here, in my role as a so-called "digital visionary", invited by the UN to a conference on the future of television.It's a closely guarded secret of the digerati that old media truths will still have major clout in the new world. If advertisers want to sell their products, why not wrap them around a highly compelling piece of content? We all know the tune, but it's not quite the same old song . . .What is changing is the context in which we view television. It's no longer merely via that box in the corner of our living rooms. This change will be accentuated by bigger bandwidth networks - in other words broadband technology. In the future, televisual content will be accessed by TVs, PCs, wireless devices and who knows what else.When media-rich content is combined with high-speed interactivity on any device, anywhere at any time, Future TV Inc will be closer to realisation.We will then see the development of what we term Lush Programming - multi-layered content that can be watched, played with, talked to, and personalised.This content will be scaleable to different devices with a variety of screen sizes and resolutions and, like great TV now, will be based on innovative and compelling ideas. This type of proposition is an adman's dream.Filthy lucre is, of course, what provides us with the majority of our funding. The ability to build a direct relationship with viewers, acquire new customers, and sell products will inevitably attract marketing spend.Broadband trial results in Europe indicate that consumers' willingness to buy online is around eight times higher than existing narrowband technology. This is because of the quality of content, speed and convenience.In New York, I talked the   usual talk, but I don't know what the future of TV will be either. If I did, I would keep it to myself. The people that matter are those with the balls to come up with formats such as Who Wants to be a Millionaire? and, dare I say it, Big Brother.Big ideas will always break down technology barriers and allow viewers to focus on the content. Forget about Enhanced TV, it's all about enhancing the viewer's experience. The best technology is invisible whatever the device.I have never been one to allow a 10-minute speech at the UN to stand in the way of a four-day trip. I've been spending time in local bars, health food shops and Manhattan coffee houses talking over the finer points of the US internet experience.Free local calls and a superior technology backbone means fast and cheap access. Broadband penetration now reaches 5m US homes. The ABC network has been running an interactive version of Who Wants to be a Millionaire? over the web. Viewers can watch the show and play along via their PCs. Interactive Millionaire has proved to be a staggering success for those with PCs in the same room as their TVs.T here's the rub. This would not yet fly in the UK, where we have much lower home internet penetration, bandwidth restrictions and predominantly use home PCs for information and services rather than entertainment. As a result, not many of us have plonked our PCs in the comfortable surroundings of our living room. TV still dominates that space.However, in many areas, Europe has a distinct advantage over the US. We are way ahead in digital TV and wireless penetration. If we can learn from the US broadband experience and add our own creative vision, Europe will become the hothouse for interactive television and "lush programming" concepts.In the UK, 99% of homes have a TV, and the mobile market is still booming. Crucially, there need not be any seismic shift in culture. If we already have these devices, broadband will merely mean better content on these platforms. Fantastic. Who cares about the technology?So, the future of TV? Big question. I didn't run into Kofi Annan because he was musing on the Middle East and other worldly matters. If I had spoken to him, I would have certainly asked his opinion. One thing I did hear was that, whatever the device and wherever he is, he likes his internet "over-easy". That'll do nicely for me too.&#149; Jason George is creative director of Victoria Real
Visitors to Lakeside shopping centre last weekend could have been forgiven for thinking that young people spend their lives messaging each other on their mobile phones and racing around shopping centres like lunatics.While this may be true of most of them, the majority of those behaving in this manner last weekend at Lakeside were taking part in the world's first trial of location-sensitive mobile phone advertising. The service, called ZagMe, has begun trials at Lakeside, and plans are afoot to extend it to Bluewater in January, and to other shopping malls and busy high streets as it takes off. The hope is that ZagMe will have registered 50,000 users when trials end in January.About 150 retailers - or 75% of outlets - at Lakeside, including Pizza Hut, Debenhams, The Gap, Argos and Top Shop, have signed up to take part. Retailers send ZagMe a regular number of store promotions to be logged into a database and "broadcast" at the appropriate times to the appropriate demographic, split by age and gender.Promotions are aimed at driving consumers into shops with special offers that expire after a certain period. The ads are location-sensitive, meaning they are designed to appeal to people who are close to a retail outlet and like to act on impulse. An example could be Virgin Megastore sending a message telling people that the first 20 to give a certain ZagMe code to staff will get free or discounted CDs.So far so good. The service is achieving what it set out to do - creating a ruckus among retailers and shop assistants alike and whipping up consumers into a frenzy. Already more than 2,000 people have signed up to use the service, pulled in by field marketers at Lakeside or word of mouth from friends, who get loyalty points for recommending new users.With retailers desperate to give consumers an incentive to go back into shops after the recession of the past few years, ZagMe could be the solution. While it's still early days, the results have been an eye-opener. Bill Green, chief executive officer of ZagMe, says the service has done wonders for British reserve, with shoppers taken over by greed, unabashed about racing around Lakeside shopping centre screaming loudly. Green cites as an example an offer ZagMe ran on Wednesday which, in his words, practically caused a riot. Messages were sent to consumers to say they could get free CDs if they hot-footed it to the ZagMe stand and shouted at the top of their lungs.Reebok has already discovered that random text messages to nearby people has the potential to create essential footfall into shops. Even if the said retailer is running a promotion as a loss-leader - by giving away a pair of trainers - it achieves the aim of getting customers into the store, where it can then bombard them with special offers. A spokesperson for Reebok says there are already signs that this could become a key marketing tool: "The fit with the ZagMe audience and the brand is perfect as they're precisely the target market and age group that we want to reach."Last Saturday, the first real shopping day of the trial, Reebok saw first-hand the potential of ZagMe when it ran the free trainers promotion to the first person to get to the store with the ZagMe message. In four minutes, more than 50 people had sprinted through the door, only to be told they'd have to be faster next time.Jackie Clarke, assistant manager at New Look, which has been offering 10% off all products via ZagMe, says the response has been promising. She could see it taking off, and thought the fit between New Look customers and the age range of ZagMe users was strong. "I'm sure we're going to be running lots more promotions," she says.After less than a week of service, ZagMe has already learnt a lot about its consumers and how they want to use the service. Green says the way in which shoppers interact with ZagMe is already developing. For instance when they arrive at Lakeside, they are encouraged to send ZagMe a simple message ("LAK4", for example, to mean "I'll be at Lakeside for the next four hours"), or leave a voice message to activate the service. Instead, says Green, consumers have started treating ZagMe like a friend and sending personal text messages. One example is "Zag Me baby for the next 6 hours".ZagMe is delighted with this, believing it shows that people think the service is fun and feel comfortable with it and the brand as a whole. Another early perception is that consumers have started to view ZagMe as a shopping agent, something to help them hunt down bargains.Also likely to be tweaked are the  messages sent to shoppers as some have started sending messages such as: "I'm in McDonald's, have you got anything for me?", which is effectively a "pull" rather than a "push" service. Green says there are plans to beef up that side of the service and encourage consumers to ask for offers to make ZagMe even more personalised.Those worried about being inundated with messages from retailers clogging up their phone inboxes can rest easy, adds Green, as ZagMe promises not to send more than two messages an hour, unless users opt to change their preferences and agree to receive more. Accounts can be managed via a soon-to-launch website, zagme.com, and Zagpoints - points collected when signing up, referring new users and receiving messages - can be redeemed for pre-pay phone or store vouchers.Given that the penetration of mobile phones in the UK is now reaching 58%, and that 18- to 24-year-olds send an average of 10 SMS messages a day, it is no surprise that marketers are waking up to the potential of SMS marketing.According to a recent survey from Ericsson and mobile marketing specialist Mediatude, mobile phone- users are receptive to the idea of ads on their phones if they're getting something in return. It doesn't have to be much. The Ericsson survey pushed ads to participants who, in return, were merely given free text messaging. The results were encouraging: almost 40% found the ads compelling, and 20% asked for more information after viewing the ads.So is ZagMe just another flash-in- the-pan gimmick? Not according to retailers who, understandably, are happy that for once they are not being cut out of the equation because of a new piece of technology.The fact that Carphone Warehouse is one of the main backers of Spotflash, the start-up behind ZagMe, with a 20% stake, and the company raised £1.9m in the summer in seed funding, should mean that the service is not just a fly-by-night trial that never makes it to a national roll-out.Green, a 36-year-old Canadian and former partner at Andersen Consulting who set up the company last year, says he is blown away by the response. "It's way ahead of expectations. People love it and retailers are enjoying it as they've already seen it's a powerful mechanism to channel people into stores with simple loss-leaders," he says. "We haven't even had the viral effect kick in yet."With Christmas just around the corner and retailers at Lakeside bracing themselves for riots, ZagMe is going to have a busy few months.
The big banks are ripping off their customers by more than &#163;80m a year by luring them away from branches and on to the internet.According to new research, the major banks are saving millions by paying tiny rates of interest to their internet customers even though they cost them a fraction of those using branches.On average the "big four" - HSBC, Lloyds TSB, NatWest and Barclays - are paying 0.1% rates on current account balances while specialist online banks are offering up to 40 times higher rates of interest.The big four have an 80% share of the current account market and, according to new research, are cashing in on customer inertia. While statistics show current account customers are more likely to divorce than move to a new bank, they do appear to be increasingly prepared to move to their existing bank's internet site.However, the Halifax believes this inertia is costing the 2.5m online current account customers of the big four interest payments of &#163;85m a year. And, as the number of internet customers grows, the banks will benefit even more.The situation has already attracted government attention and in the coming days the Department of Trade and Industry is expected to publish the findings of a survey as to why bank customers are so reluctant to take their business elsewhere.The banks have been instructed to make it easier for customers to move their accounts by sharing direct debit details, and banks which have traditionally been bigger players in the mortgage market, such as Halifax, Abbey National and Alliance &amp; Leicester, are aiming to benefit by offering more attractive products than the big four.As yet, despite the pledge to make it easier for customers to move accounts, there is little evidence that customers are moving their current accounts from the big four.Last week, though, the Nationwide building society, usually more associated with mortgages and savings, claimed to be taking a 5% share of all new current accounts, many of which were for its internet banking.This appears to be an isolated case. Most of the movement in savings is away from the established accounts of the big four and towards their internet offshoots. Privately, bankers admit this is to their advantage as these accounts are cheaper for them to run. This is backed by consultants Booz, Allen &amp; Hamilton. They calculate that online transactions cost less than 1% of those in branches. Barclays have closed more than 160 of its branches this year alone.Big pushBarclays is one of the banks which is making a big push for internet customers. It now claims to be the country's biggest internet bank with more than 1.5m customers and is advertising its online business in a campaign fronted by Scottish comedian Robbie Coltrane, who boasts customers can now be their own bank managers by using the net.Yet, according to the Halifax, customers miss out as a result. David Walkden, general manager of Halifax Online, said: "Millions of people are becoming their own bank managers on the phone and on the net but are not getting anything extra for doing so.".Halifax, which has only 2m current accounts in comparison with Barclays'  8m, intends to pay 4% interest on current accounts from next year so long as &#163;1,000 is paid in   each month. It plans to pay it to online, phone and branch customers and has pledged to set a "crack switching team" on changing customers' direct debits.It is too soon to know whether Halifax's attempt to win customers by paying interest rates will bear fruit as it it will not start paying the rate until next year. However, if customers can be enticed to open new current accounts, Halifax calculates that the 2.5m online customers of the big four could receive a combined interest payment of &#163;85m a year by taking up its 4% offer.The "big four" argued yesterday that they do not offer their online customers better rates because they are still able to use branches and the telephone.A spokesman for NatWest, which is now owned by Royal Bank of Scotland, said: "Our philosophy is to have one current account and for customers to choose how to access us".New brandThis was view echoed by the other high street banks. Lloyds TSB said: "Remember, no one is being forced to use the internet".Lloyds TSB said, however, that it would be offering more attractive rates through its new internet bank, to be known as evolve.com, after it is launched later this year.This route, of setting up a separate brand for the internet, has also been chosen by other banks. For instance, the 0.5m online customers of Abbey National are paid very little interest while the 45,000 customers of its new Cahoot internet bank can expect payments of up to 7.1%.Yet, even Halifax is setting up a telephone and online operation under a new brand which will offer better rates to customers. The Intelligent Finance unit, advertised to the tunes of Fatboy Slim and currently dogged by technical difficulties, will pay 5% on current accounts, even more than a Halifax-branded account.Called to accountBarclaysOnline customers1.5mTraditional current accounts8m+Rate0.1% paLloyds TSBOnline500,000+Traditional7m (approx)Rate0.1% paNatWestOnline400,000Traditional6.5mRate0.1% paHSBCOnline500,000Traditional7m (approx)Rate0.1%First Direct (HSBC)Customer numbersnot availableRate5% for firstdirect.comCahoot (Abbey National)Customers45,000Rateup to 7.1%Smile (Cooperative Bank)Online200,000Rate4.85%
Taxi drivers in Las Vegas loathe Comdex. The high-earning geek set who converge upon the gambling oasis for their annual industry shindig are not the strongest of tippers. The drivers have a joke about the conference attendees.'Comdex people come here with $20 and one white shirt and don't change either all week,' said John Di Lamo, a taxi driver. He reels off examples of stingy techies, usually at the show on expenses. One young exec negotiated a $6 million deal in the back of the cab but tipped him just 80 cents.Volatility in the value of their share options may partly explain such thriftiness - at one point during the show, the Nasdaq index slipped below 3,000 points.But the vicissitudes of stock markets have done little to quell enthusiasm among delegates. Last year dotcoms held centre stage as the starting guns fired on an astonishing five-month rally. Subsequent experience suggests that some investors would have had a better return from the slot machines at Caesar's Palace.The racy bets this year were on wireless and networking technologies, and preferably combinations of the two.Perhaps the recent addition of a half-size Eiffel Tower to Las Vegas's casino district helped focus US companies on wireless technologies traditionally dominated by Europe. The busiest booths sported an array of such mobile gadgetry. Those promoting Palm Pilots, the similar Handspring Visor, and Ericsson mobile phones, were packed.Delegates, all employed in the technology sector, were easily worked into a lather over the prospect of winning T-shirts, baseball caps and pens. Surely their share options haven't fallen that far?At times it felt more like a university freshers' fair than the foremost convention of America's most important industry.But there is one major difference - money, and stacks of it. Las Vegas is the perfect location for the meeting of an industry which, despite recent turbulence, is awash with cash. Limousines seemed more numerous than taxis. The Pyramids, the Arc de Triomphe, the Rialto Bridge, volcanos, sharks, tigers and lions were all there. EDS, the software services company, spent $6 million on its Comdex presence. 'The digital economy rocks!' shouted its booth. EDS tried to prove this by hiring out pop diva Macy Gray. She sang to assorted minions of the new economy in a converted hangar at Las Vegas airport.A performance which can only be described as 'National Semiconductor - the musical' in the Comdex north hall took up this theme. One song featured lyrics such as 'Our market is growing so fast/The future is here to last, at Nat-ion-aal' and 'from personal devices to TV news/National is making it to use/we're freeing people from the PC'.This 'tyranny' of the personal computer was a recurring theme during the conference. In part this reflects the Microsoft factor - it is the Manchester United of the tech world: disliked by hardcore geeks but nonetheless extremely successful.Historically, some conflicts have been about land and others about ideology but for these guys it boils down to the   thorny issue of where you store your 'apps' - either locally on a PC, or on a central device accessed by more nimble network computers.The clearest manifestation of this was Microsoft's escalation of the war of words with Oracle and its charismatic chief executive, Larry Ellison.'Larry's been talking about ideas that have gone nowhere for years. How long has he been talking about the &#91;network computer&#93;? Six years, seven years? Where did it go? Nowhere,' said Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive.'You're considered a dead company if you write applications for the PC,' said Ellison, before referring to Microsoft's new Tablet PC concept as irrelevant 'pen   computing'. He also hinted that he may take on Bill Clinton after his presidential term finishes in January.But Microsoft spin-meisters had the best of it. They handed out mugs to people attending Ellison's speech, which claimed that Oracle salesman offer a $1m discount when trying to secure business from Microsoft customers.'When Oracle salesman pitches $5m of overpriced software, simply glance at the mug,' it reads. 'Oracle salesman spots mug, offers 20 per cent discount.'If that upset Ellison, then he was delighted to hear that he may be the model for a character in the forthcoming  Charlie's Angels movie. Tim Curry plays a wealthy tech-exec with a penchant for fast cars and Japanese-style houses. Ellison only expressed disappointment that action star Steven Seagal wasn't playing 'him'.Back at the exhibition, film imagery was being used extensively to inject an air of excitement into attempts to sell graphics cards, DVD drives and even earphones.Canadian graphics company ATI used a dialogue between mocked-up characters from  The Matrix to promote a graphics chip for laptops.'It's incredible, it's as if there's no limit to ATI innovation,' said the Keanu Reeves lookalike. 'This is my reality now. Mobius gives me mobility.'But he can't go - oh, no - on the orders of the leather-clad female character. 'You can't leave yet,' she intercedes, because 'it's time for you to experience TV Wonder USB'.Hitachi's attempts at entertainment were especially awful, drowning out any possibility of conversation in neighbouring stands. Someone called Bob   Kolyer, a dead ringer for magician David Copperfield, became unfeasibly excited about promoting DVD-Ram technology from his 'catwalk' stage. 'Don't go away, we will be showing nothing but the sexiest most beautiful technology you can ever use,' he said.Scantily clad, pouting models then strode around the catwalk showing off their diskettes, hard-drives, and digicams.They weren't the only ones. Sybersay, a Californian purveyor of 'state-of-the-ear' technology, crammed in four Barbarella lookalikes, resplendent in metallic blue jumpsuits, to show off earphones at their booth.'In the south hall - that's the billion dollar boy's club where they have the beautiful, almost naked ladies,' said Michael McLean of Advanced Scientific Corporation, one of the smaller exhibitors whose booth was in the north hall.Perhaps unsurprising then, given such marketing methods, that Adultdex 2000 should spring up in parallel to Comdex. Taking place on the 'same days as Comdex, &#91;but&#93; later hours!' that event promised 'the latest in multimedia, video, DVD, internet, and video conferencing'. The fliers were perhaps intended to confuse jet-lagged, sleep-deprived techies. They certainly were a reminder of the pivotal role of pornography in the commercialisation of new media, from VHS cassettes to satellite TV and the internet.The sprawling mass of over-promotion and hyperbole that is Comdex is contradictory in itself. Given the vision of driving purchasing and marketing on to the net, surely mass meetings such as Comdex will be unnecessary? There are clearly other compelling reasons for its   200,000 delegates to visit. 'It's the biggest adult toy store you have ever been in,' said McLean. 'I'll be back next year and it will be even wilder.'John Di Lamo, the taxi driver, offered a contrary view: 'It's quite scary that our entire economy is in these guys' hands.' He may have a point.For five days, no one sleepsIt is the biggest roadshow on earth. A giant movable feast dedicated to the biggest, sexiest, technologies around. At this time every year more than 2,300 of the world's largest companies, including the likes of Compaq, Cisco, Dell, Eastman Kodak, Microsoft and Nokia, descend on Las Vegas to unveil their latest products and strut their stuff. A company's share price can soar on a slick presentation, often made to a live audience of 10,000 and simultaneously webcast around the world.More than 200,000 movers and shakers of the IT world pour into the gambling mecca and for five days no one sleeps. It is not unusual for conferences to start at seven in the evening while the partying goes on until dawn. The clamour to attend the 'keynote' address which starts the event - this year given by Bill Gates - has people queuing down the strip. Much of the after-hours action takes place in three of Vegas's biggest hotels - the Venetian, the MGM Grand and the Hilton, which are booked up years in advance. Similarly, during Comdex week only the IT posse can get into the most upmarket restaurants such as Tsunami, renowned for its sushi.During the day, companies get to sell themselves at the Las Vegas Convention Centre and the Sands Expo and Convention Centre. Booths at the conference can   be up to 10,000 square feet. For this year's event, Comdex's organiser, Key3Media, sold more than one million square feet of space.And Comdex has its eyes on world dominance. There are now 17 Comdex-branded events in 12 countries, including Brazil and Germany. The Comdex events accounted for nearly 40 per cent of the $251 million of revenue generated by Key3Media last year.The event organiser is so flushed with its own success that this year it decided to hold its own exclusive party. Numerous politicians, and New York Stock Exchange boss Richard Grasso, turned up to help the company celebrate its good fortune. How long before Comdex comes over here?faisal.islam@observer.co.uk
So that's that then. The internet boom is over. Last week brought the now usual wave of casualties and lost hopes. TheStreet.com closed its British operation with more than 60 job losses, Ready2shop puts its website into 'hibernation', the Government's auction of the fixed wireless spectrum is collapsing, and the take-up of third-generation Wap mobiles is bitterly disappointing.Infopunditry is at sixes and sevens. No more confident predictions that everything from the newspaper to the nation state is set to die before the advance of the new economy. No more talk of a new business model which frees dotcoms from the tedious preoccupation of making a profit. Instead, the dotcoms are watching their numbers being decimated. Their hope is to get to the 'other side' of the current evaporation of investor confidence when the old order will re-establish itself and everyone can become a millionaire again.In this hope, they are wrong. The boom in hi-tech shares that cascaded out of the United States to infect the globe really was like seventeenth-century tulip-mania. It will never return in the same way; indeed, the greater risk is that the puncturing of the bubble will precipitate a recession as banks and institutional investors draw in their horns to cover their losses, thus triggering as vicious a circle of retraction as dizzying as its upward impulse during the boom.The danger in this atmosphere is that we get as pessimistic about the impact of the new economy as we once got over-optimistic. The arrival of information technology is transformatory, at least for those parts of the economy and society where it goes with the grain of social possibility. IT is making every organisation more porous, with communication enabling new alliances and partnerships; the future organisational form will not be the traditional inwardly focused, hierarchically structured factory or office, but the externally focused network. But the trick to understanding what the network economy and society will bring is not to get swept away by the discontinuities between then and now - it is to understand what must endure.This has been the Achilles' heel of infopunditry. The fact, for example, that an almost infinite amount of information is instantly available and communicable on the web is only a precondition for change, not its guarantor. Information has to serve an economic and social purpose. The reason why mobile-phone usage has taken off is that it has been socially driven. The mobile, and especially personalised text and voice-mail messages, permits a deepening of social interaction and our capacity to interact with other human beings - witness its role in teenagers' social lives. The mobile phone is not a tool to enable us to migrate to cyberspace; it is a tool that grounds us in human interaction.This is why predictions that the net will see the end, for example, of the newspaper are so silly. Users of news websites use them in addition to, rather than instead of, their newspaper reading; it is something they have read that will typically trigger a search for more information on the net.The newspaper remains a portable and accessible source of news, but just as importantly is a key link to membership of whatever cultural subgroup to which we belong; rather than plough through the hits that search engines provide or log on to receive our customised news service, we read the paper that we trust to have sorted out what is important for us - and whose selections we need to know because they configure who we are in interaction with others.Indeed, newspapers are likely to become more rather than less important; they are trusted brands, landmarks that can guide us through a sea of information. The same rule applies to get any kind of fix on the future. Your projections have to pass the social interaction/social purpose test - and even then your chances of getting it right are pretty hit and miss. As Keynes observed, the point about the future is that it is unknowable.But take the supposition about social interaction and think it through. IT should work best either where it builds on pre-existing social patterns or creates new ones, or where the relationship is already nothing more than contractual and so does not depend on social interaction. Thus, IT usage would grow explosively and dynamically in two main areas: those professional and cultural   domains, such as consultancy and the media, where it reinforces necessarily dense patterns of social interaction, or in those areas where all firms, especially manufacturers, have simply contractual relationships, notably with their supply chain. And those are the areas where its impact is already huge. If my hunch is right, one overriding result will be to entrench and widen the already alarming inequalities in the structure of work, patterns of income and lifestyles.So it is that there is a new, rich, individualistic but interdependent middle class emerging, centring on what John Knell, my colleague at the Industrial Society, has dubbed the free worker. These are the mobile, skilled individuals who can win business from the porous networked organisations as self-employed independents - everything from TV producers to business consultants.Their entry card is their reputation and contacts book, and to stop their talented workers from joining their ranks employers pay premium salaries, encourage home-working and relax their dress codes. These are the members of 'hot' networks enjoying the boom in house prices in the privileged, drawbridge ghettos in which they live, educating their children privately and who tend to be dismayingly politically disengaged.The losers are the anonymous workers for subcontractors in big supply chains, forced to bid for contracts in   auctions mounted on the new procurement websites - and where relationships can be managed largely in cyberspace. The five great multinational car companies have just launched Covisint, the trade exchange that will post huge potential contracts on its procurement websites - but which will be auctioned by progressive lowering of the contract price.This is an instrument for ensuring contract compliance at the keenest prices, and whose impact will be to bid down wage rates along with terms and conditions of employment. But the contract relationship was nothing more than contractual in the first place; IT simply reinforces the capitalist logic to its brutal conclusion.What IT is doing, in short, is intensifying pre-existing trends, so that old arguments reappear in a wholly different guise. For example, the dotcoms that will survive and prosper will be those going with the grain - the auction sites and the specialist information providers. In public policy terms, though, the arrival of hot and cold networks, and the accompanying new inequalities, has the paradoxical consequence of remaking the case for redistributive tax policies, powerful social insurance and collective provision of schools and hospitals.They help society to cope with and exploit the new economy and its consequences rather than being 'burdens' to be reduced, so that the much derided European social model becomes an advantage rather than a hindrance.Information technology, notwithstanding its current travails, really is transformatory, but in ways few currently comprehend.
Fans of the Three Tenors will be able to hear their heroes perform a Christmas special via Microsoft's internet portal MSN next month, under a deal signed yesterday.Microsoft has signed up  Online Classics, the quoted internet broadcaster, to provide it with entertainment content, including The Three Tenors - Placido Domingo, Jos&eacute; Carreras and Luciano Pavarotti  - at   Christmas. MSN will pay Online Classics a facility fee and advertise the concert to a total of 3m page impressions.The event can be seen by visitors to MSN throughout the US, South Africa, the   Middle East and many European countries, including the UK."It is hard to imagine a better way of introducing Online Classics to a global audience and driving traffic to our site, whilst gaining   revenue in doing so," Chris Hunt, chief executive of Online Classics, said. He expects the relationship to continue on a project-by-project basis.Online's shares jumped 5.5p to 64p on the news.Analysts said the deal was excellent for Online's revenue potential, especially because half of the advertising for the concert will be in the US, a crucial market.
Net regulators in California have approved seven new domain names to ease the pressure on the dwindling stock of dot.com addresses.The suffixes, which include '.biz' for businesses, are the first major addition to the internet since the domain system was developed in the 1980s.Alongside the new dot.biz addresses, web developers will be able to register '.info' for general use, '.name' for individuals, '.pro' for professionals, '.museum' for museums, '.coop' for business cooperatives and '.aero' for the aviation industry.Esther Dyson, chair of the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers (ICANN), said the new domains were only an "initial sampling" but the body had chosen to reject some proposals such as '.health' '.kids' and '.web'.New domains have been under discussion since mid-1990 but their introduction has been delayed by disputes. Experts say the move, similar to creating new telephone dialing codes, is needed to increase the capacity of the domain name system despite fears that new suffixes could trigger a fresh outbreak of cybersquatting, as speculators snap up well-known addresses with new suffixes to sell on for huge profits.The United States commerce department appointed ICANN to oversee domain names and online addresses in 1998. However, private companies are paying the regulator $50,000 (&#163; 30,000) to become registry operators of the individual addresses with the prospect of charging millions for the most sought after names.Related special reportsFree speech on the netThe future of MicrosoftPrivacy on the netInteractive city 2000Related stories10 September: Don't be dotconned7 August: Websites say sucks to big businessWeb addresses: is yours a Mayfair or an Old Kent Road?Useful linksICANNMediaGuardian.co.ukReport on new domain namesWebcast of meetingICANN member: Karl AuerbachInterview with Esther Dyson
The mud is starting to fly in the race to dominate the mobile internet. Members of a phone consortium - including BT -have been publicly bickering in Italy after failing to pick up a licence for "3G" (third generation) networks, which allow mobile telephone companies to offer access to the web.The cost of running and building the new third generation networks has ballooned. Moody's, the credit-rating agency, said telecom companies will have to pay $270bn to roll out the new net phones. It is no wonder shareholders are getting nervous.This week Switzerland cancelled its auction after two bidders merged. There are calls for a European commission investigation into alleged collusion between mobile companies involved in bidding.The only winners appear to be the governments that auctioned off the airwaves. Germany raised &#163;30bn while Gordon Brown squeezed &#163;22.5bn from the likes of BT and Vodafone.But to some the chancellor has made a serious mistake. According to Pekka Sivonen, chairman and founder of pioneering wireless internet specialist Digia, mobile companies will attempt to recoup their costs by forcing up prices.Mr Sivonen is not easy to dismiss. In July Time magazine rated his firm as one of Europe's 50 hottest tech companies. In Finland, which has the highest usage rate of mobile phones in the world, the licences were given away free."&#91;In Britain&#93; mobile companies will produce a huge pile of services created specially for businessmen and targeted mainly at city centres, but the information society was intended for all citizens," Mr Sivonen says.Far better, he argues, would be a system of so-called "beauty auctions" where governments choose firms according to their technical expertise. Some countries such as France have opted for that approach but others such as Britain, Germany, Italy (which raised &#163;7.3bn) and the Netherlands (nearly &#163;2bn) have tried to extract as much money as they can out of mobile operators."The UK government policy was criminal and short-sighted. It was just a short-term policy to raise money to build hospitals and roads and was a hidden tax," Mr Sivonen claims."Many users may never switch to 3G services because of governments' greed-driven policies and if the UK and German government had chosen another route there would be a greater variety of services." The loser is not just the consumer but Europe as a whole, which is frantically trying to catch up with the tech-driven United States."Europe is biting its own legs. We could have competed in wireless technologies where we are way ahead but I'm now afraid that we've missed our chance."The recent farcical 3G auction in Italy where five firms ended up bidding for five licences and unsurprisingly ended up paying far less than the Italian government wanted, is a sign of things to come, he believes. "We're going to see a lot of similar auctions where a handful of companies pretty much agree how much they will pay between themselves."Mr Sivonen is not alone. Kurt Hellstrom, the chief executive of Ericsson - the world's third largest makers of mobile phone handsets, said the fees being paid were too high. "It is clear that growth on the mobile market risks slowing as a consequence of the high &#91;licence&#93; charges," he said. "It's like petrol. It's clear that we consume less petrol with the high price."Europe's 3G auction track record to date seems to back up the gloomy prognosis. The British and German governments raised billions more than they expected but in countries such as Italy and the Netherlands governments were left feeling cheated.The fact is that mobile operators are simply not willing to fork out for a 3G licence any more, especially in relatively small European countries.Switzerland and Belgium are still hoping to stage 3G auctions but firms are not queueing up to take part. Auctions in the Netherlands and Austria have fallen flat and it seems that the wallet-waving frenzy seen in Britain and Germany this year is at an end.In Britain there were 13 bidders for five   licences while in Germany fierce bidding saw the government raise more than five times what it expected.Italy's 3G auction was the last big European sale but the auction process is likely to remain a source of controversy as governments launch investigations into alleged price collusion. Question marks continue to hang over sales in Italy, Austria, the Netherlands and even Germany and Britain, and some governments have asked the European commission to get involved.Those countries which opted for the beauty contest route - namely France, Portugal, Spain, Norway and Finland - face no such embarrassing post mortems and are likely to enjoy far more sophisticated 3G services as a result.
The day of the door-to-door salesman is not over. A US-based company is about to send an army of sales representatives to knock on doors, selling phone and internet services.Christina Gold, chief executive of Excel, is a former Avon lady. She is convinced that the bulk of the British public has chosen to remain with BT because of confusion caused by the barrage of leaflets and cold calls from rivals.Excel, which was recently taken over by the Canadian telecom group BCE, will trade in Britain as ETI, to avoid confusion with about 300 UK companies called Excel.It is buying capacity from Energis, the telecom group that strings its backbone network over the National Grid's electricity pylons, and is outsourcing its back office work to   an IBM-run call centre in Swindon.Its sales force comprises independent representatives who recruit customers, frequently friends, family and neighbours, and take not only a recruitment bonus but also a share of the telecom revenue generated. They also recruit other people to go out and sell.ETI has signed up 300 representatives and expects to have about 4,000 on the books by Christmas. The initial recruitment drive is being conducted by about 250 Excel representatives who have come from North AmericaThe sales package promises competitive local call rates, a 25% saving over BT's standard rates for national calls and a 70% saving for international calls. In the second quarter of next year it plans to offer a &#163;100 set-top box providing internet access through the television sets.
TheStreet.co.uk yesterday joined the growing number of dot.com casualties when the website's US parent closed the business to help protect its own financial position.At around 3pm the UK website dispatched its final e-mail to users, replacing updates on events in the City with a farewell message: "It's another internet collapse." All 64 staff will lose their jobs, including editor Nils Pratley who had joined from Sunday Business.The closure came after months of negotiations between management of the site and investors. The site had eaten its way through around &#163;9.6m since launch in February and was burning &#163;350,000 a month. It would have run out of cash at the end of the year.Staff at the site were incensed. "People are furious with the US," said one. "We   made every financial target they set us. We are particularly disgusted that no one from the US even turned up to justify or explain their decision."In the grand tradition of Fleet Street, the majority of the staff made their way to the pub after the announcement, although with a dot.com twist, it was Smiths, a trendy bar in Smithfield.Sources said venture capital investors led by Chase Capital Partners and Barclays Private Equity were keen to inject further funds but had been unable to agree terms with TheStreet.com, which held 63% of the venture.TheStreet.com, under press-ure from its own shareholders, decided to buy out the UK investors for $3m and 1.25m shares, and close the site.The move was part of a wider cost-cutting exercise at TheStreet.com, which announced 40 job losses from its US operation. Thomas   Clarke, chief executive, said closure of the UK operations and the US job cuts would save about $18m a year. "In today's environment companies have two clear choices: chart a path to profitability or shut down. We're in this for the long haul."Claudia Jay, managing director of the UK site, stressed that the closure would be orderly and staff would receive   payment for their full notice periods plus a redundancy sum."I'm really, really sad because I'm immensely proud of what we have created. It was a really high quality site and had a lot of users who liked it."Investors had come "very close" to doing a deal that would have provided funding to keep operating.The UK site was making &#163;200,000 a month in advertising revenues and &#163;50,000 from other sources including syndication.TheStreet.com believes the retrenchment combined with its $90m in cash will allow it to survive the downturn in internet stocks. Dave Kansas, editor-in-chief, said: "We believe this puts us in good stead to get   through to the other side. It was a very difficult choice to make."At yesterday's share price of just over $3, TheStreet.com was valued at $85.4m, less than the $90m in the bank at the end of the third quarter.Few buyers have materialised since the company appointed Wasserstein Perella, the investment bank, to look for partners in January.
Thanks to the web, living a socially conscious life at home need no longer mean commandeering the kitchen to paint CND placards, or ripping up the patio to plant organic veg.An obvious way to begin is to typewww.conscienceonline.org.ukinto your browser. (Notice that magic .org? Most ethical sites avoid anything so capitalist as a .com, or .co.uk.) The address takes us to the Peace Tax Campaign - supporting those withholding the 10% of their taxes that pays for the armed forces. That may be a little hard-core for a beginner. Signing the online petition to end third world debt atwww.jubilee2000uk.org/petition.htmlmay be a gentler place to start. Or perhaps a little ethical shopping?Fair traded goods are no longer the stuff only of church fetes and trestle tables outside the library. Oxfam runs an online charity shop atwww.oxfam.org.uk/shopselling ethically produced goods ranging from coffee and chocolate to clothing and jewellery. You can also donate goods to the charity, which are auctioned online.www.oneworld.net/shopalso brings you gifts, holidays and music with an ethical edge. The oneworld.net site is an internet portal and news site for those interested in human rights, development and the environment.www.getethical.com, to be   launched on November 28 by the Big Issue and left-green magazine RedPepper is another online ethical shop - but with in-depth analysis and news.Information is power for the surfer with a conscience.www.ethical-junction.comhas a huge directory ethical businesses and organisations - including, strangely enough, a huge list of ethical caterers.When buying from mainstream outlets, how do you know the items have not helped to destroy the environment, or been sewn in a sweatshop?www.ethicalconsumer.orglooks at the environmental and social records of the companies behind the brand names. It has a huge searchable business ethics database, and you can check products against their constantly updated boycotts list.If you are concerned about big business, the more radicalwww.corporatewatch.orgtakes a direct activists' perspective against all that is wrong with multinational corporations. "The Earth is not dying it is being killed," it says. "And those who are killing it have names and addresses."But enough about what "they" are doing to the planet and its people. What is your effect? Take a quick click towww.americanforests.org/climate/amforcalc.htmland calculate the "carbon debt" created by your use of transport and fossil fuels. The site tells you how many trees to plant each year to offset your CO2 emissions. Those lacking green fingers could reduce their tree planting obligations by buying electricity from one of the "green electricity" suppliers listed atwww.est.co.uk/together/tog_whofuture.htmlYou could try your hand at being an eco-warrior atwww.greenpeace.org.uk/HardCodedPages/ arcticaction_win.htm, where you can play Bears of Despair, a little Shockwave game where you try to stop BP drilling for oil in the Arctic.Money makes the world go round.www.co-operativebank.co.ukis the site for the well known socially responsible bank and its internet based sister is atwww.smile.co.ukBoth have strict investment policies - excluding, for example, countries that abuse human rights, and companies which sell them arms. (For more on the arms trade, click towww.caat.org.uk).Triodos Bankallows customers to open savings accounts which lend money to specific social projects like housing and energy-conservation - you can even open an account which benefits the Western Buddhist Order.Appeals through the post may soon become junk-mail of the past. Charities have made it easy to part with cash via your credit card and a secure net connection.The Charities Aid Foundation atwww.giveasyouearn.orgallows you to give regularly, tax free, to any registered charity by completing an online donor form.Another charity focused websitewww.care4free.nethas a limited database of charities you can donate to via the site.But why spend your money, when you can spend someone else's? Most of the money bouncing around the net is from advertising revenue - andwww.thehungersite.comhas turned this to the advantage of world's starving. For every click, a cup of staple food is donated to a hungry person in the developing world, paid for by companies whose banner adverts pepper the site.Windows and Internet Explorer users might feel a little guilty browsing with tools produced by the ultra-capitalist multi-national Microsoft. Repentance is just a click away atwww.microsoft-sucks.com, which not only has a huge list of anti-microsoft links (with sites ranging from the well argued, to the frankly ludicrous), but also posts photos of the great man himself on the sticky side of a custard pie lobbed by protesters. The Biotic Baking Brigade's own site is worth a final click atwww.asis.com/~bbb.&#149;   Gideon Burrows is a writer on human rights, peace and the environment. Visit him atwww.gidstar.freeserve.co.ukgideon@foundationspa.co.uk
All human lifeAn ambitious survey has just kicked off to find out "what it is like to be a human being at the start of the 21st century".The Planet Project, sponsored by tech company 3Com, says it wants to hold up a "digital mirror for a glimpse of the human condition" over the next three days, and is inviting millions of people - online and offline - to contribute to the survey.It will also provide a useful platform to showcase technologies that combine lots of statistical input from across the world in eight different languages. Questions will be divided into eight modules covering everything from religion to dating and sex.As users complete each module they will be able to compare instantly their answers with the results from around the world. In an attempt to bridge the digital divide 3Com says thouands of pollsters equipped with laptops, handhelds and portable transmitters will take off into the more remote cornersof the globe. Seewww.planetproject.com.Shop hereShopping in the high street for gadgets increasingly looks like throwing money away, such are the bargains to be had online. I bought a new digital camcorder at Unbeatable that was fully &#163;150 cheaper than the best "bricks and mortar" price (and almost &#163;200 less than the biggest high street names). The website has recently been redesigned to give it a much slicker look. Fulfillment - at least in my experience - is excellent too.We've yet to try the Helpful Home Shopping Company, but with the prices they are advertising (impressive discounts on white goods especially, it seems) it could only be a matter of time.  Seewww.unbeatable.co.ukandwww.helpful.co.uk.Movie TimesThe BBC might be upsetting various dot.coms by moving into new areas on the web, but its latest efforts show they're not being put off. Under the Radio Times brand the BBC has unveiled a new site dedicated to films - on both small and silver screens - drawing on its extensive database of reviews. A nice touch is the highlighting of films that are appearing on TV this week, as well as those showing at your local fleapit.  Seewww.radiotimes.com/film.Small screenStaying with television, bothMTVandChannel 4have revamped their websites. Channel 4 wants to make it easier to navigate your way through its sprawling online empire. To that end, the clean-looking front page sports an A-Z index and a guide to what's on the channel today, while celebrity chat, user forums and Shockwave games are gathered together in "talk" and "play" sections.MTV wants to expand its online offering, and introduce what it calls a "bold new graphic look and feel". That new look is pretty hideous, but should you persevere past all the winking graphics and impossible-to-read text you'll find lots of cool features like six online radio stations, animations, cartoon clips and an archive of the channel's amusing promos.New forceWhile some entertainment companies continue to try to shut down the legions of websites devoted to their TV shows and programmes, it is heartening to see that LucasFilm is doing exactly the opposite. The company is asking amateur directors to submit their short films based on the Star Wars series, so they can be showcased on the website of multimedia specialists Atom Films.Going even further, LucasFilm is even making assorted audio clips from the films available for would-be directors to cut in to their efforts, so they too can have authentic Darth-style heavy breathing and the distinctive "bufthzzzz" sound of a lightsaber duel.Most amazing of all, LucasFilm is even going to pass on some of the revenues from advertising and sponsorship to the short film makers. LucasFilm is clearly feeling the force_ it's a shame its entertainment industry colleagues are taking so long to do the same.  Seewww.starwars.atomfilms.com.Geller tellerSpoon-bender Uri Geller tells us his latest passion is writing and to prove it, from next Wednesday, he is putting his latest book exclusively on the web. The first 10,000 words of Nobody's Child will be available free.Readers who want to get the following five instalments being will then be asked to cough up a modest $1.50.Uri plans to complete the book on November 15, 2001, 50 chapters later, with readers being asked about the book along the way.Seewww.uristory.com.New &amp; noted&#149;  Affordable new art for sale atwww.thecanvas.co.uk&#149;  Christmas "gifts with affection" atwww.i-love-you.com.
Sudden StrikePC CD-Rom 	&#163;29.99  CDV SoftwareWar: what it is good for? Well, not quite absolutely nothing, because armed conflict has served as the backdrop to many a cracking game.The latest is Sudden Strike, a real-time strategy (RTS) title based on the second world war. While neither of these facts suggests any great innovation, Sudden Strike   does at least offer one novel option: you can play as the Germans.Of course, with the game being developed in Russia it may not be wholly surprising, but for gamers looking for something a little different, the chance to play as the Nazis is appealing.But whatever you decide, there are three main campaigns to test your battle tactics on, including some tricky Eastern Front combat. In a similar manner to Command and Conquer, you direct proceedings from up high by clicking your mouse and trusting your troops to follow orders.The graphics present everything clearly, although it can get fiddly to manoeuvre   your men at times. Luckily, though, the speed of the game means you do not need to panic too much. Everything proceeds at a snail's pace - more slothful than sudden - that is handy in battle, but not so when you merely want to move supplies from A to B. Also, the amateurish nature of the mission briefings reminds you that you are sitting at your PC and not shivering in a Stalingrad shellhole.Still, Sudden Strike does deserve some sort of medal. By utilising a splendidly accurate second world war setting and banishing resource management (ammo excepted) the developer has created an intriguing, if rather plodding, strategy game.    (GH)Creatures PlaygroundPC 	&#163;14.99  Creature Labs/HavasIt is easy to think of Louise as a daughter, even though she is grotesquely deformed, has green hair that would look better on a mop, and popped out of an egg only a week ago.Louise is a norn: an artificial life form who is born, grows up, ages and dies according to the rules laid down by Creature Labs' software.Norns, created by Steve Grand, were a pretty serious artificial life experiment a couple of years ago, although of course they were distributed through the Creatures series of games.But Creatures Playground is from the award-winning Creatures Village range of software, aimed at the sort of four-to-eight your olds who might enjoy on-screen Catz, Dogz, and similar "virtual pets".Creatures Playground provides a sort of theme park for norns to enjoy. It has a rollercoaster, a big wheel, a haunted house and a space ship, plus a number of mini-games such as Whack-a-mole.The graphics and sound are extremely good, though   the fat, cartoony style of the images can sometimes be hard to read.The game is great value but it does require a lot of space to run. Even when you have cleared more than half a gigabyte for the installation (516Mb, in my case) it still wants 75Mb free on C: and 32Mb on the drive where it has been installed. It also wants a grown-up processor and memory: 233MHz and 16Mb is the stated minimum, but 450MHz and 64Mb is more like it.Parents should make sure they install the game first, and spend an hour or two with the manual figuring out how it works, before even mentioning the game to their non-digital offspring. (JS)Ready to Rumble Boxing: Round 2Midway Dreamcast	&#163;39.99With the swiftness and inevitability of death, another decent game begets a sequel. All the usual rules apply: if you've got the original, don't bother; if you were thinking of getting the original, get this instead.Improvements are tangible but slight: more boxers to choose from; a more sophisticated training system in the single-player championship mode; more punches and combos; and a tweak to the first game's "rumble" system, so that there are now three levels of power-up.You can also, apparently, invoke cameo appearances from Shaquille O'Neal and Michael Jackson. Well, there's an incentive.But if some things change, more things stay the same. The graphics, intros and music - all admittedly impressive - remain untouched by developer   hands. The fighters' chants are still incomprehensible, the boxers still imbalanced (Jet "Iron" Chin rules the ring once more), and the novelty still wears off rather sooner than expected.I have a dream. A dream that, one day, games makers will bite the bullet and offer discounts on upgrades masquerading as sequels. "Hand in your copy of Ready to Rumble 1 and get Ready to Rumble 2 for half price!"If that dream should ever come true, who knows? Games with 2 in the title might even start getting good reviews.  (AB)
Office theftI am amazed that the Guardian supports some of the advice given by Richard Adams (Working the web, November 9). Some of it seems to encourage people to be dishonest when it comes to dealing with their employer.I work in the public sector and surfing the internet for porn and displaying it in the office does not sit comfortably with standards of behaviour expected from staff.David Wyattd.wyatt@btinternet.com"How dull office life would be without Solitaire and Minesweeper," twitters Richard Adams. Maybe life in the Guardian office is so insufferably dreary that you need mindless distractions, but in that case you should look for a more stimulating job.  I'm sick of Online's repeated (and repetitious) articles supporting employees who steal time and resources from their companies.  If you are paid to get on with a job, but you fart about playing games on the computer, sending infantile emails and downloading porn, you are robbing your employer and cheating your workmates, who will have to cover the work that you are too idle to do.Dermod Quirkedermond@dircon.co.ukI am aghast at the tone of the "10 steps to reduce paranoia at work".Apart from his first two points, Richard Adams is condoning and encouraging illegality; and exposing the user to potentially greater sanctions when and if they are discovered. How about transposing the article to one on shopping? Suggesting how to switch price stickers to get something cheaper? Getting a crowd of people to obstruct a sales assistant's view of things? Placing a plastic bag over the CCTV cameras to prevent them observing an attempt at theft?Jon FinegoldKeyline Consultancyjon@key-line-consultancy.co.ukProle positionAllen Ives (OnlineNovember 9) says he ran a hi-tech company, and took money off employees' wages if they abused his computer equipment.He may have paid 25% more in wages, but how can this ex-member of the boss class claim to have remained a Marxist while presumably still seeking to make a profit from the unpaid physical and mental labour of his workers?As for Robert Lawrence's letter whining about employees wasting money by using business internet resources for anything other than work, I suggest that we untrustworthy working class scum end such bourgeois concerns about misusing assets (manufactured, installed, operated and maintained by us proles) by voting to own these ourselves through real socialism.Max Hessmax@truesocialism.freeserve.co.ukCode itIt is not "techy propaganda" that states that the only way you will ever build a proper website is using HTML (Home page that Mac built, November 9). It's a simple fact.HTML editors insert huge chunks of absolute gibberish into otherwise simple pages, as one of your own screenshots amply demonstrates. Furthermore, are you going to avoid using JavaScript forever, just because you don't know how to incorporate it into your code?To extend your own analogy, you may not want to know how your car works. However, be prepared to sit on the hard-shoulder of the Information Superhighway, waiting for the AA to come and change your flat tyre.Chris Gibsonchris.gibson@naedus.comViva VaioI've just read Jack Schofield's review of the Vaio PCGC1 laptop (Online, November 9). You're wrong to say Sony must have an odd idea of what travelling business professionals do for a living if this machine is aimed at them.I'm a "travelling business professional". I've been using a PCG-C1F all over the world for 12 months. And it's absolutely brilliant.You say that it is let down by not having an inbuilt CD-rom or floppy drive, or net working, and the half size screen is a disadvantage.Rubbish. They may not suit a computer buff, but they suit a normal user down to the ground. By having external floppy and CD drives, I have the choice of whether to lug the things round with me or not. For me, travelling incessantly, the joy of having a fully fledged computer that I can slip inside a coat pocket is wonderful. Try walking round a few European or Chinese exhbition halls for three days and you'll soon get the picture.The screen is just fine. There is no serious disadvantage whatsoever that I know of. The fact that you can physically see less text is hardly ever a serious problem. In the end, it is a compromise worth having in order to have a small machine.The little camera is good too. Mediocre quality perhaps, but superb for taking instant snaps of a sample in a meeting. An inspired gadget.The only complaint I have is low battery life, requiring spares. But I've had that problem with every laptop I ever owned. I've had Thinkpads for seven grand, Toshibas, Compaq, the lot. For sheer practicality for a travelling businessman, the PCG leaves them all standing.Peter Hardwickh@pardwick.demon.co.ukRecordsI note that Matt Luxon (Online, November 9) says Elan Technologies "is going to make electronic patient records available internationally through the web".Does this mean that I can expect my medical records to be put online for the delectation of medical-records buffs in Japan and Brazil? And how about my bank accounts? Are they to be similarly broadcast throughout the world?Whatever happened to confidentiality?Ellie Weldeweld@gn.apc.orgBritish ideaJack Schofield is only partly right when he says in his interview with Vint Cerf (Online, November 9) that Paul Baran invented Packet Switching. It was a Briton, Donald Davies.Thus, not only was the software architecture of the web invented by a Brit, Tim Berners Lee, but also the telecoms backbone of the internet. Not a fact widely known.Richard Sarsonrsarson@cix.co.uk
How did you get involved in computers and IT? I was studying civil engineering at university and shared the common view that computers were horrible and boring. Then I joined a graduate programme at NCR where I became fascinated, not by computers or programming, but by what they could do for people. I was involved in developing the first email and word processing systems for Hewlett Packard but it was clear to me that computers wouldn't take off until they were connected so I joined Microsoft to set up the MSN network.Did you have a vision of what the Microsoft Network could or should be?I wanted to see the democratisation of IT, computer technology for the many instead of the elite few with software at the right price that everybody could use.What will the Microsoft network offer in the future?There's lots of technology used in corporations that we're offering to the public, like electronic calendars you can access on the net, anytime anywhere. We're offering online filing cabinets where you can store information, files, photos, graphics and music safe from hard disc failure, viruses, or computer thieves and completely harmonisable with your Desktop using Office 2000 and an update. In addition, we'll be offering rich media with audio and video.Do you think the current downturn in dot.com business is temporary?Absolutely! The downturn is due to over zealousness at the beginning. For a long time, technology stocks were stone cold; then the net came along and they were red hot, a herding instinct took over. There wasn't enough expertise in the market to evaluate these new companies and their true potential. Now, there are businesses based on internet technology and we will have a much more reasoned assessment of a very diverse area.Computers and IT are often perceived as a male preserve. Is this valid?It's never been a problem for me. Because the new media and technology companies are young, high growth and meritocratic, there are far more opportunities for women than in traditional businesses. In the US, 70% of new business start ups are by women.What are the benefits and problems of working for Microsoft?Wonderful people, great enthusiasm, shared values, a young, fast moving international company_ it's stimulating and exciting. The downside: people make assumptions about you. Sometimes they expect perfection when we're still learning.Any favourite websites?www.squaremeal.co.uk, Greater London and UK restaurant guide. You can search by type of cuisine, location or view their top choices in each category.I rely on theWall Street Journalandft.comfor worldwide business information. Alsowww.sharepages.com- comprehensive and advanced finance site with up to date share trading information and analysis. Alsothe official Dilbert website.Interview by Suzi Pritchard
Wiring our bodies to the internet might sound like the stuff of science fiction, but the reality of such a far-flung idea is closer than you think.A number of companies have this year been touting wearable computers as the next big thing. We've had fully mounted headsets, scarves that alert users to email and, ironically enough, anoraks with built-in PCs. But rising concern for our health - rather than our looks - is most likely to create a market for such products.In both the United States and Scandinavia, a number of technology companies, ranging from small start-ups to telecommunications giants and even global sportswear manufacturers, are ready to release a range of wireless internet devices that can either be worn or even directly connected to the body. And as early as next spring, they could be coming to the United Kingdom.By 2010, Forrester Research predicts, a billion people will access the net through some kind of wireless device. This means at least a third of the UK population will have wireless access. The majority of these devices will probably be advanced third generation (3G) mobile phones.  But analysts believe the number will include fridges, washing machines and alarm clocks with wireless access. Devices that monitor the body's vital signs could well carve out a slice of the wireless pie.The race to wire the body began in earnest last August whenLifeChart, a $25m start-up, released a product for asthma sufferers called the AirWatch, a small electronic inhaler with a tiny LCD display. It enables users to regularly monitor their breathing. But   what is really interesting is the web-enabled services run off the device.By plugging the AirWatch into the nearest telephone socket, users can upload all their recorded data to the company's website. LifeChart converts the data into a series of graphs and tables that help users spot the "triggers" that might be causing their disease.LifeChart charges $120 per year subscription fee. Subscribers are invited to share their password with their doctors.  The company, based in California and funded by Johnson &amp; Johnson, Nokia and the Finnish National Fund For Research and Development, offers similar devices and services for heart disease sufferers and diabetics. The service is available across the US and in Finland, Sweden and the Netherlands.LifeChart calls this service "connecting people to constant care", and sees itself as part of a wider "wellness management" industry burgeoning in the US.Rivals includeStayhealthy.com, which offers customers a device called the CT1 personal calorie tracker. It looks a bit like a pager and allows users to monitor their caloric burn rate by measuring and recording body movement.    Unlike the AirWatch, the CT1 is worn on the waist and constantly tracks caloric burn throughout the day. Using a docking station and special software the data is uploaded to the Stayhealthy  web site.Another US company,Microfit, has for years been offering online services that connect an exercise bike to a PC, but Bodymedia, a start-up in Pittsburgh, wants to go one better and wire you and your mountain bike to the net."Just like a dieter needs a set of scales to lose weight, so a busy professional seeking a structure of wellness to their lives needs a tool to bring that about," says Astro Teller, the chief executive ofBodymedia. Next spring sees the launch of Sensewear - a series of sensors to monitor the human body in ways that are "fashionable and comfortable".Sensewear monitors heart rate, skin temperature and even how well you are sleeping. Again, the information is transmitted to a PC and uploaded to a secure server - this time wirelessly.  The system is similar to that used by athletes at the Olympics to monitor their training. But Bodymedia claims that eventually it will be able to download information to users. Suddenly, you can be told how well you are doing, when to get up, when to eat, even when to meditate.Last month, Bodymedia launched its Healthmanager software that will run off Sensewear. For now, users will be expected to input their own data (indeed the health manager will run without Sensewear). There is an initial set-up fee of $25 and a further $50 a month subscription fee for the service."Bodymedia is not offering a quick fix or the next fad   diet," insists Teller. "We will not replace your doctor or personal trainer or any other health professional."Rather, we wish to help you accomplish your goal and bring a health balance to your lifestyle."Teller says that initally remote database access (RDA) technology, or cellphone networks, will be employed. He thinks that Sensewear is best suited to Bluetooth - a consortium of five companies (Nokia, Ericsson, IBM, Intel and Toshiba) - which is developing a specification to allow wireless devices to communicate with each other. But he admits that this is at least "three or four years away".Hot on Bodymedia's heels is Nike. The sportswear manufacturer is facing falling sales of training shoes (last year's profits were barely half that of 1997), and looking to   diversify into a number of computer-related products.Nike rolled out its first MP3 player last month. The psa&#91;play is developed in collaboration with Rio and is the first product to come out of Nike's high-tech research-and -development department, Techlab.The MP3 player will be followed by a pedometer and heart-rate monitor and, ultimately, the world's first online training shoe.Nike also wants to become a content provider by building a series of online communities based around the masses of data accrued from its work with Olympic athletes. At the moment this means something like their Olympic site, full of news, adverts for Nike sportswear and the odd chat room. But eventually - if Nike sells enough of their computer-  related devices - it wants to offer customers the chance to compare their data with that of the athletes Nike sponsors. Suddenly you could compare your evening's jog with that of Olympians' Sonia O'Sullivan or John Brown."The beauty of it is that the more information we can offer the consumer about how they perform is going to make for a happier consumer," says Ray Riley, creative director of Techlab. "And who better to integrate technology into the gear you wear for sport? It is perfect, it is like a business that is pre-made for us."And, says Riley, wiring the body need not prove prohibitively expensive. Nike's MP3 players start at &#163;189, with the pedometers and heart-rate monitors expected to sell for a similar price.But should we wire up our bodies, even for health reasons? For many, Teller's vision of Bodymedia-clad workers being told what to do has sinister overtones. Couldn't insurance companies offer cheaper medical   insurance to those that wire up? And what if, some time in the future, employers insist that their workers wear body media?Teller is scornful of such suggestions. He sees the growing scarcity of health-care as more reason for Bodymedia's success. In the US, he argues, how much you earn usually decides who receives healthcare, regardless of whether the rich have bothered to look after themselves.He says: "Especially in a socialised medical society like Britain, it is certainly the case that one ought not to have to pay taxes for someone who   didn't take care of themselves for 60 years and is going to be sick for the next 20."Therefore, he argues, use of Sensewear could help ascertain who has been looking after themselves and who would be most receptive to health care.Wearable computers are nothing new. Military, medical and industrial versions have existed for years. What is different about Sensewear or devices like the AirWatch and CT1 is that they will, for the first time, be mass-marketed and the first to be online.Finally, if we want to wire our bodies to the internet,   won't this make us become a hybrid of man and machine - effectively cyborgs?The leading thinker in the field, the "cyber-feminist" Donna Haraway, said as long ago as 1997 that we were all already cyborgs.  Through the use of commonplace products such as spectacles, pacemakers and pharmaceuticals we integrated ourselves with machines long ago - it is just that some of us have not yet realised what we are doing.So maybe wiring our bodies to the internet - and embracing all its advantages might not be such a great leap forward after all.Useful linkswww.charmed.comwww.Bodymedia.comwww.Nike.comwww.lifechart.comwww.Stayhealthy.comwww.wearix.comwww.microfit.comwww.wearablegear.com
If you are fed up already with reading e-mail from your Wap (wireless application protocol) phone then try the latest thing: sending short text messages to any GSM phone free from a regular web site. Shakil Khan, founder ofSMSboy.com, claims that almost 12,000 messages were sent to phones across Europe on the inaugural day last week. It costs the company about 5p for each message sent. He reckons it is a price worth paying as he hasn't had to spend a penny on marketing - news of the site just spreads virally.Wap and short text messaging are tailor-made for football - to satisfy the insatiable appetite of fans for news about players, goals and team line-ups.The prince of football sites is Manchester United, which is planning a big Wap expansion programme. It has an estimated 20 million fans around the world and boasts 80% brand recognition in China, the country with the biggest potential market for mobiles.Seewww.europewap.com/and manutd/manmenu.wmlArsenal has a mobile site, managed by Red Message (UK) at arseweb.com/wap/ which claims to reach nearly 100,000 subscribers around the world. They get match alerts, team line-ups, half-time and full-time scores naming who scored at what time. For other news of football and other sports like cricket and Formula1 try Sports.com at mmm.sports.com/index.wmlBuilding a Wap presence is getting easier and easier. The web sitewww.wapdrive.com/enables you to build your own and have it up and running (on your Wap phone) within minutes. There is a more complicated version for aficionados. And it's free.
I am a 12-hour-a-day computer user, a loyal internet fiend, who has sunk to an even more abysmal level than the web trawlers who mutter apologetically that they're "all thumbs". If the internet has no limits, neither does my systems backwardness.With this column, I burst, like a reverse Superman, from my telephone booth, proudly announcing, "Is it a bird brain? Is it a plane without engine or wings? No, it's...TechnoStupe!"First, my credentials. The mysteries of Wittgenstein, or Trotskyist sectarianism, or defusing a live land mine MK-14, or the baseball American League's notoriously convoluted "designated hitter" rule (don't ask), and how to unlock the hearts of heartless Hollywood producers hold no terrors for me.But, when confronted, with the most absurdly simple computer problem, let alone glitch, I blow a mental fuse. I can smell the acrid fumes of crossed wires burning in my brain.As we speak, I cannot accessAmazon.com, surely the most user-friendly site in webdom. Eager-to-please technohelpers keep forwarding opaque messages about "firewalls" and please will I send them a 17-digit http:// number - what's that?I file everything, no matter the subject, on my "C" drive because I have no idea what all those folder icons mean. And, though I have a genius-level neighbour, a theoretical physicist, who has patiently, deliberately written out baby-simple instructions for me in the same Janet and John idiom Al Gore uses in his   speeches - r-e-a-l-l-y -s-i-m-p-l-e - I cannot send this article as an attachment. I simply do not know how and I am too thick to learn, no matter who teaches me and how many times they try.I haven't even mastered peer-to-peer music transfer via Napster - which even straight-F-for-failure college students wield in their sleep.This is costing me money. Increasingly, Hollywood, where I earn my bread, turns to cyberspace for future profits. Websites abound with full-length movie previews, hyperspaced animation, news of script sales, writing jobs - a fledgling industry for the technowhiz audience who are fluent in technospeak and therefore collect the cheques.Please, no more talk of my left and right brain distortion, dyslexia, Attention Deficit Disorder, and "You just haven't had the right teacher, Clancy". I've had ALL the right teachers: Abigail, Corky, Janice, Gabriel_ the list may   not be endless but it is long and guilt making. They all were, I'm sure, extremely bright in school and have carried the smarty-gene over to computers as naturally as a queen's swan bites your hand.As a child I was not a classroom smarty. In fact, for an entire year, I was relegated to the subnormal, oops retarded, oops "educationally less advantaged" class - one of the happiest experiences of my youth. There, seated amid half-blind albinos, undiagnosed deaf children, pure idiots and the severely emotionally retarded, I basked in the bliss of no-pressure. Neither teach ers nor parent expected anything of me, I did not have to produce, and I didn't. Trouble is, there is no "subnormal class" for computer dimwits. Technostupes are basically walled-in. Like any dysfunctional person, I've even tried "professional help". Aside from the expense, these wizards usually leave me in worse shape, emotionally if not electronically.Leaving me, as usual, to crawl to friends. Please, please, help me? They're wonderful, talented achievers who, by now, having "worked with" me, would rather cut their throats (or mine) than confess they are giving me up as a bad case. Now, one by stealthy one, like News of the World reporters, they make their excuses and leave before performing the miracle of the fishes and loaves on my electric box.They download diagrams. And email me long lists of "simple" instructions. And send me carloads of analogies! "Look,   Clancy, it's just like fly fishing..." Or, "Think of your ISP as an airport..." Then they wonder why I don't get it. Analogies confuse the panicked mind.Now, some of my computer-wise angels are turning a shade nasty. Just a few minutes ago Bobby, keeper of my Hollywood screenwriters' bulletin board, started his umpteenth emailed "simple" explanation with an exasperated, "I really like you, Clancy. But..."Very Hollywood, that. In a movie studio I always know I'm in schtook when they start with, "I really like you, Clancy..." You wait for the "but" as for the headman's axewhen a creative executive bounces out of his chair with a vigorous handshake, "I really like you, Clancy...".It's some kind of made-in-Hollywood miracle that I manage to navigate my computer at all. I'm like those   dyslexic or illiterate adults who, like Robert De Niro in Stanley And Iris, somehow manage to recognise motorway signs, buy groceries and keep a steady job despite their dirty little secret.Somehow, on the internet, I politically organise. I do movie business by email, somehow. I once helped lead an electronic rescue mission that got much-needed antibiotics to besieged Sarajevo, somehow. Yet I still do not know the difference between a website, URL, ISP, browser and Bowser my dog.It's said that the rise of computers has created a digital divide between the electronically privileged and computer-deprived underclass. I beg to differ. The real class distinction is between technosmarties and technostupes. My advice to others in my quandary?Fake it.&#149; Clancy Sigal is a scriptwriter in Hollywood
What claims to be the UK's first ever personalised, multi-channel internet radio station has been launched in London.Two years in the making,Puremix.comis the first investment backed by Chrysalis New Media, a subsidiary of the famous record and television company.Backed to the tune of &#163;4m, the new station is an attempt to build the UK's first standalone net radio station that delivers multiple channels - or streams - to an audience listening in on their PCs.What Puremix hopes to do is take the best bits of new media (interactivity and personalisation) - and mix them with the best from old media (disc jockeys between records and news on the hour). The Guest IJs - or internet jocks - include Barry White, Gary Crowley, international club DJ Paul Oakenfold and record producer Arthur Baker."Up until now, nothing has sounded like radio, as most internet radio stations have sounded like a CD jukebox," says Keith Pringle co-founder. "I think this is the first time that net radio sounds like real radio."But despite all the bold claims, is Puremix a truly personalised station? The answer is, not quite. While Puremix does work out for you which stream is most likely to be closest to your preference, the service merely points you towards one of the 40 different channels of music. This, says Pringle, should be more than enough. Even in New York you would struggle to find 40 radio stations playing different styles of music, he says."The one thing I didn't realise - this was my first foray online - is that I don't think you can underestimate   how complex technically the net is." This might explain why the launch has been dogged by technical problems, with Mac users in particular finding themselves locked out.So how will the station make money? Puremix says    its revenue model resembles that of commercial radio - a mix of advertising, sponsorship and promotions. Add to that a number of e-commerce opportunities (Puremix has already signed deals with Expedia, BOL and Sony Playstation 2) and the station claims it will reach profitability within three years. This is despite a further round of funding expected next year.But to dominate the market Puremix will have to be quick. A number of other net radio stations are about to launch in the UK. Virgin Interactive is gearing up for a major launch early next year, Viacom - which owns MTV - will launch in Europe next spring, and stations such asStormLive.com, backed by DJ Bruno Brooks, have been streaming radio for some time now.And let's not forget that the net is a global medium. US stations already take up a sizeable portion of the UK audience and, in fact, one new US station (still in beta),www.echo.com, has developed software that does allow for a truly personalised net station - not just 40 streams. Echo allows users to build their own stations and - crucially - invite others to listen with them. This, says Echo, is what net radio is all about: creating communities.Also, a number of other innovations made by more established sites have been passed over.Spinner.com, for example, allows its listeners to skip tracks they do not like. Why hasn't Puremix gone the same way?"If people have the option to skip forward, for a start, they will usually skip past a new song they hear," says Pringle. "If you never get to hear new songs you never get to love them."To show its commitment to new music, Puremix even claims it has its own online version of John Peel, the veteran Radio 1 DJ.
Earlier this year, I bought something from a chap in Frankfurt. The transaction was very efficient but, more importantly, it would never have happened at all without the internet in general and eBay in particular. Score one for free trade: I got something I wanted and so did he. A willing buyer and a willing seller were matched by an electronic marketplace that didn't exist a couple of years ago. We were better off and so, by an imperceptibly small amount, was the European economy.Using the web and e-mail, I searched on eBay, found what I wanted, bid for it and won the auction, agreed the shipping method and postage costs. The total came to around &euro; 40. Then came the question of payment. A bank transfer seemed rather expensive. A cheque wouldn't work, since I have only sterling accounts and he had a Deutschmark account.Free and fast (in fact instant) person-to-person small payment solutions widely used in the US - Paypal, for example, or Billpoint - don't (yet) work in Europe. PhonePaid, however, a European rival to PayPal, is launching a similar emailing system for GSM phones in Europe this week.The European banks' principal thrust in this area, the smart card-based electronic purse was useless here. Being in the UK, I don't have one (Visa recently shut down its only scheme in Leeds, Mondex in Edinburgh closed earlier this year, and so on).Being in Germany, my counterparty did have one (as do more than 50 million of his fellow citizens) but he couldn't use it on the internet. Even if he had been in possession of a smart card reader connected to his PC, his Geldkarte would not have worked   with my British bank account so it would have been pointless (and the situation would have been no different if my bank account was in euros and his Geldkarte could store euros, which it cannot).Banks have, in fact, probably done more harm than good with their botched launch of e-cash. The threat of non-bank competition for the retail payments franchise, and enthusiasm for hi-tech, led them to ignore poor feedback from pilot schemes. Instead of re-focusing on areas where the market wanted solutions (eg, the internet, mobile phones and so on) they kept pushing e-cash where it wasn't wanted: shops.Eventually, I emailed my German seller and asked him for his preferred payment method: he said cash! So in the year 2000, to execute a transaction between two of the most advanced economies in the world, on the dawn of the single currency, I put two $20 interest-free loans to Uncle Sam in an envelope and handed it over to the Royal Mail. A few days later my goods arrived.Now this strikes me as odd: one of the most computerised, electronic, global businesses imaginable (ie, banking) is incapable of supporting intra-European cross-border trade and causes trading partners to use US banknotes and the postal service.The European Central Bank (ECB) is now getting involved, and its work may yet bear fruit. But this problem needs addressing outside of the banking sector. The US wants action in this area as well - the Clinton administration has called for a new "standard-based mechanism" to handle retail payments on the net-but in the US market non-banks have been quick to move in with new payment products: not just email payment by PayPal, but phone billing by eCharge, ISP billing by iPin, pre-paid schemes (like mobile phone vouchers) such as the American Express Internet Shopping Card and so on.I am not arguing that we need more regulation or legislation in Europe: far from it. But we do need to work hard at stimulating competition by removing regulatory barriers to non-bank entrants in the retail payments business.Just to pick one example, mobile operators are an obvious potential provider of payment services, not least because the world of m-commerce is as hampered by the lack of appropriate payment technology as much as the internet is. The idea of the mobile phone as some kind of electronic wallet is, in any case, already widespread.Until someone in the UK can email &euro; 40 to Frankfurt as easily as someone in San Francisco can to someone in New York (ie, very easily), the European e-economy cannot grow like it does in the US. Who cares whether it is NatWest, Vodafone or Canal+ that provides the service?
The PC industry, neglected during the past two Comdex/Fall computer trade shows in Las Vegas, Nevada, returned to prominence with a vengeance.Both Microsoft and Intel showed products that will take the PC to a new level of capability, while those promoting appliances and other alternatives were faced with what Bruce Stephens, group vice president of worldwide personal systems   research at the US-based International Data Corporation, called "a business model conundrum". Everybody thinks appliances - simplified, dedicated systems - have great potential, but hardly anyone has managed to make any money out of them.The highlight of the show was undoubtedly "the tablet", a flat pen-operated personal computer unveiled by Bill Gates, Microsoft's chief software architect, during his show-opening keynote   presentation. The tablet uses "digital ink", which lets users manipulate their handwritten text in exactly the same way as word-processed characters. The demonstration showed how text, written on the LCD screen, could be moved around and even turned into slanting "italics".The tablet PC is still a PC with memory and hard drive, running Whistler, the codename for the next version of Microsoft Windows 2000.However, it seemed to be the closest device so far to the Dynabook (Dynamic Book) computer proposed by Alan Kay, a Xerox Parc researcher, in the late 1970s.Most of the ideas developed at Parc, Xerox's Palo Alto Research Centre, have already become commonplace. These include graphical user interfaces (in the Apple Macintosh, Microsoft Windows and other systems), laser printers, and computer networks. Kay was confident that continuous annual increases in the power of microprocessors would eventually make the Dynabook feasible, and that day may now be in the foreseeable future. A large batch of prototype tablets has been produced for testing and Gates said systems could be on sale in about two years.The unfortunate part of the tablet demonstration was that it was not possible to get a good view of the operating system. Whistler is destined to replace both Windows 95/98/Me and new technology Windows NT/2000. It will also give Windows a new interface, which has not been seen before, though users will have the option to stay with the "Windows classic" look, if   that is what they prefer.Whistler will run on any PC capable of running today's Windows 2000, but it is a safe bet that it will also trigger another "upgrade cycle". And users in the market for a new PC to run Whistler will be encouraged to opt for systems based on the new, more expensive Pentium 4 processors that Intel previewed at the show.In the past year, Intel has had its nose bloodied by the much smaller AMD, which has been selling faster, cheaper Athlon processors. Intel hopes the Pentium 4, along with price cuts on the Pentium 3 line, will shift the balance back in its favour.Although the PC market has also been getting a relatively bad press recently, IDC's Bruce Stephens said: "the fact is, the growth rate is still pretty good". The PC market grew by 19% this year, with about 140 million units sold, and Stephens expected 17% growth next year.According to IDC's research, said Stephens, the growth of the internet was "benefiting the PC market, not appliances". Only 28 million appliances had been sold in the past year, though he was predicting sales of 48 million units in the next year.Stephens said PC growth   was particularly healthy in "new markets" (less developed countries), and that the growth rate for sales of portable PCs was above 30%. "What's driving this is students, home offices and small business users responding to lower prices," he said.Jerry Purdy, president and   chief executive of Mobile Insights, a Californian research company, agreed that the notebook PC was "becoming the standard in two major markets: the enterprise and the college market". Notebook PCs were replacing desktops as business professionals became more mobile.Purdy said this trend would be encouraged by the rapid acceptance of wireless networking. "Wireless LANs &#91;local area networks&#93; have arrived and are going to become pervasive, thanks to the interoperability of the 802.11b standard."However, Purdy predicted    that "wide area wireless" - based on cellular telephony - would "continue to be a disappointment" because of low connection speeds, while Wap (wireless application protocol) "in its present form is never going to have wide adoption". Purdy thought the mobile market would be a lot   better when 3G (third generation) networks arrived.Some manufacturers have seen the appliance market and mobile computing as ways to avoid competition from PC industry giants. But the PC industry giants see these new areas as good places to expand their sales.Intel, for example, is targeting mobiles with its StrongArm processors, a design it acquired when Digital Equipment was taken over by Compaq, and which was ultimately derived from the British ARM (Acorn Risc Machine).Microsoft is also competing hard - with limited success - in the mobile markets with handheld PocketPC palmtops made by Compaq, Hewlett-  Packard and Casio, and a mobile phone just launched in France by Sagem. During his keynote speech, Gates also showed a powerful prototype phone codenamed Stinger.The computing and telephony markets are obviously starting to overlap but this does not necessarily mean the computing companies will suffer. "It's just as likely we'll see the death of the cellphone," says Jerry Purdy. He does not mean that people will stop using mobile telephony, but that more calls may be made using handheld electronic organisers - like the PocketPC-based Sagem - held up to the face, rather than with the primitive devices people nowadays hold to their ears.
Play offSony UK says it will not be receiving as many PlayStation 2 games consoles as had been expected. Pre-Christmas deliveries are now expected to amount to 165,000 instead of 200,000.However, the cut is not as bad as that inflicted on the US, where shipments were halved to 500,000 units, which sold out on October 26, the first day on sale.The PS2 is being released a week tomorrow with the first deliveries going to those who pre-ordered systems.X factorAt one time there seemed to be a new release of DirectX, Microsoft's games programming interface in Windows, every month. That has changed, and after a long wait, the company has finally released DirectX 8.0, which will be the version   used in next year's Xbox games console.Much of the effort has gone into simplification. However, new features include DirectPlay, which provides "voice over IP" support, so that online gamers can talk to one another.Also, DirectShow now supports reading and writing Windows Media Audio and Video (WMA and WMV) files, while Microsoft TV supports digital television. For developers, the DirectX 8.0 Software Development Kit can now be downloaded free from http://msdn.microsoft. com/directx/Users will normally have their systems upgraded by    new games but can download the code from the DirectX Home User page atwww.microsoft.com/directx.Get a lifeIf Half Life was top of your Christmas present list, you are out of luck: the launch has been postponed from December 8 to "early next year". To avoid picking something else you can't have, consultGameplay's Release Radar, which claims to be "the definitive games release guide".Pick the games you want to track and the site will email you if and when the   release date changes. Games aren't the all it tracks, either: the listing also includes DVD films.Game on3DO Europe plans to release Alex Ferguson's Player Manager 2001 for the Sony PlayStation on November 24 for &#163;29.99, with PlayStation 2 and PC versions following early next year.Fans will be looking to see how Fergie fares through the rest of the year, because earlier football management games have been endorsed by Kevin Keegan and Gianluca Vialli.
Video phoneSamsung is claiming a world first with its new streaming video mobile phone, below.The device, powered by a GEO Emblaze chip, has just been launched in Asia and is due to appear in Europe next year. It will allow users to tap into libraries of information and entertainment stored in the Mpeg4 format, as well as watch video mail.Most remarkably, GEO claims the technology can work over today's 2G networks - running as slow as 9.6kbps - as well as future 2.5G (GPRS) and 3G systems. (NM)Ripping ideaSamsung is claiming to have liberated MP3 from the clutches of the PC.Three of the Korean company's new hi-fi systems feature an MP3 encoder which directly rips tracks from CDs on to a 32MB SmartMedia card. These can be played back either via the hi-fi system or on a supplied Yepp MY-MP200 MP3 personal.Top of the range is the &#163;500 NA-CP70, which houses a CD player, FM/AM radio tuner, amplifier and MP3 encoder in a PC-inspired tower configuration.In addition to a docking bay which is home for the 32MB Yepp personal player, the system features a parallel port that enables it to download music from a PC.The &#163;400 S-P2450 integrates a similar line up of facilities in a more conventional mini system line-up.For music lovers who want to keep their options open, Samsung is offering the &#163;350 MM-N7SM, a micro hi-fi that features both an MP3 encoder and a cassette deck.The three models, plus several MP3 playback-only hi-fi systems, go on sale later this month.Do it digitallySanyo is hoping to further blur the line between digital cameras and camcorders with   a hybrid model now out in Japan.The IDC-1000Z iDshot uses a unique 5cm magneto-optical iD Photo technology developed by Sanyo, Hitachi and Olympus to store up to two hours of moving images complete with mono soundtrack on a single disk.With a resolution of 640x480 pixels the camera's video picture quality won't worry Hollywood too much, but it's more than good enough for use on the net.Alternatively, snap-happy photographers can archive up to 11,000 VGA-quality images on the disk.Sanyo also claims that the IDC-1000Z is the first digital camera on the market to feature an IEEE1394 interface for high-speed image transfer to a PC.Expect to see the model in the UK in the new year.In-car MP3Panasonic has found an unusual home for its new high capacity SD (Secure Digital) storage media. From next month, Japanese buyers will be able to install a SD-equipped audio system, the SRX7000, in their cars.The system features a slot for the tiny SD card which can store music in both MP3 and the new, higher quality music compression format AAC.And just in case the SD card's capacity of 64MB does not deliver enough music for the owner's liking, the SRX7000 also comes with a CD player and radio tuner.In the UK, Panasonic is about to launch its first SD-compatible products. Very shortly stores in Britain will be able to display a trio of digital camcorders, the NV-MX300B, NV-MX7 and   NV-MX5. These models offer videographers the option of using SD for storing still and moving images or music files. Prices for the models have not yet been made available.Panasonic is also poised to make its debut in the UK digital camera market with a model that is already on sale in Japan.Due in the UK some time next year is the 3.4 Megapixel PV-DC3000.The camera boasts a wide selection of facilities, including a 1.5 inch LCD display, 2 x optical and 3 x digital zooms, video capture, a playback speaker, built-in flash and manual controls for exposure and white balance and focus.It is compatible with both SD and MultiMedia cards.  (AN)
Here's an idea for relieving this winter's inevitable NHS bed crisis: don't put patients in intensive care after their operations - send them home. It's already happening in the US. Diann Martin, a community nurse at the University of Chicago, says that discharge within 24 hours of serious surgery is now routine, with home care taking the place of hospital. "We're doing things at home that five years ago were done in intensive care," Martin told a recent conference in London.What makes this possible is the emerging technology of "telecare". In Chicago, wound-care specialists monitor patients' progress over the internet. An electronic device in their home collects data such as blood-pressure and respiratory rate and takes regular snapshots of the wound. If all goes well, the rest of the patient's care can be done during a daily visit by a community nurse.Home care is the fastest growing sector of America's trillion dollar health industry. It's easy to see why: a day in hospital intensive care costs an insurance company $2,500, says Martin, but a visit by a district nurse is $100, and a routine "teleconsultation" is $35.Telecare is also coming - somewhat patchily - to the NHS. Since summer last year, the North Manchester primary care group has cut average waiting time for a dermatology appointment from 18 months to 17 days with teleconsultations. Nurses working for a specialist contractor visit GP surgeries, photograph patients' skin ailments with a digital   camera and store electronic images on their laptops for downloading to specialist dermatologists who can decide which patients need further treatment. It may not be comparable to what is happening in the US, but it is a start.Providing targeted medical advice over the internet is about the highest level yet of what the government calls the electronic delivery of public services. Tony Blair has committed the government to delivering 100% of government services electronically by 2005 - two years later than the target in the US.At one level, the British target is patently absurd. Whatever advances take place in computer technology between now and 2005, it will not be possible to deliver meals on wheels down the internet. But because it is a prime ministerial target, it has to be met. The Cabinet Office has even counted how many individual government services there are (457 of them) and is ticking off those that are delivered electronically. The suspiciously precise figure so far is one-third.The snag is that the further you go from the Cabinet Office and the closer to the front line of delivering public services, the less confident people are about delivering services electronically. A survey by Mori for BT found that, in central government, more than 77% of officials were confident they would reach the 2005 target. In health and local government, however, barely more than a quarter were confident - and most were not.Malcolm Wylie, head of IT at Cambridge city council, says the picture is more subtle. "Technically, if we just set out to put the tick in the box, we could do it within a year. But to get the real benefits is much more difficult. The jury's still out."But on the front line of care, IT is beginning to make a difference. The key is where it allows the joining up of services. One example is Suffolk social services, which has developed an electronic customer record on computer, allowing care professionals to call up a complete history of their clients.Joan Miller, Suffolk's head of information management, says that, as with the telecare example, the technology can cut demand for   hospital beds. "In the case of a request for an older person needing help, the system would say if they already have a home care service. Our professionals can make a better decision on that basis, and maybe avoid a hospital admission."But running an electronic customer record is a major undertaking. Persuading staff to change from pen to keyboard "has taken a long time", Miller admits. And that's only the beginning of the process, as care workers need to change the whole way they work. Computers force care workers to enter records consistently and in a structured form - a good thing for generating management information, but a new skill that has to be learned.And in some cases, a computer is out of place. Miller says: "A social worker's job is talking to people. In some cases, technology will get in the way." In highly emotional circumstances, the last thing a worker wants is to pull out a laptop.Part of the problem is that today's portable computers are too heavy, run down their batteries too quickly and are too attractive to muggers. Even the IT industry admits that the right gizmo isn't there yet. "It's all to do with size and convenience," says Alan Jones, of CSW Health, a company specialising in electronic health record systems. The solution, he believes, is a palmtop computer with web access, just coming on to the market in the US. "We're three or four months behind," says Jones.Three other obstacles lie in the way of the government's vision of joined-up electronic service delivery.&#149; Confidentiality. For health and social care, the next challenge is to join up health records - currently held by GPs - with social care records, held by local authorities. This enters a minefield of questions about confidentiality and access. The Department of Health has published a consultation document, Information for Social Care, which suggests solutions to some of the issues. Consultation is open until December 15.&#149; Reliability. Public sector IT projects are notorious for turning into disasters. The latest to go off the rails is the probation service's &#163;100m case recording system, which is being abandoned after only 16 out of 54 probation services took it up. Another project which has gone awry recently is "government gateway". This is supposed to be the system which joins together separate local government   and health databases, while ensuring that only the right people have access. The system is due to be up and running in 2001. But in October, talks with the prime contractor, Compaq, broke down and a successor has yet to be found.&#149; Resources. In September, Tony Blair promised &#163;1bn funding for electronic government as part of his "UK online" initiative. Local government    will get &#163;350m. Few on the front line regard this as generous. Local government is "90% of government's face to most people", says Chris Haynes, head of the information society programme at Knowsley council, Merseyside, one of the pioneering local authorities in IT. And at Suffolk, Miller says that experience shows the real problem is not the cost of computers, but of training. For every &#163;1 spent on   IT, twice as much again goes into training and new procedures for staff."The 2005 target is a nonsense," concludes Haynes. "Our real target is getting people in the community to benefit from the e-society."&#149; Michael Cross is news editor ofwww.kablenet.comInformation for Social Care is atwww.doh.gov.uk/scg/information.htm
Net regulators in California are poised to approve a new batch of web address suffixes to add more permutations to the fast-dwindling stock of dot.com addresses.Up to 44 new "top-level domains" are being considered by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), including .biz, .health, .travel, .xxx and .kids. Generic suffixes for personal web pages, including .per and .nom, may also be introduced.Experts say the move, similar to creating new telephone dialling codes, is needed to increase the capacity of the domain name system despite fears that new suffixes could trigger a fresh outbreak of cybersquatting, as speculators snap up well-known addresses with new suffixes to sell on for huge profits.Pam Brewster, at Icann, stressed that a limited number of domain names would be introduced "in a responsible manner". The Icann board is expected to approve between three and 20 top-level domain names at a conference in California tomorrow.Ms Brewster said there are a variety of reasons for introducing new names. "Some people say all the good names are taken so we need more," she said. "Some people want more domains to add more competition and diversity to the domain name system. It could also make it easier to find what you are looking for on the internet."The internet's naming system, featuring dot.com, .org and .net, alongside country codes such as .uk and .fr, has remained unchanged since its inception in the mid-1980s..Numerous public figures, including Madonna, Jeanette Winterson and George W Bush, have fought cybersquatters for colonising their names on the net. Despite tough new US   anti-cybersquatting laws, the global reach of the internet has made it difficult to prosecute websites which infringe upon registered trademarks.To deter cybersquatting on the new suffixes, Icann may initiate a "sunrise" early registration period, during which only trademark owners can buy names with the new endings.The price of internet "real estate" has been driven up by firms competing for the dwindling number of prestigious dot.com addresses. Legal experts hope that increasing the supply of potential names may dissuade speculative squatters."If we have .biz as well as dot.com that should considerably reduce the extent to which cybersquatting is lucrative, but without in any way removing it," said Professor Graham Greenleaf from the University of New South Wales's faculty of law.New top-level domain names could also be used to regulate porn. If adult websites carry a .xxx suffix filtering software could more easily identify pornographic material, and prevent children accessing it. Although Icann suggested it was premature to release the naming convention before the ability to force the net porn industry to adopt it.Firms who sell registered domain names stand to make the most from the reforms, as those with a dot.com address rush to re-register their name.Internet registration firms are playing down the potential boom, however."I think it will make an impact but not a huge one," said Pablo Kleckin of Domain Names Australia. "Anybody who thinks a new whizz-bang three-letter suffix is going to outdo a dot.com is not really being realistic. The dot.com is still the holy grail of the domain names. If you can get a sexy name in a dot.com you've got a licence to go global with your business."
Larry Ellison, the multibillionaire chairman and chief executive of Oracle Corporation, mounted a sustained and sometimes humorous attack on Microsoft during his speech at the Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas.Mr Ellison, head of the world's largest supplier of computer database software, launched his first attack on Microsoft in Paris in 1995, when he said the PC was a "ridiculous" device that would be replaced by the simplified "network computer".Microsoft, based in Redmond, responded recently by trumpeting the fact that its much cheaper Sequel Server database outperformed Oracle in an industry-standard banking benchmark test called TPC-C. Mr Ellison claimed Oracle performed better with typical applications and was more reliable."They're telling everyone Microsoft is very fast, albeit only for one application, and not for very long. We'll pay you $1m if we don't triple the performance of any Microsoft website &#91;with Oracle 9i&#93;, except for running TPC-C," a   clearly irritated Mr Ellison told the audience.Both companies have increased the level of "trash talking" recently, and Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, mocked Mr Ellison before the speech."Larry's been talking about ideas that have gone nowhere for years. How long has he been talking about the &#91;network computer&#93;? Six years, seven years? Where did it go? Nowhere," said Mr Ballmer.Although his attacks on the PC made headlines, Mr Ellison's credibility has been damaged by the commercial failure   of numerous alternative "network computers" and "information appliances" while PC sales have continued to grow to about 140m a year.According to US research company International Data Corporation only 11m information appliances were sold in 1999, and almost two thirds of those were handhelds such as Palm electronic organisers.Mr Ellison said that he had modified his views, and he was now in favour of standard configurations of all types of computer, large or small."It's a fundamental mistake the computer industry has   made to only do custom configurations," said Mr Ellison.Although users liked to choose their own hardware and software, this made every computer unique, and there were too many variations for anyone to test properly.The war of words between Oracle and Microsoft looks likely to continue. Microsoft staff handed out mugs before Ellison's talk which were printed with instructions for negotiating discounts, such as: "When Oracle salesman pitches $5m of overpriced software, glance down at mug."
While the US electorate waits for the final word on who will be their next president, websites across the Atlantic have been analysing the fight so far. According to women's portalwww.oxygen.com, 54% of women backed Al Gore in last week's election, compared to 43% voting for George W Bush. Yet an online poll by the portal found that two-thirds of women thought Laura Bush would make a better first lady than Tipper Gore, who only attracted a third of women's votes. Susan Medalie, of theWomen's Campaign Fund, which promotes political action by women, suggests that women had been more sophisticated voters when it came to considering election issues like education, abortion and gun control: "Women went for a lot of these issues and men went for a guy they could go out and have a beer with."Children's charities are calling for tighter controls on online chatrooms following last month's sentencing of internet paedophile Patrick Green. Commenting on an investigation by news serviceZDNet UK, Childnet International and NCH Action for Children expressed concerns over Yahoo!'s policy of not censoring a chatroom unless it breaks, or incites the breaking of, the law. Childnet has set up a new sitewww.chatdanger.comto encourage safe use of chatrooms by children.T V internet shopping is set to send us lasses leaping around our lounges, according to consultant psychologist Dr Aric Sigman. In a report for NTL on so-called "settee commerce", Dr Sigman suggests that women will become the dominant force in the living room of the future as they get together with friends or family to buy via the box. These entertaining shopping experiences will be "much like the Tupperware parties of the 70s", he says. Hold that excitement.
The growing tide of internet crime, including hacking, porn rackets, extortion and fraud, is to be tackled by a squad of "cybercops" set up in a &#163;25m initiative announced by the home secretary, Jack Straw, yesterday.The unit will be headed by 80 officers recruited from the police, customs service, national crime squad and national criminal intelligence service.Home Office money is also being provided to help fund a 24-hour international hotline for detectives from different countries to "trade information on potential attacks on the national infrastructure".The initiative follows intelligence that shows terrorists are increasingly using the internet for recruitment and planning.Internet crime has soared in the last three years as criminals have begun to realise the opportunities it offers.The dissemination of computer viruses, such as the I Love You bug, which wreaked havoc last summer, is also on the rise. Medium sized businesses are particularly vulnerable to these kinds of attacks   because they cannot afford protective filtering systems. Recent research showed that 60% of Britain's online businesses have suffered hacking.Worrying new trends include evidence of an international internet trade in body parts, including kidneys.Announcing the creation of the unit yesterday, Mr Straw said the government was "committed to action against hi-tech crime ... making the UK the best and safest place in the world to conduct and engage in e-commerce.""Modern technologies such as the internet offer huge legitimate benefits, but also powerful opportunities for criminals, from those involved in financial fraud to the activities of paedophiles," he said.John Abbott, director general of NCIS, said: "Cybercrime ignores borders, be they regional, national or international. Our approach therefore has to be holistic."Mr Straw also announced &#163;37m for a national information management system for police forces in England and Wales.The new system will allow police intelligence reports to be compared and analysed centrally.
He may have taken a drubbing from the US justice department, but the champ came out jabbing. Unlike Lennox Lewis, who strutted his stuff the night before, Bill Gates lasted 90 minutes without getting booed.More than 10,000 people turned up to see Microsoft's chief software architect give his traditional opening keynote speech at the Comdex computer trade show on Sunday. Previously the event was held in a hotel conference centre, leading to long queues and a scramble for tickets. This time it was in the huge MGM Garden Arena, where acts such as Bruce Springsteen and Carlos Santana are more customary fare.Like them, Mr Gates gave his fans what they came for: glimpses of products that will not appear for a couple of years.The most interesting was "the tablet": a slim, flat-screen PC that not only recognises handwriting but also lets users insert words and move phrases around in the same way that text is handled by a word processor. This includes the facility to change upright handwriting into slanted italic and the use of "shape recognition technology" to clean up drawings.The tablet was running the next version of Microsoft's Windows 2000 operating system, codenamed Whistler after the Canadian ski resort.Mr Gates' string of helpers included Dave Lauren, son of Ralph Lauren, plugging Polo.com, the fashionwear company's new website. Mr Lauren introduced the idea of "merchantainment", which he ominously defined as "a combination of merchandising and entertainment".As well as flogging future products, Mr Gates' speech had a message. "The browser approach that has dominated the past five years was great, but it's really starting to show its age," he said. It was time to move on to a system based on powerful software rather than dumb software and powerful hardware.This was a jibe at Sun Microsystems, a Silicon Valley company that sells large servers and recommends basing all software on web browsers which can run independently of Microsoft operating systems.Mr Gates pulled no punches, saying this was a "big iron view" of computing, based on a "stupid client model". The future required a more balanced approach typified, unsurprisingly, by Microsoft's ".Net" strategy.However, Mr Gates was careful not to appear too devoted to the PC. He showed Microsoft's smart phone, codenamed Stinger, which has "the full power of the Pocket PC built in", and referred to Microsoft's huge investments in WebTV and television set-top boxes, and in the Xbox games console, due next year.He did not complain about Microsoft's share price, which has taken a beating in the past year, wiping about $40bn off his paper fortune.Referring mainly to the shake-out in internet stocks generally, Mr Gates said it was probably a good step to have a little bit of sanity in the market.
Computer-based tests designed to stretch the country's most talented nine and 13-year-olds will be launched on the internet today, as part of a government drive to raise school standards and enable international comparison.But the move will infuriate teaching unions, who claim it confirms the government's obsession with testing and will put bright youngsters under unnecessary stress at the expense of a rounded education.The World Class Tests, devised as part of a programme to boost education standards in inner-city areas, are scheduled for introduction at the start of the 2001 academic year. Schools are being invited to put forward their brightest pupils to do the tests as part of the pilot scheme.The tests, which have been developed by the government's examination adviser, the qualifications and curriculum authority (QCA), can be taken on-screen in an interactive computer format using high quality graphics or using pencil and paper. They cover mathematics and problem solving, but are designed to be more challenging than conventional subject tests.The maths tests, for example, aim to encourage deeper thought about topics that   children will have covered in normal lessons. Similarly, the problem solving tests will incorporate questions covering maths, science and technology, but will be at a level that a child would not normally have encountered in the classroom.The brightest children would be able to do about six questions in 30 minutes.Parents, as well as teachers, will be encouraged to put forward their youngsters for the    tests, and schools will be able to access the answers as well as the questions on the QCA's website. All schools and libraries are this week being sent an explanatory leaflet setting out the details of the tests and how they can access them.The QCA said that children who were likely to do well in the tests were those who were "determined, diligent and interested in uncovering patterns". They are also set to be extended to 18-year-olds as part of the new-style A-level programme.The education secretary, David Blunkett, has invited several countries, including the US, Australia and Singapore, to become partners in the tests, which will allow international "benchmarking" to take place. Following a meeting between Mr Blunkett and the US education secretary, Richard Riley, in June, international trials of the tests will begin in some US schools early next year.David Hargreaves, chief executive of the QCA, said: "These tests are an exciting development. Innovation in the content of the tests and the way they are presented to pupils will be the key to their success. The tests are challenging but will be available to any child when parents or teachers think they are ready."But John Dunford, general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association, said: "World class tests at nine and 13 are a further example of the government's obsession with testing at the expense of true education. The brightest children are already placed under sufficient stress by the examination system in this country."Like the A* grade at GCSE, these tests will add to the stress levels of academically able children. School leaders will be concerned that parents will put pressure on schools for their children to sit the tests, even when this may be inappropriate."Mr Dunford said the best way to stimulate bright youngsters' intellectual curiosity was to introduce them to an extended curriculum of greater breadth and depth.A research programme to be published shortly by the SHA, in conjunction with the Professional Association of Teachers, is said to confirm initial findings that youngsters in England are being "tested to destruction" throughout their school careers.
The number of Britons buying goods and services on the internet has more than doubled since the start of the year, according to research published today.The number of online shoppers in the UK rose from 2.26m in January to 4.7m now, the study says.People were also buying via their computers more often, with 1.45m consumers making four or more purchases online since the beginning of the year.The most popular items were holidays, books, computer games and music, said the survey, produced by global information company Experian, which questioned more than 500,000 internet users.The research showed that online shoppers were mainly young and wealthy. It said that 37% of internet shoppers surveyed said they did not consider the worldwide web to be a valuable educational resource.Related special reportsInternet newsRelated articlesChristmas shopping ideas6 November: Online shopping won't be a turkey this ChristmasUseful linksDealTime: comparison shopping
The world's first global internet summit has been cancelled because of lack of interest. The three day World Internet Forum, due to begin today in London, was unable to attract enough people willing to turn up in person.Speakers from governments and businesses around the world have been told they are no longer needed.Among them were Chris Smith, the culture secretary, and Patricia Hewitt, the minister for e-commerce.The conference, at the Hilton Metropole hotel in central London, was to have become an annual event, but organisers are now reconsidering.Robert Blaney, chief executive officer of the forum, said: "It would be both unfair and unsatisfactory to both sponsors and speakers to continue with an audience that is anything other than of the highest quality and sufficient numbers. In the absence of this audience, we regretfully have no alternative but to cancel the forum in London."While this decision is very late we have given as much time as possible and applied every effort to rectify the position, but sadly to no avail."Future summits are expected to go ahead, with representatives from global corporations and ministers from as far afield as Norway and Bermuda discussing the role of government in the internet, the future of online business and its implications for society.
In a secret location in London a team of internet investigators surf the net hunting for sites that publish pirated software. Fed with leads from emails, a phone hotline and tip-offs from industry sources the Business Software Alliance works to stem the flow of unlicensed software online."We keep the location a secret to protect our staff from reprisals by angry pirates," says Margo Miller, head of the BSA's European enforcement unit.The web is the latest battlefield in a piracy war which, the BSA estimates, last year alone cost the software industry worldwide &#163;7bn in missed revenue."In the UK 26% of new business software installed last year was illegal," says Miller. "That's one in every four computers running a complete suite of pirated programs."And that is before the figures for games and non-business software are factored in. Industry insiders estimate the total amount of illicit software installed stands closer to 35%.The BSA's sponsoring partners include Adobe, Macromedia, Microsoft and Symantec. "If you take that figure of 35%, then we missed out on $50m in sales last year," says Sue Thexton, vice-president of Macromedia Europe."All that could have gone towards research and development costs."Miller says: "Every single software product you can think of is available somewhere illegally on the internet. You can get everything from direct program downloads, serial numbers and cracked software, to compilation CDs put together by professional racketeers who sell pirate software through online stores and in auction sites."In the past three months Miller's team   sent out 846 "cease and desist" warnings to ISPs (internet service providers), 91% of which lead to the closure of offending web sites. Online auction sites are a particular problem - BSA investigators found over 80% of software sold there was illicit.On the web, professional fraudsters run only a small portion of the pirate software, or "warez", sites. Most sites are "not-for-profit", run as a service for friends. "We find many warez sites are run by teenagers," says Miller.Dan, a 15-year-old schoolboy from Alberta, Canada, recently set up a site offering everything from the latest version of Microsoft Office, to the graphics package Adobe PhotoShop and scores of PC games.Pornography"Lots of warez sites are full of pornography and dead links. I wanted to create a site where you could find what you wanted quickly without having to click through tens of ads," he says. Dan uses one of the big free online US sites to host the illicit files. "That way it's easier to set up again if someone closes you down. I don't see I'm doing any harm. The people who use this software usually can't afford the real thing anyway, like students. No one is losing anything."Miller sees things differently. "I think we perhaps should make an example of one of these kids to send a message that piracy is illegal in every form."Steve Keyser, owner of Tera-byte, the ISP that hosts Dan's web site, can't see what the fuss is all about: "If you follow through half the warez links I think you'll usually find there's nothing at the end, just endless ads. And the software you do find probably doesn't work, or might well have a virus in it. You'd be a fool to use pirate software."Yet millions of people do. For the BSA and ISPs alike the problem is that as soon as one site is shut down another will pop up under a different name or on another ISP. Type "warez" into any search engine and the list of matching sites will run to hundreds of thousands. With a little persistence you will find what you want.Though most ISPs co-operate with the BSA, there is a hard-core of defiant companies which ignore the organisation's demands. Miller suspects these are probably run by pirates themselves. "In the UK alone there are three ISPs who have not complied with our repeat warnings. We are considering legal action if they do not come into line soon," she says.Mike Newton, who lobbies the European parliament for the BSA, says: "ISPs should take responsibility for what is on their servers. We will be publishing guidelines for ISPs in a few months. But there's no use tackling this just in Europe. It is a global problem and we have to have global laws."The BSA has announced a reward of up to &#163;10,000 for information on organisations using illegal software. Meanwhile, Microsoft is taking matters into its own hands. The company announced a truce to anyone using pirated software: "It's not an amnesty," explains Julia Phillpot, Microsoft UK's anti-piracy manager."If you've bought a packaged copy of a Microsoft product that looks like the real thing and you have proof of purchase we will swap the package for one authentic unit." The aim is to build up evidence of professional pirate traders to help with future legal action against them.Microsoft is installing anti-piracy precautions in its next release of Office. "We have built in what we call the Office Automation Wizard," says Phillpot. "It's an online registration system that is very hard to break. If, after 50 uses, you don't   register your new software then the program will lock up until you do."But with the imminent introduction of broadband internet access, and the increased popularity of file-sharing systems like Napster, Hotline, Gnutella and Freenet, downloading pirated software from the net will soon be as quick and easy as sending an email.Laurence Westwood, chief investigator at the Foundation Against Software Theft, admits the situation is going to get much, much worse: "With the introduction of these file sharing systems and as bandwidth increases we're going to have a very big headache."Robin HoodFor Nick, a London music producer in his late twenties, the rise of online piracy is inevitable: "I've long used Hotline (an ancestor of Napster) to get all my software. I've downloaded thousands of pounds worth to my machine. It's just a way of life, and once the download speeds increase I'm sure everyone will be doing it."For others getting software free is a matter of Robin Hood-like pride: "I never pay for software if I can help it," says Bill, a web designer."The industry is rich enough as it is, and the corporations pay more than enough for their software licences. Most people can't afford it anyway, why should they start paying now?"Meanwhile Miller and her minions will keep on hunting. But the smart money would be wise to think of a business model that avoids piracy altogether, rather than try to fight the flood.
When he was 17 Dennis Malamatinas spent Christmas alone in a strange city. It was 1972 and the teenager had arrived in Chicago from Greece a few months earlier with $300 in his back pocket - cash earned from working on building sites over the previous two years.'My dream was always America. I loved to play basketball. I still do. America to me was a dreamland. I had a problem convincing my parents who at first wouldn't let me go,' Malamatinas says   with more than a hint of flamboyance.On his first day in the Windy City, Malamatinas knocked on restaurant doors. Eventually he was taken on as a kitchen hand, starting at 5am. It was the start of a long career in the food and drink industry. Indeed, at the start of this year Malamatinas was still in the restaurant business. Only by then he was the boss of Burger King, having cut his teeth working for the likes of Procter &amp; Gamble, Pepsico and Smirnoff.But sitting by his dormitory bed during the festive season 28 years ago, a lonely Malamatinas was close to throwing in the towel. 'I thought "what am I doing here?" I went through a   period of about six months when I thought I'd make some money and then just go back. It was depressing - when you're a young kid on your own.'But he hung on and earned   enough cash to help fund his way through two university courses, ending up with an MBA from the University of Chicago School of Business.Malamatinas enjoys talking about his humble origins.   'I'm very proud of my background. You name it - I've done it. It makes you a better person - you appreciate people from all walks of life. You get a different perspective.'Malamatinas boasts a truly cosmopolitan background. Born to Greek parents who owned a plantation in Tanzania, he ended up moving back to Greece at a few years old. As well as the US, his work has taken him to Italy, France, Asia and the Soviet Union. Somewhere along the line he lived in Switzerland. As a result Malamatinas speaks four languages and has Greek and Swiss passports. The English accents of his three children vary according to which country they were brought up in.So what nationality is he now? 'I'm Mediterranean, a southern European,' he says in an accent which is a fusion of Greek and Italian. 'I think that's what the world is moving to. The internet is eliminating those barriers, those mental blocks. Who cares what nationality you are?'It is a revealing comment, one which helps explain why Malamatinas, having risen to being Ronald McDonald's public enemy number one, shocked the business world this year by suddenly jacking everything in to launch an internet venture.News that Priceline, the name-your-price internet company, had managed to secure the services of Burger King's head honcho, came as a surreal surprise - even in the weird world of the web. Admittedly, Malamatinas signed up to head Priceline's European operations in March - just before the bubble started to deflate so dramatically ('My timing may not have been that good'.Burger King's owner, Diageo, was in the middle of floating off the company, giving Malamatinas a massive new challenge and a chance to make a global impact. His position had already earned him an audience with the Pope and a job advising Bill Clinton as a founding member of the President's Welfare to Work initiative. And besides, what did he know about the wired world?What he did know about was branding. 'You ask the same questions: What does my brand stand for? What are its core values? What is my creative strategy? How do we communicate with consumers? You build teams - that's what I've done all my life. I understand consumers.'When he took the job, Priceline had a market capitalisation of around $10 billion, having dropped from a high of $17bn. The company was seen as one of the best examples of a dotcom company, a business which used the internet intelligently to bring huge new benefits to consumers. Users would click on the site and have the chance to say just how much they were prepared to pay for things like car rental or air tickets. The more flexible consumers were prepared to be, the greater the savings. Mala matinas, having met the company's founder, Jay Walker, was hooked.'The power of allowing the customer to name their own price is, I think, fantastic. It's unique. It benefits both suppliers and customers. Consumers enjoy significant savings, while the suppliers - the airlines or the car rental companies - regenerate significant revenues.'Today, however, Priceline.com is worth less than $1bn, and many wonder whether its business model is sustainable. Earlier this month the company's chief financial officer, Heidi Miller, resigned. At the same time an investor filed a lawsuit against three of the firm's directors, alleging that they used inside information to sell shares before the company issued a raft of bad news.Priceline Europe, which soft-launched last month but will go on a PR blitz in the new year, is understandably keen to distance itself from the financial shenanigans of its transatlantic sibling. The company is a joint venture, backed by its US namesake and venture capital firm General Atlantic Partners.But the European operation is Malamatinas's baby. He is responsible for the site's launch, its look, everything. This was certainly one of the main attractions of the job.'I've been fascinated by the world of the new economy. The fact is that the internet is here to stay and it's going to fundamentally change our lives. I wanted to be part of that. I didn't want to be a 50-year-old businessman looking back and thinking "wow, how did I miss this revolution?".'He says it was the challenge of nurturing a start-up that attracted him when he was approached in March. By then he was already sick of the mad commute between his London home and Burger King's Miami HQ.Having made enough money to ensure he would no longer have to worry about it, Malamatinas, who says he intends to stay with Priceline for 'about five years', felt he could afford a gamble in keeping with his entrepreneurial streak. 'The number one rule in life is to have fun. I'm a self-made man. I didn't have my daddy paying for school. A lot of people joined the new economy to make a fast buck. I don't believe in fast bucks. I've worked hard enough in my life to get where I am.'But 'fun' will not be a byword for dotcom excess. 'There's a lot of bullshit, a lot of hype. People create this myth about the dotcom sector. As far as I'm concerned the same disciplines and processes apply to any business. I dearly want to create a culture which is a nice blend of the old economy and the new: the processes and disciplines of the old economy, but the speed of the new. I'm impatient - I move fast.'Which is no more than you would expect from a burger king.
The new economy is a pink economy. A study has found a link between dotcom success and the number of homosexuals a company employs.New research has uncovered the unexpected connection between hubs of hi-tech success and unusually high concentrations of gays. According to experts, if a business relies heavily on information technology, it will be most successful if it is located in a town with a large gay community.Professor Richard Florida, of the Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, created a computer programme of areas across America with booming hi-tech industries and found a perfect match with areas of high concentration of homosexuals.British millionaire Ivan Massow is a prominent gay businessman who has gained a reputation for running his Soho-based financial advisory company with a unique disregard for the more common prejudices of financial institutions.'It's a familiar idea that there is an unusually large concentration of gay people in the IT business, and we have certainly noticed a correlation. Because of the kind of work we specialise in, we attract a far higher than average number of gays and lots of our clients work in IT,' he said.Ian Elwick set up the Brighton Media Centre eight years ago and has seen the town boom from a handful of companies located there to a total of 250 last year. The town is regarded as a gay centre.'Brighton does without doubt have one of the highest concentrations of gays in the country and certainly has a high concentration of new media. A lot of the gay people I meet who have come down here from London say it is a much more ghettoised gay community there and things are a lot easier here.'Lisa Honon was the brains behind Eye Network, organising international video conferencing, and chose to base her business in Brighton because it was a freer atmosphere for a gay businesswoman.'My feeling is that there is a higher propensity for gay people to work for themselves away from the often homophobic atmosphere of offices,' she said.In the US, companies are embracing the idea of gays playing leading roles in new media.'Hi-tech companies would seem to be more flexible because they are so focused on finding great talent,' said Sergey Brin, of the fastest growing search engine, Google.com.tracy.mcveigh@observer.co.uk
With Christmas looming, charities want their own piece of the online pie. In the United States there is an established industry in internet charity shopping malls, where retailers sell their wares and share some of the profit with the shopper's chosen charity. Shoppers can buy anything from pet food to a car, and donate to charity at the same time.Over here, there are a few dot.coms and a few dot gones in the market place. Earlier in the year, shopping portal Productrange did not launch properly due to an investigation by Trading Standards. But go-help allows purchasers to choose a school to benefit from their shopping spree.Another shopping mall, free2give, was launched in July and hosts more than 100 retailers, including WH Smith and Innovations. The portal receives a fee every time a purchase is made through the site and this is shared equally with the charity of choice.UshopUgive is another shopping mall offering fast access to more than 100 online stores, such as Comet, Kays and WH Smith. With this site, you can select a charity, which can also be a local one - you just click on the "suggest a charity" tab on the website and UshopUgive will contact them to make arrangements. The portal is now giving the charity 50% of the sales commission, which is up to 10% of the price of the product, to the charity. As the number of visitors to the site increases, it hopes that it will be able to increase this donation to 90%.Scope, the charity for people with cerebral palsy, is one of 38 charities that have signed up with free2give. The organisation earns up to 7.5% of the purchasing fee when they are selected as the chosen charity."We started talking with them a year ago. Since then, some of the others we were talking to have fallen by the wayside, as it became tougher for internet ventures to raise finance  but free2give kept going," says Scope corporate fundraiser Nick Vassallo.Likely returnsMr Vassallo is not naïve about the likely returns from such ventures in the short term, expecting hundreds rather than thousands of pounds in the first year. Much will depend, he believes, on how successful internet shopping is in the UK this Christmas, following the glitches that affected delivery times and product stock at many e-tailers last December.Mr Vassallo also makes the point that, apart from offering income for little outlay, ventures such as online shopping portals can provide charities with important information about their supporters. From data provided by free2give, Scope and other charities will be able to build up a picture of the kind of products and services their supporters are interested in. That data could turn out to be valuable if Scope or the other charities decide to go it alone and set up their own online shopping malls.Some charities, such as the NSPCC and Barnardo's, are already offering their own products online and a consortium of charities has joined forces to promote these sites at Charity Gifts. This metasite allows a visitor to choose a charity and go straight to its shopping site. The site needs some development, however, as some charity sites are inaccessible and others have no pictures of their products.Bill Thompson, of the BBC's WebWise, says: "The charity stores that have decided to sell online should be applauded for realising there is a new market out there. But until they can compete with the best of the high profile, high investment shopping sites, they'll find few customers. Charity shops should be the best on the net, not the poor relations."
Key ideasAs we all know, the qwerty keyboard layout was designed to prevent key hammers clashing. But this gives us a very inefficient keyboard. I would like to re-design my keyboard so that it has a more efficient layout (most common keys located where they can be got at fastest), either with a piece of software which re-designates keys or by buying a new keyboard with an ergonomic layout. Since I only ever use one PC this won't cause me any problems. I currently work with Windows 98 and Office 2000.David Bowersdavid@theweed.fsnet.co.ukJack Schofield replies:Although the qwerty keyboard has been maligned, it is a very successful design and not particularly inefficient. Stan Liebowitz (University of Texas, Dallas) and Stephen Margolis (North    Carolina State University) had a good article about this, The Fable of the Keys, in the Journal of Law and Economics in 1990 (seehttp://www.pub.utdallas.edu/~liebowit/keys1.html).My own experience as a touch-typist is that it is hard to achieve any gains in efficiency by changing the keyboard - even 5% requires huge effort - but very easy to achieve 20-50% speed increases with qwerty through improved fingering techniques. "Two-finger typists" could probably get a 100% increase using, for example, KAZ (Keyboard A to Z), which claims to teach touch-typing in 90 minutes (it costs &#163;24.99 fromwww.kaz-type.com).However, the Dvorak simplified keyboard does have its devotees (seewww.dvorakint.org/dvsites.html), and DvortyBoards (www.dvortyboards.com) sells switchable keyboards online.There is a separate argument for ergonomic keyboards, which usually angle the keys to help avoid typing injuries (seewww.tifaq.org/keyboards.html). Microsoft's Natural keyboard is a cheap and readily-available example, though it has a major drawback: it is not adjustable.If you want to try something really    different, there is the Maltron keyboard, which was designed and built in the UK. It combines a dramatic ergonomic redesign with the option of a new key layout, and can be used instead of a PC keyboard. You can hire one to try for &#163;10 a week. Details are on the web atwww.maltron.com.Which address?I don't want to have to dial in through different ISPs specifically to reach my preferred email address, I want the convenience of sending messages from different email addresses while connecting through only one ISP only. Is this too much to hope for?Roddy Forrestroddy.forrest@ntlworld.comJS:My answer in the last Ask Jack column was technically correct but not at all useful. Thanks to Roger Cornwell, Stewart Edge, Chris Coward, and all the other readers who wrote in to point out that although most ISPs prevent you from sending mail unless you are logged on to their service, you can fake it to look as though you have. The trick is to set the From: address differently. In Outlook Express, select Tools|Accounts then click Properties. The General tab lets you specify the email address and the Reply   address, while the Servers tab lets you specify the appropriate Outgoing mail server (ie the SMPT address of ISP you have dialled up) and the Incoming mail server (ie the POP3 address hosted by some other ISP).When sending email, you should get a drop-down list of the available From: addresses.Eudora and Pegasus mail programs can be used to achieve the same result.Servers very rarely check that you are using one of their ISPs IP (Internet Protocol) addresses when you collect mail so this should not be a problem.Not every mail program is flexible enough to handle multiple accounts but various readers recommended programs that solve the problem. The most interesting is Vpop3 (www.pscs.co.uk/software/vpop3.html).Kak's backOccasionally I get a message that says "Kagou -Anti-Kro$oft says not today!" and there's an OK button which, if clicked, turns my computer off. I've now learnt to move the window to a corner of the screen and ignore it but it irritates me and I don't know what it means. Is it a virus?Kenneth Maddenkennethmad1@beeb.netJS:Yes, this is the common Kakworm virus, which I dealt with here on June 8 and 22. The PC Hell website has a good explanation of how to remove the virus atwww.pchell.com/internet/kakworm.shtmland if you scroll down, provides a program to do the job for you. Another cleaner is available atwww.getvirushelp.comby selecting Kak. Microsoft published a patch to fix this in August last year: seewww.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/fq99-032.asp.
One of Jane Austen's characters described Britain as a country "where every man is surrounded by a neighbourhood of voluntary spies", and judging by the latest legislation, little has changed in the past 180 years.Last month employers were handed new powers to spy on their workers' use of company computers and telephones. This may be another sinister erosion of the right to privacy in the workplace; there has already been a slew of cases in the UK where workers have been fired for surfing the net or for sending inappropriate emails. Now management can find out how much time you spend playing Solitaire on your PC at work.But some help is at hand to allow you to avoid the prying eyes of your superiors. Follow these 10 easy steps to reduce the risk that your next "shut down" could be your last.1:Remember that while you are online at work, you are operating in a goldfish bowl. Depending on how sophisticated your company's network is, your employers may be able to see every key you press on your computer. There is even some particularly sneaky software that intercepts keystrokes before they hit the screen, and can even monitor deleted or   unsent emails, website visits and every document opened. If you really want to play safe, assume everything on your screen can be seen by someone. Because it probably can.2:Know your rights. If your company has a privacy policy, find out what it is. Some enlightened companies freely allow private internet use, and others allow web surfing in free time, such as lunch breaks and after hours. Ask what tools your organisation is using to monitor email and web use.3:Computer hackers call it "social engineering". You can call it being a good colleague. Being on a computer help desk is usually a thankless task (which is why the hell desk operators nickname their users "lusers"), so why not get friendly with the IT department? They know more about the system in your office than your managers. And, who knows, after a couple of drinks, they might even tell you the boss's password.4:Under the regulations that came into force last month, private emails should still be treated as private by your managers, in the same manner as letters marked "confidential". But prudence suggests using non-company email accounts such as Hotmail for anything remotely sensitive, such as office romances or sending CVs to prospective employers. Beware though, while safer than using the office email, potentially these can also be seen over your office's network (see 8).5:Install free software available over the internet that will securely delete files and emails by over-writing them. Simply hitting the delete button will leave incriminating documents sitting on your system. Think about using encryption software to lock up folders in your PC's memory. (Some employers don't allow individuals to install outside software on their own machines for one very good reason: computer viruses.) Visitwww.zdnet.comdownloads and see what is available.6:Use substitutions to defeat email scanners on company accounts. One software snitch can pick out keywords such as "union" and flash an alert to your manager. Instead of "union", type "uni0n". Other systems will bounce emails that contain profanities. Why spell it out when you can simply type "My bo55 is a bast4rd".7:Don't leave incriminating traces on your computer of where you have been surfing.   Internet browsers allow you to turn off cookies, the small bits of code left behind by visits to websites. Find out how to clear document lists, web caches and other personal histories from your machine, and do it regularly.8:Company systems usually log the addresses of websites visited by company users. So hide the websites you visit by using web-based anonymous proxies, which disguise the site that is your real target. One of the best iswww.silentsurf.com, which also hides itself as www.banking2020.com  to further fool systems administrators. Another good privacy surfing site iswww.aixs.net.9:How dull office life would be without Solitaire and Minesweeper. In the US there is even a Solitaire addicts support group. Some companies have special programs that detect the use of those games on their network, but most of these can be defeated by renaming the program files_ to something like "budget2000".10:If you really must surf the net for Japanese cartoon porn, or send smutty emails to all your friends, then get your own computer and do it at home. Then you can pretty much do what you like.
Twenty years on we can see the defects in the Conservatives' formula for privatisation
    and competition in telecoms - not as bad perhaps as the railways but still serious. 
    I was in charge of the 1969 act that converted the old GPO into a Morrisonian nationalised
    industry.The sledgehammer monopoly I was perpetuating on Labour's instructions made me
    uncomfortable. By 1981 I was managing director of BT's inland operations. The
    Conservatives' preparations for privatisation made me much more uncomfortable, but
    there was nothing I could do. 
    I left BT in 1983 but have continued to work in telecoms.BT's recent tribulations effectively spring from its failure to exploit the hugely growing
    cash flow and the R&amp;D capability it inherited from the public sector. BT still makes the
    running in this country and we have fallen behind developed countries in technology and
    service innovation. The nationalised industry had world-class mileage - Prestel, the
    forerunner of the internet, was a celebrated example.Since privatisation, BT has tamely
    followed where others have led. The reasons are obvious. Just like the railways, short-term
    stock-market pressures have provided a direct disincentive to investment. 
    The price-cap system used for BT and other utilities was presented as promoting
    "efficency" while leaving profits unconstrained - an extraordinary kind of regulation.The
    real objective was to push up the share price and get Conservative ex-ministers seats on
    boards. The reduction in BT manpower is held up as proof that the policy of capping price
    increases works. This is phoney. BT's manpower actually increased to a peak six years
    after privatisation in 1990.It then contracted simply because the workload dropped as a
    result of falling growth and the completion of the modernisation programme of the
    nationalised industry. And the price cap helped depress investment by putting a premium on
    minimising capital charges on current account.The claims for the effects of competition in network telecoms do not stand up either. Oftel
    recently announced that in a comparison with France, Germany, Sweden, Italy and two US
    states, British prices for business communications came out unexpectedly high.Competition from the cable companies can hardly be said to have stimulated BT, for they
    have been struggling for years, hampered by burdens of idle investment forced on them by
    Conservative governments obsessed by the idea of infrastructure competition. 
    This business of having competing local telecoms' infrastructures provides a remarkable
    example of how the Conservatives substitute ideology for industry logic.The loss of
    economies of scale due to network duplication is so high and the usage per telephone line so
    persistently low that even with the extra business from cable TV, the resulting idle capital
    burden can never be absorbed by operating economies. The cable companies have found this
    out to their cost.Radio has come to the rescue of the consumer, but the unnecessary cost
    of infrastructure competition will dog wire service for a long time. 
    Telecoms is suffering from the same lousy structure created by the Conservatives for the
    railways.When they took over in 1979, BT was already too big and diverse to manage
    properly. I began a subdivision process in 1982, reversed after I left. The stock market
    wanted a nice big monolith with nice big profit figures. The present wired service set up of
    rival vertical firms providing networks and services goes back to Alexander Graham Bell.It
    is bogging down the internet and new economy in endless squabbles and delays. 
    BT is at last in the mood to subdivide, and should get on with it. How about New Year's Day
    as a deadline?This will provide an unrepeatable opportunity to get the structure of the
    industry right. Oftel is pointing the way. We need to push unbundling to its logical
    conclusion. We must completely separate services and retailing from network provision and
    operation. Then it will be necessary to free up all services to deregulated competition;
    re-unify the wired network infrastructure nationally and hammer out a "third way"
    ownership formula. If the firms won't co-operate, government should intervene.&#149; John Harper's book Monopoly And Competition In British Telecommunications is published by
    Pinters (Cassells)
Mario serves up a ball on courtMario Tennis N64£44.99 Camelot/Nintendo ****OK, it's only a fortnight since the release of Mario Party 2 but, unless you have a serious      aversion to lardy plumbers, Mario Tennis is well worth checking out.       As expected, it eschews the gorgeous authenticities of Sega's Virtua Tennis and instead      offers a typically colourful Nintendo rendition of the racquet sport.So instead of Henman      we get Lugi, Yoshi and Boo, the ghost. Oddly enough, despite the juvenile exterior, Mario      Tennis plays a very grown-up game with marvellous subtlety in control and design.The faintest flick of the joystick can alter the shot, making this a surprisingly skilled      undertaking. Not that this should deter newcomers, as Mario Tennis is easy to pick up and      play.       Initially, it all seems very straightforward as you serve up lengthy rallies and make rapid      progression in the tournaments, although it's not too long before it gets tough. But      perhaps the most fun to be had is in multiplayer, doubles in particular, which are      murderously competitive.Single players shouldn't worry, though. The key to all Mario games is the sense of      progression; there's always something new to discover or unravel. Mario Tennis is no      different, with the player encouraged to win tournaments and uncover new courts and      characters.Unfortunately, one of these hard fought finds - the fiery Bowser court - is a      disappointment. While playing on a tilting court, simultaneously avoiding shells and lava      balls, sounds amusing, the difficulty in following the ball renders it a temporary curiosity      at best.       Still, the odd dodgy level aside, Mario Tennis has served up another ace for the Nintendo      team. (GH)This Roman scandal is a damp squibRome: Caesar's WillPC CD-rom	&#163;29.99 Montparnasse Multimedia **Ah, simplicity. Gone are the days when videogames were plug and play, when you could just boot up and start shooting, with nary a peep at the manual (if there was one at all).But hold, what's this? Why, a simple, modest game with the flimsiest of instruction leaflets, a concise intro, and a stress-free interface that lets you dive right into the action.But mind your head - this action pool is pretty darned shallow. You are Hercules, an investigator in Rome in 44BC. Caesar is still warm in his grave, but don't worry, they know who did that. The case at hand is the poisoning of a certain Titinius.Prime suspect is his wife, Aurelia; you know she's innocent, but unless you can track down who really dunnit in 30 days, she's for the chop.Play basically involves stumping round 16 different locations in the city, picking   up everything you find in the hope that it will eventually become useful, and interrogating everyone in sight.The only real choice comes in the three modes of dialogue with which you can choose to approach people.So, no gore, no laughs, nothing terribly strategically challenging, and not even any pretty pictures to look at. The graphics are low-resolution, low-definition, low-fidelity. There are even clipping problems (remember the days when you could give monsters a high-five through the wall?).But the voice acting is surprisingly decent. The programmers have tried to make their reconstruction of Rome accurate, and the AI is probably highly advanced - characters' attitudes towards you evolve according to previous conversations. There's also plenty of fascinating info to be had on togas and latifundia and such. But even the educational value is questionable - Cleopatra, for example, is described as "son of the king of Egypt Ptolemy XII".If this is Montparnasse's idea of making learning fun, I'd hate to sit one of their AS level papers.  (AB)Same old game needs a good kickFIFA 2001Sony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 EA Sports	***Every year, this is the UK's best-selling game, but it is getting increasingly hard to understand why.This does not mean there is anything wrong with Fifa 2001. The problem is that it is pretty much the same as Fifa 2000, which wasn't all that big an improvement on Fifa 1999.In fact, the most novel thing about the latest version is the powerful smell of turf you get from the scratch and sniff disc.Turn to the packaging for help and you'll find that EA's first puff says: "Play more strategic football with the new default camera angle."It is true, too. Fifa 2001 provides a slightly more distant view, and when you can see other players, you are more likely to pass to them.It also makes the players a bit less detailed, but that hardly matters. Graphics   junkies gave up on the PlayStation years ago.Of course, you also get updated leagues and teams for 2001. I would have thought this was not as important in an action game as it is in more cerebral, stats-oriented foot ball management games, but this Christmas, more than 400,000 British Fifa fans could well prove me wrong. In fact, the people in EA's accounts department are probably banking on it.  (JS)
Most internet service providers (ISPs) supply a CD that is supposed to make it easy to get online. Often, it doesn't. It is usually easier to do the job manually, and it can take less than a minute.If your PC already has a modem and Microsoft Windows 95, 98 or Me installed, the only things you need to know are the ISP's phone number, your log-on name, and your password.First, go to the My Computer icon in the top left of your screen and double-click to open it. Then open the folder called Dial-Up Networking, and double-click the icon labelled Make New Connection. This will start the "connection wizard". (In Windows Me, you can get to this folder via Start|Settings|Control Panel.)Type in a name for your ISP, such as Freeserve, and click the Next button. On the next panel, type in the phone number, and click Next again. Finally, click Finish. That's it.You now have a new icon named after your new ISP in the Dial-Up Networking folder. Double-click this icon to run it, and check that the correct phone number is shown. If it isn't, you are probably in the wrong country: click the Dial properties button and make sure you have the correct country and area code set.Now type your details into the boxes marked User name and Password, click on Connect, and your PC will call your ISP. That's all there is to it.If you want to use half a dozen different ISPs, simply repeat the procedure for each one.It is useful to have your ISP's icon on the desktop, instead of having to open the Dial-Up Networking folder each time. To do this, right-click your new ISP icon and select Create Shortcut. Windows will ask if you want   an icon on your desktop: click Yes. (Windows Me users can simply drag the icon on to the desktop.) If you like, you can select this shortcut and press F2 to give it a better name.All this assumes that you have subscribed to an ISP and been sent a letter with your log-on name, password and phone number. Usually this will be an 0345 or 0845 or similar number that is the same wherever you live. If you don't have it, you can usually get it from the help line, from a magazine, or from the service's website.With many services, such as Freeserve, you can sign up while online, perhaps from a friend's computer. (This can be useful if you are a Mac user.) In these cases, you know the user name and password because you chose them yourself. However, you must also look for the right phone number to dial, and write it down.When signing up online, it's important not to download anything, or you may end up in the same position as if you had used a disc. Just get the user name and password accepted, then drop the line.An ISP's CD is usually designed to get you online so that you can sign up for their service. However, it is better to do this using BT Click. You can set up BT Click using Dial-up Networking, and use it with any name and password you like. Just make them up. Use the phone number 0845 7576333. (But because this service seems anonymous, don't think you can use it for evil purposes. BT logs your phone number to avoid this service being abused.)You can therefore use BT Click to sign up for Freeserve or whatever. And if Freeserve is not working very well, you have BT Click as a back-up service.
