The idea that we get the technology that we need is a myth that, somehow, many people cling to. For instance, many people in rural locations would like both good broadband connections and good mobile reception. Trouble is, usually they have to choose one or the other – and sometimes they don't get either, because the distances involved mean that they're too far from the exchange to get good connectivity, and the lay of the land means they're in a reception dip.I don't know how the balance works out, but I'm one of those people who lives somewhere rural and gets great broadband but terrible mobile reception. So I'd be really happy if the mobile operators would start rolling out femtocells – effectively, tiny mobile phone masts that you put in your house and which use your broadband connection to link your phone to the wider network. Maybe it would only be mobile data, not voice – but it would still be a win for the mobile networks that have yet to see any return on that £22.5bn they spent buying 3G bandwidth.More than a year ago, we were expecting femotocells to be big news by now (Sending out the right signals, Technology, 27 March 2008). "70% of mobile data is used inside buildings," said Stuart Carlaw, research director at ABI Research, "and that is typically the worst environment." By 2012, he was expecting there would be 70m femtocells being used worldwide by 200m people. People could use femtocells for quicker, more reliable data transfers at home, raising the amount of 3G data they consumed.However, others argued that it wouldn't happen so quickly. And it hasn't. Today in the UK, femtocells are still as elusive as unicorns, despite my pleading publicly for anyone who has one for testing to let me have a play.Yetwhile I've been waiting for femtocells to appear, the opposite phenomenon has taken off: the 3G-to-wireless product. You buy a 3G sim card or similar dongle, on a fabulously expensive data plan that probably limits you to 1GB per month and charges something astronomical for every extra megabyte, and you plug it into a littleblack (or more often white) box to share that signal among up to five computers.I'm a bit astonished that people are so keen to do this. My browsing habits aren't atypical, I think, and I wouldn't have much trouble pulling down a gigabyte of data in a fortnight, what with RSS feeds, iPlayer, web content and so on. The idea of having four computers like mine in an office all sharing a 3G dongle (where the bandwidth is anyway going to be a bit questionable) fills me with horrified amazement. But people are doing it, as shown by companies like Solwise, which have found 3G-to-wireless converters to be surprisingly popular. (Solwise's most popular is a box that will connect to 3G but also to a router, and then spread the wireless connection – so that if the broadband dies, the 3G can take over.)To me, all this is upside down. Broadband is reliable and cheap, and 3G pricey and flaky, so why create the former from the latter (3G-to-wireless routers) instead of the latter via the former (femotocells)? But I can also see that selling 3G dongles is far, far better business than selling femtocells. With the dongle you get people's money and leave them with most of the problems (dropped connections, lost passwords), plus you can charge them if they go over the data limits. Whereas the femtocell requires good interaction with other companies' routers, which is tricky, and people might just use the broadband.I suspect the femtocell has missed its chance. The 3G dongle is here to stay – expensive and frustrating it may be, but it's universal, whereas the femtocell would have to be different in every country. And every sensible smartphone will soon have Wi-Fi. Say goodbye to the femtocell. It never even got through the front door.
Quality controlI can get DAB, digital terrestrial, Sky, the iPlayer and FM. Which one of these gives the best quality sound from, say, a Radio 3 concert?Malcolm PageJS:The BBC's online iPlayer gives the best quality with Radio 3 for two reasons. First, iIt uses a higher-quality codec than the other digital systems. Second, it and does not have any dynamic range compression (DRC), which means the loud parts are louder while the quiet parts are quieter. Radio 3 is currently broadcast at 192kbps on Freeview, Sky, and DAB using the MP2 codec, which should have been pensioned off by now. Radio 3 on the iPlayer is 192kbps using the much more advanced AAC codec, and has better stereo. Not many listeners will be able to distinguish this from a CD. (Note: bit-rates may vary.)On FM, Radio 3 uses DRC to reduce the dynamic range. AM and FM radio stations do this to make the quiet parts of the music sound louder, otherwise you would not be able to hear them over the background noise of your car tyres and engine. If you turned the sound up to compensate, of course, you'd be deafened by the loud parts. FM also has some low-level hiss and may suffer from interference.People vary in their sensitivity to the digital artefacts produced by compression, and to the effects of DRC, so I'm sympathetic to those who prefer FM to iPlayer, or vinyl to CD, or vice versa. However, an iPlayer signal should sound better if reproduced via the same hi-fi system. One day, I'll try it.Vulnerable sales pitchI run ZoneAlarm Security Suite Version 8 on my PC and use the Firefox browser. I have received an email from ZoneAlarm to say a Microsoft ActiveX vulnerability lets hackers control a victim's PC and steal data. ZoneAlarm suggests an upgrade to Extreme Security for "only" £20.95. Surely its paid-for product should protect me adequately?Alan WilliamsJS:All Windows XP users had to do was go to the Microsoft Knowledge Base page at 972890, find "Enable workaround" on the left hand side (50287) and click the button that says "Fix It". There's also a "Let me fix it myself" section. I posted the links onan Ask Jack blog, soon after the vulnerability was revealed. ZoneAlarm's blog linked to the same page on 10 July. As far as I can tell, the fix had no adverse effects.There are two issues: vulnerability and exploitation. When an ActiveX file has a vulnerability, Microsoft should fix it. ZoneAlarm's upgrade won't do that. When websites exploit that vulnerability to try to download a Trojan to your PC, your anti-virus product should be able to block or remove it. Not every product will identify every bit of malware but you should expect firms to add recognition quickly. ZoneAlarm's sales pitch was based on the fact ZoneAlarm Extreme Security includes ForceField "browser virtualization" to insulate the browser from the OS. You can do this yourself using a different product such asSandboxie,SafeSpace Personal Edition,Shadow Defender, or the more comprehensiveGentleSecurityWall. Another option, GreenBorder, is no longer available because Google bought the company. Incidentally, for those who have IE6 or IE7, upgrading to IE8 provides an increase in security, including some protection against cross-site scripting, often used in browser attacks.Need for PC speedI have a Sony Vaio P series: perfect but frighteningly slow using Windows Vista. Should I downgrade to XP or wait for Windows 7's speed?Dr William BloomJS:The Vaio P is in most respects a delight, but in myTechnophile review of a prototype, I said: "Unfortunately, it has a 1.3GHz Intel Atom Z530 processor, which is horribly slow". It rates 2.1 on the Windows Experience Index, and it's not really fast enough. If you downgrade to XP, the P should run faster. However, when correctly installed, Vista SP1 runs at much the same speed as XP SP3, so you may not get a dramatic improvement. I suspect that Sony could do a better job of installing Vista, and after I was rude about the prototype, I hoped it would. You could try using the built-in Recovery Centre to do a reinstallation back to factory condition, but this isn't guaranteed to be better. If you have an external DVD writer, you can also create recovery discs and try doing a clean installation that way, but it's all work.On my experience so far, Windows 7 is faster than Vista, uses less memory, and uses the same drivers as Vista. Those factors could make the Windows 7 upgrade a better bet, though you will need an external DVD to make it convenient to install either. Mobile Tech Review has aYouTube video of Windows 7 on a Vaio P, which should give a better idea of performance.Backchat• Viv Cole says shehad a similar problem to Liz Stevens, and "the only broadband supplier that allowed me to pay by cheque without adding an admin charge was the Post Office". She now has the home phone and broadband extra service, and can pay her quarterly bill by cash/cheque at a local Post Office or by post.
Part of the processIntel has launched a Facebook app for people to donate their PCs' unused processor power to research projects.Transfer window stays openOfcom is consulting on ways to speed up the transfer of mobile numbers.Criminal recordsAncestry.co.uk has added 1.4m trial records from the England and Wales Criminal Registers, 1791-1892.Freedom to readA campaign asking Amazon to remove digital rights management (DRM) has been launched by Defective By Design.The portable desktopDell's new laptop has a desktop-sized 17.3in screen. Prices start at £369.Car-cophony30Beats is running a competition to create audiovisual clips using 57 sounds from a Hyundai i30 hatchback.The pen is mightier …Wacom hopes its Bamboo Fun range will encourage consumers to use pen-driven graphics tablets rather than a mouse.Autodesk assistanceFree licences and other assistance is on offer from the software company to help unemployed 3D design professionals.Shopping the smart wayA UK version of the SmartShopping comparison website is now live.
A note of weariness enters Andrew Stott's voice. "There has been some misunderstanding. It wasn't 20 pages on how to Twitter, there was about a page on how to Twitter." According to the man charged with boosting Whitehall's use of digital media, the vast bulk of the government's Twitter Template, published last week, consists of suggestions about how Whitehall departments might use the medium while abiding by civil service rules.Nonetheless, in the current political climate, critics found the image of a government grappling in an amateur fashion with modish new media an irresistible source of mirth."The civil service and the government should focus on the job of running the country – not on wasting time creating more spam!" was one of the more temperate comments posted on a BBC report. The Conservative leader, David Cameron, weighed in with his laddish "too many twits" broadcast comment.Such reaction was foreseen. One of the risks of using Twitter identified in the guidelines is "Criticism of jumping on the bandwagon/waste of public money/lack of return on investment/pointless content."But for Stott, the government's new director of digital engagement, Twitter is a legitimate, if minor, conduit for communication between citizens and officialdom. At least 26 Twitter feeds originate from central government institutions and 86 from local authorities. No 10 Downing Street's Twitter feed boasted 1,102,285 followers this week.In his first interview in the post, created by Tom Watson, the first (and only) minister for digital engagement last spring, Stott this week described his role as falling into two main parts.The first involves helping government bodies use digital techniques, including social media, to engage with the public.The second is to open up access to official information. In this role, he is working with Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the prime minister's "expert adviser on public information delivery".Obstacle courseBoth roles follow an agenda set two years ago in the Power of Information review, which encourages the government to embrace "Web 2.0" ways of working, and by the subsequent work of the Power of Information taskforce, which Stott's team has replaced. He will be based at the Cabinet Office, along with an advisory panel, to be appointed in the autumn.In his task of opening up public information, Stott faces an obstacle identified by Guardian Technology's Free our Data campaign – the anomalous position of government-owned trading funds such as Ordnance Survey.Earlier this year, the Power of Information taskforce urged that freeing up geospatial data should be a priority – a recommendation accepted "in principle" by the government.Stott says he is "working with OS on developing a new business model" as an alternative to the current "user pays" setup.But trading funds, he says, are only a small part of the free data question. "A lot of my job is about much larger data sets, which are not released under any terms at the moment."Some is data never released because no one has asked for it; some is data sets restricted except for approved users such as researchers. There are also data sets that have been published, but in a format that makes them impractical to reuse.One strand of this work will be a version of the US's data.gov repository of public data sets. But Stott indicated that this will not be a complete one-stop shop – some organisations will continue to hold their own repositories – and that work is still at an early stage. "We haven't quite decided what to call it yet."The tweet goes onOn the government's new media agenda, Stott is unapologetic about Whitehall (and politicians) using all the tools in the Web 2.0 box to reach people who are not getting information through traditional media. He says that there is a legitimate role for Twitter in drawing attention to announcements, and for answering frequently asked questions. He stresses that last week's Twitter template, published on Stott's blog as a guest post by Neil Williams of the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, is about the institutional use of Twitter, as distinct from tweets by individual civil servants.These would be covered bythe previous short guidance about online participation, with its reminder that "you should not disclose information, make commitments or engage in activities on behalf of Government unless you are authorised to do so".Most of the rules, Stott says, are common-sense applications of the existing code. "For example, any dialogue with individual citizens shouldn't be blogged at all, just as it would not be appropriate to reveal it in any other channel." He commends the Foreign Office and the Department for International Development as government bodies that have shown what can be done within these strictures."Two fundamental obstacles lie ahead for Stott's work. One is that the Cabinet Office, despite its proximity to Downing Street, cannot give orders to other government departments, much less the wider public sector. Local authorities, for example, own the copyright in their data and can set their own terms for publication and reuse, even when these conflict with wider government policy.The issue came to a head this week when several councils said they would defy a ruling by the Information Commissioner's Office to make data for property searches available free.At the moment, Stott does not even have a direct ministerial sponsor – the role of digital engagement minister is still formally vacant, following Watson's resignation in June.No doubt the post will be filled when the political season resumes in the autumn. But this brings the digital engagement programme perilously close to obstacle number two – a general election.If the opinion polls are correct, there is a strong chance that in less than a year a new government might bring in a new digital engagement policy – or, perhaps more likely, make a point of abolishing a prime example of "Labour spin". Stott, who has spent 30 years in Whitehall under a wide range of political masters, refuses point-blank to speculate.However, he says the challenges posed by new web media are not parochial ones. "This is an issue faced by governments around the world, enterprises around the world." Apart from the US, the Australian federal government in June announced the creation of a Web 2.0 taskforce (with funding from Microsoft). The Conservatives, who have already pledged to create a new "right to data", are watching such developments with interest.Tweet facts26– The number of Twitter feeds from the UK's central government bodies86– The number of Twitter feeds from local authorities in the UK1,108,065– The number of people following the Downing Street Twitter feed.
People have a natural intuition about risk, and in many ways it's very good. It fails at times due to a variety of cognitive biases, but for normal risks that people regularly encounter, it works surprisingly well: often better than we give it credit for.This struck me as I listened to yet another conference presenter complaining about security awareness training. He was talking about the difficulty of getting employees at his company to actually follow his security policies: encrypting data on memory sticks, not sharing passwords, not logging in from untrusted wireless networks. "We have to make people understand the risks," he said.It seems to me that his co-workers understand the risks better than he does. They know what the real risks are at work, and that they all revolve around not getting the job done. Those risks are real and tangible, and employees feel them all the time. The risks of not following security procedures are much less real. Maybe the employee will get caught, but probably not. And even if he does get caught, the penalties aren't serious.Given this accurate risk analysis, any rational employee will regularly circumvent security to get his or her job done. That's what the company rewards, and that's what the company actually wants."Fire someone who breaks security procedure, quickly and publicly," I&nbsp;suggested to the presenter. "That'll increase security awareness faster than&nbsp;any of your posters or lectures or newsletters." If the risks are real, people will get it.You see the same sort of risk intuition on motorways. People are less careful about posted speed limits than they are about the actual speeds police issue tickets for. It's also true on the streets: people respond to real crime rates, not public officials proclaiming that a neighbourhood is safe.The warning stickers on ladders might make you think the things are considerably riskier than they are, but people have a good intuition about ladders and ignore most of the warnings. (This isn't to say that some people don't do stupid things around ladders, but for the most part they're safe. The warnings are more about the risk of lawsuits to ladder manufacturers than risks to people who climb ladders.)As a species, we are naturally tuned in to the risks inherent in our environment. Throughout our evolution, our survival depended on making reasonably accurate risk management decisions intuitively, and we're so good at it, we don't even realise we're doing it.Parents know this. Children have surprisingly perceptive risk intuition. They know when parents are serious about a threat and when their threats are empty. And they respond to the real risks of parental punishment, not the inflated risks based on parental rhetoric. Again, awareness training lectures don't work; there have to be real consequences.It gets even weirder. The University College London professor John Adams popularised themetaphor of a mental risk thermostat. We tend to seek some natural level of risk, and if something becomes less risky, we tend to make it more risky. Motorcycle riders who wear helmets drive faster than riders who don't.Our risk thermostats aren't perfect (that newly helmeted motorcycle rider will still decrease his overall risk) and will tend to remain within the same domain (he might drive faster, but he won't increase his risk by taking up smoking), but in general, people demonstrate an innate and finely tuned&nbsp;ability to understand and respond to risks.Of course, our risk intuition failsspectacularly and often, with regards torare risks, unknown risks, voluntary risks, and so on. But when it comes to the common risks we face every day – the kinds of risks our evolutionary survival depended on – we're pretty good.So whenever you see someone in a situation who you think doesn't understand the risks, stop first and make sure you understand the risks. You might be surprised.•Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer
I have never played World of Warcraft. I do not intend to. I have no prejudice against players of this massively multiplayer online game; some of my best friends are deeply engaged in it. And although they keep applying pressure with invitations to virtual dinner parties and online raids, I resist. I will not align with Alliance or Horde, I won't be a blood elf, a tauren or a gnome. I'm quite happy just looking, watching, studying the new world order that they're building.World of Warcraft and its ilk represent the next phase in human social evolution. Seriously: those people who spend their (virtual) lives dressed up like trolls or people with pointy ears, who feel a sense of accomplishment from smacking digital rats around for hours each night – they are creating the new sovereignty, establishing a nation-state that transcends borders, that challenges traditional ideas of governance, that threatens economic structures and upsets power hierarchies. People, the future is in the hands of a bunch of trolls.I recently described the auction website eBay as an example of the new governance structures that have emerged with the world wide web. But I knew I was stretching the argument: online game environments such as World of Warcraft are better fits for that kind of mental exercise. Although eBay has its own sovereign communication system (Skype) and currency (PayPal), the game worlds have an additional element that makes them far more powerful: community. They have people who gather and form new social orders.Now, I don't imagine that any of my mates would be willing to pledge allegiance to Azeroth, the fictional setting for their escapades and dance parties, but without question they experience a sense of togetherness celebrated by academics and philosophers for its emergent governance. Warcraft, Second Life, EverQuest, even the text-based LambdaMOO – all have unregulated telecoms services and thriving and exchangeable unregulated currencies. They also have hierarchies and power structures, justice systems and benevolent dictators.These spaces threaten world order. Traditional governments have spent the past four years back-pedalling, trying to regulate these spaces, in the name of national security. In fact, they're just trying to make sure that they don't lose control of the people who have gathered together in these consensual hallucinations. And their money, of course.The web is a truly astounding place. It has generated an incredible potential for the ultimate in social upheaval. Wouldn't it be ironic if the next revolution started with an orc? I'm not taking any sides: I'll&nbsp;just wait and see.
The embattled voice-to-text provider SpinVox has demonstrated its technology to counter claims that its reliance on call centres would hamper its ability to grow.SpinVox's chief information officer, Rob Wheatley, led journalists through a detailed explanation not only of the technology behind the voice recognition but also an application called Tenzing to speed transcription in call centres.SpinVox's system first analyses messages automatically using digital signal processing, automated speech recognition and natural language processing. It also employs what Wheatley called lattices: predictive models to speed transcription and improve quality over time.The system flags messages that need reviewing in call centres, and in such cases both the message and the lattice is sent on. When an operator transcribes, the Tenzing system matches their speed so that they don't need to rewind and pause.Company representatives refused to clarify what percentage of calls were sent to human operators, saying that it varied widely depending on the carrier and the sophistication of the data gathered.But he added that, in some instances and with some carriers, 100% of the calls needed human intervention. The figure was expected to decrease over time as the system gathered data from the carrier.Journalists were shown the call processing queue of an internal testing environment and also an employee using the Tenzing application.The central question now isn't whether SpinVox uses call centres. Wheatley and others made it clear that all employees, including those in call centres, go through training on the Data Protection Act.What matters more to the company's prospects is whether its system is sophisticated enough to minimise human intervention, especially in new markets where it hasn't built up the data to ensure a high rate of automatic recognition.That is critical to meeting its target of five-fold revenue growth, which the chief executive, Christina Domecq, said was vital to the company being "cash positive" by the fourth quarter of this year.Investors have extended SpinVox £15m in emergency funding, and its business projections included several contingencies, she said.  The company is currently involved in legal action with former suppliers over payment issues stemming from what Domecq said were quality of service issues. There are no legal disputes with current suppliers, and SpinVox is continuing to pay its suppliers, she added.Domecq told Moconews (part of the ContentNext Media network, which is owned, like the Guardian, by Guardian Media Group) that the company would&nbsp; scale from a capacity of 30 million up to 100 million users "within 90 days".Domecq said Spinvox's competitive advantage was its speed to market, and described its growth strategy as being to make a "land grab" and establish itself aggressively in new markets.The demonstration showed that, under ideal conditions, the automated transcription system could turn around a message in about four seconds.But without clear numbers about the percentage of calls needing human transcription, it is almost impossible to gauge whether the company can scale to meet its aggressive targets.
Despite originally stating that there was no conflict of interest with his roles on the boards of Apple and Google, Eric Schmidt has stepped down from the former, while the US Federal Trade Commission investigates the links between the two companies.But why was this decision taken now?  Was it related to Apple turning down two of Google's apps (Google Voice and Latitude) for the iPhone? And what of Arthur Levinson, the boss of Californian biotechnology company Greentech, who still holds a seat on both boards?  Charles Arthur and Kevin Anderson discuss the shakeup at the Cupertino Kremlin with MacFormat deputy editor Chris Phin.Charles also talks to Sonos CEO John MacFarlane as they unveil their new audio controller. Their hardware streams music around your house, and the new controller is lighter, with a better screen – almost like a tablet computer.  Charles asks why many devices are now going the way of the tablet, whether Apple will be releasing a similar device, and what are the prospects for integrating Spotify within the Sonos system.All this, plus the week's big tech stories, and we hear from a new member of the Tech Weekly team...Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Will we ever see a Zune on this (eastern) side of the Atlantic? Ever since its launch in September 2006, we've been asking Microsoft UK whether eager customers - come on, there must be some - in the UK and Europe will see Redmond's would-be giant-killer in action.Except that increasingly it looks like the Zune may be put to sleep with the fishes before it crosses the water.Take thelatest from Marketwatch, which points out that while the iPod has developed into a wide and of course strong line, taking in everything from the tiny shuffle through the nano to the "classic" to the touchscreen iPod Touch, the Zune remains much the same, apart from having different storage capacities."If Zune were going to make a strong move against the iPod, it already would have," said IDC analyst Susan Kevorkian.(Have to love how they call these things "Zune", not "the Zune", as if they were humans or something.)Worse, revenues for the Entertainment and Devices division declined - along with pretty much everything at Microsoft - in its fourth quarter. However, the non-gaming side of E&amp;D (ie the Zune and Mediaroom, Microsoft's IPTV service) fell by 42%, or $291m, in the fourth quarter - far more than the rest of Microsoft, whererevenues declined17%. (For E&amp;D overall, revenues declined 26% for the quarter to $1.189bn, though losses narrowed to $130m.)Now, digital music players are hurting: Apple saw its first year-on-year per-quarter fall in iPod sales (by 11%) despitereporting record revenues.Now, Microsoft says it's going to come up with a touchscreen Zune - let's call it the Zune Touch for simplicity - but it may be too late. At MarketWatch:"The market reception for Zune is so disappointing that many retailers have even stopped selling it altogether," said George Kurian, a vice president at Tradition Capital Management LLC, which owns Microsoft shares.In the US less than 5% of people with a digital player say they have a Zune, while about 61% have an iPod. Worldwide, of course, that share will be even tinier for the Zune (because it's not on sale anywhere outside the US, for reasons Microsoft has never felt able to share.) And as the year has gone on it's got worse: NPD Group says market share (ie, what's selling) puts the Zune at 2% and the iPod at 70% or more.The question is, what is Microsoft trying to prove with the Zune? That it can make an also-ran music player? It's done that. Aren't there other things to do now?"Microsoft should abandon Zune and follow Apple's strategy to try to make its presence felt in the high-growth smartphone sector," Kurian said.Ah. Well, that's a nice idea. You mean use that Windows Mobile (now renamed Windows Phone) product? Yes. Well,We have a longer piece about where Windows Phone is going in tomorrow's print section (and soon to be online) but just consider this graph:This shows sales of the iPhone vs Windows Mobile licences. The periods compared are Microsoft's financial years, so we've matched the quarterly iPhone sales against those for Microsoft.The depressing news for Microsoft: the iPhone has outsold Windows Mobile in the past year (we've not been given numbers for the latest year, but as Microsoft isn't shouting them from the rooftops - and didn't hit its 20m target that it had been bruiting in 2008 - we can assume that sales were steady).The even more depressing news? Those numbers for Apple don't include the iPod Touch, which aren't broken out separately. But the iPod Touch sellseven morethan the iPhone.So do you expect to see the Zune land in the UK before it's taken out the back of the Microsoft campus and shot, along with the Spot data wristwatch, the Smart Display and those other "good ideas" that weren't?
Bringing hacks and hackers together, the Guardian's second hack day aimed to see what developers working with journalists could build in 24 hours.Hack days are not new - coding competitions have given developers a chance to show off their skills and creativity for years. But adding journalists to the mix is a relatively recent development.While the move to the Guardian's new offices last December brought together the online and print newsrooms, the developers sit on the third floor, and most of the editorial teams sit on the second floor. The hack days are as much about building relationships as they are about building apps.As more journalism becomes digital, journalists are having to learn the art of the possible in terms of web and mobile applications. Print journalists now work in a world where we have to think not only about multimedia, but also, increasingly, about data, visualisations and how web technology can enhance our stories and even add new ways to make money and support our work.Apps in storeFor the most part, the Guardian's internal hack days involve staff, but we also bring in external developers and technology companies. This time, there were developers from Google, the open-source hardware consultancy Tinker.it, the web analytics firm Omniture and the data visualisation service Timetric from Cambridge-based Inkling software. Journalists, editors, designers and developers met earlier in the week to brainstorm ideas, and more than 30 projects were submitted to a panel of Guardian judges.From a development standpoint, we've also needed a way to add little applications without adding to the size and complexity of our CMS. We gained quite a bit of experience quickly developing applications with crowdsourced analysis of MPs' expenses reports, and we hope that we can build things in days or even hours without worrying that the whole site will fall over.The 30-plus projects submitted ranged from the practical to the whimsical. On the practical end of things was a system that allowed Guardian readers and not just Guardian journalists and editors to tag content on the site.One of the big changes when the Guardian site relaunched last year was that the entire site is based on tags. These not only help people find related content, but also help automate page layout. At present, all the tags are managed by Guardian journalists and editors. User tags could help add more detail to the content, and if some became popular enough, they might be added to the list used by the journalists.When we held our first hack day last November, one of the themes was data and different ways to visualise statistics and location. The Guardian Datablog and Data Store were projects that grew out of the first hack day.Andrew Walkingshaw, one of the three developers behind Timetric, used the visualisation service and data from the Guardian's Data Store to compare the carbon produced per unit of gross domestic product from economies around the world. It showed the relative environmental efficiency of the economies. The only problem is that countries like Afghanistan, with relatively low economic activity and standards of living, were shown to produce the least carbon per unit of GDP.One thing that made its presence felt at this year's hack day was open-source hardware. With Linux, Apache and Google's Android, open-source software and operating systems are pretty familiar to most people, but open-source hardware is also starting to become increasingly popular. Tinker.it works with the Italian open-source hardware platform Arduino. Several hack day projects used Arduino sensors and programmable circuits, which allow buzzers, LEDs and motors to be triggered by heat, light or motion.The team from Tinker.it built a project based on Conservative leader David Cameron's "too many tweets make a twat" comment. Using the Twitter API, they monitored how many times tweets from the main political parties were re-tweeted - that is, sent on by other Twitter users. They created a leader board with logos for the three parties moving on small wires each time a re-tweet was registered.Robot dreamsGuardian developer Ken Lim created a Twitter-bot using Arduino. Each time one of his followers on Twitter claimed success, the Twitter-bot would raise its arm for a high five. A switch on the robot's hand would register the high five and lower the arm again. If one of his followers expressed sadness with a special hashtag, the robot would lower its head until you rubbed its tummy to make it feel better, again triggering a switch.But some of the projects were about making money, something that journalists and developers are more aware of with the recession and decline in the fortunes of the media business. Guardian developer Michael Brunton-Spall created a project to analyse news stories for the day and use the Amazon search API to suggest related products. Using Amazon's affiliate sales programme, the Guardian would earn a cut of the sales.Some projects, including user tags and visualisations using environmental data from the Guardian Data Store, are likely to find their way quickly on to the site.Despite a marathon 24-hour coding session with one developer staying up until 4.30am, the Hack Day wasn't like the Olympics with bronze, silver and gold medals. Keeping with the theme of creativity and trying to make everyone feel like a winner, a wide range of eclectic awards were given out.For example, one developer was awarded the Britney Spears/Amy Winehouse award for most attention seeking application by developing an application that showed the least viewed stories on the website.The award for the most niche application seeking seed funding was given for an app that was like a social network for Guardian gardeners so that they could exchange extra seeds.The Hotfoot iPhone application to alert people to exclusive Guardian events was given the award for the best use of mobiles for organising pub crawls.•Little Ken now hashis own Twitter account
Cameras in your phones; phones in your iPods; iPods with Wi-Fi; Wi-Fi in your cameras. This, ladies and gentlemen, is called convergence.Sticking the features of one gizmo inside another seems to be the continuing trend in modern life, as we veer speedily towards a world where we all tote around one single, enormous gadget that handles all our entertainment, communication and probably even teleportation. Except, it seems, that even this is notenoughconvergence for the Japanese camera giantNikon.To whit: the Nikon Coolpix S1000pj, which boasts among its coterie of assets a 12 megapixel sensor for still images, the ability to capture standard def video, and a built-in projector.Yes; instead of showing your granny those family photos on a tiny LCD screen, you will be able to throw your snaps onto a nearby wall using the patented pico-projector. Handy, perhaps, but I can't but feel it's a step too far along convergence road. What's next? Washing machines with built-in iPod docks?Oh.
Over the years there have been plenty of stories about dodgy dealings with domain names - from cybersquatters to thenotorious, decade-long battle for ownership of sex.com. But prosecutors in the US have just found themselves a new angle - after a man in New Jersey was charged with stealing a domain name.According toreports, 25-year-old Daniel Goncalves is alleged to have hacked into an online account three years ago to take control of the domain name P2P.com. He then, apparently, sold to professional basketball playerMark Madsenfor $110,000.Local newspaper theNew Jersey Star-Ledgerquotes detective Sgt John Gorman as explaining how "Goncalves was 'surprised' to find a tactical team of state police officers at his door at 6:30 Thursday morning". I'll bet he was.The extra twist? The victim was a group including Houston-based domain gobblerMarc Ostrofsky, a well-known web name speculator who previously pocketed $7.5m for selling the business.com address in 1999. That was a record for the time, smashing the $150,000 he'd spent buying the domain in the first place a couple of years before.Ostrofsky's no stranger to the courts himself: his company IREIT has hoovered up so many domains that it's been sued a couple of times, and back in 2006, Ask.com took exception to his attempt to push up the asking price for the ask.eu address (Arbitrators found in favour of Ask).In the meantime, though, Goncalves is out on $60,000 bail: the case continues.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
The football season may be starting this Saturday – I've just about got used to the likes of Yeovil and Brentford visiting St Mary's this year – but it feels too early to be worrying about the round ball game just yet. Not withMadden NFL 10and the officialAshes gameon their way.The Ashes arrived yesterday and already feels like a massive improvement on theBrian Lara Xboxgame from 2007. Cricket isn't the easiest sport to convert to a videogame – although I have pleasant memories of Brian Lara on the PS1 and evenGraham Gooch on the C64– but the Ashes games seems to have got the balance between accessibility and depth about right. The next challenge will be playing online. The original Lara game on the 360 was blighted by opponents disconnecting midway through a match, usually after they had batted – not surprising when games could take an hour at least – so it will be interesting to see how it goes here. The inclusion of shorter 20/20games should help. More thoughts on online and the Wii version soon.But it's not just the cricket that should interest sporting gamers this month. Madden NFL 10 arrives next week and for those of us who love their American Football –go Dolphins– this is a big deal. But could the PS3 version be the one to get? EA Sports boss – and ex Xbox exec - Peter Mooreseems to think so. He may have a point, especially when it comes to PS3-PSP connectivity. Essentially you will be able create your plays on the PSP while on the bus and then download to the PS3 at home. Yup, at least 3 of you probably joined me in getting quite excited by the thought of that. But even if you couldn't care less about Tom Brady or 3-4 defense the PSP-PS3 connectivity does at least hint at what could be done elsewhere. If only more games used the connectivity. It could work especially well for RPGs where you could, for example, work on side quests on the PSP and then upload the results to the main game on the PS3.Anyway, anyone here interested in the Ashes game or Madden NFL 10? Or is it only FIFA or PES for you?
&bull; British prosecutions against the people who run file sharing sites have been few and far between - but one could be on the cards, after a man in Somerset was arrested over his links to FileSoup.We've got a full report here.&bull; Facebook continues its attempt to take over the world; traffic figures suggest it is now thefourth largest web property in the world(behind Google, Microsoft and Yahoo), reportsTechCrunch.&bull; Here's one you might have missed over the past couple of months: UK games entrepreneur Tim Langdell has been accused of being a trademark troll by forcing an iPhone game developer, Mobigame, to change the name of one of their titles, Edge. Langdell has a history of this,which has caused controversyin some quarters.Eurogamerhas along, interesting piece that talks to both sidesand explains some of what's happened.
You may be aware of the US movie rental companyNetflix- they pioneered the postal DVD business, a model followed by companies such as Lovefilm and (more recently) the video giant Blockbuster. The company has got headlines for its deals to stream video instantly using its web service, and its $1m prize for anyone who improved its algorithm -which I mentioned last week.Now, though, the company could be on the verge of something even more interesting: bringing full on-demand video streaming to theiPhoneandNintendo Wii.Reports - largely based onthis story from Multichannel News- suggest that Netflix is making progress with these new avenues.  What would it mean? Well, currently subscribers can instantly stream thousands of TV shows and movies to their computers, including the likes of Lost, Hannah Montana and Pineapple Express (pictured). And though I haven't used it personally, it's a service that a lot of people I know praise highly.There are a few caveats to a Netflix iPhone app, however: the system would not be a direct port of the web version, since that uses Microsoft's Silverlight technology. However, it could use the native video viewing capability that was opened up to developers in the latest version of the iPhone software.And how would you get your movies in the first place?Wiredsuggests it may simply be a"download-to-your-iPhone" service, and it certainly seems unlikely - though possible - that American iPhone network AT&amp;T would allow people to stream movies over its already-beleaguered 3G network. Perhaps it could only work through a WiFi connection (which would not allow you to watch films anywhere).And, of course, there's always the question of whether Netflix on-demand would be deemed too much of a competitor to iTunes. Given the seemingly-random decision making process by Apple's app store team, who knows how that would turn out. What's clear is that this could be one area in mobile where the US is seriously ahead. Come on Lovefilm: where's your iPhone app?
A British man has been arrested for his role in running one of the internet's oldest file sharing websites.The man - who started the FileSoup website in 2003 - was taken into custody last week after a raid on his home in Taunton, Somerset, and subsequently released on bail without charge.FileSoup, which was started in 2003, is well-known in the file sharing community but does not host illegal material itself. Instead, it operates forums where users share links to files which then allow them to download TV shows and movies from around the internet.When contacted by the Guardian, the man verified that he had been arrested last Monday, but refused to comment further without consulting a lawyer.However,in a posting on FileSoup itself, he detailed the situation - including how police seized a number from his home, including mobile phones, computers, hard drives and a video camera."I was arrested and taken to the local police station," he wrote. "On the way I asked and was told that it would take about a couple of hours. When I arrived, the booking-in charge was entered as suspicion of downloading copyrighted movies."After what he claims were several hours in which he was refused contact with friends, family or a legal representative, he was eventually given a solicitor, interviewed by officers and released without charge. His bail conditions state that he must surrender to police in October.Avon and Somerset police would not comment on the case when contacted by the Guardian on Tuesday evening.Known online as "Geeker", the man has run FileSoup since it started in 2003. For several years it operated as a so-called "tracker" website - much like notorious Swedish file sharing site the Pirate Bay, whose backers were each sentenced to a year in prison and fined £600,000 by a court in Stockholm for copyright offences.Since 2005, however, FileSoup has not operated as a tracker - instead hosting forum pages where community members regularly post links to files that let them download copyrighted programmes and films.However, with British law still unclear whether such sites are illegal - since they effectively act as search engines for online material, rather than hosting it - the site's fans were left up in arms."This is insane," said one commenter on theTorrentfreak website, which broke the news. "I'm saddened by this news," commented another.Among the concerns was the news that the goods seized during the operation were no longer being held by police, but had instead been handed over to the Federation Against Copyright Theft (Fact), an accredited private group that often assists law enforcement with inquiries in such cases.A spokesman for Fact, which is funded by organisations such as BSkyB, Paramount and Sony Pictures, said it could not comment on an open investigation.The federation largely concentrates its activities on shutting down the authors and sellers of pirate DVDs, but recently it has been intimately involved in a number of high-profile file sharing cases - not all of them successful.Two years ago a 26-year-old man from Cheltenham wasarrested for running a website called TV Links, which pointed users towards television shows online, some of which had been illegally copied. Although no charges were ever brought against the individual behind the site, it was closed down as a result.Shortly after that incident, police raided the HQ of another file sharing website, a private music community called Oink. The site had become well-known for allowing users to access out of print material and pre-release versions of new music - and was even used by musicians including Nine Inch Nails frontman Trent Reznor, whotold New York magazinethat he "frequented it quite often".The site's administrator, 25-year-old Alan Ellis, was taken into custody by Middlesbrough police and after further raids in May 2008, four men eventually plead guilty to various copyright infringement offences. Three defendants were sentenced to community service, and all four fined between £360 and £500.
Last month, UK developerTeam 17announced that it was developing an update of its smash hit Amiga blaster, Alien Breed. As with the latest versions of Worms, the title will be self-published and distributed as a digital download via the likes of Xbox Live Arcade and the PlayStation Network.To find out a little more, we fired some questions over to Martyn Brown, the studio director. Here's what he had to say...What led you to select Alien Breed for a PSN/XBLA update?Alien Breed has always been one of our most-loved and well known IP's and we had looked to have developed a new version of it for some time. When the opportunity arose to develop a next generation version, we leapt at it.Is anyone from the original team involved in the project at all?Rico Holmes (original art &amp; design on the Amiga edition) took part in the early pre-production and Allister Brimble has re-mastered a new edition of the original score. Other than myself being around, that's pretty much it for the old guard, but it was a very small team back in 1991, whereas around 30 people have contributed to the new game.In general, what's it like to work with PSN and Xbox Live? Was thedevelopment environment like?We've used Unreal3 for the new game, which we've had a fair bit of experience on, so that made development reasonably fair. We've released titles on both XBLA and PSN before, so we know our way around the libraries - nothing was a huge surprise really.What do you think are the key elements behind Alien Breed's continuing popularity?At it's heart, the game is an arcade-style shooter with atmosphere. It's a real blast with two players in co-op or a more nervy-paced narrative with single-player. We've kept the same eerie vibe and moments of panic as with the original.So this is a reasonably faithful remake?We're terming the game a "retro modern remake." The old game looks very simple now and it's amazing to think that 18 years ago it was pretty much state of the art. Gameplay has been modernised to an extent (controllers, online play) and light RPG functionality added (object selection etc).And how about the art-style? Will you retain the original's stylised feel?I think we've retained the slick look but at the same time utterly modernised it, particularly with really cool particles (smoke, sparks, sheens) and transparencies, depth of image, etc. It really does look awesome.Will there be any features that you wanted to put into the Amigaversion that you couldn't?The Amiga version was very limited in terms of memory and what we could run without it slowing down. In the Amiga version, only 5 aliens could be on screen at once! No such problem with the new edition...So can we expect the overall gameplay to be enhanced?There's enhancements right around the game; I think a lot of people are seeing this as simply a pretty new edition, but it's a total and complete remake. You could play the entire original game through in 40mins, this one takes way more than that for each of the five main acts (and the game has two more chapters in Episodes 2 and 3, which follow the main game as separate releases later).How will the co-op and multiplayer work?Co-op can be played locally and on-line, in the battle mode - where chaosruns supreme!Do you think this business model of self-publishing digital games  is going to become common in the UK industry?Totally. I can't see how it cannot. We have decided to go digital download only for all our titles now. It means games direct to our consumers, with more controlled development for us, cheaper titles and likely more casual titles. There will be a place in retail for the huge AAA releases, but that's not a market where we wish to participate.Are you planning any original IP for downloadable distribution?Absolutely, four or five titles are now in development in addition to Worms and our Alien Breed series. The ability to self publish digital titles means that we can make decisions and take our own risks, this wasn't possible via third-party publishing to a large extent.We've had Worms and Alien Breed - what other vintage Team 17  titles do you think would work well on the digital download platforms?A lot of people have asked about our back catalogue and Superfrog always seems to pop up, but we have no plans for that as yet. Perhaps on some of the handheld platforms it might make sense. We're taking the opportunity to look at the older IP but carefully considering it. The new technology on platforms allows us to do new exciting things and perhaps that's more of an interest right now...
It's August, the weather is awful, the cricket is a non-starter, but, hey, we've always got Blood Bowl. Yes, it's time for your regular, expertly edited dose of 'box banter, which this week seems dominated by talk of Games Workshop's geeky battle-'em-up. But you'll also find out what readers think makes an acceptable condiment to accompany a bacon sandwich, AND there are reactions to Modern Warfare 2's £55 price point.Plus, meet the future Booker Prize winner whose first piece of fan fiction includes the quote emblazoned on the headline above!And remember, we need more of your game-related photos! Send them to us with 'Best of photo' in the subject header - gamesblog + at + googlemail + com.Now, here's OfficePest with your Chatterbox goodie bag...MondayAnother week begins bringing with it a fresh Chatterbox, as comfortingly inevitable as HiddenAway &amp; chubster2010's regular PSN update.  Carvalhosgonads opened the proceedings by admitting to the purchase of Wii Sports Resort. A fair few others seemed to have taken the plunge and the reviews were positive:Killerbee:"There are still plenty of sports I haven't even tried out yet, but I kept coming back to this... just one more go."Foolsgold74:"All kinds of aceness."Chubster2010:"My arms are killing me after a heavy weekend with it!"We're almost certain he was still talking about Wii Sports Resort. There followed a surprising amount of games talk – although mostly Blood Bowl, which meant the chatter was understandably nerdish. Dice rolls, goblins, lizardmen, skinks...  Gamesblog is definitely 'where it's at'.  At least TonyHayers was back to defend us against this sort of stuff.Actual life, or something resembling it, was breathed back into the 'box later that day though with talk of upcoming game movies.  Tron, Dead Space and Fallout were all mentioned and will probably be dreadful.  Nevertheless, we will all still watch them. And complain. A lot.[How about an official gamesblog boycott? - Keef]TuesdayThe morning began with some excitement over the impending 'Nazi Zombie Tuesday'. Only the people involved in Nazi Zombie Club know what this was all about – presumably game-related, but who knows?  The first rule of Nazi Zombie Club is YOU DO NOT TALK ABOUT NAZI ZOMBIE CLUB.PS3 folks also got excited about the impending release of Fat Princess – PSN's new capture-the-flag-type game involving, funnily enough, a fat princess that you have to rescue.  It's looking good, although as chubster2010 pointed out, "It's gonna cost £11.99…" Which put a fair few people off. Cheapskates!Otherwise Tuesday was quiet. People had lots of fun with the 'Loading Bar of Doom', eaten posts, refreshes not working and double posts.  As emphasised by Craggyisland, "God this is painful. I was looking forward to a day of quality chatter today, and instead we get this."It got better later on, but then people got to talking about football and Blood Bowl again, so the rest of us just gave up and did some work for a change.WednesdayKillerbee reported back about 'Nazi Zombie Tuesday':"Excellent fun and I loved the sense of panic instilled by hearing the dying screams of fallen comrades as the undead horde flood into our refuge."I'm not sure whether that means it went well or badly. There was the usual Blood Bowl talk, some excitement about a session that night on Motorstorm: Pacific Rift and then some grumping about the weather:TonyHayers:"Where is the summer? It's a disgrace."Craggyisland:"I second your comments about the lack of summer. Long weekend at the folks in Devon this week. Use of the boat all weekend to get to beaches that are normally a pisser to get to and the weather forecast looks thoroughly s****y. Less than impressed."Crispycrumbstood up for the met office: "I was spitting feathers at the news this morning because of the pieces about the Met Office getting it wrong after promising a BBQ summer. Balls - they did no such thing and now the media are interviewing morons who blame the forecasters for the rain."Henrypootle:"But the weather is the fault of the weather forecasters. String 'em up I say. I'm off to make a placard."After Smike's comment – "Is it just me or is the WeBuyAnyCar.com advert music the best TV ad music since the Touch and Fresh drum and bass one?" – discussion moved onto adverts, which provided amusement and invoked an unnecessary amount of rage in some:CunningStunt:"Don't know about the music but that advert is THE most annoying advert on tv at the moment. It's Chav-tastic."TonyHayers:"I can't get enough of the chafing cream one. That sick f**k of a fat man dancing with lubed thighs. Appalling."Chubster2010:"Adverts, on the whole, wind me up. I particularly hate cosmetic adverts that make up chemicals - 'Loreal butt-hole cream - now with Hypo-chlorinide-peptide-f**ktard-serum-caplets'. It's probably just mayonnaise with a bit of Fairy Liquid squirted into it"It got much worse than this (stool softener and male grooming), so best we stop here and move swiftly on to…ThursdayGhostDaz popped in during the morning to tell us that his PS3 had died (boo) and that he'd got engaged (yay?).  In his words, "It seems I can no longer put off being an adult. Though I have given it a pretty good go."  Another one bites the dust.  Comments from the bloggers went from 'congratulations' to 'it comes to us all in the end' and 'who's the lucky fella?'  Good times.Later there was much debate over RustyJames' question, "Off to get a bacon baguette.  Only question is: brown sauce or ketchup and mayonnaise?"  Obviously this caused immediate uproar:SuperSmashIn:"Bacon sarnie with Ketchup AND Mayo? Disgrace. Can you even taste the bacon?"Sheep2:"Mayonnaise on bacon? You sick f**k. Are you Belgian?"Then there was the usual chat about last night's Blood Bowl and Motorstorm: Pacific Rift.  Afterwards, more talk of Fat Princess and, despite the relatively hefty price tag, a few caved in and decided they were going to buy it after all.  This led to outrage about game prices – Blood Bowl (£40) and Modern Warfare 2 (£55) being the two antagonists.  TonyHayers made a good point (yes, you read that coorectly): "I recall Megadrive and SNES games costing £50 mind."  Now that was an outrage![While on Edge magazine in the mid-Nineties, we often had to pay over £100 for PC Engine and Neo Geo carts. So count your blessings - Keef]The day ended with an argument over The King of Fruit (thanks to CunningStunt). Votes were for cherries, strawberries, mango, passion fruit, oranges, pineapple and raspberries. Much to the dismay of all, a winner was not agreed upon. At least we found out that strawberries aren't fruit. Thanks Wikipedia!FridayThe sad news about Bobby Robson dominated the morning, the 'box regulars penning many messages of condolence. CrispyCrumb's entry pretty much summed up the feeling: "Bobby Robson RIP. A gent."There was more talk about Fat Princess and (yes, you guessed it) Blood Bowl.  Plus some people got unnecessarily excited about cricket. In the afternoon resident Dwarf, Lord BeardOfBees, posted this terrifying piece of fan fiction:"John Stalvern waited. The lights above him blinked and sparked out of the air. There were demons in the base. He didn't see them, but had expected them now for years. His warnings to Cernel Joson were not listenend to and now it was too late. Far too late for now, anyway.John was a space marine for fourteen years. When he was young he watched the spaceships and he said to dad "I want to be on the ships, daddy."  Dad said "No! You will BE KILL BY DEMONS"  There was a time when he believed him. Then as he got oldered he stopped. But now in the space station base of the UAC he knew there were demons.  "This is Joson" the radio crackered. "You must fight the demons!"  So John gotted his palsma rifle and blew up the wall.  "HE GOING TO KILL US" said the demons.  "I will shoot at him" said the cyberdemon and he fired the rocket missiles. John plasmaed at him and tried to blew him up. But then the ceiling fell and they were trapped and not able to kill.  "No! I must kill the demons" he shouted.  The radio said "No, John. You are the demons".  And then John was a zombie."Generally, this was considered a splendid piece of work and we all look forward to BeardOfBees' first published novel. The inclusion of this early effort in 'Best Of', should at least secure us a signed copy.And that was Friday!Quote of the week"The other day on George Street in Aberdeen I was walking back from town at approx 8pm. I saw a half naked man taking a s**t against the local blockbuster.  Either he had some serious issues or he really didn't like the Watchmen either."Cameroon95 has his first meeting with a tabloid film reviewer.Other Quotes"I'm drinking Um Bongo. Try not to be too jealous."bigworv – possibly live from the Congo."Ah, a mate of mine has those pedals."Crispycrumb finds some stimulating conversation with Craggyisland."Hayers – I don't think we should see each other any more…"Carvalhosgonads is a heartbreaker."I've been reading your chat, and you've pretty much ruined my life with the Blood Bowl banter. It took me around 10 years to regain my social status to semi-respectable after going cold turkey from the Games Workshop, and now I've dug out my old gear and started painting models again. Soon my girlfriend will leave me and my friends will disown me, and Chatterbox will be the only form of "human" interaction I'll get. Damn you all."Irregular poster diplomatt feels the burn of Blood Bowl.  You are not alone…Also discussed:Cricket (or lack of)Games:Blood Bowl, Demons Souls, Mirror's Edge, Killzone 2, Left 4 Dead, Monster Hunter Freedom: UniteFilms &amp; TV:Eurotrash, Lesbian Vampire Killers, Moon, The Antichrist, UFC, PsychovilleBooks:American GodsMusic:La Coka Nostra
The ongoing tension betweenPalmandApplecontinues to simmer, with flash points that could have an impact for British customers when they finally get their hands on the Prelater this year. To recap: one way Palm has tried to convince users to switch to the Pre was that you could still synchronise with iTunes (essentially because it pretends to be an iPhone when it's connected to a computer). Applescuppered that planafter Apple released an update that botched the workaround, which in turn led the handheld computer maker tofile a complaint with the USB Implementers Forum(who oversee such things). Today theNew York Timespicked up the story, quoting Palm's associate general counsel Douglas Luftman as saying"We're not trying to appear to be anything we're not - except for interoperability purposes".Their rivalry is fairly new, but the emnity between the two companies goes deep - after all, former Apple manJon Rubinsteintook a lot of staff with him when he took the top job at Palm - something unlikely to get you on Steve Jobs's good side.Oh, and while I'm talking about Palm, let's hope that the company doesn't choose to run the same creepy ad campaign in Britain as it is using in the states. It's been plaguing US TV for a little while now, andI'm not the only one who gets a bit freaked outby its uncanny valley look. The man behind the campaign, Gary Koepke, toldAd Agethatany publicity is good publicity."The Pre is probably being talked about more than other phones right now because of the marketing and advertising, and that's a good thing."Hmm.
This excellent video fromMake magazinedetails thebasics of DIY cymatics- that's the study of visible sound to you and me. Everyone knows that you get ripples when sound's blasted against water, or motion when you put sand on a drum skin. But what about other objects?Well, bring together a speaker and some cornstarch mixed with water (a non-Newtonian fluid) and you can get some truly funky effects as the liquid turns solid and dances to the frequency.You may remember mucking about with sound waves at school, but this is truly excellent. Anyone fancy giving it a go?
Away from the vagaries of the deal between Microsoft and Yahoo, everybody's still monitoring the development of theBing.comsearch engine to see if it has what it takes to rival Google.Thelatest figures from web analytics firm StatCountersuggest that the needle is only moving a little: in the last month, Bing was up just over one percentage point to 9.41% of the US market, while Google has dropped a little under one point to 77.54%. Yahoo, almost stable, has dropped a tiny amount.It's easy to be sceptical: looking at Bing's gains in comparison to Google's gigantic market share, anyone is entitled to scoff that Microsoft can make inroads - even if it is allied with Yahoo. But what if it carried on this way?For fun, I carried on extrapolating the last month's growth rates to find out when the cookie might crumble - and by my extremely unscientific (and definitely unmathematical) reckoning, if the trends exposed by StatCounter's figures for the past month continue, then we're going to see a full-scale scrap within eight months. That's the point when the numbers make no sense any more - Microsoft has 30% of the search market and Google has 70%. At that point, something's got to give and it could start to be a question of momentum (or alternatively, if Microsoft hasn't achieved this inflection point in the US market, it will face a struggle).Before everybody jumps in and takes a pop at my approach: yes, this is just a bit of fun, and doesn't take into account much of anything. But it does show why Microsoft might look at apparently meagre market share gains and keep going: even a single percentage point can be enough to keep Redmond's wild dreams alive.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Like it or not in-game advertising is increasingly on the agenda for developers and publishers alike. The latest deal, announced yesterday, saw ad-companyDouble Fusion sign up with Sonyto deliver ads in PSN racerWipeout HD.Jonathan Epstein, CEO of Double Fusion seems excited:The title is one of the most popular and visually stunning available on the PlayStation Network and a perfect vehicle to connect advertisers to a captivated audience. It comes as no surprise that advertisers have already signed up for WipEout HD even before the launch of the new video ad units in the game.But what about gamers. On the surface it would seem that if there has to be ads then better they appear in game like Wipeout, where they could at least fit into the futurstic urban tone of the game, rather than something like Uncharted or Oblivion. And maybe on a very few titles – I'm thinking maybe Crackdown or Burnout – the inclusion of ads on posters as you leap or drive by wouldn't feel too jarring.That's the theory anyway. In practice things may not be so rosy. According to the follow up report by Industry Gamers the inclusion of ads in Wipeout HDhas doubled load times. Even if this is a one-off, or something that affects the US only, it highlights the fine line that developers and publishers need to take with ads.What do you think then? Happy to have ads in your games, especially if it keeps the purchase price down? Or are they just too much of a distraction when playing?
&bull; The end of Google boss Eric Schmidt's tenure as amember of Apple's boardmight block the main source of conflict between the two competing companies, but it doesn't end regulatory concerns over their links. The Federal Trade Commission says it will continue its inquiry because the Silicon Valley giants still share a director, Art Levinson,as we have reported.&bull; Much-vaunted music streaming service Spotify isclosing in on a new round of funding worth up to $50m, according tothe Financial Times. Another report fromPaidContentsuggests one of the new investors could be a record label, adding a significant wedge to the $22m the company has already raised.&bull; Jack's unearthed a great list ofthings you shouldn't share on social networks, courtesy ofHowStuffWorks. It's fairly standard stuff (photos of kids, your home address and so on) but perhaps worth pointing those over-sharing members of your friends and family towards.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
American regulators will not end their investigation of the links between Google and Apple - despite the fact that the search giant's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, has resigned his position as a director of his Silicon Valley rival.Earlier today Apple announced thatSchmidt would be stepping down from the company's board of directors, in an attempt to quell concern that the close links between the two companies could promote collusion.But although Schmidt's move eases some of the pressure from regulators, the fact that Apple and Google still share a director has led the Federal Trade Commission to confirm that it will continue its examination of the relationship between the two companies.In astatementreleased by the commission Richard Feinstein, director of the bureau of competition, said the investigation was not over."We have been investigating the Google/Apple interlocking directorates issue for some time, and commend them for recognising that sharing directors raises competitive issues as Google and Apple increasingly compete with each other," said Feinstein. "We will continue to investigate remaining interlocking directorates between the companies."That means the spotlight will fall squarely on biotechnology executive Arthur Levinson, the individual who still holds a position on the board of both companies.Levinson, 59, made his name as the chairman and chief executive of Genentech, a Californian biotechnology company that was bought by Swiss pharmaceutical giant Roche for $46bn (£27bn) earlier this year.The Seattle-born scientist joined Apple's board of directors in August 2000, and added the position at Google to his CV in 2004 - shortly before the search advertising company launched on the stock market and turned its founders into instant billionaires.Nine years ago Apple boss Steve Jobs welcomed the addition of Levinson to the company's board, calling him "highly respected" and saying that he "leads one of the most important and successful science-based companies of our time".Google did not respond to the Guardian's request for comment, while Apple spokesman Steve Dowling said that the company does not comment on regulatory matters.
Mobile phone maker INQ is to follow its first award-winning eponymous mobile phone with two new handsets for the Christmas market.In addition to features the company hopes will appeal to buyers, the new phones will allow users to sync their phones with their iTunes or Windows music players through a deal with San Francisco-based startup DoubleTwist, founded by one of the internet's best-known hackers.INQ's two new 3G phones - the INQ Chat, which has a full keyboard, and INQ Mini - are aimed at the mass market and both allow users to access a host of applications including Twitter, Facebook and Skype as well as instant messaging and email from Hotmail, Yahoo and Google.The original INQ1 has won several awards for bringing internet applications to the mass mobile market since its release last year, but the new devices go further: allowing users to upload music and videos direct from iTunes.It uses technology developed by DoubleTwist, which is backed by Index Ventures and NorthZone Ventures - two venture firms whose records boast close links with Skype, Last.fm and streaming music service Spotify.DoubleTwist was co-founded by by Jon Lech Johansen, who is better known among the digerati by his alias DVD Jon after his success in cracking DVD copy protection technology in the late 1990s. For his part in breaking the code, Johansen was arrested and charged in Norway with circumventing a computer security system without permission, before being acquitted by a court in Oslo.Since then, Johansen has turned his attentions to Apple's FairPlay digital rights management software in order to allow iTunes tracks to be played on any device."iTunes is pretty good at what it does, but from a consumer perspective it doesn't do everything," Johansen told the Guardianin an interview earlier this year.It is not clear, since Apple fiercely protects the link between the iPhone and iPod and its iTunes music player. Last month the Californian technology group released a new version of iTunes whicheffectively shut out rival handset manufacturer Palmafter its Pre handset was able to sync with iTunes. In a game of cat and mouse, Palm has since updated its operating system so the device can again be synchronised with Apple's player.DoubleTwist, however, allows devices as diverse as the Sony PSP, BlackBerry and the HTC G1, which uses Google's new Android platform, to synchronise with music stored in iTunes without having to break into iTunes itself, so it is not as easily kept out as Palm.The two new phones from INQ, set up by Hutchison Whampoa, the Hong Kong-based owner of mobile network 3, both have Twitter built-in, meaning that users do not have to send or receive texts in order to keep up with the micro-blogging site, instead once they have logged-on it is 'always on' in the background, using the phone's data connection. On the INQ Chat, Twitter updates appear directly on its home screen.Both phones also operate as HSDPA modems, meaning they can be plugged into a PC or Mac for mobile internet access. The INQ Chat has a 3.2 megapixel camera while the INQ Mini has a 2 megapixel camera. Both can support up to 8GB of memory although it will be up to the operator shipping the phones to decide what size memory cards to include."We build phones that focus specifically on what people want to do most on mobile, and deliver it at a price point that's easy for consumers and profitable for operators," explained INQ's chief executive Frank Meehan. "We have completely broken the vice grip hold that high end smartphones had on great mobile internet experiences, and made them available to everybody."
You've probably seen the Sunday Telegraph'ssensationalist interviewwith Archbishop Vincent Nichols, the head of the Catholic Church in England and Wales. Nichols takes a moral swing at the virtual friendships formed on social networking sites, claiming these brittle relationships represent the commodification of community and the death of interpersonal communication:"Too much exclusive use of electronic information dehumanises what is a very, very important part of community life and living together.""Among young people often a key factor in them committing suicide is the trauma of transient relationships."They throw themselves into a friendship or network of friendships, then it collapses and they're desolate."He is, of course, specifically targeting the likes of Facebook and Bebo where 'cyber bullying' would seem to be a daily reality for many (although certainly not all) teen users. It's a shame, though, that his broadside against the whole concept of virtual community completely ignores the hugely positive impact that online gaming has had in many young lives.Sure, if you're going to just drop into a public Modern Warfare server on a Friday night you're going to catch a fair amount of abuse (though being castigated for your poor aiming skills is unlikely to plunge you into depression). But look at the vast, creative and hugely altruistic communities that have built up around games like Quake, Unreal and Half-Life. Look at the big PC casual gaming sites, which are as much about meeting people as they are about playing simple puzzle games for a couple of hours every other evening. Look at lasting relationships that have been formed in World of Warcraft, Eve Online or any other MMO.The whole clan structure of online gaming has facilitated a new social strata in which ability is the only relevant merit - not looks, not cool clothes, not devastating wit. Ability. And actually, if you're playing with the right bunch of people, even ability isn'tthatimportant. You just have to turn up and be a good sport.As a videogame magazine editor, I received dozens of emails from teenagers who saw multiplayer games as a life-saving diversion from the pitiless inter-personal fascism of school life. But that's not headline news, I suppose. No-one wants to hear that adolescent lives have been enriched by technology.
Treasury minister Stephen Timms is being moved to be communications minister in an attempt to keep the government's Digital Britain vision on track.His main task will be to push through controversial plans for a £6-a-year levy on all phone lines to pay for the next generation of super-fast broadband networks and bring a Digital Economy bill before parliament in the autumn.Timms, a former e-commerce minister and technology analyst, will work across the Treasury andLord Mandelson'sDepartment for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS), the Guardian has learned.His appointment comes amid fears that the momentum built up by the outgoing minister, Lord Carter, in his final Digital Britain report in June has fizzled out.His proposals included ensuring all  British homes have access to fast broadband internet by 2012, switching off the analogue radio signal three years later, funding a partnership between BBC Worldwide and Channel 4 to help secure the latter's long-term future, and top-slicing the licence fee to pay for regional news. But since then, work on Digital Britain seems to have stalled. The independent body supposed to ensure that fast broadband is available to all by 2012 was meant to be set up last month, but it will not have a chief executive until October.To pay for the creation of new cable networks the Digital Britain report proposed a 50p-a-month tax on all phone lines. Consultation on that plan was due to be completed early next month but does not appear to have even started yet.The report also pledged that the government will reduce online piracy by 70% through a system of warning letters to persistent offenders, backed up by the threat of reducing their broadband speeds.The wording of the letters and the circumstances under which they would be sent out will be governed by a code of practice agreed by the ISPs and media companies as members of a "rights authority" backed by regulator Ofcom and new legislation.But since the report came out there have been no meetings between the two sides and no one seems to know whether it is up to Ofcom, the government or industry to get the ball rolling again.
Three months after beingsentenced to prison and fined £600,000, one of the men in thePirate Baytrial says he is stepping down from his job as the site's spokesman.Thirty year oldPeter Sunde- known online as "brokep" - announced in a blog post that he was leaving the role, after atumultuousperiodfor the Swedish file sharing site.It's not clear whether he is cutting his involvement with the site entirely, or just stepping down from being point man, butin a post on his blog, Sunde explained that his work with the Pirate Bay was too time-consuming. "I want to build something new and I want to focus my energy in a different direction. I have projects waiting to be finished, a book is waiting to be finalized and many more books are waiting to be read".Although he was not one of the Pirate Bay's founders, Sunde - who holds Norwegian and Finnish citizenship - became involved early on and soon became the public face of the site. He often handed outdismissiveorabsurdrejoinders to those who attacked the operation, and in 2007 he told me in an interview in Malmo that"I don't like the word untouchable, but we feel pretty safe".
The ink isn't dry yet on Microsoft's deal with Yahoo, but theNew York Timesran an excellent article this weekenddelving into the machinations that led to the agreement. Unsurprisingly, Yahoo'sCarol Bartzdoesn't seem to have much problem with things, but intrigues by suggesting that the company - second place in the global search market - hasn't invested heavily enough to really compete.She does regret suggesting at one point that Microsoft would need "boatloads of cash", however: "I made a mistake. I was never interested in doing it for upfront money. That doesn't help me operate a business."Her twist on things makes sense from one perspective, but talking about the weakness of Yahoo's strategy could still cause some trouble for the company.Danny Sullivanpoints out that the deal hasn't closed yet (if nothing else, there's still a spectre of regulatory concern over two big companies joining forces) and said that if the deal breaks down now, Yahoo would be"screwed even more now for admitting that".
Retailers may not like digital distribution, but gamers should be pleased. With full-price releases thin on the ground this summer, download games for Xbox Live, PSN and WiiWare are keeping the consoles fresh. Microsoft in particular is pushing the download theme and Splosion Man is the first of five download releases from the company over the next month.And while it is no classic, it does at least offer something a little different. OK, it is essentially a platform game – but one in which having your character explode is a good thing; indeed, it's the only way to jump and attack. Timing your leaps with exploadable barrels is another crucial feature, allowing you to scale great heights. Don't be fooled by the pretty graphics and the one-liners: there are moments of almost retro-style difficulty. Boss battles are usually excruciatingly tough, offering a far steeper difficulty spike than you would expect. Yes, the battles often look great but after the tenth go you may want to throw your pad through the window.Also annoying is some fussy platforming – gaming veterans will reminisce over the fastidious positioning needed to make some jumps. Repeatedly fail and you get the opportunity to skip the level. Shameful yes, but you'll be whispering thanks to the developers. Co-op play is welcome – but requires skills of its own as you time your explosions to propel other players. Get the right group together, though, and you have an oddly satisfying challenge. Quirky and pretty, if a little too frustrating at times, Splosion Man is an above average platform romp that deserves a download.
Given that it spent decades on a bitter console battle with Nintendo, Sega's total commitment to the Wii is astonishing. While developing for the Wii is a no-brainer, given how many units of the console have been sold, Sega is pretty much the only company making anything other than play-it-safe party games aimed at kids – and right now, that even includes Nintendo.The Conduit exemplifies that approach: it's a proper, grown-up first-person shooter, so it's not so much a rarity as a hen's tooth. Unfortunately, it also offers a graphic illustration of the Wii's shortcomings. Which isn't to say that it's not fun to play, but when you compare it with first-person shooters on other platforms, it comes up short. The Wii's graphics capabilities are, frankly, pathetic (this weekit was suggested, plausibly, that the iPhone is more powerful than the Wii) and The Conduit fails miserably to hide that fact. Mainly, it must be said, due to one of the most dire art-direction/level-design combinations in gaming history, which sees the vast majority of its action take place in grey, generic corridors and grey, generic sewers. Even when you're supposed to be rescuing the US president, you find yourself wondering why he chose to decorate the White House likethat.Which is a shame, because The Conduit gets the basics right. The control system – with the Wii Remote handling aiming, firing, reloading and weapon-swapping, and the Nunchuk controlling movement and target lock-on – is exemplary. The AI isn't bad – with both human and alien enemies swamping you if you don't take out their portals and hatching pods. The storyline is pure conspiracy-theory stuff although, luckily, it remains largely incidental. The weaponry, too, is pretty good – it's always nice to have a shotgun which can hold eight rather than six bullets and is completely  ineffective at distance, while the biomass-fuelled alien Strike Rifle is an all-round gun which would enhance the likes of Halo.If you're a gamer of a certain age looking for something a bit more fulfilling to play on the Wii than the family-friend fluff which currently swamps it, you'll enjoy The Conduit – while occasionally wincing at its faults.
If you thought turning Alan Moore's revered comic into a 160 minute movie seemed like a compromise then the idea of cramming it into a game, let alone in such a dumbed-down genre, will seem little short of sacrilege.However, despite being an undeniably slim (and short) premise, Watchmen has old-skool charm combined with moodily effective graphics. So yes, it's a beat-em-up played out in a mixture of comic-book cut-scenes and 3D fights. The plot is new, taking the form of a prequel storyline split into two parts set five years before the movie's central Keene Act which banned superheroes. In both parts you only get to play as Rorschach or Nite Owl (or both in split-screen co-op mode) with the former able to reel off attacks with any weapons he finds when his "Rage" meter peaks, whereas Nite Owl has to resort to his electrified suit and a variety of bombs.Watchmen: The End is Nigh Photograph: PRCombat is simple but effective, with only light and heavy attacks, blocks and throws initially available to you. However, Combos and Counterattacks are revealed as you progress, as well as Finishing moves where the camera zooms in to make the most of the occasionally brutal detail. Yes, your opponents tend to be a predictable sequence of goons with poorly-acted taunts and a boss showing up at the end, but they do come in satisfyingly large numbers leading to some fraught skirmishes where making the most of the environment proves particularly satisfying. It's also true that once you've got the hang of combos and counters, simply bashing those buttons can get you through where more sophisticated beat-em-ups would rely on precision timing or skill.Another disappointment is unintentionally revealed by the subtitle, The End is Nigh'. Hardened beat-em-up fans will breeze through Watchmen surprisingly quickly, with shallow attempts to prolong the action through mini-puzzles like picking locks or finding levers largely misplaced.However, with its sharp character models, evocative lighting and crisp animation, Watchmen is still diverting once you suspend your disappointment at how lazily the developers have approached such a fascinating license. It's definitely a game that will appeal to old-skool Double Dragon fans more than the likes of Tekken or Soul Calibre and obviously Watchmen aficionados will treat it with disdain out of principle. Let's just hope Alan Moore never sees it, as it will only confirm his disillusionment about how others interpret his work.
So,Google boss Eric Schmidt has stepped down from his other role as a director of Apple. It's been a game of push and pull ever sinceSchmidt took up the post in 2006, but the good doctor has not been keen to relinquish his post. First he said he saw nothing inappropriate (after US regulators said they were lookingsaid they were looking into whether the "interlocking directorates" were illegal) then, last month, saying there was "no issue" but that he would"talk to the Apple people"about the situation.The news obviously negates some of the competitive concerns - but a few salient points remain, chiefly: why now, after so much pressure before; and does this end the worries that the two companies are sometimes too close?The FTC investigation clearly played a major role in this decision, but dissecting it opens some intriguing avenues. The decision wasput out by Apple, and did not include a statement from Schmidt himself (just Steve jobs). Was Schmidt pushed against his will? What role did afederal investigation into Apple, AT&amp;T and Googlehave to play?And what about the future of the FTC's investigation? Schmidt may be gone - destroying the major link between the two technology titans - but it's not over yet: Art Levinson, the chairman of biotech giant Genentech, is still a director of both Google and Apple.Update:I spoke to FTC spokeswoman Claudia Farrell, who said she "can't comment" on whether the announcement will have an impact on the antitrust investigation.Update to the update:The commission has now released a statement saying thatit will continue the investigation into interlocking directorships.
Times Online has an exploding iPod story with two major elements: the size of the explosion (fortunately no one was hurt), and Apple's response.The story says:Ken Stanborough, 47, from Liverpool, dropped his 11-year-old daughter Ellie's iPod Touch last month. "It made a hissing noise," he said. "I could feel it getting hotter in my hand, and I thought I could see vapour". Mr Stanborough said he threw the device out of his back door, where "within 30 seconds there was a pop, a big puff of smoke and it went 10ft in the air".It would have been worse if, for example, the same thing had happened on a plane.After getting what sounds like a run-around from Argos, where he bought the device, Ken contacted Apple. The Times story says:As a result of the conversation, Apple sent a letter to Mr Stanborough denying liability but offering a refund.The letter also stated that, in accepting the money, Mr Stanborough was to "agree that you will keep the terms and existence of this settlement agreement completely confidential", and that any breach of confidentiality "may result in Apple seeking injunctive relief, damages and legal costs against the defaulting persons or parties".He rejects this idea, though Apple says it's "standard practice".The story then moves on to the information dug up byKIRO 7 Eyewitness News, which was the subject of a blog post here on 23 July:iPods that sometimes burst into flamesKIRO said Apple's lawyers tried to prevent the information getting out, which leads the Times to say: "Last week it emerged that Apple had tried to keep a number of cases where its iPod digital music players had started to smoke, burst into flames and even burned their owners, out of the public eye." The Times adds that:Last year the Japanese Government warned that iPod Nanos presented a potential fire risk, saying there had been 14 cases in the country where the players had caught alight, with two people suffering minor burns.None of this gets us very far. We already know that lithium batteries are a potential hazard, not just in iPods or iPhones but in vast numbers of similar devices. What we don't know is whether iPods are more (or even less) susceptible than other products. The sheer scale of iPod sales (173m or so) means that there are likely to be more iPod-related incidents, even though the risk appears to be very, very small.Either way, it could be bad news for Apple, simply because news is a fashion industry. The publicity could encourage more people to come forward with exploding iPod stories (if there are any), and they are more likely to be publicised because the topic is, after all, in the news.But it will probably be hard to see any impact on iPod sales, which fell in the Apple's last financial quarter. Unless, of course, someone gets seriously hurt.
Eric Schmidt, Google's chief executive, has resigned from the board of Apple with immediate effect due to increasing conflicts of interest as competition between the two companies grows.His resignation after three years on the board of the Cupertino-based company comes after the US government announced in May that it was beginning an antitrust investigation into the interlocking directorships between Apple and Google.At the time not only Schmidt but also Arthur Levinson, formerly of Genentech, sat on both boards of the enormously powerful companies. Levinsonremains on the board of Googleat present.A statementattributed by Apple to its chief executive Steve Jobs said: "Unfortunately, as Google enters more of Apple's core businesses, with Android and now Chrome OS, Eric's effectiveness as an Apple Board member will be significantly diminished, since he will have to recuse himself from even larger portions of our meetings due to potential conflicts of interest. Therefore, we have mutually decided that now is the right time for Eric to resign his position on Apple's Board."Google dominates the search and search advertising markets around the world, while Apple is one of the most profitable companies in the computer and mobile phone field.But Schmidt's departure has been prompted by the growing conflicts between the two companies' product portfolios of mobile phone and computing operating systems, and web browsers – and by questions about whether the head of one of the most powerful companies in the world should have such close association with a company many might see as a potential rival.Suspicions of favouritism had been raised because every default Google search made through Apple's Safari web browser brings in a small payment to Apple from Google. (A similar deal with the nonprofit Mozilla foundation generates revenues from Google for searches made with the Firefox browser.)Tensions between Apple and Google may have been heightened by Apple's decision last week to ban Google Voice – a product from the search giant which provides a switchboard function between multiple phone lines and voicemail – from the iPhone.The US Federal Communications Commissionhas announced that it is to investigate the decision, and has demanded information from Apple and AT&amp;T, which has exclusive rights to sell the iPhone in the US, about the reasons behind the decision. AT&amp;T referred the ban to Apple. Observers noted that AT&amp;T also offers BlackBerry mobiles which do provide the Google Voice functionality.Schmidt, who was recruited to Google in 2001 by its founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, was a non-executive director with Apple. When hejoined Apple's board in 2006, Jobs was quoted as saying: "Eric is obviously doing a terrific job as CEO of Google, and we look forward to his contributions as a member of Apple's board of directors ... like Apple, Google is very focused on innovation and we think Eric's insights and experience will be very valuable in helping to guide Apple in the years ahead."Schmidt's role hadcome under scrutiny– and he had admitted that he would "have to examine" it – last month following Google's announcement that it would launch its own operating system, called ChromeOS, to power laptop computers.That meant Apple and Google would be competing not only for the provision of mobile phone operating systems – through the Apple iPhone's OS X and Google's Android – but also on standard computers, through Apple's Mac OS X and Google's ChromeOS, and for browsers, where Apple's Safari is available for the Windows and Apple platforms – as is Google's Chrome browser.At the time, Schmidt told reporters: "I'll talk to the Apple people ... at the moment, there's no issue."In May, Schmidt said that he had not considered resigning over the potential conflicts, just after the revelation of the antitrust investigation.It is not clear whether that investigation will continue now that he has stood down.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
It's Monday, which can mean only one thing. Yes, it's time to look back at the gaming weekend that was. Mine was mainly spent onCall of Juarez: Bound in Blood. Released a few weeks ago I finally got round to spending some serious time with the Wild West shooter.  The pretty – the Deep South landscape is wonderfully depicted -  but derivative Call of Duty-isms of the first level soon gives way to shootouts, stagecoaches and stealth (a highly enjoyable sneak through a corn field). Heck, even the story – Civil War renegades, family honour etc – is half decent. At about half way through it reminds me of recent Martian rompRed Faction Guerilla. Both are very solid 8 out of 10 titles that show how high the standard is in the second tier of releases these days.  They have also benefited from the summer release drought too, with more time for both to grab an audience.The only gaming downer was the non-arrival of the official Ashes game. Codemasters impressive looking cricket title is released next week, hopefully to coincide with England wrapping up the series.So, what did you play this weekend?
As the former head of the British army, General Sir Mike Jackson oversaw a range of regiments armed with some of the most complex weapons and technology ever invented.But yesterday, the general was left embarrassed live on television after he wasdefeated by a ringing mobile phone.His phone went off twice during an interview with the BBC's economics editor Stephanie Flanders, who was standing in for Andrew Marr.Jackson was talking about compensation given to wounded soldiers when the mobile began to ring.Flanders told the general: "You'll have to turn that phone off." Jackson apologised and after sheepishly fumbling with some buttons, managed to silence the call and put the phone in his pocket – only for it to ring again.As he tried to turn it off once more, technology appeared to get the better of him.In the end, Jackson lost his patience, turned around in his seat and flung the handset off camera across the studio in exasperation. After the sound of a heavy crash rang out, he returned to face Flanders and the interview with as straight a face as he could manage.A clip of the general's tussle with technology was later posted on Youtube, where one viewer pronounced the episode as an "absolute classic"."I saw it unfold this morning," they added. "He couldn't turn the phone off earlier! This man was in charge of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan but can't turn off a mobile phone! Priceless."Another said: "Natural comedy genius!! ... but I'm sure he forgot to take out the pin first ... back to basic training I think!"
The Real IRA and Continuity IRA have been dealt a propaganda blow in cyberspace. YouTube has confirmed to the Observer this weekend that it is investigating the presence of films praising the dissident republican terror groups on its worldwide video-sharing network.The company was moved to act after complaints from a Northern Ireland MP, who just last month persuaded Facebook to remove a pro-Real IRA group from the social networking site.A number of propaganda videos for the two groups are thrown up when the words "Real IRA" or "Continuity IRA" are typed into the YouTube search engine.In March the Continuity IRA was responsible for killing a Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) officer. Forty eight hours earlier the Real IRA gunned down two British soldiers outside an army base in Antrim Town just before they were to leave for Afghanistan.In the latest video to be posted on YouTube a masked man in a green combat jacket carrying an AK-47 rifle is seen at a riot in Armagh City on 13 July this year. Continuity IRA supporters have posted a video recorded at Easter of two masked men in combat fatigues addressing a crowd at a bar in Armagh. During their speech they threaten Northern Ireland's deputy first minister Martin McGuinness and brand him a "traitor".A different video posted by a group called the "Free Derry Media", entitled "The War Goes On", is accompanied by a song denouncing the Provisional IRA. The lyrics include a verse telling the British to "stick your decommissioning up your ass". The imagery in the video includes masked gunmen firing a final salute over the coffin of Real IRA activist Joseph O'Connor who was shot dead by the Provisional IRA in west Belfast 10 years ago.Other videos include recent news footage of rioting in north Belfast which is singled out for praise as "Republican Youth Resistance".Lagan Valley MP Jeffrey Donaldson described the films as "a form of cyber-terrorism". The junior minister at Stormont said: "It's entirely wrong that terrorist organisations can engage in blatant propaganda and cyber-terrorism without any apparent sanction. Democratic governments need legislation to limit the capacity of these groups to spread their propaganda. At present, in effect, YouTube are broadcasting hardcore terrorism, unfiltered."Donaldson pointed to the example of Facebook, which he petitioned to remove a pro-Real IRA network from last month, as an example of confronting terrorists on the web. His own Facebook group "Stop Terrorism" has 40,000 members, many of whom wrote to Facebook calling for the pro-Real IRA group to be taken down, he said.YouTube said last night that it shared the MP's concerns about the use of its network to spread pro-terrorist messages. A spokesman said: "YouTube is a community site used by millions of people in very positive ways. Sadly, as with any form of communication, there is a tiny minority of people who try to break the rules. On YouTube we don't allow content like pornography or gratuitous violence, and last year we introduced a new policy for the UK banning videos in which people brandish weapons in a threatening manner."When people see content that they think is inappropriate they can flag it and our staff then review it and take the appropriate action, including removing videos and suspending accounts."As well as enforcing these general content rules, we will of course take action if we receive reports from the authorities of any other illegal activity on the site."We regularly talk about these issues with MPs and elected representatives in other countries, and we'd be very happy to sit down with Mr Donaldson to discuss what we're doing to keep YouTube clean of inappropriate material while ensuring that lawful expression is allowed."The video-sharing network is understood to be replicating its decision in England and Wales to remove any material that involves people using or glorifying weapons like knifes and guns. The company moved to ban this material last year in response to the national outcry over knife crime.YouTube's policy on the broadcasting of weapons in videos varies from country to country. There is no ban in the United States because weapons are legal. It is understood that the company is moving towards removing the Real and Continuity IRA films because both organisations are illegal under British and Irish law.
BMS 7-Series£53,730Miles per gallon:39.2CO2per km:192 gramsGood for:special opsBad for:heart opsBMW's colossal 7-Series, the so-called "dream Beemer" and first choice among discerning CEOs and well-paid Bavarian minicab drivers, has something in common with the chameleon. Here's a clue: it's not that they can both blend into their surroundings, although the majestic 7 is so poised, so purposefully designed that it brilliantly conceals its vast girth - like a fat man wearing a well-tailored suit, the 7's clean lines and balanced proportions disguise the spread of its body. Anyway... give up? The 7 and the chameleon can both see sideways. Amazing, eh! The 7 does it via a pair of tiny cameras buried in the front-wheel arches which beam images on to the dashboard - to help you keep track of bollards and bumpers and to see exactly where the kerb is. Parking this enormous beast, you see, is like lowering a hippo into a hip bath - it's always going to be a tight fit.The 7 is not a driver's car, it is a car to be driven in. The front windows are half the size of those at the back. After all, who cares what the person up front can see - it's all about the comfort of the precious cargo in the back. The knee space back there is a Gobi desert where the handstitched brogues of the fat cat passenger would gently rest. But as I have given my chauffeur the day off, I have had to take on the arduous task of driving myself. So, reluctantly, I disengage myself from the leathery embrace of the back seats and head forwards to the pointy end.But hold on, there's something amiss here. The driver's seat is well upholstered and magisterially comfortable - surely more than a driver deserves. The dash offers a barrage of technical guidance; everything has been done to maximise comfort, safety and, this is a real kick in the teeth, the actual pleasure of the driver. BMW has clearly forgotten that chauffeurs are "servants and not masters".This BMW is a technical tour de force. It's the world's bestselling luxury car, and the four previous generations of the 7 have each raised the bar in the technology on offer - no mean feat considering that the first 750i of 1987 offered more computing power than Nasa needed to put a man on the moon. In this fifth generation, Speed Limit Display - a useful gadget which continuously flags up the speed limit of the road you are driving along - comes as standard. The Lane Departure Warning system shakes you awake by vibrating the steering wheel if you doze off and drift across your lane. Night Vision technology and Pedestrian Recognition have also been improved. Scanning the road up to 300m ahead, the system highlights the proximity of "heat sources" (ie people) near the predicted path of the car. The computer then uses video data and algorithms to predict if any pedestrians are behaving abnormally and might stray into your path, alerting you (or your chauffeur) via a display flashed on to the windscreen. If you ignore this the car takes over and slams on the brakes. And the list goes on. In fact, so clever is this new 7 that we should perhaps let it have a crack at the City jobs its backseat passengers have cocked up - it couldn't do worse.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Inside the Googleplex - the nickname for Google's Californian headquarters - stands a flat screen on which rotates an image of the Earth.As the globe slowly turns, bright lights shoot out like fireworks, illustrating where in the world Google searches are coming from. At the same time, a live feed cascades down one side of the screen with a random sample of search queries, everything from sports scores to Hollywood gossip.It is a stark illustration of what lies behind one of the most powerful companies in the world and of a new industry, barely a decade old, that now lies at the heart of our internet-driven way of life: search.Search measures what everyone in the world wants. For good or ill, all human desires - whether for a new car, a holiday, breaking news, fighting injustice or pornography - are expressed in search.Every time your fingers flick across a keyboard and type words into a search engine, you are telling the internet what you want. Google has built a multi-billion-pound corporate empire on the back of that simple fact, as advertisers flock to the huge database of intentions to try to meet the needs expressed there.It has given Google enormous power as it seeks to put all the world's information at your disposal, making it easily accessible and better able to fulfil your wants. But Google is no longer alone. Last week's announcement of a tie-up between Yahoo and Microsoft will perhaps see the first real challenge to the giant of our unfolding information age. For the first time, meaningful competition could enter the world of search engines and, like the battling railway barons of a previous era, the biggest corporate battle of our time will be under way. Microsoft's Bing search engine will take on Google head to head.It is not hard to see why. This year it is expected that more than one trillion searches will be made online. In five years, that could be three trillion or more. That store of data is of astonishing value to corporations and governments. "It is scary. One does not want to think about it too closely," said Professor David Yoffie of the Harvard Business School. It is often said that information is power. If that is true, the information now collected on the internet - and accessed by our searches - is the most powerful thing on Earth. No wonder the struggle over it is about to be waged so fiercely.In just 10 years, search engines, especially Google, have changed our way of life. Back in 1999 Google was barely a year old as a company. The internet was a place of mostly dial-up accounts and clunky speeds. Now it is a world of fast-speed searches, connected all over the world, often free of charge, and Google has embarked on a mission to put as much of the world's information as possible online and make it searchable. Google is scanning the world's books and photographing the planet, sometimes down to your very own street corner. You can now search videos, maps and images, not only words. And the latest phones allow you access to all that information from almost anywhere in the world at high speed. No wonder Google has become a verb.In a recent post on the company blog, Marissa Mayer, one of Google's top employees, mused openly about where search was heading. It was a revealing insight into what the near future may hold and just how far Google, and other search engines, may end up taking the quest for search.Even now, Mayer thought, accessing all that information was not speedy or convenient enough. She said it was frustrating at times not to be able to search for things without heading for a computer or even typing things into a handheld device. "How about a wearable device that does searches in the background, based on the words it picks up from conversations and then flashes relevant facts?" she said. If that sounds far-fetched, be warned: the idle musings of Google executives have a habit of coming true.The money being ploughed into improving and developing search is enormous. So is the reward. Google generates about $20bn a year in search-related revenue. Aside from Microsoft-Yahoo, a host of other smaller search engines are nipping at its heels or focusing on different areas of the web to get a slice of that pie. One is Wolfram Alpha, which employs a staff of 250 to cull data from government and other public databases. Others, such as Answers.com, Mahalo, and Aardvark, aim to provide specific answers to search queries, not just lists of websites. Artificial intelligence is increasingly a growing part of the search engine world, expertly examining your online patterns to predict your tastes, desires and future needs. Rich Kahn is working to fit AI into his firm's new search engine, eZanga, which should be launched by the end of next year. "Will we be the next Google? Every entrepreneur is aiming for that," Kahn said.From Silicon Valley to Bangalore, computer science whizz kids and the money men who back them are engaged in this quest for "perfect search".  They are writing complex computer codes that can dig down into the so-called Deep Web and scour the most obscure corners of the internet in the blink of an electronic eye. They are called things like Kosmix and DeepPeep and are designed to search the parts of the web that an ordinary Google search misses.But it is also possible that the concept of search may be moving forward so fast that it will outstrip search engines themselves. The explosive growth of social networking services, such as Twitter and Facebook, is taking the concept of search into unknown areas. Both began as ways for friends and acquaintances to share information and news about themselves but then they developed a critical mass. Suddenly Facebook and Twitter became tools that could be searched by their millions of users. Search on Google for a recipe and you will get a relatively random selection. Ask Facebook or Twitter for a recipe and you will get a choice often aimed specifically at you.Nor is it just for trivia. In the recent political turmoil in Iran, Twitter became a vital tool for organising and releasing information about the violent post-election crackdown. If you wanted the latest news from Iran, it was Twitter that you turned to as well. Twitter had showed itself perfectly able to channel people's most profound desires: in this case, political freedom of expression. You can plan a revolution with Twitter.No one saw that coming. Just as no one saw Google coming. It is impossible to predict a future even 10 years ahead. "In the field of search, there is not a 10-year view. It would require a crystal ball," said Mike McVeigh, head of the search division at digital marketing agency Zeta Interactive.What is going on is revolutionary in the purest sense of the word: it upends all established orders in ways no one could foresee. For example, search is a crime-solver. Several murderers have been caught by their Google trace after police looked at their search histories and saw patterns hinting at the crime to come, such as searching for weapons or tips on disposing of bodies. Only two entities knew that the killer wanted to murder someone: the killer and Google.The power of search goes far beyond such cases. By using Google Trends - which analyses Google searches - you can see what is on the minds of people all over the world. It has become a vital tool for seeing how popular things are and spotting needs and desires as they come into being. For corporations, it is a tool of great power, offering a way of tapping into every single customer in the world with access to a computer.But the real power of the internet and search has been to break down gate-keepers. Putting all the information in the world into a form where it can be accessed and searched by anyone has destroyed industries. Just ask journalists, who suddenly find that anyone can listen to a press conference, scan a court case or email a president. Or the music industry, which found the internet had allowed bands to get their music out to the world virtually free. Or publishing. The growth of Amazon and the Kindle electronic book reader is poised to allow anyone to write and sell a book online. It is a democratising of power to the individual, fuelled by the simple fact of allowing people to search for whatever they want without a middle man.There is a potentially dark side to all of this too. All those searches - effectively revealing knowledge about yourself - are logged and of interest to others. We are heading into a world that was previously the remit of science fiction dystopias: of massive computer networks parsing our every moment. Just take the murder example cited above. It is no longer too far-fetched to imagine a world where a husband with a violent history that has been caught in an online record, who has recently searched for a divorce lawyer and then starts to search for poisoning tips, may be brought to the attention of the police by a computer program monitoring his online activities. It could just save his wife's life.But is it really that empowering to have all that information so readily available? Perhaps information does not always equal knowledge. Literacy could collapse in the face of keyboards and searching Wikipedia instead of writing things down from books. Many parents despair at the language and grammar used for texting on mobile phones.In a world where all information is available at the click of a mouse, how much will we bother to store in our minds? "We are heading into a different world," said Jorge Pinto, a professor at New York's Pace University. Perhaps not even Google knows exactly what the world will look like. Yet.
America's Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has written toAT&amp;TandAppleover the rejection of Google's voice application for the iPhone, according toThe Wall Street Journal. The story says:The request is part of a broader-ranging inquiry by the commission on exclusive deals between cell phone carriers and handset manufacturers for hot phones. FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski said Thursday that the FCC wants to look into rural areas where customers can't buy the latest fancy phones because of such exclusive deals.The FCC deals with competition issues and has previously investigated both Intel and Microsoft.The decision to dump Google Voice has led to protests in the blogosphere. On Friday morning, TechCrunch's Michael Arrington announcedI Quit The iPhone, after being "an unabashed cheerleader for the device". He wrote:What finally put me over the edge? It wasn't the routinely dropped calls, something you can only truly understand once you have owned an iPhone (and which drove my friend Om Malik to bail). I've lived with that for two years. It's not the lack of AT&amp;T coverage at home. I've lived with that for two years, too. It certainly isn't the lack of a physical keyboard, that has never bothered me. No, what finally put me over the edge is the Google Voice debacle.His reasoning is as follows:So I have to choose between the iPhone and Google Voice. It's not an easy decision. Except, it sort of is. Google isn't forcing the decision on me, Apple and AT&amp;T are. So I choose to work with the company that isn't forcing me to do things their way. And in this case, that's Google.Mac developer Steven Frankis another to quit on the iPhone, saying Google Voice is "not the only thing I'm mad about, but it was the final straw." He adds:To recap: Not only was the app rejected, but Apple pulled several other third-party Google Voice apps that had already passed the approval process while still leaving those developers on the hook for refunds to customers with misplaced anger about the removal.He's angry because AT&amp;T sells BlackBerrys that can run Google Voice, and iPhone users can still access it via Safari. He says:I've reached a point where I can no longer just sit back and watch this. The iPhone ecosystem is toxic, and I can't participate any more until it is fixed. As people have told me so many times: It's Apple's ballgame, and Apple gets to make the rules, and if I don't like it, I can leave. So, I don't like it, and I'm leaving.Riverturn's VoiceCentral, which integrates Google's GrandCentral and Google Voice, and GV Mobile have also been removed from the App Store. This leaves the problem of what to do about existing customers who want refunds. According toThe Unofficial Apple Weblog(TUAW):Apple is now issuing refunds to users of the VoiceCentral application. That's right, Apple suddenly decided that the application should be removed -- after it had already been approved months ago -- and is now giving out refunds for it when users request them, leaving the developer to foot the bills for both refunds and staffing end-user support to answer questions about what happened to the app.So it appears that Apple can arbitrarily decide to "Steve" an app, through no fault of the developer, but the developer has to pick up the bill.It's too soon to say whether all this is a storm in a teacup or whether it will mark the beginning of the end of the geek love affair with a shiny bit of plastic. However, this is far from being the first time developers have had problems with Apple's secretive and apparently arbitrary decisions with regard to its App Store, and they don't like it.And while in reality Apple has always been proprietary and extremely secretive, and exerted an Orwellian control over its ecosystem, it probably doesn't want to be seen that way.
Millions of internet users who use Skype could be forced to find other ways to make phone calls after parent company eBay said it did not own the underlying technology that powers the service, prompting fears of a shutdown.The internet auction company paid a total of $3.1bn for the telephone service between 2005 and 2007 and is now locked in a legal battle with the technology's owner, Joltid, a company owned by Skype's founders. That may make it impossible for eBay to follow its plan to float Skype on the stock market next year – and give one of Skype's creators, Niklas Zennström, the upper hand in any negotiations. Zennström has been angling to buy the company back.Skype is a big money-earner for eBay. It has more than 480 million registered users and revenues of $170m for the last quarter. It does not need telephony systems as people's own computers route traffic over the internet; its only significant costs will be payments to telephone operators where calls exit the internet, for which Skype's customers pay.eBay says that it filed a claim against Joltid in the English high court in March, and that Joltid, which owns the key technologies for Skype, then "purported to terminate the licence agreement". Without the licence, Skype may be worthless to eBay because it will be unable to run it legally – or might have to pay swingeing licence fees to keep it going.However, eBay's legal counsel insisted that "our plans to separate Skype have not changed". There was no other comment from eBay on the litigation.The case has arisen because Joltid, set up in 2001 by Zennström and Janus Friis – who both went on to found Skype in 2003 – licenses its software to Skype, which enables the company to build its huge internet telephony system, which connects millions of computers. Whereas most systems only connect a couple of computers, Skype's distributes the call among thousands of machines, making it extremely robust.Joltid alleges that Skype "should not possess, use or modify certain software source code" and that eBay has disclosed some of that code in US patent cases following US court orders. It is seeking to revoke Skype's licence on the basis of copyright infringement and misuse of confidential information.Although the case is not scheduled to be heard until June 2010, it leaves eBay at the mercy of Zennström and Friis in any attempt to float or sell off Skype. Without Joltid's licence, Skype would have to develop a new software system while not disturbing its existing half-billion users.
Hello Kitty, for the uninitiated, is a cute, fictional, red bow-wearing Japanese cat who, since the early-80s, has become an obsession for tween-age girls and women who don't want to stop being tween-age girls. This is the blog of a man who lives with one such obsessive in a home furnished and decorated entirely in Hello Kitty merch; in part it's his fault because he suggested his wife turn her hobby into a business. He shares a Hello Kitty family car, sleeps under a Hello Kitty duvet, talks on a Hello Kitty phone and uses a bathroom containing Hello Kitty toilet paper. Nothing it seems is incapable of being branded by the pink kitten from nipple tassels to condom holders.
Tophat tweetsProfessor Layton And The Curious Village was a charming puzzle-based game released last year for Nintendo DS, which featured the good professor and his assistant Luke solving a series of miniature mysteries. With a new instalment due this autumn, it was no shock to see @TopHatProfessor turning up on Twitter with @ApprenticeLuke, entirely in character, with a neat line in riddles to be solved by fellow Twits. The ensuing conversation, littered with observations and new mental challenges, has been amusing followers ever since. The unusual thing about this is that @TopHatProfessor isn't a viral marketing initiative from Nintendo, but actually the work of American journalism student, Roger DiLuigi, whose ongoing chat about exotic teas and early evening snacks was created purely for the love of a game he felt had been underexposed.
The very wonderful Dev Hynes, who now flies solo-ish under the banner of Lightspeed Champion, was previously in a band with the most terrible name in the history of terrible band names - Test Icicles. Anyone hoping this was an isolated punning incident will be disappointed to note that Dev's love of awful punning is still going strong. In fact, were he a superhero, it would undoubtedly be his supwerpower, maiming villains with puns on his blog with regular, lengthy, truly abysmal Puns of the Day, plus punning film reviews: Harry Potter And The Half-Blood Prince was "totally Rad(cliffe)". Fortunately the music he makes is ace; there are snippets of his new album here, alongside videos, comic-book work and discussion and Flickr pages. Dev-astatingly cool. Sorry.
In Disney's imagining of a near-future, rodent-led secret service, a group of grizzled guinea pigs is sent in where human spies would be too easy to spot. It's summer blockbuster time and the games industry is as ever in its thrall.Taking control of jet-pack wearing G-Force team leader, Darwin and his useful robotic fly, Mooch, your job is to steal blueprints, rescue teammates and fight the wide range of household appliances the evil Saber Corporation has turned against the populace. Despite the tedium of its battles and blandness of its environments, G-Force arrives with unexpected levels of personality, both in terms of mission variety and voice acting by the original cast. Things do get repetitive, especially in the latter stages of its 10-ish hours of mild-mannered guinea pig espionage, but for a film spin-off this is actually surprisingly inoffensive.• Disney Interactive, &pound;14.99-&pound;39.99
To coincide with the release of the identically named film, GI Joe: The Rise Of Cobra tells the simple story of GI Joe shooting bad people.The baddies in question are pumped full of "nano machines" to explain why they conveniently evaporate postmortem and engaging them takes the form of a depressingly dull series of gunfights. With no control over the camera on offer, it's easy for the game to funnel you into the next onslaught of nano-infused idiots; the downside is that the unstinting sheets of fire emanating from your gun will regularly aim themselves at unseen assailants and there's absolutely no way of having a look to see what you're blowing up. With voice acting so wooden that if you nailed it together you could build an ark, the one ray of hope in an otherwise bleak landscape of desolation is that at least this doesn't take itself too seriously.• Electronic Arts, &pound;24.99-&pound;34.99
