Be Kind Rewindbekindmovie.comIn Michel Gondry's new film, Jack Black's strange magnetic powers wipe out an entire video stores stock of blockbusters. Together with Mos Def, he replenishes the shelves with homemade versions of all the tapes he erased. Here, the internet has accidentally been erased and replaced by a new version of the web constructed with the aid of a marker pen, string and a great big arrow curser on the end of a wire. Try googling cats, iPods or naked celebrities, or "Swede" yourself on to the cover of numerous VHS classics.Stuff White People Likestuffwhitepeoplelike.wordpress.comNot long ago, satirical list sites such as this would poke fun at minorities and lower occupants of the US social class system (trailer trash, fans of Linkin Park or those still sporting mullet hairstyles). The game has moved on as this blog laughs sardonically at the cliched lifestyles of the white majority and, specifically, middle class liberals whose favourite things include yoga, expensive sandwiches, Wes Anderson movies, renovating their homes and having two last names. The accuracy of some posts will hurt any liberal-leaning soul - the essay on recycling is especially well targeted.What we learned on the web this week&middot; Every girl loves a big moustachehandlebarclub.co.uk/archive.htm&middot; Yes, there will be blood - but also milkshakesidrinkyourmilkshake.com&middot; The cost of a journey from London's King's Cross to Paddington stationworldtaximeter.com&middot; Where to watch funny online drama Pennyweighttinyurl.com/2ueqb8&middot; Mongolian Hot Pot is the new sushidn.vc/67tkpn&middot; Where to write a letter to future youfutureme.org&middot; There is another way: the Charlatans new album is freethecharlatans.net&middot; The compilers of the steepest street in the world list have never been to Walestinyurl.com/2rk5w8&middot; The ballsiest con artists of all timetinyurl.com/2yghbc&middot; What it's like inside Number 10 Downing Streettiny.cc/z1dl4Blog Roll:GeekGeekstirgeekstir.comSuper Mario World in Lego and Iron Man trailer in HD.Unofficial Apple Weblogtuaw.comHow to clean your MacBook with toothpaste, and word of the biggest USB mouse in the world.Geek Dadblog.wired.com/geekdad/2008/02/seven-habits-of.htmlSeven habits of highly effective spaceship captains, stealth wiring and shortwave radio facts.Gizmodo Ukuk.gizmodo.comThe ugliest mobile of 2008, shoes for the terminally sad and new Bluetooth speakers.Radio Labsbbc.co.uk/blogs/radiolabsWi-fi polling, android phones, indoor camping and other goings on with BBC's techies.Techdirttechdirt.comMourning the death of HD DVD and how to make Twitter useful.Geekologiegeekologie.comSpy gear, incredible houses (pictured), weird cars and kinetic powered phones.
My elderly Psion PDA looks as though it's nearing the end of its life. I use it mainly for the diary and address book - any suggestions for a replacement?PDA fanatics in your position have never had better options. The increasing power of smartphones, such as the BlackBerry and iPhone, means a mobile suits your purposes, which could save money and hassle. But if you're still looking for a separate device, you could do worse than the Palm Z22, around &pound;70.My Pure Tempus digital radio often declares 'no programme found', or starts OK and then croaks and goes silent. The helpline said to try it in another room, but I want it only in the kitchen. Reception is susceptible to weather and time of day. Are they all like this, or have I got a bad one?The fact that reception varies so wildly could indicate some outside interference - perhaps a nearby microwave, other electrical item or even passing traffic. Try borrowing a friend's DAB radio to see if it suffers the same problem. The worst case would be you're in a bad reception area, in which case you might need a new aerial. This would boost digital TV reception, too, but it's not ideal.&middot; email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
MondayMore 360 filmsHave games had their punk moment?TuesdayToshiba quits HD DVDTorchwood gets grilledMicrosoft's Bad DayKonami's fist gameWednesdayMario and Sonic top UK chartsTouching me, touching youMario Kart and Wii FitStreet Fighter movie - cast announcedThursdayGears of War 2 announcedLost and reviews2008: the year of the indie?What are your obsolete gaming skills?FridayGridrunner hits FacebookThe future is networked: what does that mean for networking?Experimental games at GDCWii vs 360
Any move by the government to introduce legislation that forces the UK's broadband providers to police the internet by clamping down on illegal sharing of copyrighted music and movies would be technologically unworkable and create a legal minefield, experts have warned.In a wide ranging review of the UK's £60bn creative industry, culture secretary Andy Burnham this week called on internet service providers (ISPs) to come up with a workable plan to stop music and movie piracy, or the government will bring in its own laws next year.The industry's trade body, the ISPA, has spent months in discussions with music and movie companies about ways of preventing illegal filesharing, but buoyed by recent success in France, the major record labels and Hollywood studios have lobbied the government hard for faster action.One senior internet industry executive, who did not wish to be named, said this intensive political lobbying has "given the government a completely false idea of what is possible with current technology".Legal experts, meanwhile, pointed out that if the government does opt for new legislation it will need not only to rip up parts of the current legislation and amend data protection laws, but its plans could fall foul of wider human rights laws that entitle people to a degree of privacy in their communications."The big issue, frankly, is the impossibility of the internet service providers getting in amongst it and monitoring what goes on on their networks," warned Alex Brown, internet law specialist at Simmons &amp; Simmons."Technically speaking, it's near impossible to do. The sheer volume of traffic means it just cannot be done fast enough. And this is a technical problem, not a legal problem. What is going to stop people stealing content is not the law — these people already know it is illegal; what will stop people is a technical solution that adequately protects both people's rights and copyrighted material. But we do not have one."The sheer scale of online piracy in the UK has been highlighted by new research from price comparison siteMoneysupermarket.comtoday, which shows that nearly one in five British internet users admit to having illegally downloaded copyright material.Rob Barnes, head of broadband and mobiles at moneysupermarket.com, said many internet users do not actually know that the content they are downloading is illegal when they access it."The government is trying to prevent this growing problem, but it's clear people are not always aware they have infringed on copyright law," he said. "Perhaps the government should focus on educating people on the penalties of copyright [violation], as well as what actually constitutes piracy."Among the 26 commitments made by the government to help the creative industries is a pledge to "promote better understanding of the value and importance of intellectual property" through school education programmes. It also wants to increase the fine that magistrates can impose on "pirates" from its current limit of £5,000.The music and film industries welcomed the government's backing in the fight against piracy, which they claim lost them £460m in 2006, but the government's Creative Britain: New Talents for the New Economy document provided little detail of how the ISPs are supposed to stop the online pirates.The music labels and Hollywood studios, however, believe recent plans announced in France could provide a blueprint for the UK market. Last year French president Nicolas Sarkozy backed an industry proposal that would see the country's ISPs monitor all their traffic for illegal filesharing.British internet technology experts, however, believe the lack of detail in the French proposal shows the sheer complexity — and expense — of any system that requires service providers to check out every bit of data that travels across their networks.Data traversing the internet is split into "packets", around which is wrapped information about where that piece of information is going. Like the address on an envelope, that data can easily be read, and initially it provided information to suggest the contents of the packet might be illegally copied copyrighted material. But peer-to-peer filesharing technology has evolved and now merely reading the so-called "packet header" will give no clue as to what's inside.Inspecting the actual contents of the packet is much more difficult. It is also currently illegal. Under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) the UK's ISPs are not allowed to inspect the contents of packets without proper authority and only when such action is necessary and proportionate in the context of the issue being investigated.These powers are used by the police to intercept and copy email and other traffic in terrorism investigations. Legal experts doubt that snooping on everyone's internet traffic just to protect the commercial interests of the music and film industries would be allowed under the current legislation. In addition, the police do not translate their intercepted material in "real time", as would be necessary in any UK-wide piracy clampdown.Experts also warn that even if the technology evolved to make real-time, so-called "deep packet" monitoring — or "sniffing" — easy and cheap to do, the serious filesharers would simply start encrypting their content. As a result, only first-time or inexperienced filesharers would end up being caught.Already there are several programs that use the popular bittorrent filesharing technology — such as Azureus, which can encrypt files so they are harder to spot.One suggestion mooted by the music and film industry is for the ISPs to flag up as potential filesharers any customer with high data usage. But the booming popularity of legitimate broadband TV services such as the BBC's iPlayer and ITV.com, as well as the arrival of downloadable film rental services from sites such as Amazon, means that being a heavy consumer of bandwidth will increasingly be no indication of wrongdoing.One voluntary way of dealing with major filesharers might be for the ISPs to prevent their users accessing the "tracker" websites that help filesharers set up the peer-to-peer connections they need in order to swap content.A similar voluntary system of website blocking already exists for sites known to contain child pornography. But such a blacklist of sites risks wiping out all trackers, some of which do not signpost copyrighted material.Forcing the ISPs to start monitoring what their customers do also ends their legal protection as a so-called mere conduit, leaving them open to lawsuits if they cut off a user who has not been doing anything illegal.The ISPA warned today that any forced monitoring of internet traffic could lead to the collapse of many of the country's smaller ISPs.Getting a workable system in France is easier as the country has less than a dozen ISPs. In the UK there are more than 140, and if they have to start spending millions of pounds installing new equipment, many of the smaller players could go bust without support from the hugely profitable music and film industry."Internet service providers are not law enforcement officers," said a spokesman for the ISPA. "And rights holders such as film and music companies already secure their rights in other formats, so it's only right for an industry to help pay to protect its intellectual property."A spokesman for the Department for Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform said: "We would of course prefer a voluntary solution and we are certainly not pretending it will be easy."The government intends to consult the internet industry about possible steps it can take after Easter, but if the industry cannot come up with a solution then the government will look at legislative solutions in 2009.
Shy and retiring Nintendo US boss Reggie Fils-Aime haspredictedthat the Wii will outsell the 360 by June in the US. And he's probably right, although I reckon Wii Fit will have more eventual impact than Super Smash Bros Brawl. But are the Wii and 360 actually competitors any more? The 360 can try going casual - SceneIt? and er, Viva Pinata - but it will always struggle to be a convincing family machine. Likewise the Wii will never satisfy the HD/shooter/sport/male needs of the hardcore. Nope, the real "battle" is between 360 and PS3 - care to lay your bets on which of these will have sold the most by 2010? PS3 by a Blu-ray inspired whisker? I think so.
Following on frommy piece in yesterday's section, the government has published - in ajoint "strategy paper"from theDepartment of Culture, Media and Sport, the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (BERR) and the Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills (DIUS).Interestingly, it's threatening to get tougher on - one assumes - car-boot pirates and their ilk:we intend to consult on introducing exceptional summary maxima (above £5,000) in the Magistrates' Courts for offences of online and physical copyright infringement.The bits relevant to ISPs though are the threat thatWhile a voluntary industry agreement [to prevent illegal downloading by the wider public] remains our preferred option, we have made clear that we will not hesitate to legislate in this area if required. To that end, we will consult on the form and content of regulatory arrangements in 2008 with a view to implementing legislation by April 2009.ISPs' reaction? One large ISP I've spoken to, on condition of anonymity is quite bitter: "The DTI [BERR, now] has completely swallowed the BPI [UK music industry] line," said a source there. "This is really disappointing."The suggested model being batted around by ISPs and the BPI is that the BPI (and movie studios) would monitor the net for illegal downloading, then pass on their evidence to the relevant ISP, which would send a warning letter to the user of the IP address. Three warnings and you'd get disconnected ("for a time," said Margaret Hodge of DCMS, weirdly). You might have a database of people who've been warned, or cut off, rather as the insurance industry does to protect itself from fraud.OK, except: what if someone says it wasn't them when they get cut off? What if they demand to see the evidence? It's almost certain that at some stage, a powerful lawyer or similarly well-connected bod will be targeted, and it could turn into a big mess. But the BPI and film studios are saying that's the ISPs' problem - they won't share legal responsibility.Similarly, say the ISPs, if you introduce this then what's to stopforeignmusic companies and film studios from hassling you, demanding you send notices? The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) has already been hassling ISPs here, despite having absolutely no legal standing. What if someone's accused of downloading material which isn't available in the UK? Whose legal responsibility is that, and would you - extreme case - face extradition?It's a complete mess, to be honest, because even while it doesn't require ISPs to inspect packets it does put extra costs on them - which can't be calculated because you can't tell how many "warnings" there might be flying around. (Well, if about 40% of the population uses filesharing, that's going to be millions of warnings.)Result:cost of being an ISP goes up.Result:ISPs go out of business.Result:cost of broadband goes up, or doesn't fall.Result:people don't have so much money to spend on digital goods.Result:content industries lobby even harder to protection against piracy.Two laughable statistics find their way into the report, on p53. First, from the British Video Association: "the cost of pirate audiovisual goods and illegal downloads amounted to £460m in 2006." Second, "a 10% reduction in software piracy in the UK would generate 30,000 jobs and contribute £11bn to the official economy."The problem with the first is that each car-boot pirate DVD (which I deplore: seriously, don't encourage those people) does not equate to a "lost" DVD sale. It's a never-sold DVD.The second: well, by that logic, removing piracy algother would generate 300,000 jobs and £110bn. I know how we can do that: shut down the internet and ban CD- and DVD-writers. Easy enough, surely. It's the same fallacy as the BVA's: that each act of "piracy" equates to one lost sale. Sorry, but no.What's not mentioned anywhere is the reality of the internet: that the internet, as well as routing around damage, routes around high costs towards low ones. If you can get music or video cheaper somewhere, then a number of people will. They're not going to head back uphill if you remove that low-cost option. They'll just head outwards, looking for the lowest-cost one they can. Only when the music and film industries meet them will we all be able to relax.
Ah, just smell the censorship in the air. While China is expressing upset thatthe US Olympic team is going to be bringing its own food to the gameslater this year (apparently due to fears that the local chicken might be too chock full of hormones to let the athletes pass blood tests), nobody has yet broached the question of whether overseas athletes' net connections will be censored in the same way as those of ordinary Chinese, whose search results are filtered for "politically sensitive" (read: embarrassing) words, who can't easily access all of Wikipedia, and who live with ISPs that self-censor.Nor, indeed, is there any word on whether journalists within the Olympic enclave will be able to use the "uncensored" Google that they are used to; nor whether they'll be able to look at their own newspapers' websites, which one suspects is, to say the least, challenging for the locals in Beijing.Let's start with the athletes, though. The International Olympic Committee has said that they are allowed to blog (as long as it's in the form of "a diary or journal", does not include interviews with other competitors, does not include pics of events, has the consent of any other photographed athlete — no pics of the canteen, then — and is not for commercial gain).Self-important and uselessI have to admit that I can't find precisely where the IOC said this on itsself-important and useless site. The Executive Boardmet in early December in Lausanneto discuss this issue. Maybe they're holding heats to decide who should get to post the meeting's decisions. Or perhaps the search function is broken. Still, Nir Ofirhas the dirt.His blog also includes the bizarre fact that athletes arebanned from podcasting from Beijing. Why blogging but not podcasting? Oh, come on. Because, well, sound and vision is, um, unmediated — and so the IOC holds it to itself as commercially valuable — whereas writing a blog must involve some creativity, so it's not something intrinsic to the games.So editing sounds doesn't constitute creativity? I must introduce the IOC to the music industry sometime.Anyway, what about internet access? I went to the trouble of downloading the 273-page "Service Guide" for the media (foundhere; I don't recommend you try it). You can't search for what it says about internet access, because the whole document, rather than being a standard PDF, is one giant set of images. But there is a section on "Internet access policy"."Convenient internet access"It reads, in full: "During the Beijing Olympic Games, foreign journalists will be provided with convenient internet access in order to help them report the Games successfully. [The] One-Stop service of the Beijing Olympic Media Centre will also offer assistance to foreign media organizations and foreign journalists in this respect."And that's it. Nothing on quite what sort of "convenient" access it will be. But I will be very, very interested to find out whether it is the sort of access that is "convenient" to journalists and athletes — including Chinese ones — or to the Chinese government, which finds so much about openness and discussion, and indeed choice (such as where you get your food from), inconvenient.The Olympic Games are meant to be a spectacle, but these might be the first for a long time where the offstage wrangling is just as important as the pursuit of medals. And the internet will have a front seat.
The always interesting Tigsource.com has posted about Jonathan Blow'sexperimental gameplaysessions atGDC- an annual look at offbeat indie projects.Tigsource hasa list of the titles featuredat this year's sessions and it's well worth clicking through all the links to discover a bit more about games likeCursor*10(isometric vector graphics-style puzzler),Line Golf(design your own Line Rider-esque golf courses) andBraid, an as-yet-unfinished action puzzler (pictured).It's all fascinating stuff and given the interest being shown in the indie sector by Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony, many of these could be appearing on a console download service near you one day. Get in there now, then, so you can appear knowledgeable and super geeky (in a good way) when your mates are paying a fiver each for these titles in 2009...
And speaking ofgames going to social networks, at the Game Developers Conference this week, a bunch of games industry luminaries argued thatthe future of computer games is networked. And not only that, but that "the web is kicking the console industry's ass in a major way" (says Raph Koster).Bringing games to the web isn't as difficult as bringing the web to games. After all, one of the most important portals for the substantial casual, mainstream gaming population is the Internet. But on the other hand, games makers appear resistant to bringing web lessons to the consoles.One of the more successful attempts has been to incorporate social networking into the gaming experience. With Web comes a phenomenal opportunity for interpersonal connectivity. Gamer networks like Xbox Live, the PlayStation Network and the gaggle of World of Warcraft social nets suggest that gamerswouldlike to make community ties with other players. Their motivations appear to be manifold: to play with people of equal ability, to avoid griefers, to meet new people. But surely if the holy grail is to get more people to come to the consoles, there are even more design opportunities that could bring an expanded gaming population which seeks to express themselves through - but also beyond - gaming.How best to create a gaming system that will bring people together, and hopefully keep them in the thrall of gaming and its culture? Go the Xbox Live/Facebook route of displaying gamer score feeds on the profiles of friends? Scrape data from other social networks informing people of interests beyond gaming? Or should designers leave all this networking malarky out of it and hope that new players will fall under the spell of the games themselves?What web networking mechanics would you love to see in games that you think would bring your non-gamer mates into the fold, and keep them there?
Rounding off a retro-tastic (mental note:neveruse that phrase again) few days, Eidos' casual gaming arm, Eidos New Media has released a Facebook version of classic C64 shooter, Gridrunner. Launched through the company'sGimme5gamessite, Gridrunner ++ is an updated version of Jeff Minter's old gem, featuring updated psychedelic visuals - if I'm not very much mistaken this originally appeared as a mobile game a couple of years ago.Facebook fanatics can get the gamehere, but there's also an online versionhere. Commodore 64 fans are now spoiled for choice when it comes to nostalgic gaming platforms. An iPod version of Paradroidmustbe in the works now surely?
I've been banging on for ages about the fact that you can easily lose access to any data that is "stored" on the web (I'm not claiming any originality: I think it's important). I just wrote a column about it:Never assume your data is safe, even if it's online. I'm therefore delighted to see esteemed security researcher Bruce Schneier making similar points, not for the first time, inWhen the Internet Is My Hard Drive, Should I Trust Third Parties?.As Bruce points out, "More and more, information we rely on -- either created by us or by others -- is out of our control. It's out there on the internet" and "bits and pieces of the web disappear all the time." Sites die, unpredictably, and when they die, they take most users' data with them, because they have not kept their own copies.In the early days of the web, I remember feeling giddy over the wealth of information out there and how easy it was to get to. "The internet is my hard drive," I told newbies. It's even more true today; I don't think I could write without so much information so easily accessible. But it's a pretty damned unreliable hard drive. The internet is my hard drive, but only if my needs are immediate and my requirements can be satisfied inexactly.Bear this in mind when the next snake-oil salesman does a pitch for "cloud computing". Sure, you can let somebody else take responsibility for the safety and security of your data, but only if you don't mind losing it.
"A group led by a Princeton University computer security researcher has developed a simple method to steal encrypted information stored on computer hard disks," reportsThe New York Times.It's pretty simple. Memory chips hold data for a short while after the power is turned off. Cool the chips and they hold it longer."Cool the chips in liquid nitrogen (-196 °C) and they hold their state for hours at least, without any power," Edward W. Felten, a Princeton computer scientist, wrote in a Web posting. "Just put the chips back into a machine and you can read out their contents."There's a technical paper (PDF) about it.
What's your favourite piece of technology?It would be myBlackBerry.It lets me keep in touch with all the people I'm away from, people I love and can't see a lot of. I use it for work too, for emailing and so forth. It's also a camera and plays music for me.How has it improved your life?My computer broke last week, and I lost all of the data on my hard drive. So I was able to keep my contacts and all of my phone numbers. It's taken me away from sitting in front of a computer screen all the time.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I'm using it right now to do this interview! I actually dropped it in the toilet yesterday [at the Sharkwater premiere in London] and dried it off under one of those hand dryers — it's a miracle it's even working today.What additional features would you add if you could?I would give it a decent video camera and probably a still camera with a decent optical zoom.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yes. The data we work with is going up in size, so its ability to store data won't be able to work with the information we'll be storing in 10 years.What one tip would you give to non-BlackBerry users?I would probably say to spend as little time on a computer as you can, and that's easier to do with a BlackBerry.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?I definitely lean towards the nerd. I like technology — the fact that I have an iPod with music on it, and a BlackBerry that I can use at any time of the day, that's cool.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My Sony HDWF900 video camera, which I use for doing all my filming.Mac or PC?Mac — very strongly. Macs make life better, I think they're a lot more human than PCs are. They have a really human way of interacting with users. And they look better.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?What Else Is There, byRoyksopp.Will robots rule the world?No, because I think by the time they could rule the world there won't be any energy sources left for them to run on.What piece of technology would you most like to own?There's a little motorcycle that turns into a helicopter, it will cost $70,000 and is supposed to be available next year. That would be amazing. Any sort of flying device would get me excited.Sharkwateris out today.Read Cath Clarke's review.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Well, we've had a nostalgic day so far and here's the perfect icing on the retro gaming cake: Nintendo has announced that a selection of classic Commodore 64 titles will be coming to Wii's Virtual Console.The first titles to make the transition will be Archer MacLean's legendary fighting game, International Karate, and Andrew Braybrook's top-down shooter, Uridium. More will follow.So, come on, give us your Top Five wishlist (imagining for a second that you haven't already got all these on a PC/PDA/mobile C64 emulator). Try to go for titles that haven't been re-made every year (Bobble Bubble, Boulderdash, etc) and that you genuinely think youwouldstill play and enjoy.Here are mine:1. Paradroid - absolutely timeless. 2. Bruce Lee - I don't care if it's rubbish now. 3. Skool Daze - "Please sir, I cannot tell a lie..." 4. Alien - really scary. 5. Zoids - brilliant proto-RTS.
Many of us are waiting for a Microsoft press conference to start at 8.30am Redmond time (20 minutes from now) with all the big hitters: Ballmer, Ozzie, Bob Muglia and legal eagle Brad Smith. (They got our attention by promisingnotto talk about Yahoo.) Oddly enough, someone at Microsoft is even more on the ball and hasposted the press releasealready.So (barring people who type faster than me), I can perhaps exclusively reveal that:To enhance connections with third-party products, Microsoft will publish on its Web site documentation for all application programming interfaces (APIs) and communications protocols in its high-volume products that are used by other Microsoft products. Developers do not need to take a license or pay a royalty or other fee to access this information. Open access to this documentation will ensure that third-party developers can connect to Microsoft's high-volume products just as Microsoft's other products do.Also:Microsoft is providing a covenant not to sue open source developers for development or non-commercial distribution of implementations of these protocols.The products covered are: "Windows Vista (including the .NET Framework), Windows Server 2008, SQL Server 2008, Office 2007, Exchange Server 2007, and Office SharePoint Server 2007, and future versions of all these products."This seems to go much further than even the European Commission demanded. It will be interesting to see ifNeelie Kroesstill wants to be a monkey on Steve Ballmer's back ... but I suspect she does.At least the guys atSambashould be pleased. It's a win for them.
Bill Gates sparks dreamsThrough DreamSpark, Microsoft is offering its professional developer and designer tools to up to 1 billion students for free.channel8.msdn.comDouble Twist unlocks iTunesA company co-founded by Norwegian hacker "DVD Jon" lets users play their iTunes tracks on other devices, essentially by ripping them at high speed.doubletwistventures.comThunderbird gets nestThe Mozilla Foundation, which looks after Firefox, has set up a new subsidiary to look after the Thunderbird email software.mozillamessaging.comNew old museum siteThe British Museum has redesigned its website for virtual visitors, following its change to a world-friendly domain name ending in .org instead of .co.uk.britishmuseum.orgMeet me halfwayInbetwixt suggests places for people to meet, if given both starting addresses.inbetwixt.comX-Force reportsIBM's X-Force security team has published its annual report for 2007 on malware trends and insecurities.Download the PDFhereIBM's PowerUpIBM has launched PowerUp - a free multiplayer online game that enables teens to save the world - as part of the US's TryScience educational initiative.powerupthegame.orgPowerUp on YouTubeYou report, iReportCNN is launching a website that will be based on user-produced news.ireport.com
The Electronic Frontier Foundation has posted a story that saysAdobe Pushes DRM for Flash, and obviously they're against it. The story says:Now Adobe, which controls Flash and Flash Video, is trying to change that with the introduction of DRM restrictions in version 9 of its Flash Player and version 3 of its Flash Media Server software. Instead of an ordinary web download, these programs can use a proprietary, secret Adobe protocol to talk to each other, encrypting the communication and locking out non-Adobe software players and video tools. We imagine that Adobe has no illusions that this will stop copyright infringement -- any more than dozens of other DRM systems have done so -- but the introduction of encryption does give Adobe and its customers a powerful new legal weapon against competitors and ordinary users through the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA).The DMCA bans tools that help "circumvent" any DRM system (as well as the act of circumvention) so this could stop people remixing them. Indeed, the EFF says: "Even if users aren't targeted directly, technology developers may be threatened and the technologies the users need driven underground."Of course, we also know that Microsoft is busy putting DRM into Silverlight, which will enable companies that stream unprotected Flash to stream protected Silverlight (standard SMPTE 421M, aka VC-1, aka WMV9) instead. If Adobe does nothing, that should give Silverlight a competitive advantage for broadcasters, and even the rentagob crowd might not be able to shout it down. So I reckon that DRM is something Adobehasto do, whether it likes it or not.I'll try to ask them about this, but the time difference to California means it's best done later....
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
No, not Indiana Jones, although gosh aren't we excited about the (geriatric) movie and lego versions of the series, but several pundits are postulating that this is the year of the Independent Game.Wired's Daniel Terdimanpreviewedthis week's Game Developer Conference highlighting the successful indie-big label partnerships that have emerged from the close relationship between GDC and the Independent Games Festival, and pointing out that this year's big announcements from the Big Three are expected to be geared towards indie games. From the article:After a year defined as much by breakout hits like Portal as it was by blockbuster titles, 2008 is shaping up to be the year that indie games take off. The makers of the big three gaming platforms are eyeing inexpensive, downloadable games as the next big thing, with Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft all using this year's Game Developers Conference as a launch pad for indie titles they've snapped up.And indeed, it is: Microsoft launched its Creator's Club - a platform for anyone to distribute indie games to the thriving international community (for only $30 per month; more info in thepress releaseand fromCnet), and Nintendo gave more information onWiiWare, its indie games platform.But what do the indie developers themselves think?Gamespot'sprovided great coverage from the indie games summit's 'State Of...' panel:[Kyle] Mak focused less on business prospects and more concerned with the way the gaming medium will evolve. When he first started developing, Mak said that programming even the simplest of actions was an intricately technical process. As such, he said, technical-minded people were more commonly successful with game development, and that has led to a preponderance of games built on lots of rules. ... However, with the barriers to game development lowering and the process becoming more open to novice coders, Mak said the creative forces behind the games will drift further from the rule-driven action of Gears of War. As for how to turn those ideas into reality, Mak stressed the need to get straight to the heart of the matter.Looking for great indie games? you could do much much worse than this year's list ofIndependent Games Festival Winnersannounced last night. Then let us know what you think!
Because either it is stupid, or thinks its customers are, or both. Actually, that's slightly (but only slightly) unfair.The company says that it has indeed been calling customers and asking them to confirm their identities by giving up their passwords and home addresses in order to comply with the Data Protection Act. Which, of course, is the kind of thing a company says when it doesn't have a proper grasp of Data Protection Act compliance.So what's going on? If you're a Virgin Media customer then you may recently have received a call from someone claiming to be a Virgin Media employee conducting a customer services review on behalf of the company. So far, so believable. Then, this unexpected caller will have asked you to confirm your identity by revealing your password. Or your home address. Or both. How do we know? They called me.At this point, your identity-theft alarm bell may have sounded at the possibility that you were being phone-phished, socially engineered or otherwise being taken for a berk by someone from Nigeria with 419 similar calls already under their belt. Ringing up and asking for such details is a classic scam.Except that this isn't a scam. It's real: Virgin Media has actually been doing this. But it must, to comply with the Data Protection Act, remember? What does the Data Protection Act say on compliance? Well, it says a quite lot - around37,000 long, dull and tedious words- but it doesn't say that companies should call customers unexpectedly and ask for their passwords. That would be stupid.How stupid? Ask the security-meisters at the Home Office: "Never give personal or account details to anyone who contacts you unexpectedly. Be suspicious, even if they claim to be from your bank or the police."Admittedly, the Home Office advice doesn't say to be suspicious of callers who say that they're from Virgin Media, so perhaps it's okay to be reckless with your personal data in this instance? Well, actually, no.When asked to explain the company's policy, Virgin Media said that many major organisations call customers and ask them to confirm their passwords as part of Data Protection Act compliance procedures. This review is, we're told, an ongoing process that could involve any customer at any time. The chap at Virgin Media cited his own bank, NatWest, as an example of another major organisation that does this.We called NatWest: it doesn't do this. Indeed, NatWest's advice for customers answering unexpected callers is handy: "Be cautious if you're asked for personal information. Remember that they have instigated the call and should already know who you are. NatWest will never ask for your full security number or password." Virgin Media, take note. (Spokesman, check your bank account.)Our advice is never to give out these details - because it could really be conmen (or women) on the phone trying to get your details.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too (find ithere). Among the usual feast, we look athow and why the UK music industry has forced ISPs into a corner on filesharing, theanger over eBay's feedback changes,interview Jonathan Schwartz of Sun, and examinenew games systems you control with your mind. Oh, andwhy Virgin Media is ringing people up and asking for their passwords. (And you thought only government departments did daft things with data.)On the comment front, Nick Carr askshow many computers the world needs(it's a small number), Vic Keegan explainswhy personalised search is the holy grail, and I look at research that indicateswhy Apple's secretive approach to product launches is so effective.Click through for the full list..Unease at filesharing crackdownThe government's threat to force ISPs to police illegal sharing of copyright material is a music industry victory but a worry for everyone elseWhy is Virgin Media asking customers for their passwords?The company is asking people to give up personal information setting identity-theft alarm bells ringingGame review: NFL TourForget strategy, tactics and fiddling with your defensive line — NFL Tour is a simple run-and-pass scorefestNewsbytesBill Gates sparks dreams | Double Twist unlocks iTunes | Thunderbird gets nest | New old museum site | Meet me halfway | X-Force reports | IBM's PowerUp | You report, iReportGame review: Castlevania: Dracula X ChroniclesIngenious traps, pixel-perfect jumps and the usual assortment of arcade puzzles and horror-inspired enemy-despatchingHow many computers does the world need? Fewer than you thinkNick Carr: Thanks to the explosion in computing power and network bandwidth, the barriers to building a universal computer are fallingGame review: Zack &amp; Wiki, Quest for Barbaros' TreasureThis colourful, cell-shaded game isn't just a pretty face, it's a real cerebral challenge'Boggling' fee for access to weekly updates on deaths attackedThe British government has put a price tag of £62,000 on a new up-to-date feed of death registrationsSellers negative on eBay feedback changeBeing unable to rate buyers has some sellers fearing business will suffer; others say the change is overdueWhat web designers can learn from gamesAleks Krotoski: We can expect to see sites transformed from linear pathways into a series of discoveriesPersonalised search is still the holy grailVictor Keegan: Google's outward strength hides the hundreds of other search engines with new, and deeper, ways to searchTechnophileThe new Palm Treo 500 isn't as gorgeous as the iPhone, but it's cheaper and much more flexibleGiving away software makes good sense for SunJonathan Schwartz, its ponytail-wearing chief, has turned the company around by focusing on free software for new business, writes Tim AndersonAsk JackWreck a nice beach | Face on Facebook | Cyrillic spam | Blog start | BackchatTokyo tests data hotspots for tourists and shoppersA walk through Tokyo's famous Ginza district is being transformed with an experimental torrent of digital information broadcast to mobiles and PDAsWhy Apple's secretive approach is so effectiveCharles Arthur: It turns out that there may be very deep reasons why Apple's secretive approach entices us so, and Microsoft's doesn'tPlaying games with your mindNeurofeedback devices could be used for gaming - and for other applications such as robotics
You may have seenJack Schofield's postover on the Technology blog, all about a wiki site namedObsoleteskills.com, which is - as the name carefully suggests - compiling a list of abilities that technology has rendered irrelevant. The first five:1. Dialing a rotary phone. 2. Putting a needle on a vinyl record. 3. Changing tracks on an eight-track tape. 4. Shorthand. 5. Using a slide ruleSo, this got me thinking about videogame equivalents. Are there any gaming skills you once had, that you no longer need? Here are mine:1. Joystick waggling 2. Entering Spectrum pokes 3. Installing PC games using MS-DOS (and often boot discs) 4. Switching auto-fire on and off during a game 5. Making effective use of the PlayStation 2 online 'functionality' 6. Mending broken Dreamcast controller triggers 7. Disc swapping to load import games 8. Attempting to lift an original Xbox without the aid of a fork lift truckAny more?
The reviews are in today withZack and Wiki- I've just named my son Zack, was I subliminally influenced? -NFL TourandCastlevania: Dracula X Chroniclesgetting the once over. Z&amp;W is on my gaming to-do list. I played the first few sections, got stuck and haven't been back yet. But I will - decent games are few and far between on the Wii and this is definitely one of them. My review was NFL Tour. Short straw? Nope, I'm a big American Football fan and certainly enjoyed mucking around with this for a few hours. It's no Madden but certainly makes the obtuse sport more approachable to a non-US audience. Don't expect it to help you learn the subtleties of the game though. Last up was the Castlevania compilation on PSP. The inclusion of Symphony of Night makes this worth a punt, but how many more retro compilations can the PSP take?Looking forward and a pile of new games have recently arrived. Lost Odyssey - the mammoth new Japanese role playing game for the 360 - is tempting me, but reports of 40min to 1 hour gaps between savepoints are putting me off starting. I appreciate time-starved 30-somethings with young families are not the target audience for epic RPG's but surely the ability to save anywhere should be included in every game?Lost - the game of the TV show - arrived yesterday too. And, erm, my initial impressions are mixed. I'm quite enjoying the relatively cryptic puzzling but sudden death - in this case as you walk too close to a piece of wreckage on the beach - is a bit of a worry. Old school adventure games like Monkey Island rarely punished or killed the player and so encouraged players to experiment with location and items. Fingers crossed the sudden death is not a sign of things to come in the rest of the Lost game.
Well, they've finally admitted it. Cliffy B took to the stage at GDC yesterday and told the masses that Gears of War 2 is on the way. It's an Xbox 360 exclusive and it'll be out in November. Little else was said, although the above teaser trailer was made available.Later, the company's techy genius Tim Sweeney revealed some new details of the tweaked Unreal Engine 3.From IGN:First he spoke about ambient occlusion technology. This allows the geometry of an object and its surroundings be taken into account for shadows. The result is a truer representation of light reflections. We saw this with both environments and characters (using Marcus Fenix no less) and the improvement is drastic to say the least.The next thing we saw was perhaps more telling - a Gears of War tech demo with hundreds of locust enemies rushing down a street. New Unreal Engine 3 technology makes it possible. This leaves open the possibility for massive battles in Gears of War 2. The first game featured a small group of humans against a few enemies at each encounter, though that hardly seems to be an upper limit with the sequel. There can now be hundreds of enemies storming the screen. Why wouldn't it be included in the game?This announcement couldn't have come at a better time for Microsoft. With PS3 gathering momentum and Wii lining up Fit and Mario Kart, it'll keep Xbox 360 in the headlines. Now, excuse me while I bash out a fewmorequestions to my friend Mr Rein...
Even the most blinkered fans of American football would have to admit their sport is confusing to newcomers. The stop-start action and jargon-filled play take time to learn and even longer to appreciate. So EA Sports Big has stripped gridiron to the basics and created the easily accessible NFL Tour. Forget strategy, tactics and fiddling with your defensive line - NFL Tour is a simple run-and-pass scorefest. Piling through hapless defenders on a weaving 50-yard touchdown run is undoubtedly entertaining, especially in multiplayer mode. This emphasis on attack - the scoring resembles the end-to-end thrust of basketball - means defending is tricky. And it quickly gets demoralising as an opponent barges past you with ease. But the lack of game modes is the real letdown. Only the tour mode - which sees you play in arenas across the US - has any longevity. Despite this, NFL Tour is worth a punt and a good starter before you graduate to the more in-depth Madden series.
MySpace, part of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp empire, is trying to tie up deals with a number of record labels to produce its own digital music service to compete with Apple's iTunes.Tentatively dubbed MySpace Music, the service would let users of the MySpace site play music on their computers while logged onto the site. They would also be able to buy and download tracks free of copyright protection.MySpace, which News Corp bought for $580m (&pound;330m) in July 2005, is rumoured to have approached all four major music labels - Vivendi's Universal Music, Warner Music, EMI and Sony BMG about becoming involved in the service. But cutting a deal with Universal would be conditional on the music company and MySpace settling a copyright dispute.The streaming music service would be paid from online advertising, with MySpace sharing a proportion of revenues generated through adverts with the music labels. Reports in the US media suggested MySpace could be used to sell band merchandise and possibly concert tickets, further helping the labels to make a return on their content.There have also been discussions about using MySpace as a hub for a subscription-based music service with users allowed unlimited access to music for a fee.Though it appears paradoxical, offering DRM-free music is seen by some in the music industry as a way of counteracting the problem of online music piracy as it removes the need to file-share by making music more portable.
I am about to start a university research project involving in-depth interviews. I am aiming to download audio files of interviews to my computer from a digital audio recorder. I would then like to use software to turn the recorded voices into text. I need to do this on as low a budget as possible.Rachel ElliottYou can't do this at any price: even humans still have problems transcribing interviews accurately. After more than 25 years development, Nuance'sDragon NaturallySpeakingsoftware can turn speech into text, and it can handle digital files. But it only works well if you have a clean file (without much hiss or background noise), and if the user speaks clearly and carefully.It helps a lot if the system is trained for your particular voice, if you don't have a strong accent and if you talk in grammatical sentences (simpler to parse). However, converting dictation is a very long way from auto-transcribing conversation, where people's voices vary a lot, they interrupt each other and much of the meaning is carried by non-verbal elements such as facial expressions, gestures and body language.Successful speech-to-text still requires a lot of care and some user training. People seeking optimum results compare different sound cards and noise-cancelling microphones on the message boards atvoicerecognition.com. There are also some good articles and sample files (how to sound, how not to sound) atemicrophones.com, where Douglas Durham's Key Steps to High Speech Recognition Accuracy provides a good overview.For a small volume of interviews, it might be quicker and cheaper to outsource the transcription to India, where many companies offer services aimed at the medical and legal industries. If you have to do a lot of transcribing yourself, it's important to use a good quality digital recorder (such as the Edirol R-09) or else use a separate microphone (such as the Sony ECM-MS907).You should also look for transcription software such as Express Scribe or High Criteria's Transcription Buddy, plus a USB foot pedal.Update: A comment at the National Centre for e-Social Sciencebloghas a link to a helpful guide,Tools for Digital Audio Recording in Qualitative Researchby Alan Stockdale, a medical anthropologist. He makes explicit a point that is implicit in my answer:It is a false economy to purchase a cheap recorder if the audio quality is such that it increases the cost and time of transcription. Transcription is time consuming and expensive so a good recorder costing hundreds of pounds will quickly pay for itself.
I am not on Facebook, but have been told that someone has uploaded a photo of me and my family. Can they do this without the permission of the person in the photo?Liz KavanaghSomeone who has taken a photograph owns the copyright, so they can upload it to Facebook or publish it on the web if they like. They might not be able to use the photo for commercial purposes, such as advertising, since most publishers and agencies will demand a model release form (ie, the subject's permission) whether it's legally required or not. I am not a lawyer, obviously, but sharing photos with friends on Facebook doesn't look like commercial use to me.If the picture was taken legally and is not violating anyone's copyright, I would not expect Facebook to take any action. Facebook users upload around 10m photos a day, so there's no way Facebook could police them all. If it bothers you, your best bet is to approach whoever uploaded the picture and ask them nicely if they'd mind removing it.Footnote: The theUK Photographers Rights PDFby Linda Macpherson, a lecturer in law at Heriot Watt University, provides a short guide to the main legal restrictions on the right to take photographs and the right to publish photographs that have been taken.
I've started getting lots of spam messages where the subject line consists only of asterisks, and the text in the body looks like Greek, or something. My spam filter ignores them.Chris ParkinsThe sample you forwarded is in Russian, but comes out looking funny because your PC doesn't have a Cyrillic font loaded. Blocking it is another matter, but a search for"block Cyrillic spam"shows lots of people trying. Some mail servers can block by language, so it might be worth asking your ISP. Also, ArtPlus has some filters that you can download for itsxTerminatoranti-spam software. If anyone has a better idea ...Backchat: Peter Johnson says: "In Windows Mail in Vista, there are options to block both top level domains and encoding so Chris could block everything from .ru domains or encoded in Cyrillic or both. Many more permutations are available."Windows users who don't have Vista can download theWindows Live Mail desktopsoftware to replace Outlook Express. Go to Tools and select Safety Options (Alt-T then F), then click the International tab. This lets you block by country domain and by encoding (Arabic, Hebrew, Thai etc). Windows Live Mail can also collect email from Hotmail, Gmail and other services and displays them all in one mailbox as well as separately. For other features, see theHelp FAQ.
Death is a public event. All human societies mark the occasion; all advanced civilisations record it. But the British government has decided that only the well-heeled can have access to such records: it has put a price tag of &pound;62,000 on a new up-to-date feed of registrations of deaths.While individual death records are in the public domain as soon as they are registered, such data is not much use for keeping business records up to date. Owners of mailing lists have long campaigned for access to bulk data. Mailing dead people is bad for a company's reputation, as well as a waste of money - there are about 600,000 deaths a year in the UK. Up-to-date notifications can also prevent fraud by people assuming the identities of individuals who they - but not a bank or mail-order company - know to be dead. The snag is that information about deaths could be abused by businesses preying on the bereaved.In 2006, the government decided on a compromise: it would make the information available from registrars but only for the purpose of preventing fraud. Procedures and prices published last month suggest that releases will be tightly controlled.The new disclosure of death registration information (DDRI) scheme - run by the General Register Office, part of the Office for National Statistics (ONS) - offers a weekly update of death registrations, at a price. To qualify, customers must persuade a panel that they will use the information "appropriately"."It is possible that a meeting with the applicant will be necessary," the office warns. If successful, they must then undergo a security assessment, for a fee of &pound;5,000. If they pass that, they can start receiving the information on payment of &pound;57,000 a year - in advance.The Direct Marketing Association, which has been lobbying since 1991 for access to death registration data, welcomed the new measures. However, the Stop Dead Consortium, a group of 20 organisations who exchange information about deaths for "list cleaning" purposes, warned that the price would prevent the official data being used by all but a very small number of big companies.The ONS has not revealed how it calculated the subscription figure, but said it had no choice in the matter: "The charge levels have been set to recover these costs in full in line with Her Majesty's Treasury Guidance on Fees and Charges." Keith Dugmore of the Demographics User Group, which represents business users of national statistics and other official data, described the charge as "boggling".Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign agrees with Dugmore. We also note that the new service's security precautions - registration data will be sent encrypted on password-protected CDs and delivered only to named recipients - are highly overdue when dealing with live individuals. They seem excessive when dealing with dead ones, though.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
A walk through Tokyo's famous Ginza district may never be the same again if an experiment to bring an always-on torrent of digital information to shoppers and tourists is a success.Working with Tokyo's local government, theYRP Ubiquitous Networking Laboratoryhas set up a hands-on feasibility study to test "ubiquitous" networks - non-net, wireless networks that beam site-specific information to a GPRS-enabled mobile or to a specialised PDA.On designated test days, volunteers are asked to bring their GPRS mobiles or register for a white, palm-sized communications device - both of which allow users to tap into information hotspots where prepackaged audio, video and text files can be downloaded via site-specific embedded RFID, IC tags or even infrared.The trial covers several blocks of the Ginza shopping district as well as the underground metro and subterranean stores, and follows an early trial last year (Tagging Tokyo's streets with no name, May 10 2007).People who sign up to help with the field trial are learning to whip out their mobile or PDA at the Ginza metro station to have a 3D, real-time image of the landscape above them beamed to them.Once above ground, the RFID tags embedded in buildings zap shop, museum or restaurant info via the eSound Positioning system, which produces voices in the earphone user's head. If you hear something of interest, you move in the direction of the voice and sensors or location information applications tune into that voice alone. To learn more about a landmark's history or what offers a store nearby might have, you can touch the screen for audiovisual content.Kunio Ishikawa, a guide for the Tokyo City Guide Club, was given 90 minutes to put the system through its paces on Ginza's main boulevard and gives the experiment a cautious thumbs-up. "I think we can make good use of our time with such future systems. This one for example is rather useful for garnering information on shops and restaurants nearby and information on the history of these streets ... a boon to those not familiar with Ginza."Bringing in more foreign tourists to Japan with once-nameless streets suddenly becoming alive and intelligent with multilingual information a click away is just one of the aims of the future ubiquitous networks.Japan's government, which is investing billions of yen in the project, says such field trials foreshadow truly ubiquitous networks where nearly every object is readable this way. For now it hopes for improved guidance for the blind and painless interactive guidance for native and foreign tourists.The Ubiquitous lab concedes there are still many wrinkles in the system to iron out before such a network becomes feasible. Ishikawa, who says he would have liked more time to test the system, agrees: "They need more stores and restaurants to come on board, more languages to choose from, and I reckon it will be a good two or three years before we see this system in practical use."&#183;Anyone in Tokyo until March 1 cantake partthough numbers are limited.
At the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas last month, there was a man anxiously waving his arms at a screen with a giant grey cube on it. But it wasn't just another game. He was wearing a headset lined with brainwave-reading sensors and, as he focused his mind on the task, the cube started to turn in harmony with his movements. The crowd of onlookers was amazed, but they kept their excitement to themselves as he lifted the CGI cube into the air and "pushed" it backwards.Marco Della Torre is a product engineer at Emotiv, the San Francisco-based company behind this prototype neurofeedback game. "There are a variety of possible applications," he says. "Common fantasies in gaming are enabled by the headset, by the power of your mind."Sense and sensor abilityEmotiv is just one company enabling games to be hooked up to the pattern of your brainwaves. Improvements in brain-computer interfaces will make the type of device previously confined to psychiatric laboratories available to the general public as some kind of entertainment. According to the developers, the first products should be in stores by the end of this year.San Jose-based NeuroSky will be one of the first companies to see its technology hit the shelves. It takes a more simplistic approach than Emotiv, with a single-sensor headset that scans the brain for levels of focus, anxiety and the "meditative state". Gameplay adjusts according to the player's state of mind and whatever optimal frequency they have set as a goal.NeuroSky has signed a number of licensing deals for its sensor and signal-processing technology, notably with Sega Toys. "The complete embedded hardware fits into a lightweight headset, which is Bluetooth and USB-enabled," says Greg Hyver, vice-president of marketing at NeuroSky. "The headsets should cost around $49 (&pound;25), a similar price to other game peripherals." The company has also completed work on a mind-reading enhancement for mobile phones.NeuroSky's showcase game features a 3D arena where players have to lift and manipulate objects such as watermelons or cars. The heavier the item, the more focus or relaxation is required. In the multiplayer version, you can throw objects at other players. Directional movement is controlled using the mouse, but winning requires more than quick reflexes and hand-eye coordination."This technology is really turning traditional gameplay on its head," says Olafur Palsson, a professor at the University of Carolina who has designed a number of medical and commercial neurofeedback products. "Most games currently just make you zone out. Being able to produce a sharp, clear brain signal, on the other hand, can be very valuable."Palsson has patented a golf trainer called Zone, which warps the green and adjusts the size of the hole depending on the player's ratio of alpha, beta and theta brainwaves. Lining up the shot would require a high level of focus, associated with high beta and low theta frequencies. The putting stroke would be accompanied by alpha waves, demonstrating relaxation.  He doesn't have a release date yet, but says this is just one of a number of products that can also help people train their brain to "rev up" on command.Mood movementsA team at Keio University in Japan has developed a PC-based system that allows players to walk the virtual hallways of Second Life by the power of thought. Their headset scans activity in three areas of the brain's motor cortex, which control voluntary movement of different limbs.The avatar walks forward when they focus on moving their feet, and turns when they focus on their right or left arm. The team hopes its system will help reinvigorate patients suffering from paralysis, but as with Emotiv's "Expressiv" technology, it can be used by almost anyone.Another Silicon Valley company, OLogic, has built a robot called The Brain which follows its owner's orders - if it's in the right mood. It plans to have a commercial product in stores by next year. Ted Larson, one of the founders of the company, says OLogic uses a radio-enabled version of NeuroSky's headset, "so it really looks like mind control".Yet another product due in the next year or two is software from the French company Musinaut, which selects music appropriate to the user's current or desired mental state. Palsson says there is huge potential for musical applications. "Piano players might want their theta activity to be higher," he says. "In the meditative state, the music plays them, as opposed to them playing the music."Unlike Michael Persinger's widely publicised2002 experimentwhere subjects reported experiencing the "presence" of God while undergoing trans-cranial magnetic stimulation, no one is making such bold claims about the new line of devices.Nevertheless, there are plenty of new and entertaining applications of neurofeedback technology in the pipeline. Who knows, the next version of Postal might be bundled with a cognitive therapy expansion pack.
Don't let its cartoon graphics put you off - this colourful, cell-shaded game isn't just a pretty face, it's a real cerebral challenge. Young wannabe pirate Zack and his flying shape-changing monkey become embroiled in a mission to find the golden skeleton of Barbaros - a cursed pirate whose remains are scattered across the land - and this is done through puzzle-focused levels reminiscent of the Crystal Maze. One of the best uses of the Wiimote to date, you select a challenge area and then aim and tap A where you want Zack to move, and twist, turn and thrust the Wiimote to solve puzzles and collect the treasure. Examining the setting and all its features in detail will give clear clues on how to solve each puzzle, and you can use Wiki's special skills to turn wildlife into useful tools. Kooky and creative, this game's a refreshing change to all the carnage and gameplay by numbers that we're used to.
Forget for a moment that one of your two heroes dispatches enemies by throwing doves at them (yes, doves); this is still a slick compilation of classic Castlevania tales. You get two versions of Rondo of Blood, the original 2D one and an impressive 3D remix, plus the lesser-known sequel, Symphony of the Night. All involve ingenious traps, pixel-perfect jumps and the usual assortment of arcade puzzles and horror-inspired enemy-despatching. Gameplay remains resolutely old-skool in the 2D titles, but that's no bad thing for this kind of game; and the remix looks refreshingly up to date. For fans of the series or scrolling arcade games in general, there's a massive amount on a single disc.
That Apple (Inc, no longer Computer) likes to keep the details or even existence of upcoming product releases close to its chest is a given within the technology industry. Yes, there were loads of people who were sure last year that Apple would launch a mobile phone product; but barely any outside the company itself who knew what it would look like. (Even the head of AT&amp;T, its network partner, only got to see it late in the development process.)To most journalists, struggling to make sense of quite where a new product such as the MacBook Air fits into the wider matrix of Stuff You Can Already Buy can be frustrating, because the abruptness with which such things appear leaves little time for sensible reflection. (Thank goodness for leaky film studios willing to tell us that film rentals were coming, at least to the US.)By contrast, companies like Microsoft and Dell like to tell everyone well ahead of time what they're going to do. I can't recall the last time a Bill Gates speech led anyone to hold a middle, let alone front, page.Now it turns out that there may be very deep reasons why Apple's secretive approach entices us so, and Microsoft's doesn't. It's this: pre-release hype makes people much more careful about what they buy. If you tell them that something is coming at some point in the future, they will evaluate everything that's out there very carefully. But if you just drop something into their laps, all they'll think about is the brand. And if they like that, ker-ching!That's the implication of some research done by Susan Grant of the University of Colorado at Boulder and Alice Tybout, of the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. The work - nattily titled The Effect of Temporal Frame on Information Considered in New Product Evaluation: The Role of Uncertainty - will appear in the April issue of theJournal Of Consumer Research.Now, Grant and Tybout's experiments dealt not with computers or software, but a new (fictional) Coca-Cola ketchup, and an (imaginary) Swiss beer. But they knew who they really meant. "When the product launch was in the future, consumers paid attention to both the strength of the brand launching the new product (ie, Apple) and to marketplace conditions," says the press release.However, when the product had already been released, evaluations of the item were only based on perceptions of the company. That is, you see it and, if you're keen on the brand, reason flies out the window. This could explain the peculiar behaviour of some Apple fans, who will order something the moment Steve Jobs unveils it. Like Apple? You'll love the new Apple Electric Dog Polisher - it's the world's thinnest!But this process also works in the other direction, with products that are hyped and announced and hyped and pushed to an apparently uncaring world. Microsoft used it years ago with vapourware to great effect to stifle sales of rivals' existing products. But it also bit Toshiba and led to the demise of HD DVD, which has just ceded the market to Sony's Blu-ray high-definition format.The problem both formats had was that they announced that they were coming to a TV near us really soon until we were sick of it. In the end, Sony had the better strategy, with its PlayStation 3 as a Trojan horse for Blu-ray and its persuasion of Warner Brothers to shift format (I'm sure there's a fascinating story to be told about how that happened).So the message for the technology industry should be clear: no more pre-announcements. In future, surprise us.
Wreck a nice beachI am about to start a university research project involving in-depth interviews. I am aiming to download audio files of interviews to my computer from a digital audio recorder. I would then like to use software to turn the recorded voices into text. I need to do this on as low a budget as possible.Rachel ElliottJS:You can't do this at any price: even humans still have problems transcribing interviews accurately. After more than 25 years development, Nuance'sDragon NaturallySpeakingsoftware can turn speech into text, and it can handle digital files. But it only works well if you have a clean file (without much hiss or background noise), and if the user speaks clearly and carefully.It helps a lot if the system is trained for your particular voice, if you don't have a strong accent and if you talk in grammatical sentences (simpler to parse). However, converting dictation is a very long way from auto-transcribing conversation, where people's voices vary a lot, they interrupt each other and much of the meaning is carried by non-verbal elements such as facial expressions, gestures and body language.Successful speech-to-text still requires a lot of care and some user training. People seeking optimum results compare different sound cards and noise-cancelling microphones on the message boards atvoicerecognition.com. There are also some good articles and sample files (how to sound, how not to sound) atemicrophones.com, where Douglas Durham'sKey Steps to High Speech Recognition Accuracyprovides a good overview.For a small volume of interviews, it might be quicker and cheaper to outsource the transcription to India, where many companies offer services aimed at the medical and legal industries. If you have to do a lot of transcribing yourself, it's important to use a good quality digital recorder (such as the Edirol R-09) or else use a separate microphone (such as the Sony ECM-MS907).You should also look for transcription software such as Express Scribe or High Criteria's Transcription Buddy, plus a USB foot pedal.Face on FacebookI am not on Facebook, but have been told that someone has uploaded a photo of me and my family. Can they do this without the permission of the person in the photo?Liz KavanaghJS:Someone who has taken a photograph owns the copyright, so they can upload it to Facebook or publish it on the web if they like. They might not be able to use the photo for commercial purposes, such as advertising, since most publishers and agencies will demand a model release form (ie, the subject's permission) whether it's legally required or not. I am not a lawyer, obviously, but sharing photos with friends on Facebook doesn't look like commercial use to me.If the picture was taken legally and is not violating anyone's copyright, I would not expect Facebook to take any action. Facebook users upload around 10m photos a day, so there's no way Facebook could police them all. If it bothers you, your best bet is to approach whoever uploaded the picture and ask them nicely if they'd mind removing it.Cyrillic spamI've started getting lots of spam messages where the subject line consists only of asterisks, and the text in the body looks like Greek, or something. My spam filter ignores them.Chris ParkinsJS:The sample you forwarded is in Russian, but comes out looking funny because your PC doesn't have a Cyrillic font loaded. Blocking it is another matter, but a search for "block Cyrillic spam" shows lots of people trying. Some mail servers can block by language, so it might be worth asking your ISP. Also, ArtPlus has some filters that you can download for itsxTerminator anti-spam software. If anyone has a better idea ...Blog startI'd like to start a blog, but I've no idea how.Brian MoranJS:There are plenty of guides on the web, and I've posted links to three goodexamples on the Ask Jack blog. However, I'd suggest running a disposable test blog for a week or two to get the idea before you tackle something serious.BackchatDavid Stallard notes that I recommended Firefox 2 with Adblock Plus for blocking ads, and says: "Had you considered recommending IE7Pro for use with Internet Explorer 7? This is a free add-on that works in a similar way to Adblock Plus." I didn't mentionIE7Probecause I didn't know about it, but I'm testing it now.&#183;More atblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack. Get your queries answered by mailingjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
I recently ran into a web designer friend who's developing the user experience for a new site. She's never worked in the games industry, nor is she a particularly keen gamer, but she told me that games are a key inspiration for her work. Web designers eager to draw people into their sites are keen to understand the processes that lead to games' phenomenal stickiness. Thankfully, they haven't gone down the route of creating login forms that will only progress by collecting coins or solving puzzles; instead, savvy designers are deconstructing the mechanics of games and applying those lessons in ways relevant and unique to their services. Games offer three intriguing features for web design, my friend said: pacing, story and engagement.Pacing is probably the most crucial element, and gamemakers have mastered the art of the adaptive learning curve. They carefully construct experiences that take the player from novice to expert, usually at a pace determined by the player. If the curve is too steep, the game will haemorrhage players. If it's too easy, gamers will complain that there's no challenge. Web developers manipulate the pacing in such a way as to bring the visitor in through touchpoints which - hopefully - become rabbit holes for the user to fall through.Games' story arcs work to camouflage the pacing techniques. As the action continues, the story unfolds and gives the player something to work towards. The aim is to make the player feel like the hero, in charge of the direction of the experience and his or her own interactive destiny. What this means for web design is that we can expect to see sites transformed from linear pathways into series of discoveries.Marketers with bottom lines and targets to reach skip right to games' money shot: engagement. The results are clumsy attempts to co-opt the ways games encourage people to interact with properties by sledgehammering branding into viral drivel. But there are more subtle and nuanced ways to achieve engagement in interactivity, and most involve a spin on the old games chestnut, collecting coins. It's just that the coins become reputation, friends, freebies and enhanced access. And those dangling carrots are the real clinchers in the success of an interactive experience.The attention that web developers pay to games mechanics has gone largely unnoticed in the games industry. Game developers already have their pacing, their stories and their engagement, which they happily manipulate in their walled gardens. But just as film and TV creatives have begun to work with the new media, there will come a time when gaming will recognise that it too can learn from web designers who are creating the world's most usable experiences.
Behind Microsoft's attempt to buy Yahoo lies the extraordinary influence that search wields in our daily lives, from finding a curry house to writing a PhD. Quite likely, the improvement in examination results is simply down to the fact that almost all human knowledge can be gleaned from a search engine. A survey by the Oxford Internet Institute (OII) found that between 2005 and 2007, the proportion of people who went online for health information rose from 36% to 70%. William Dutton, director of the OII, claims people are now using websites (such asgpnotebook.co.uk) rather than the NHS for health information. He says: "People are going to their doctor with a ringbinder of stuff from the internet. This is extremely positive."Google, barely 10 years old, is top dog with a global market share of 62% and the lion's share of the El Dorado of contextual advertising that goes with it. Even if Microsoft swallows Yahoo, the new group will be a minnow. But this outward strength hides the hundreds of other search engines aiming for a slice of the action as new, and deeper, ways of search unfold, particularly for the estimated 75% of the potential internet not yet mined.Google's pre-eminence is puzzling in that doesn't advertise yet is one of the strongest brands in the world purely by word of mouth. It has no physical assets, just search algorithms. Unlike Microsoft's 90%-plus monopoly of PC operating systems, spreadsheets and word processing - which it would take corporations years to extract themselves from - people could drop Google in 10 seconds flat by switching to a better engine if one came along. Google's pioneering algorithms - ranking web pages by the quantity and quality of links attached to them - made it pre-eminent, but others have caught up. It is not easy to pick out Google's results from, say, those of Yahoo. (Try ithere.)Google's strength as a generic search engine - keying in any inquiry about anything at all - could also be its achilles heel if the proliferation of specialist or "vertical" sites for cars , real estate, health, accommodation or even diamonds succeeds. If you search Google for a job in one place it won't know of something 25 miles away that a vertical engine such asSimplyHired.comorIndeed.com(with a claimed 5 million users) does using personal details.Second, there are search engines relying on contributions by people, not algorithms - the most recent beingwikia.com. It has been criticised but it is early days and has Jimmy Wales, founder of the Wikipedia, behind it. Another one,silobreaker.com, claims to search as people do using context and images.Text message services such as 82ASK and AQA (shortcode 63336) charge for answers using real experts. Third, there are semantic search engines - such ashakia.com,garlik.comand evenask.com- in which authors help decide keywords, ormetadata, to be indexed by search engines.Fourth, demographic engines such ascircos.com(US only) enable search inquiries based on geographic and personal preferences (eg "affordable, romantic, ambient restaurant in Denver with spa"). Personalised search is the holy grail for advertisers. The way people are emptying their lives into Facebook enables search engines to find, say, a 24-year-old man living in Croydon interested in Amy Winehouse in a recently ended relationship. Google knows all this and has its own plans. And nothing is more important than mobiles, because 1bn phones a year are sold and search will migrate to this space where Yahoo and Microsoft are strong.People use Google because it is a trusted brand. But it knows more about us than all the intelligence agencies and private detective agencies in the world. The more it acts like a monopoly, the more it could lose that trust. Google's biggest rival is still itself.victor.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Five years ago, Sun Microsystems was "staring death in the face", says Greg Papadopoulos, now its chief technology officer. It had just lost $2.72bn (&pound;1.4bn) on revenues of $11.4bn. He says: "We thought, the whole world is changing to this." By "this" he means open source software: "You can't help but look at any student coming out of college, or a startup, or what's happening inside the IT departments, and not run into [the web server] Apache and Linux [operating system] and MySQL [database] and PHP [web-scripting language]." Each of which is free, open-source software.That near-death experience changed Sun. Jonathan Schwartz, its chief executive since 2006 (and president and chief operating officer since 2004), is sure that open-source software will dominate. "The world's focus on open source and interoperability is just beginning. One hundred per cent of the web startups that we talk to are beginning on the assumption that they'll use open source," he says. Which is why Sun offered $1bn for MySQL, the open-source database, in an agreed takeover in January.Core businessYet Sun is not just a software company: 60% or more of its business is hardware. The core of its business is servers in data centres. Equally, hardware is nothing without software, and Sun's products include the Solaris operating system, the Java programming language and an office productivity suite called variously Open Office or Star Office. Java is more than just a language; it has a cross-platform runtime that allows Java applications to run on a variety of PCs and devices. "We estimate that the Java runtime platform runs on well over 1bn PCs, more than 1bn phones are powered by Java, and with the victory of Blu-ray, the majority of next-generation DVD players will be running Java," says Schwartz. All this software is free.But how do you give away your software and still deliver profits? One route is hardware, says Schwartz. "MySQL has approximately 11m deployments around the world. The number that actually purchases a service contract is in the thousands. The number that purchases servers and storage is in the millions."As open source penetrates further into enterprises, service and support revenue will grow. "If you talk to some of the largest companies of the world, Vodafone or DoCoMo or China Mobile, you'll find they disallow the use of free software in mission-critical environments, unless there's a global support contract behind it. The market is divided into those willing to spend time to save money, almost all of whom buy hardware, and those willing to spend money to save time, almost all of whom buy service and support."The point, says Schwartz, is that giving away software opens up new markets. "We're downloading about 1m copies of Open Office every week. The value is that we get to meet 1m new potential customer opportunities."The figures are adding up for Sun, for now at least. In its year ending June 2007, it reported its first positive operating income since 2001, earning $309m on revenue of $13.8bn. The most recent quarter, to December 2007, is its best for some time, showing $262m operating income on revenue of $3.6bn.However, despite Sun's commitment to open source, it has a mixed reputation when it comes to sharing development with the community. "We have open source but we don't have open development," notes Ben Rockwood, an external developer who works on open-source Solaris. "Sun has done an admirable job with releasing code, but Sun's history in open development efforts with the free software community has been abysmal. I refer to it as 'glasshouse development' - that is, you can look in at what's going on, but you're not part of the action."Is it too hard for community members to get their work included? "People say the same thing about Linux," counters Schwartz. "With Open Solaris and Open Office and MySQL, what our customers want is a road map of support so [they can] run their business on these products."Niagara risesMeantime, Sun has moved to favouring efficiency over performance, a canny move as the cost of energy rises. "Four or five years ago we began to reinvent SPARC [the architecture of Sun's processors]," says Schwartz. "We spoke to search companies all over the world, online media companies, telecommunication companies, even a variety of financial services companies. We heard that they were out of space. We heard that electricity was becoming a dominant driver of expense in their data centres. So we recrafted our platform around that feedback."The result was a new processor code-named Niagara, introduced in December 2005. "It was a curious product," says Schwartz. "It was 32 times more efficient than any other computer in the marketplace, but at doing 32 things simultaneously. At doing one thing, it was a tenth as fast. In essence we delivered a greyhound bus into the marketplace for mass transit, when all of our peers were delivering Ferraris. That's now a billion-dollar product." Niagara has now evolved into Niagara 2, a 64-way processor.Schwartz believes that advancing technology means that the cost of running corporate IT systems is falling. "The performance that we are delivering is dwarfing the requirements of most customers," he says. That sounds like bad news for Sun; except that he sees other categories of computing more than compensating. "The web and the social infrastructure marketplace as well as the marketplace for high-performance computing will completely eclipse the market for enterprise infrastructure."Papadopoulos says that Sun has changed - but others have not. "We had to move ourselves to that. The part that surprised us is that it doesn't look like anybody else [from our era] came with us. IBM for example embraced a lot of open source, but never transformed the company behind it. And I don't think Microsoft is going to do that any time soon."He identifies a trade-off between the high profitability of proprietary software versus the high volume of open source. "Proprietary software is a kind of drug," he says. "Companies that are proprietary can charge what they want to for their software. Why? It's because the switching costs to move off one piece of software to another is very high. So what you are able to do as a proprietary company is to raise your prices just below what the pain is for the customer to switch across.Outrageous distribution"When you go into this open-source model you are giving up the potential to inflict that much pain on people. And you are giving up potential profit-making. But the exchange that you make is that you get this outrageous distribution channel. I'm getting thousands of people a day to take my stuff and I don't have to pay them to take it, they're doing it, and creating future business opportunities."Finally: Schwartz is well-known for his ponytail (leading the blogger Daniel Lyons, aka "Fake Steve Jobs", to dub him "My Little Pony"). Now he's a bigwig, why does he still wear it?"I started a company with a bunch of friends and back then, especially on the east coast, there was no way you were going to raise venture capital unless you were a seasoned CEO with a track record of five IPOs. So I had a bunch of really good friends, we all moved into a house, we had no money so we lived on rice and beans, and haircuts would have taken money, or I would have had to have given a pair of scissors to one of my buddies and said, 'Here, go ahead, cut my hair'. So it just seemed more prudent to let it grow. And then it became a bit of a joke among us that we'd get it cut after we started making money. And then, when we actually started making money, none of us wanted to get our hair cut because we might not make any more money. So it's been there for a while, and I don't think about it much."&#183;Tim Anderson travelled to Sun's headquarters for its Global Media Summit as a guest of the company
First, a few things thePalm Treo 500isn't. It isn't running the Palm OS; nor does it have a touchscreen, nor GPS, Wi-Fi or a half-decent camera. So what is it? A smartphone that syncs seamlessly with Windows Vista (Macs are trickier, except via Bluetooth) and makes a good PDA and phone.But why would you go for this instead of, say, a BlackBerry or a more feature-rich Nokia, or even an iPhone? Certainly, this device can't compete with the amazing interface of the iPhone, but it's cheaper - and more flexible. It's free on contract with Vodafone, which calls it the Treo 500v, on a choice of price plans that start from &pound;20 a month.If you buy it unlocked (for about &pound;250) from the likes of Expansys.co.uk, you can choose from the myriad price plans offered by all the mobile providers. (I'm using it with a 3 Sim which gives 500 texts and 75 voice minutes for &pound;15 per month, plus unlimited data for &pound;5 extra per month.)Interface-wise, it sits between the utilitarian BlackBerry and the luscious iPhone, running Windows Mobile 6. This has been a move of mixed fortunes for Palm, which made its name with its own, elegant OS; many felt the move to the much bigger descendant of Windows CE was counterintuitive. Given Palm's dire performance in the final quarter of last year, when it posted a loss of $9.63m (&pound;4.94m) compared to a profit of $12.7m over the same period in 2006, it looks like a last-gasp - though creditable - attempt to stay competitive in a crowded market.It would certainly benefit from a touchscreen: the interface requires a lot of button-pushing to navigate. What it does have, though, is seamless syncing with Windows Vista and Office 2007, at which other mobiles often fail.Its pocket versions of Word and Excel mean you can edit documents on the move. It is pleasingly chunky, but not too heavy, and the screen is big enough, bright and pin-sharp. The keys are a little stiff and small and the keyboard layout is a bit cramped, but it's perfectly adequate.Connectivity-wise, there's Bluetooth - but that's stupidly flaky: trying to use it to exchange photos via Bluetooth with my Vista PC was a disaster (though it worked fine with my Mac). Wi-Fi would be nice, but is annoyingly absent. There's no EDGE or HSPDA, which means it's outclassed by a growing number of rival devices.The real bummer about this otherwise mostly nice device is the battery life. A day of normal use will run it down; you'd be unwise to go far without a charger. Having said all that, I like it - it looks nice and does its job well. And my mates cooed over it in the pub, too.Pros:email, handles mobile web well, good screenCons:battery life, no touchscreen, limited connectivity
Sweeping changes to eBay announced by the auction site's soon-to-be chief executive were met this week with an attempt by some sellers to organise a "listings strike". Why? Because in front of more than 200 top so-called Power Sellers at eBay's annual eCommerce Forum in Washington, DC, John Donahoe said that eBay was at a crossroads: "We need to redo our playbook, and we need to do it fast."Several changes are being introduced to benefit top sellers. For example, the ones who get the highest satisfaction ratings will get preferential treatment when users search eBay and will get discounts on the "final value fee" (FVF) - what they pay eBay for each completed sale. Against that, sellers will no longer be able to give buyers negative feedback.Fear of feedbackIt's a fundamental change. When eBay started, buyers and sellers were much the same people, and mutual ratings encouraged trust. But many small sellers have built full-time businesses over the past decade, and they have been joined by some more traditional retailers. Many now sell new goods under the Buy It Now system, rather than by auction. So eBay is becoming less like a giant flea-market and more like an online store.Following Donahoe on stage in Washington, Bill Cobb, the departing president of eBay US, said the old feedback system wasn't working. "Buyers are more afraid than ever to leave honest, accurate feedback because of the threat of retaliation," he said. Buyers who'd had a bad experience with one seller were less inclined to buy from anyone else on eBay. So from May in the US, he said, "sellers may only leave positive feedback for buyers".This hasn't gone down well. Asurvey on the Auctionbytestrade publication site attracted 1,640 reponses: 98.7% said the changes would have a negative effect on their business. And in eBay's Seller Central forum, a husband-and-wife team selling as manchester689protested: "We work very hard to maintain a 100% record. But this includes being able to vet or weed out idiots. Now that sellers can no longer leave honest appraisals of buyers means that we can no longer pre-vet buyers."eBay user Mark Kobayashi-Hillary - a blogger, author and outsourcing expert - has a different view. "I think they [eBay] have taken a pragmatic decision as the system was no longer working. A buyer will often not feel it is worth giving negative feedback because it will be reciprocated, leading to them losing their 100% status. It is a dynamic that has ruined the feedback system for years now."Sue Bailey, a UK-based seller, added a stronger comment to her ownpost on the Tamebay blog. "Who gives a flying fuck if you can neg a buyer? Does Donald Trump/Richard Branson/Jeff Bezos neg buyers? No. Have a think about why that might be."But it does seem clear that, as manchester689 says, eBay is responding to competition from "that large river in South America". Amazon does not charge sellers for listing products, or for pictures, just a percentage of the value of the sale. By reducing its listing fees, making pictures free and increasing its FVF, eBay is now taking a big step in the same direction. That could also be said of the changes to user feedback. Buyers rate sellers on the Amazon site, but sellers can't rate buyers. Retaliatory feedback is unknown.It's not clear how long it will take US changes to reach international sites, but there's a clear mandate to improve the buyer experience. However, eBay UK argues that "it would be wrong to say it's all on the buyer's side". The shift to lower listing charges and higher FVFs meant eBay made money when sellers were successful, so their interests were allied.Also, says eBay UK, eBay would try to weed out bad buyers - the NPBs or "non-paying bidders" in eBay jargon. Sellers could give them "unpaid item strikes", and when they were suspended, their feedback would also be removed. Any "negs" these buyers had given sellers would disappear.Whether the furore will turn out to be a storm in a teacup remains to be seen, but, notes eBay UK: "We always see 'End of eBay' comments whenever we do something." People don't like change.Any bids for alternatives?Whether eBay's top sellers have a realistic alternative is another matter. Chris Dawson, co-owner of Tamebay, says: "Buyers are the most important commodity eBay has. Any site can get sellers: getting buyers is hard. Looking after buyers makes sense." Dawson doesn't bother looking at a buyer's feedback score: "What's the point? I just want their money! In general, if a buyer pays me, I'm happy."Like many other eBay sellers, Dawson keeps an eye on alternative auction sites, online stores and classifieds, and sometimes offers things for sale to see how they do. The fact that Tamebay has shifted more than 10,000 items on eBay shows that it works, and eBay claims that it's now moving about $60bn (&pound;30bn) worth of merchandise a year. It's come a long way since 1995, when Pierre Omidyar got the thing going by selling a broken laser pointer online.Some have seen eBay's changes as another example of "The death of self-rule on the internet", the headline of aFinancial Times columnthat claimed "eBay has given up its idealism". eBay had been held up as self-policed virtual state where old-style command-and-control methods had been superseded. Like Wikipedia, it was part of the web 2.0 zeitgeist. But as fiction-writer David Belbin, who also wrote a good guide to eBay, says: "eBay's just part of the retail picture now."Measuring the responseResponses to a survey on the eBay changes on Auctiontradebytes:1,640Percentage of those responses saying the change would hurt their businesses:98.7Value of the merchandise eBay claims to move each year:$60bn
In the early 1940s, IBM's president, Thomas J Watson, reputedly said: "I think there is a world market for about five computers." Watson's legendary misjudgment did not prove fatal to his company. When businesses began buying mainframes in large numbers in the early 1950s, he quickly steered IBM into the new business. The proliferation of computers has, of course, accelerated ever since. But Watson's prediction is suddenly coming back into vogue. In fact, some leading computer scientists believe that his seemingly ludicrous forecast may yet be proven correct.Greg Papadopoulos, the chief technology officer at Sun Microsystems, recentlydeclared on his blog: "The world needs only five computers". Yahoo's head researcher, Prabhakar Raghavan, seconds Papadopoulos's view. In aninterview in Business Weeklast December, he said: "In a sense, there are only five computers on Earth."Most striking of all, some researchers at IBM believe that five computers may be four too many. In anew paper, they describe how a single IBM supercomputer, which they codename Kittyhawk, may be all we need. "One global-scale shared computer," they say, may be able to run "the entire internet".The idea isn't that we'll all end up using one big, central box to run our software and store our data. What these experts are saying is that the very nature of computing is changing. As individual computers are wired together with the fibre-optic cables of the internet, the boundaries between them blur. They start to act like a single machine, their chips and drives melding into a shared pool. Rather than writing software that runs on just one microprocessor inside one box, programmers can write code that runs simultaneously, or in parallel, on thousands of networked machines.Such giant computing grids, explains Papadopoulos, "will comprise millions of processing, storage and networking elements, globally distributed into critical-mass clusters". His point in calling them "computers," he says, "is that there will be some organisation, a corporation or government, that will ultimately control" their construction and operation. Their many pieces will work in harmony, like the components inside your PC.This is not just a futuristic theory. High-tech companies such as Google, Amazon, IBM and Deutsche Telekom are already building powerful computing grids that can do the work of thousands or even millions of individual servers and PCs. The computer scientist Danny Hillis, who is one of the pioneers of the parallel-processing method that the grids use, has called Google's global network of data centres "the biggest computer in the world". It could be argued that the current consolidation of computing power is the fulfillment of the computer's destiny. In 1936, the great Cambridge mathematician Alan Turing laid out a theoretical blueprint for what he called a "universal computing machine" - a blueprint that would take physical form in the electronic digital computer.Turing showed that such a machine could be programmed to carry out any computing job. Given the right instructions and enough time, any computer would be able to replicate the functions of any other computer.So in theory, then, it's always been possible to imagine a single giant computer taking over the work of all the millions of little ones in operation today. But until recently the idea has been firmly in the realm of science fiction. There has never been a practical way to build a computing grid that would work fast enough and efficiently enough. Lots of little computers was the only way to go.Now, thanks to the explosion in computing power and network bandwidth, the barriers to building a universal computer are falling. Very bright people can talk seriously about a world where there are only five computers - or even just a single one - that all of us share. It's not a world that Thomas J Watson would recognise, even if it represents the future he accidentally foretold.&#183;Nicholas Carr's new book is The Big Switch: Rewiring the World, from Edison to Google.
Imagine a country hosting the Olympic Games where internet content is routinely monitored for material that irks the powerful; material that must be stopped, and whose recipients must suffer the force of the law. China, this year? Yes; but also, perhaps, Britain in 2012. That is, if some parts of a strategy paper - emphatically not a Green Paper, as those map out the path to legislation - to be published jointly tomorrow by the Department of Culture, Media and Sport and the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (DBERR) are implemented.The part that has drawn the most attention is the government's threat - which is understood to be repeated in the document - that if internet service providers (ISPs) and "content producers" cannot agree how to regulate and control illicit downloading of copyrighted content by Britons, then ministers create new legislation that will force ISPs to police what passes through their systems.The announcement marks a victory for the record industry in Britain, which has struggled for years to find a response to the explosion in illegal downloading since the first peer-to-peer filesharing program, Napster, appeared in 1999. It has tried lawsuits against filesharers; though it won every one of the dozens of cases brought, piracy has continued to grow. The 2007 Digital Music Survey by Olswang, which interviewed 1,700 people, found that in 2007, 43% of respondents had carried out "unauthorised downloading" - compared to 36% in 2006, but 40% in 2005. Possibly the new broadband users in 2006 hadn't figured out file-sharing systems; but they have now. The survey also found in 2007 that 18% of those asked said they'd do it more often in the future: only one-third cited fears of prosecution as a reason for downloading less.Three strikes, you're offNow, the music industry has used its lobbying muscle with the government - which is always happy with an industry that employs thousands and generates millions of pounds in taxable revenue - to force ISPs to sit down and create a new framework to choke downloading.Under the scheme, the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), representing the record industry, will gather evidence about people suspected of downloading material illicitly and pass it on to the relevant ISP, which will then send a warning letter to the customer. The third warning will mean termination of the account. There are even proposals that ISPs should create a central database naming people who have been warned or cut off."The three-strike process is far better then landing someone with a great big lawsuit," says Matt Phillips of the BPI. "Surveys we've done suggest that 70% of consumers would stop sharing on their connection if they knew it was being done illicitly. And it's got to be better than taking them to court, where they'll face a legal bill of at least &pound;3,000."For the BPI, too, such a system is far preferable because it transfers the apparent responsibility for taking action from them to the ISPs - who until now have taken a hands-off role, insisting they are merely conduits for whatever data passes over their connections. Indeed, that "conduit" status gives them exemption from all sorts of legal comeback by content creators under the Electronic Commerce Regulations of 2002.But ISPs are uneasy about the move, whose gaps have already been demonstrated by Tiscali, one of the major ISPs with about 2 million UK customers. Last year it began implementing precisely the scheme that the BPI wants. The BPI identified 21 IP addresses of Tiscali customers suspected of file-sharing and passed them to Tiscali, which warned the users; four were subsequently cut off.Who pays the pipe owner?But then the two sides began disagreeing: Tiscali became uneasy about the legal implications if it were challenged; would the BPI be prepared to take joint liability? And would the BPI share the costs of identifying and contacting the accused users, since most ISPs operate on very low margins: every support call loses money (Making a play for customers, August 30 2007). The two sides couldn't agree, and the BPI has sent Tiscali no more IP addresses since October.The BPI says that such details are not immediately important: "If somebody is being banjacked [having their connection hijacked], then the three-stage process is far more reasonable than having a lawsuit arrive one morning," says Phillips.ISPA, the organisation which represents ISPs, sounds frustrated by the corner it is being forced into. It has little lobbying power, being a relatively new industry - it barely existed 15 years ago - that employs relatively few people and doesn't generate exports. Those qualities don't endear it to the government, even if ISPs have enabled the explosion in internet use that has led to roughly 90% of home connections being broadband."Using bittorrent [a file-sharing protocol used to distribute both legal and illicit materials] isn't illegal," points out ISPA. "We prefer to go with self-regulation because it's generally seen to be more nimble than legislation. And it has proved effective - look at what we've managed to do with the Internet Watch Foundation to get abusive images of children off the internet in Britain." By contrast, ISPA says, legislation such as the Computer Misuse Act takes a long time to implement and leaves loopholes, while also criminalising activities that some need to do (such as scanning systems for weaknesses).The complications are increased by the fact that legitimate organisations now use filesharing. The BBC, Channel 4 and Sky all use the Kontiki peer-to-peer software for their "watch anytime" services; some users have been surprised to find that they are uploading material from their computers while watching it. Equally, BitTorrent - the commercial company built around the bittorrent protocol - distributes music and film from its site via filesharing. Can the BPI and ISPs be certain that they are challenging someone who is really breaking the law? And where is the burden of proof? Will accused filesharers be able to see the evidence against them, and where will they be able to challenge it?ISPA says that such discussions are "ongoing", but the government has started the clock ticking. In an interview last month Lord Triesman, the (first ever) minister for intellectual property at DBERR, hinted that if there was no agreement between the two sides, he might aim to add proposals for legislation to the Queen's Speech, due in November. That would probably mean legislation would come into force in 2009 or 2010 - a prospect that ISPs do not find edifying. There are many "what ifs?" outstanding: what if someone uses someone else's unsecured Wi-Fi connection? What if someone uses a shared space such as an internet cafe or university? Or, what if filesharers begin using encryption and "tunnelling" to hide from view?But imagine, finally, that a rigorous self-regulation procedure is in place, and that the internet populace knows about it. Does the BPI think its members' sales will grow? For once, Phillips hesitates. "That's really hard to answer. But it would send out the message that copyright is to be respected, that creative industries are to be respected and paid for," he says. "It would mean that the people who are paying for content wouldn't be subsidising those who don't. But I can't say to you now that it would make sales grow, or by how much."
Police, computer, action!Automatic number plate recognition (APNR) means the police can now drive around in unmarked cars catching armed robbers using just a computer. Sounds smart to us.Ready, aim and, um, remind meAllegedly the Canadian army on maneouvres (though it might not be) with a devastating new antitank missile ready and waiting for a 50-tonne tank to heave into sight over the hill. Ready?Life at Microsoft, seriouslyA witty welcome for Yahoos from Microsoft! About as funny as a hostile takeover, to be honest. (Thanks, CSClark.)Got a favourite technology or games video - serious, daft, brilliant, whatever? Tell us about it in the comments. (OK, I posted early. So sue me.)
Broadband Expert reports that 18,558 tests were run at itsweb sitein January, and "the average speed in the UK is a pitiful 2.95Mbps".The site says:"Current advertising campaigns like the one for Tiscali broadband promise superfast broadband (download) speeds of up to 8Mbps. Yet Tiscali came bottom of our test results with an average actual download speed of just 1.72Mbps. Now that is not superfast by any stretch of the imagination and is over 1Mbps lower than the UK average."The highest average was 6.07Mbps from Be broadband, which uses ADSL2+ technology. If you want speed, that's the tech to get. (Nobody is actually offering fibre, despite what Virgin claims in its advertising.) The report says:Upload speeds varied greatly between providers too with Be broadband achieving the fastest average upload speeds of 850Kbps and Orange the slowest at 219Kbps.The average upload speed was clocked at 296Kbps, with Orange the slowest at 219Kbps.The test is athttp://www.broadband-expert.co.uk/broadband/speedtest/You can see the results table by clicking the blue Speed Test Results tab at the bottom of that page.The UK is trailing behind obscure places like France, let alone advanced countries like South Korea. I wonder, are we still ahead of the Americans?Update: An email from Tiscali points out some major flaws with the survey. First, the test doesn't distinguish between 1Mbps, 2Mbps, 4Mbps, 8Mbps and faster services, so an ISP that only or mainly offers, say, ADSL2+ is bound to look better than one with what Tiscali calls "a high number of legacy 1Mbps and 2Mbps customers nationally". And the sting in the tail: "an average of 6Mbps recorded on a 24Mbps service is hardly something to shout about."Another point is that users state which service they are on. Is there anything to stop someone with a real 50Mbps line from inflating a particular set of results?
One that certainly escaped my recent cull of one-third of all my RSS feeds wasThe Daily WTF, which subtitles itself "Curious Perversions in Information Technology".Basically, it's about all the weirdnesses that managements and dumb programmers inflict on each other. Non-programmer may find it puzzling in the extreme, but anyone who's had even a nodding acquaintance with trying to wrangle a project will know that feeling. May even know the people.It's worth a read for the"SQL Sentences" story(why not store all the SQL commands your company will use in a database, which then gets accessed when you need to do a query, though of course you have a list of access permissions for each query to make sure the person (program) executing it is allowed to).Though David wasn't around when these changes were implemented, when he came onboard and heard the story he asked the Lead Developer if he'd ever heard of a Stored Procedure before."Yeah," he replied, "but I've heard they're a big pain to maintain."Laughing? (If not, you just left.) OK, and now here's a one-liner:I found this gem of a field in a database table for storing users' names: MiddleInitial NVARCHAR(255)What about your favourite Code WTFs? Or sites devoted to them?
Blogger Robert Scoble and Francine Hardaway were chatting about "obsolete skills" which led to apostand then to a Wiki web site,Obsoleteskills.com, which is compiling a list.The first five items on Scoble's list:1. Dialing a rotary phone. 2. Putting a needle on a vinyl record. 3. Changing tracks on an eight-track tape. 4. Shorthand. 5. Using a slide ruleWhat, no log tables?If you want to quibble, you may not regard them all as "skills" and some are certainly not obsolete for everyone. I still have vinyl, for example. So do lots of young DJs. Still, you get the idea, so which skills do you no longer use?Someone who has been a journalist for a while will have seen a long list of skills come and go. I once edited a school magazine that switched from using a "spirit duplicator" (commonly known as aMimeograph) toGestetner stencilscut on a typewriter. I handset books of poetry using metal type and acomposing stick, and I edited a magazine that switched from waxing and Letraset to punched paper tape (I was always impressed by typesetters who could read punched tapes by eye). At one time, I could do whole print jobs from writing and 35mm photography to a final off-set litho plate developed using cotton wool soaked in Marathon. (TheMarathon Platewas a great breakthrough.)Of course, The Guardian usedLinotypemachines for decades, then (DEC PDP) mini-basedAtextype-setting systems before finally switching to Macs. Lots of people had to learn lots of skills they no longer use, but it was always exciting. Somebody should do it as a tapestry....Update: You can add yourobsolete gaming skillsto our excellent Games blog.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Jeffrey Zeldman, publisher of A List Apart, has come out in support of Microsoft's controversial strategy for Internet Explorer 8. The basic plan is that IE8 and all later versions will behave exactly like IE7. If that does what you need, "forward compatibility" has arrived. Of course, while IE7 is much better than IE6, it still isn't properly standards compliant, so what happens to progress? The answer is that IE8 will also follow standards just like other browsers, and your site just has to tell IE8 to use its standards mode. This enables Microsoft to keep improving standards compliance without "breaking the web".InVersion Targeting: Threat or Menace?, Zeldman points out that Firefox did something similar to handle changes in scripting, and the idea is familiar from DOCTYPE:Breaking millions of sites is unacceptable to Microsoft's brass and to the creators of those websites. It's to prevent that breakage that Microsoft's browser developers came up with the new switch. To do its job, the new switch must work the same way the DOCTYPE switch originally worked: namely, it is activated when knowledgeable developers opt in; otherwise it is off by default.With DOCTYPE switching, "off by default" means "in (non-standards) quirks mode." With version targeting it means "the same way IE7 rendered this content." The behavior is the same in both cases: if you want improved rendering, you opt in.Not everyone agrees, of course, and Zeldman sees the Alice in Wonderland side. But I think he does have the right approach, which is to think about what makes life simpler for the biggest number of people.Since A List Apart is "for people who make web sites," Zeldman doesn't put the issue in the wider context, but it's a staple problem in the IT industry. We have two types of standard: de facto market standards and de jure standards from standards bodies. Setting de facto standards is quicker, and often the slower-moving standards committees can ratify them.But if the de facto standard (IE5/6/7) is different from the de jure standard, it's a problem. Changing the de facto standard hurts all the people who have adopted it, which can be the majority of the market. However, not adopting the de jure standard hurts all the people who have adopted that, which can also be a large slice of the market. Having a product that supports both isn't ideal but it's the pragmatic approach.And if you remember Browser Wars I: Microsoft offered better standards compliance than Netscape, while pragmatically adding the useful stuff that Netscape was making up on the fly (cookies, frames, JavaScript etc) while it was trying to pwn the web with its Best Viewed In Netscape strategy.Footnote: one typo corrected (familar).Charles Arthur adds:I wrote about this at the start of the month, when it was rumbling around web developers: seeHow Internet Explorer became as wonky as the Leaning Tower of Pisa- my point being that having started with something fundamentally broken, Microsoft has no choice but to continue with it being broken even though it no longer has to be. (And while we're here, why not compare and contrast the huge engineering effort on IE - which takes how many people? - with that of the standards-compliantiCabbrowser, whose independent rendering engine could handle quite a lot of what the world threw at it, and was written by just one person.)
