Money talks...I could not believe my eyes when I scanned through your (so-called) 100 most useful websites (Cream of the crop, December 16,www.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,3605,1374155,00.html): nothing for finance? Porn and genealogy aside, money is just about as big as it gets on the web, so a category devoted to mammon is a must, in my view. In an effort to right your grievous omission, here are five of the best: ADVFN (www.advfn.com) is a UK company fast becoming one of the biggest kids on the financial information block - a must if you trade the UK and US markets. The Financial Times' site (www.ft.com) is essential reading for financial news junkies. Along with Reuters, Bloomberg (www.bloomberg.com) is a must for US traders and investors. There's also Which? (www.which.net- you've earned it. So, here's how to spend it... wisely!), and spread betting is huge. IG Index (www.igindex.co.uk) is one of the more established players. But be careful!Denis MortellDublin...but sex sellsLooking through Cream of the crop I thought I noticed a missing section - erotica. This category of sites has probably done more to develop technology on the web than any other and probably makes more money than any other category, as well as accounting for a very high proportion of visits. But Guardian readers don't visit such sites, right? Obviously the new puritanism (or should   we say denial) is still alive and well in some parts of British society.Nick ParrottThe NetherlandsBlogAidI thought I'd let you know about BlogAid (www.blogaid.org.uk), a project I've set up to help the victims of the Asian tsunami and earthquake. The idea is to encourage bloggers to donate the earnings from their site for the month of January to a relief agency of their choice. For most people, the money they make from site advertising such as Google AdSense is a nice little extra, but something they could quite happily do without for a month. Donations will be done on the honour system, but hopefully by making a public commitment, the majority of people will honour their pledge. So far we've had 100 pledges, including many from well-known bloggers. I'm hoping that once people are back at work and catching up on their RSS feeds, the number will rise considerably.Andy BuddBrightonFun and gamesI've recently started on Xbox Live and found it to be a singularly loud and abusive experience. Many agree that it becomes a tirade of American kids killing you very well while calling you a bitch ... and generally posturing in the most annoying manner. The good chaps at The Gaming Shack Network (www.tgsn.co.uk) have created a basis on which UK gamers can play without the annoying competitiveness. Members form friendships and meet, arrange and play in large numbers. I'm not anything to do with the site or people running this, but I have signed up with TGSN and meet regularly for a giggle with all the grand people entailed.John O'ConnellHi-tech high schoolBrian Stowell (Feedback, December 16) says that the Isle of Man is spending six times the national average per pupil on IT, and that that is a good thing. As a sixth-form student, I can say that this is not true. At my school, Parrs Wood Technology College in Manchester, the provision of computers and other IT equipment is tremendous - there are eight computer rooms, an internet cafe and a "library" that houses nearly 100 computers which are used to teach lessons for children aged 11-14 when teachers are not in.As well as this, there are computer suites for graphic design, music and video, not to mention a CLC (City Learning Centre -www.smclc.org.uk) on site. Every classroom has a computer (the register is taken online) and many have data projectors or interactive whiteboards.In my opinion, the money that is spent is wasted, and should be spent more evenly on resources. Better trained teaching staff, and a curriculum that ensured everyone had basic computer literacy would mean that the investment in IT is better spent.The earmarking of a school as a Technology College is great - lots of money for computers. But the money can only be spent on technology, and sometimes it can be forgotten that there are things that need to come first: textbooks, buildings, quiet study areas and other such resources should come before technology.Thomas GrahamManchesterWanadon'tHave you had any other complaints about the Wanadoo broadband service? 32 days ago I ordered an extra wireless receiver having just signed up for broadband and set up its wireless system. Phone complaints are answered by a feckless sounding person who says they don't have any, haven't had any for ages and don't know when they'll get any. More annoyingly, my email to their DSL shop "care" site was deleted without being read. Am I the only one?Danny Webb
Tsunami WikiThe Wiki movement is best known for its cooperative encyclopedia project, Wikipedia, but in November, it also launched a "citizen journalism" site where anyone can write and edit news stories. So far there are more than 300 stories online. Some topics are requested (Heavy Lift Delta IV Rocket to Open New Frontiers, for example), a couple are disputed and a few have been abandoned. But the idea could now take off as citizen journalists make a valuable contribution to the running tsunami story.http://en.wikinews.org10 x 10Every hour, the 10 x 10 website gathers the 100 most important words and pictures in the world, based on what's happening in the news, including repetitions. The site arranges the images in a 10 x 10 grid, so you get a visual impression of what is happening. (You can also get a 10 x 10 of the day, month or, eventually, the year.) Click on any of the pictures to get a slightly larger version plus a list of the headlines used with the image. You can then click on a headline to get the original story from the BBC, New York Times or whatever. 10 x 10 was created by Jonathan Harris while on a one-year fellowship at Fabrica, Benetton's Communication Research Centre in Treviso, Italy. It's a simple but powerful idea beautifully done.www.tenbyten.orgGone fishingIf you want to find songs by, say, Country Joe and the Fish, you can now go to the GoFish site and click the button to Go Fish. This new multimedia search engine - still at the beta testing stage - finds a bunch of albums at Amazon.com and a couple of tracks to download. It isn't so good on ringtones (Hey Joe, etc), movies (Green Fish, The Country Bears) or music videos (Joe Lies, Country Girls), but it's set up to deliver some thing, no matter how incidental. The songs come from iTunes, Napster, Musicmatch, eMusic and other online music sites, so you still have to pay. Curiously, AOL has an unrelated multimedia search engine called SingingFish, and its button says Fish It. This one works a lot better if you are looking for Eminem or Britney Spears. However, it comes up empty for Biber's Rosary Sonatas so it won't do Pavlo Beznosiuk much good.http://www.gofish.comhttp://search.singingfish.comwww.countryjoe.comDuck inHow do people find weblogs or blogs? The main way seems to be by searching Google, or by following a trail of links from other blogs. But if you are interested in a particular subject, you can now try Quacktrack. This website is building a directory of the blogosphere, covering topics such as art, law, religion and travel. Click on music, for example, and it categorises 1,681 blogs in sub-categories such as folk, funk, goth and jazz. Some of these also have more sub-categories. Quacktrack is new - it's still in beta - and is clearly aiming to get bigger.http://quacktrack.comMiracle MillauFew modern structures have stimulated as much wonder as the Grand Viaduc de Millau, the world's tallest road bridge, in southern France. Not surprisingly, it has a website that lets you track its development and take a virtual tour - and also not surprisingly, it is in French. There is also a little information on the Foster and Partners site, though Bridgepros provides a much more interesting account.http://viaduc.midilibre.comwww.fosterandpartners.comhttp://masl.to/?F2CF1252AServing timeTime magazine has opened an archive of more than 266,000 articles going back to its first issue, published in March 1923. It's fascinating stuff but you only get the start of an article. To read the whole thing you have to subscribe to Time, or be an AOL member and access the site via AOL.www.timearchive.comGet a grip"Welcome to the Future. Welcome to UCW!!!" exclaims the site for Ultimate Christian Wrestling, where the aim is not just to entertain the crowds but to save their souls. The trend spotters at Iconoculture reckon UCW is significant - it's rejuvenating a tired, old product - so go thou and do likewise, maybe.www.ultimatechristianwrestling.comhttp://masl.to/?F5091652ASix of the best TsunamiHow to helphttp://masl.to/?W2451262AThe aftermathwww.channelnewsasia.com/killerwavesVideo linkshttp://masl.to/?F66942F1ASatellite imageshttp://digitalglobe.com/tsunami_gallery.htmlTsunami bloghttp://tsunamihelp.blogspot.comRelief Webhttp://masl.to/?Q5F81252A
Email and the internet are now so familiar that it can be tempting to think the web revolution at work is more or less complete. But people's reactions to my own experience suggests there are adaptations to online life which have not yet caught on and still have the capacity to surprise.The first time I met - or even spoke to - the co-author of my textbook, The Philosophers' Toolkit, was three months after it was published. Until that point, our relationship had developed purely over email. This doesn't just raise questions of how electronic communications can change the way we work. More profoundly, it questions the way human relationships are being pushed in new directions by virtual worlds.My own online collaboration was simply a compelling solution to a pressing problem. Since completing my PhD, I had been working outside academe, and I needed a co-author for my textbook, The Philosophers' Toolkit, who was at the coalface of teaching. I didn't have any academic colleagues as such, but as editor of the Philosophers' Magazine, I had lots of academic contacts, many of whom I knew purely through email.So when I thought about who could be brought on board, it was not unnatural that the person who came to mind just happened to be a resident of Lexington, Kentucky, whom I had never met.He agreed, our casual online relationship developed into something more involved, and the result was a highly fruitful period of writing a successful book.Yet in business as well as love, virtual relationships have struggled to gain equal status with face-to-face ones, which many intuitively feel are intrinsically superior.Leading philosophers who have written on the web, such as Hubert Dreyfus and Gordon Graham, have argued that this is largely because face-to-face we interact with the whole person, whereas in virtual environments we only have access to a small part of what they choose to reveal. Therefore a purely online relationship can never be with a whole human being.It's an intuitively plausible argument, but even if the most intimate of relationships require physical contact, in our working lives, we do not and need not deal with the whole person.For example, many people behave very differently at work to how they do at home. Personal identity is extremely malleable, and people play   different roles at different times of the same day. The kinds of relationships we have with colleagues, even friendly ones, can therefore be very different to the ones we have with close friends.That means it is simply not necessary to know "the whole person" in order to have a good working relationship with them. Indeed, such knowledge can actually get in the way of harmonious workplace relationships. If you get to know and dislike the way someone behaves outside the office, that can make you uncomfortable when dealing with them in it.In this respect, online collaborations can be supremely efficient. The qualities I identified in my co-author, Peter S Fosl, which made him a good collaborator, were all manifest in our email communications and in his work. He was knowledgeable, clear, flexible, enthusiastic about communicating ideas and responsive to suggestions and advice. What more did I need to know? Whether he liked his lattes skinny?Indeed, it is possible that face-to-face contact can cloud your judgement with irrelevant details. For example, psychologists talk about the "halo effect", by which we tend to rate the intellectual and personal qualities of good-looking people above   those of their plainer peers, for no valid reason other than their physical attractiveness. This bias is manifest in people of all classes and levels of intelligence.So had Peter been a fat, ugly, unhygienic scruff, actually meeting him may have blinded me to the qualities which made him an ideal co-author.What is interesting is that the original judgment I made was absolutely vindicated through the writing process. He was an ideal collaborator and the writing of the book went very smoothly indeed.Contrast this with the common experience people have of falling out with friends who become business associates. Knowing someone in the flesh does not seem to make us reliable judges of how well we would work with them.In my case at least, the partial information I had gleaned about Peter through emails allowed me to make a very good judgment of his suitability as a co-author.Of course, I could have just been lucky. But the only other instance I know of a similar online working relationship also went every well.My co-editor on the Philosophers' Magazine, who lives in Sutton, ended up working with someone in Seattle that he had got to know online.They now run the very successfulwww.butterfliesandwheels.comand have written a clever and witty book, The Dictionary of Fashionable Nonsense. They too only met after their book had been published and their website well-established.This kind of online collaboration has the potential to become a more common and effective way of working. It is not just that it allows individuals to interact only on the basis of the qualities that matter for the job, it is also that the job itself can be focused on more precisely than face-to-face working sometimes allows.For example, whenever I get together with my co-editor we always end up discussing rambling digressions and getting off the point. When we're co-operating online, however, the task in hand stays in focus.That was one reason why writing The Philosophers' Toolkit was so straightforward. We both knew our roles and we executed them without distraction.This wasn't because there was a simple division of labour, whereby I wrote some parts of the book and Peter wrote others. Rather, we had a process that saw every sentence go through both of us several times.There was genuine interaction and collaboration. In a paradoxical-sounding way, the limitations of internet communication actually liberated us to work more efficiently together.Humans have different kinds of relationships, all of which have different needs. Some kinds of working relationships clearly are well-suited to being conducted online. Before too long, perhaps it will be usual to hear people say that their most trusted and liked colleagues are the ones they have never met.Julian Baggini is the author of What's It All About?: Philosophy and the meaning of life (Granta).www.julianbaggini.com
When the tsunami hit the Indian Ocean on Boxing Day, few realised the impact that the disaster would have around the world. As television and press reports trickled in about the extent of the devastation, many turned to new media to answer their questions.Immediate internet reports from disaster-hit regions were relatively scarce. Some observers said this showed the difference between technology in the west and other parts of the globe. "This brought home to me just how far we have to go," said Paul Saffo, director of the Institute for the Future in California."The syncopation," says Jeff Jarvis, president of Advance.net and blogger atwww.buzzmachine.com, "is purely a matter of distance and logistics. The citizens who had information did not have access but as soon as they did, that information spread more rapidly and broadly online than it did via old media."The effects of the earthquake were felt most keenly in areas with less technology. Many of the communications networks that do exist were knocked out and even those which   remained in operation struggled to cope under the weight of traffic coming from people trying to contact family and friends.Although the days immediately following the tragedy were saturated with news, some felt there was not enough information from the frontline. Robert Scoble (http://scoble.weblogs.com), a blogger who works for Microsoft, wrote on the morning after the tsunami that "there's remarkably little blogging going on about the earthquake. It's really disappointing. Citizen journalism is really failing here... almost no first-hand reports."His comments courted the ire of those who - quite rightly - pointed out that those in a disaster zone have more important things to do than log on to the web, but his disappointment raised some interesting questions. In many ways, the response showed that the process of citizen journalism is not always about being first on the scene. The web's most important contribution was to inform people about what was happening - to organise people, and point them in the direction to raise funds.Within a few hours of the quake, users were logging on to communal online encyclopedia Wikipedia and    compiling a breakdown of what had occurred, including scientific analysis, links to news articles and ways to give aid. Online retailer Amazon organised a huge fundraising effort, with users donating more than $9m (&#163;4.7m) to the American Red Cross in the first week alone. Bloggers signed up to keep information running at the South East Asia Earthquake and    Tsunami Blog (http://tsunamihelp.blogspot.com), created in response to the disaster."In only a week this site comes up third on a search for 'tsunami' on Google," says Jarvis. "That demonstrates the power and speed of the mob through its links. People immediately spread the word and gave this new site 'authority' as we now measure it online - they gave it links."University of Tennessee law professor Glenn Reynolds - whose weblog,www.instapundit.com, is one of the world's most popular - believes this effect has been seen before on the web. "The blogosphere traditionally rallies in crisis," he says. "It has its origins in the post-9/11 rallying."In many ways he is right. When terrorist attacks left America trembling in 2001, the internet made a breakthrough: thousands of weblogs suddenly turned their attention to New York and Washington. Since then, the focus has been on weblogs as newsmakers. But now, in the wake of the tsunami, weblogs have become a support network, giving weight and context to an existing story.Howard Rheingold, author of Smart Mobs: the Next Social Revolution (www.smartmobs.com), believes this was partly due to the realisation that existing systems just were not strong enough to cope with   a disaster of this scale. "I think this was a wake-up call for grassroots disaster relief," he says. "The instances that were blogged... will inevitably lead people to come up with better solutions &#91;in the future&#93;."Initially, the failure of telecommunications prevented people from calling loved ones. Many used a simpler network - text messaging - to let relatives know they were safe. "I am OK," Belgian tourist Christian Pataurax told his girlfriend by text message from Phuket, Thailand. "Many dead people everywhere. I cannot call because the network is saturated."Once people could speak online, though, the terrific extent of what had happened became apparent. Weblogs such as Chiens Sans Frontiers (http://desimediabitch.blogspot.com) charted their experiences."Some children jumped down and ran to the rock pools with bags. They were trying to catch fish. No one realised that this was a very bad idea," came one chilling report from Colombo, Sri Lanka. "Before I could turn around everyone on the tracks was screaming. And running. The water had started coming back... the slum built on the railway reservation between the sea and the railway tracks was completely swept away... When the water subsided it was as if the slum had never existed."Some were simply awed by the level of destruction. "The sheer brute violence of that single wave is staggering," wrote Fred, a resident of Jaffna, Sri Lanka, on his weblog,www.thiswayplease.com/extra.html. "Every house and fishing boat has been smashed, the entire length of the east coast. People who know and respect the sea well now talk of it in shock, dismay and fear."As individual voices, these eyewitness accounts made horribly compelling reading. As part of a wider network of stories, they brought a sense of scale to a story when the whole world was watching.Not being able to get the information we want is frustrating, especially in a modern, media-saturated environment - but sometimes perhaps the best thing we can do is make sure help is there when it is most needed.
In autumn Sony finally unveiled the NW-HD1, which it hoped would prove to be its iPod beater in the personal audio market. While critics were knocked out by its excellent sonic performance, superb battery life and dinky size, many were less impressed by its accompanying SonicStage software.In the new NW-HD3, Sony has overhauled SonicStage, in particular addressing its biggest weakness - the way MP3 files had to be converted into Atrac ones before they could be ported to the player.As well as making the NW-HD3 completely MP3-compatible and offering it in four different colours, Sony has also bumped up the battery life - 22 hours for MP3 users, more than 30 hours if the Atrac format is chosen.Everything else is the same as the NW-HD1, including the 1.5" display and the quick up/down scrolling button. The iPod may still be about &#163;20 cheaper, with better software, but in several other key areas Sony has now overtaken Apple.www.sony.co.uk
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Press releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge: 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
I am faced with a modern ethical conundrum. My flat is very long and thin and, frustratingly, my wireless network does not extend from the office at the back to the lounge at the front. My dreams of sofa-surfing have been thwarted. However, my laptop does pick up my neighbour's Wi-Fi connection. It's called "belkin54g" after the brand of router he is using. A quick Google revealed the default passwords for this router, and a few security screens later, I've hacked into my neighbour's Wi-Fi. I can now surf on the sofa while watching TV and drinking red wine. Bliss.Of course, he doesn't know this, which leaves the conundrum: Should I tell him his network is unprotected and risk losing my convenient living room Wi-Fi? Or should I continue to hijack his connection, risking discovery and a possible neighbourly feud?I am sure I'm not alone in this situation. Increasing use of home wireless networks has led to a proliferation of free internet access hotspots in every neighbourhood. Wi-Fi uses radio frequencies to broadcast an internet connection in all directions. Depending on the thickness of walls and the quality of the aerial, the area can stretch up to the size of a football pitch.Research company IDC estimates there are now close to a million Wi-Fi users in the UK. About 50% are not running any security. In my south London street alone, Wi-Fi sniffer program MacStumbler (www.macstumbler.com) picked up seven connections. Only three are protected.Tapping into a nearby hotspot takes a little luck and gymnastic ability. As with mobile phones, Wi-Fi is impeded   by thick walls and metal. The signals travel better through glass, so sitting by a window or outside should help.Larger, better aerials can also boost receptivity but the hacker aerial of choice is still the humble Pringles can (Google "wifi Pringles can" if you don't believe me).A bout of laptop semaphore will probably bring up a selection of    networks, usually named after big brands. Look for "Linksys", "NETGEAR", "belkin54g" or "Apple Network". Networks with names like "fortknx" or "hax0rheaven" may indicate that tech-savvy killjoys have barricaded their domains. You're unlikely to get into these, but networks with default names usually use default passwords. Try: "admin",   "1234", "qwerty", "password" - or "public", if it's Apple.Once you're in, your browser may report that it "cannot find server". This means you'll need to configure your network to use a public Domain Name Service (DNS). These convert site names into IP addresses your computer can understand. There are free ones all over - search for "public   DNS servers" to find out more.So is it legal to siphon bandwidth from open networks? The answer seems to be yes. There are no UK laws that specifically outlaw it - as long you as you don't tamper with files or change settings. Then you could be contravening the Computer Misuse Act, or be classed as a cyberterrorist under the Terrorism Act 2000.Socially, unwritten rules would suggest that piggybacking is OK. Wi-Fi is more than 20 times faster than broadband, so it can easily accommodate a few squatters. Email and browsing is unlikely to chip into your neighbour's bandwidth. However, heavy file-sharing or downloading high-resolution Star Wars trailers will most likely get you locked out and off the Christmas card list.I think I went a bit far. Heady with hackerly success, I soon found a way of logging directly into my neighbour's router admin screen which he had failed to password protect. From there, I could - if I wanted to - change the login and lock him out of his own connection. If his security was lax, or he had shared folders, I could gain access to personal data.At this point I became paranoid that he would discover my indiscretions, so I knocked on his door and sheepishly came clean. He just laughed."I've been doing the same," he said. "I can pick up your network at the back of the house.""Oh, really," I said through gritted teeth, silently logging all the personal data he may or may not have rifled through. "How funny."We stood on the doorstep for a few minutes cussing technology. Then I went inside and changed all my passwords. Better safe than sorry.
Fancy raising some money for the victims of the tsunami disaster while simultaneously playing Halo 2 on a cinema screen? This weekend you'll be able to do just that. Simply head down to the Vue Cinema West End in Leicester Square and enter thegaming tournament.Players will be competing for consoles plus games, although the attraction of seeing Halo 2 on a cinema screen with properly meaty surround sound should be attraction enough. Entry costs £3 (£1.50 to watch) with proceeds going to the fund set up by theDisaster Emergency Committee. The action runs from 9am to 5pm this Saturday and Sunday (8th/9th Jan).
1.Need for Speed: Underground 22.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (full review)3.The Incredibles4.Call of Duty: Finest Hour (full review)5.Fifa Football 2005 (full review)6.Prince of Persia 2: Warrior Within (full review)7.Pro Evolution Soccer 4 (full review)8.GoldenEye: Rogue Agent9.The Getaway: Black Monday (full review)10.The Urbz: Sims in the City (full review)Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
Ryanair has accused advertising watchdogs of "vexatious meddling and interference" after the low cost airline was criticised for sending out misleading emails to British customers.The row broke out after the Advertising Standards Authority of Ireland ruled in favour of a complaint by leading ferry operators that the airline's policy of sending out emails pricing flights without the additional taxes and charges flouted its code of practice.While the ASAI admitted that policing such marketing emails was problematic, it insisted that electronic marketing fell within its remit."The complaints committee in previous situations had confirmed that email and printed commercial communications sent by firms to customers and other interested parties who have asked for details of future products and services and direct mailings sent with or without request are all subject to the ASAI codes," the regulator said in its ruling against the airline."The code applies to advertisements carried on audio tapes, videotapes, view data services, the internet and all other electronic computer systems."Ryanair criticised the ASAI for acting illegimately, saying the emails were "private correspondence" between itself and customers who have specifically opted to receive an update service."This correspondence is personal, private and confidential and is beyond the jurisdiction of the Advertising Standards Authority of Ireland," the company said in a statement."It has already been accepted by the Advertising Standards Authority that it is beyond their jurisdiction but the ASAI continues to behave in an illegitimate manner by pursuing an issue which is clearly beyond its terms of reference."The low cost airline, which prides itself on an advertising philosophy that "now and again upsets establishment", said it had received no complaints from any of its customers and dismissed the ruling as an attempt by its rivals to gain the upper hand."Consequently Ryanair does not regard this meddling and interference by the ASAI as anything other than vexatious and entirely irrelevant."The ASAI said it was "surprised and disappointed" at the stand taken by Ryanair and  requested the airline to comply with the code.Meanwhile the ferry groups that brought the complaint welcomed the ruling as a milestone in their campaign."This is another step forward in our fight to level the playing field in the transport industry," said Bill Gibbons, the director of the Passenger Shipping Association.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
While consolidation of major publishers into Electronic Arts Inc. is becoming a worrying trend for many UK bigwigs and other European entities, to this stage few battle stations of import have been manned. Indeed, capitulation seems to have been the play to date. However, with the recent "hostile" purchase of 20% of French company UbiSoft's shares by the North American behemoth, it appears that the French government may be preparing for war.According togamesindustry.biz, Chirac and his high-level cronies are concerned with the potential takeover of one of the last major French bastions of the growing videogames market and may pull some political strings to help the Prince of Persia publishers regain a more significant unilateral control. More power to them.If the UK isn't careful, it may end up in the same boat, regardless of lobbying by industry bodies such as TIGA. Companies are going under at an alarming rate, resulting from the ballooning of British publishers and developers in the era of buoyant optimism in the late 1990s and the subsequent indefatigable increase in games budgets. Not to mention considerable publisher conservatism.If the UK doesn't somehow hold on to its role as the most powerful developer and publisher force in Western Europe and is consumed by the EA virus, the diversity of international games creativity will have reached game over. The French recognise it. Will we?
For those of you in the industry (and for those who wish they were), it's the time of year to once again say hooray for the excellent and innovative contributions of the people who rocked our thumbs in 2004. The Choice Awards are dished out at theGame Developers Conference(this year in March in San Francisco, which yours truly will be speaking at), and decided by an advisory board (chocolates and diamonds welcome...), but nominations are free to all comers who have something or someone to celebrate. The categories up for grabs are writing, visual arts, technology, game design, character design, audio, new studio, innovation and (the big kahuna) best game.For inspiration, and to prove that it's not just the same familiar faces, check out last year'snominees and winners.You have less than 10 days to get your thoughts on electronic paper via thislink. Registration is required.
Some of you might be familiar with London'sOystercard- an RFID card that can be used to pay for trips on London Underground. Great technology, but it's had a few slips along the way.ThisisLondonreports on the latest:The Oyster smartcard used by hundreds of thousands of commuters is at the centre of a new transport fiasco, it can be revealed today.As part of the new fares structure, bus fares for Oyster pre-pay users were to rise from 70p to £1 for journeys made between 6.30-9.30am on weekdays. All other bus journeys using pre-pay would rise to 80p - a 40p saving on the new £1.20 cash fare that came in on Sunday.But the revelation is the latest in a series of glitches to hit the smartcard, introduced at a cost of more than £1.2billion more than a year ago.The problem has arisen because the Oyster card readers on buses are unable to tell the time - meaning they cannot differentiate between peak and off-peak fares. Automated software is now being installed across the capital's fleet of 7,000 buses to address the problem.Take it all with a pinch of salt (ThisIsLondon is the web version of the notoriously anti Ken Livingstone Evening Standard newspaper), but in situations like this you just have to think... did NOBODY think there was going to be a problem?
Britons are thought to have sent a record 25bn text messages during 2004; 4.5bn more than the previous year and double the 12.2bn texts sent in 2001.The popularity looks set to continue, despite the arrival of picture and, more recently, video messaging.The Mobile Data Association, an industry body, predicts that the number of text messages sent in the UK will top 30bn by the end of 2005.Text messaging was invented in the late 1980s, as communication for field engineers building the mobile network.
Rats. You sunk my battleship.Snap out of it, man. Christmas is over.Sorry. Q88, did you say?Yes. The code name for Apple Computer's top-secret project, to be unveiled next week.Which is what?Nobody knows.I see. Where does this Pass Notes go from here?There has been some speculation, of course.I knew it! What are the whispers?Shh! They say it's going to be a new computer.What sort of new computer?A low-end computer!What do you mean, like cheap?Exactly. The Q88 will sell for as little as $500, or &#163;265, less than half the price of Apple's least expensive model. The plan is to attract a whole new type of customer.The people who normally buy stolen computers in pubs?The Windows users who have recently purchased iPods, and are therefore already partially converted to the Apple ethos.But isn't the Apple ethos all about paying twice as much for something just because it's thin and white?No, it's about ease of use, an intuitive interface, and an irrational hatred of Microsoft.So what will you get for &#163;265?Word is the Q88 will boast a 1.25GHz processor, 256 megabytes of RAM and a 20GB hard drive.My toaster has more memory than that. What don't you get?A monitor.Isn't it a bit useless without a monitor?This way, you can choose a monitor to suit your individual needs.But won't a monitor cost me at least another &#163;200?Shh! I've said too much already.So it's just a flat box.A thin, white flat box.Not to be confused with:the &#163;29 DVD player you got for Christmas; a glorified iPod recharger; a monitor stand.Do say:"I've always loved the format; now I love the price!"Don't say:"A crappy computer? No thanks, I've already got one."
According to thisReuters report, many of the world's largest mobile phone manufacturers and network operators have agreed to develop, 'an advanced mobile phone standard capable of sending high-resolution video in an instant'. Don't chuck your current 3G brick away just yet though - they're not even agreeing the tech specs until 2007.It's clear, though, that providing cool entertainment functions is how these companies hope to drive handset sales in the coming decade. But are instantaneously delivered games and movies as enticing to phone users as the industry believes? Or will be happy lugging around ourretro phoneswhile using the lovely PSP for all our gaming and video needs?Is there really a mass market for an all-in-one mobile device? Hmm, askNokia...
This one comes fromSlashdot- but I can't verify it at the moment since theVisitorVillewebsite is down because the Slashdot link has crushed its bandwidth. There's something ironic in there, surely.Anyway, if it's true it is quite a fun story, sohere goes.VisitorVille Intelligence has released information on how employees of several large companies use the web based on their monitoring of thousands of websites.Presumably using IP address blocks, they group company employees together to produce some interesting facts and figures:Microsoftemployees useGooglefor their searches 66% of the time, butMSN Searchonly 20% of the time, andFirefoxis their second most popular browser behind Internet Explorer 6's whopping 98.76% share.Googleemployees use Google as their search engine 100% of the time and 21% use a Mozilla or Firefox browser.Appleemployees like Google best and 68% use Safari.Actually, I'm not sure how far off the mark these are compared to normal user figures - and they don't necessarily take into account any company-based restrictions on software choices. But still, a bit of egg on the face for Microsoft particularly.
It's been kind of a double-handed news day for chip maker AMD.First the good news: the company has unveiled a mobile processor designed for portable media players, reportsVNUnet.comThe low-power Au1200 chip integrates media handling facilities on the silicon to keep costs to a minimum.The chip maker said that it has already signed agreements with media player manufacturers to develop devices using the processor.Personal video recorder manufacturer TiVo is developing a series of handheld media players, dubbed TiVo-To-Go, that can download programmes from the recorders to view on the move... consumer electronics company GoVideo, First International Computer and Implicit Networks have also announced the development of players using the chip.Now the bad news (fromPC Pro:Police Friday raided an electronics company located in southern Taiwan, and seized a total of 60,000 suspect AMD CPUs.The suspect [units] were defective CPUs that would normally have been destroyed. However, market sources said that the CPUs might have been stolen from one of AMD's three packaging and testing plants in Asia and shipped to Taiwan for re-marking.Sources at AMD Taiwan confirmed that the 60,000 seized in Taiwan are defective CPUs rejected by the company, however, the company has officially refused to comment on the seized products.A report from a Chinese newspaper said that more than 1 million re-marked chips had been sent to Germany and China - with a street value of nearly $10M.I'm not sure we've heard the last of this story.
Happy New Year all. While we've been away quaffing mince pies and vino (responsibly of course, like the ads say), Peter Molyneux has also been celebrating. The well-known games developer, whose CV includes Populous, Black &amp; White,Fableand a strong line in self-promotion, wasawarded an OBEin the New Years Honour list. Welcome recognition for the games industry indeed, but it would have been nice to see him challenging those developer stereotypes. "Being an absolute geek I've got no idea what I'm going to wear when I go and pick it up," he said.
The European Space Agency has put some of itssatellite imagesof the Asian disaster online:Since the disaster struck, three authorised users of the International Charter on Space and Major Disasters have requested its support from the on-duty operator at ESA/ESRIN. Satellite images of the disaster areas taken before and after the tsunami have been supplied to the UN Office of Outer Space Affairs, the French Civil Protection and the Indian Space Research Organisation.It helps give an idea of scale of the disaster.BlogAid, meanwhile, is urging bloggers to donate their Google and Amazon ad revenues to helping the tsunami relief effort.
A man yesterday claimed a "moment of madness" led him to send hoax emails to friends and relatives of people missing in the tsunami disaster saying they were dead.Christopher Pierson, 40, from Riskington, Lincolnshire, pleaded guilty to a charge of malicious communications and causing a public nuisance after sending some 35 emails to people searching for loved ones who had posted their details on the Sky News website.Horseferry Road magistrates court in London heard that the emails purported to be from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in Thailand and stated that the UK government "regretted to inform the victim that the missing person they were inquiring about was confirmed dead".After police were alerted and inquiries made with internet service provider AOL, Pierson, a married father of two, was arrested. When interviewed by police he admitted being online at the time - the early   hours of New Year's Eve - but had "no knowledge" of the emails. When police searched his computer a number of email accounts were found, including the one used to email stricken relatives.Olive Assien, prosecuting, said Pierson remembered opening up email addresses of individuals who had left messages on the Sky service but could not remember typing up the email addresses himself.She said Pierson was in a period of "personal crisis" and was apparently visibly upset   during his interview. But she added: "Not all the 35 victims that had been emailed had been traced by the police and those efforts continue ... some of the families may not realise these are false emails."Ms Assien told the court that Pierson had been assessed by two mental health nurses but had been found not to have any problems.Defence counsel Andrew McArthur said: "He said it was simply a moment of madness. He does remember sending emails, but he obviously wasn't   in clear thought at the time." District judge Daphne Wickham said she would not grant bail because there was a "question of his own welfare" and given his emotional disturbance, there must be the likelihood of Pierson committing further offences.He was remanded in custody until January 24 for the preparation of psychiatric reports, when he will be sentenced at Bow Street magistrates court in central London.Following the hearing, Pierson blamed personal tragedy   for prompting a "cry for help". He said in a statement: "I apologise to everyone I have hurt. If I could contact them all, I would."I apologise to them. It is a combination of some terrible things that have happened to me in the past 10 years."I lost my son in 1991. This is another tragedy. My eldest son for whom I am full-time carer nearly died on December 21 ... He was aged 12. My uncle died on December 20. I know this was a moment of madness, but I believe it was a cry for help."
The king of Silicon Valley reporting, Dan Gillmor, has pennedhis final columnfor the San Jose Mercury News.And there's a parting shot at government interference in the internet, and at the copyright cartel that he has written about many times before:As always, the people and institutions currently holding the clout don't cede it willingly. Governments are clamping down on us in all kinds of ways. Incumbent business powerhouses are trying to hold back the tide as well, not just to keep their positions but also to thwart new innovation that might threaten them.These reactionary encroachments and retrenchments are not surprising. They always occur in times of swift change and challenge. In the end, they are almost always unsuccessful, because progress ultimately finds a way around barriers, and because people challenge the reactionaries.But we need to keep the pressure up, as citizens and people who want the freedom to use these new tools and live in liberty. The stakes are high, and liberty takes work.For those who don't know, Gillmor is getting out of Big Media journalism and putting his considerable talents behind a new enterprise - which he describes in a little detail onhis new blog.
It looks like German computer manufacturers and purchasers are going to end up forking out in the battle over copyright theft, reportsp2pnet.net:A "tax" that looks a lot like a royalty collection levy is to be imposed on all Fujitsu Siemens computers sold in Germany.Last year the VG Wort copyright organization filed against Fujitsu Siemens, Germany's largest PC maker, wanting €30 for each new computer sold there. That demand was turned down but the District Court of Munich has now approved a €12 copyright levy which VG Wort plans to apply to all PC vendors in the country.(Interesting follow up discussion asSlashdot.)Germany has long applied a levy on blank analogue media as a way of compensating those who lose out from unprotected distribution. Canada recently imposed a similar fee on blank digital media, but a judgeruled that it could not apply to MP3 players.I'd like to know if it actually works as a compensatory system, or just works as a visible sticking plaster to a difficult problem.
&#91;10:41&#93;edb2:hello, is it working?&#91;10:41&#93;edb2:cool cool cool.&#91;10:46&#93; *** graniut&#91;5226ca9a@webchat  .xs4all.nl&#93; has joined #bdjuk.&#91;10:47&#93; *** graniut is now known as s_serizy.&#91;10:47&#93;edb2:hi. it seems to be working now.&#91;10:49&#93;s_serizy:Hello?&#91;10:49&#93;edb2:Hi. Can you see me?&#91;10:49&#93;s_serizy:Yes. Is the other person in  the channel, edb, also you?&#91;10:50&#93;edb2:yep. had to change nicknames.&#91;10:50&#93;s_serizy:Okay, Is it on another  machine or the one you are on now?&#91;10:51&#93;edb2:i've moved machines. on a PC  now; some sort of browser issue with my Mac.&#91;10:51&#93;s_serizy:Okay. Can you shut down  the connection on the other machine, please?&#91;10:52&#93;edb2:sure; but give me too seconds,  it's one floor up.&#91;10:52&#93;edb2:two seconds, sorry.&#91;10:52&#93;s_serizy:I will wait.&#91;10:53&#93; *** edb &#91;c2cd0401@webchat.xs4all.nl&#93;  has quit &#91;"&#91;http://webchat.xs4all.nl&#93; (EOF)"&#93;.&#91;10:54&#93;edb2:right, it's shut.&#91;10:55&#93;s_serizy:so, which browser do you  use on your mac?&#91;10:56&#93;edb2:internet explorer.&#91;10:56&#93;s_serizy:Have you tried Safari?&#91;10:57&#93;edb2:nope. we get what we're given  and are grateful for it. aren't you driven crazy by  this secrecy? i mean, to what extent do you operate  under it in normal life, outside of media stuff?&#91;10:57&#93;s_serizy:Outside of media things it  isn't a concern.&#91;10:57&#93;s_serizy:But considering the  amount of attention from when I signed the  W&amp;N contract, we're expecting the worst.&#91;10:58&#93;s_serizy:So I must apologise for my  overactive paranoia gland.&#91;10:58&#93;edb2:no problem. but your parents  don't know that it's you, do they? that must involve  some secrecy?&#91;10:58&#93;s_serizy:As an aside, you do know  you'll have to cut-and-paste this conversation  into something else in order to save it?&#91;10:58&#93;edb2:ta, will do.&#91;10:59&#93;s_serizy:I think my parents are probably  more concerned about my health and happiness  than my occupation. It doesn't come up.&#91;10:59&#93;edb2:8 years (or some such) after  graduating, they don't ask what you're working  at?&#91;10:59&#93;s_serizy:Not really, no.&#91;11:00&#93;s_serizy:It goes both ways - there  are elements of their lives that I wouldn't like  to pry into.&#91;11:01&#93;edb2:it's kind of odd, isn't it, to consider  your mum and dad asking about how  you're supporting yourself as "prying" isn't it?&#91;11:02&#93;s_serizy:Perhaps in some families,  it would be odd. But as I say, they're more concerned  that I'm healthy and happy. And they've  probably learned an unpleasant lesson or two  about prying before.&#91;11:02&#93;edb2:what like?&#91;11:03&#93;edb2:(I'm a journalist; i pry)&#91;11:03&#93;s_serizy:Oh, I don't know. The usual  parental things. Listening at teenage doors.&#91;11:04&#93;edb2:is there part of you that wants  to tell them, given all the hoo ha and success of  the project?&#91;11:05&#93;s_serizy:No, I think I've passed the  period in which I was going to tell. The people  who should know, already do.&#91;11:05&#93;edb2:are you still working as a prostitute?&#91;11:05&#93;s_serizy:At any rate, the "success" is  still on paper, as far as I'm concerned. The book  isn't out yet; most of the contracts aren't paid.  It all feels hypothetical.&#91;11:06&#93;s_serizy:No, I stopped several  months ago.&#91;11:07&#93;edb2:when you went into it in the beginning,  did you use the Nora Ephron "whatever  happens it'll make good copy" distancing  technique?&#91;11:08&#93;s_serizy:I think perhaps I already  had a distancing technique well established by  the time I started.&#91;11:08&#93;s_serizy:And even then, I didn't  know I was going to write about it until something  funny happened.&#91;11:09&#93;edb2:it seems like a leap, in the book,  when you go from jobless graduate to prostitute ... like you didn't have to go through some massive  mental adjustment. if this is so, how come?  (why was the distancing thing in place already?)&#91;11:11&#93;s_serizy:In a way, I already thought  about what I was doing - temping and trying  to get ridiculously low-paid jobs as a kind of  prostitution anyway.&#91;11:12&#93;s_serizy:The biggest mental adjustment  was not going from other work to sex  work, but from having any kind of hope of getting  a real and interesting job with my degree  to ... well, not getting one.&#91;11:13&#93;s_serizy:Not ebing deluged with glamourous  offers upon graduation is a bit of a disappointment.  No one says that if you work hard, do  well in exams and get a good degree there isn't  necessarily anything waiting at the end of it.&#91;11:13&#93;s_serizy:("ebing" should be "being",  obviously)&#91;11:13&#93;edb2:what did you want to do?&#91;11:14&#93;s_serizy:Something with writing or  editing, preferably. But it seemed I was too underqualified  to even be a sub.&#91;11:14&#93;edb2:did you ever do any journalism?&#91;11:15&#93;edb2:i mean at college and stuff.&#91;11:15&#93;s_serizy:I would have liked to.&#91;11:15&#93;s_serizy:Oh at uni. Reported on  music gigs for the student paper. Beyond that,  not much.&#91;11:17&#93;edb2:cynthia payne cackled her head  off over the Martin Amis bit of the blog; said in  all her years never known her clients to want  literary chit-chat.&#91;11:22&#93;s_serizy:Well, what I think of Cynthia  Payne should probably not be written in a family  publication. Suffice to say one of my friends  is a neighbour of hers and she's not all that.&#91;11:23&#93;edb2:why d'you think she said you  were a hoax?&#91;11:23&#93;s_serizy:Because she's jealous?&#91;11:24&#93;edb2:were you surprised when  people questioned your authenticity?&#91;11:24&#93;s_serizy:Let's be honest, her experience  of the business is so out-of-date it passes  retro and goes straight to ancient. She's an  expert all right - on herself. No one else.&#91;11:24&#93;s_serizy:(ah, sorry, mini-CP rant.)&#91;11:24&#93;s_serizy:No, I wasn't surprised.  Though some of the sources of doubt were disappointing.&#91;11:25&#93;edb2:howd you mean?&#91;11:26&#93;s_serizy:Other bloggers, for instance.  They can believe the most unlikely web  diaries, but doubt there exists a prostitute with  rudimentary computer skills and the ability to  put three words together? That's pretty poor.&#91;11:27&#93;s_serizy:It seemed like other bloggers  were happy to have anyone in their club,  so long as your hit stats don't outnumber theirs.  But once they do, me-ow.&#91;11:27&#93;edb2:does it matter if it's true or not?&#91;11:28&#93;s_serizy:A good point. If well-written,  it shouldn't. So long as what someone writes  does not damage others. But if I wasn't writing  the truth I wouldn't be bothered with anonymity.&#91;11:28&#93;edb2:anonymity drives interest.&#91;11:29&#93;s_serizy:Yes, but that wasn't my intent.  I remember the first day I realised how many  people were reading the site, and was surprised.&#91;11:30&#93;edb2:once the site became popular,  were you at all motivated to continue to provide  yourself with more material?&#91;11:30&#93;s_serizy:I did start thinking about  appointments in terms of what could be written  about them. Which is probably not the best  frame of mind for the work.&#91;11:31&#93;edb2:would you have quit sooner,  otherwise?&#91;11:32&#93;s_serizy:Probably not. It's only  because of the money generated from the book  that I could quit when I did.&#91;11:33&#93;edb2:do you feel any affiliation with  the woman out back at Kings Cross? From the  book, you seem never to have felt threatened.&#91;11:34&#93;s_serizy:I'm aware that I've been  very lucky, and that most of that isn't luck - it's  the agency. They're very good at vetting people.&#91;11:35&#93;s_serizy:But streetwalkers, their  problems are infinitely more complex. I can't  speak for them, and am aware that pity is the  first step to seeing someone as not human.&#91;11:35&#93;edb2:you're not worried the eastern european  woman at the agency will identify  herself, and you, and sell her story? have you  paid anyone off?&#91;11:36&#93;s_serizy:I do wish it was possible to  use my notoriety as a platform for their  concerns, but fundamentally I am as  uninformed about what their lives are like and  what they need as anyone outside the game is.&#91;11:37&#93;s_serizy:Hmm. There is the possibility  she could do that, and the agency could probably  do some trade based on that. But there is an  implicit contract, and if she comes forward, she  risks losing regular customers.&#91;11:37&#93;s_serizy:I haven't paid anyone off, no.&#91;11:38&#93;edb2:given that your experience of  prostitution, at the high end, is not representative  of the general shit most prostitutes have  to take, did you have any moral qualms about  writing about your experiences in a jolly, it's-all-a-bit-of-a-laugh kind of tone?&#91;11:40&#93;s_serizy:Hmm. Well it was sort of jolly  and a bit of a laugh. I don't feel it's disingenuous  to at least represent a side of the business that  isn't about human trafficking and drugs.&#91;11:40&#93;edb2:are you glad to be out of it?&#91;11:40&#93;s_serizy:It would have been dishonest  of me to represent my experience as something  that I felt was shameful and a burden.&#91;11:41&#93;s_serizy:I'm glad to be out of it, because  when my phone rings now it doesn't mean I have  to go check the state of my pubic hair regrowth.&#91;11:42&#93;edb2:ha. what are you doing now  (not as in this minute, but in life, work-wise)?&#91;11:43&#93;s_serizy:As little as possible. I'm  meant to be lying low until the storm surrounding  the book passes, so just seeing a few  friends and being as low-key as I can. Which is  very easy this time of year.&#91;11:43&#93;edb2:would you recommend the  path you took to out-of-work graduates?&#91;11:44&#93;s_serizy:Guardedly. I don't think it's  a good choice for someone who would wrestle  with her conscience every night. But there's  more to sex work than this, and most of it much  more acceptable. Stripping, for instance.&#91;11:46&#93;edb2:less than their consciences, i  think non-sex workers are prob more concerned  about what it would do to their mental health.  The distancing thing; possibly the boredom.&#91;11:47&#93;s_serizy:Hmm. Boredom is a problem  in most work, I've found.&#91;11:48&#93;s_serizy:And yes, it would require  being able to divide your sexual work from your  sexual self.&#91;11:49&#93;edb2:do you buy the line that in the  right circs the prostitute is the one with all the  power?&#91;11:50&#93;s_serizy:Ha. The one with the  money usually has, if not all the power, the  lion's share. There's a balance of power in terms  of identity, because the client and the whore  could reveal each other. It's shifting sand, like  most work relationships.&#91;11:52&#93;edb2:presumably the longer you do  the job, the more adept you are at not revealing  yourself.&#91;11:53&#93;s_serizy:Yes, or perhaps the longer  in the job, the more adept at talking without  saying anything. I think early on I just kept shtum.  Now I can lie like ... well, a very good liar.&#183;To order Belle de Jour: The Intimate Adventures of A London Call Girl for the special price of £10.99 (rrp £12.99) including free post/packing (UK only overseas add £1.50) call 01903 828503 and quote ref no JAI.
Well, you could be too late, reportsForbes.com:The world's 26 major mobile phone operators and telecommunication equipment-makers have agreed to work on a global standard for a super fast mobile transmission technology...The group includes NTT DoCoMo and NEC of Japan, Britain's Vodafone Group PLC, US cellphone carrier Cingular Wireless... Using the new technology called Super 3G, the group plans to launch by 2009 global services for transmitting large volumes of moving images by mobile phones at a speed 10 times faster than the current 3G (third-generation) technology, the report said.The report said the cost of upgrading the mobile telecommunication network for Super 3G in Japan may top $975m.Expensive stuff, and you wonder how much of a gamble souping up the networks will be - after all, 3G hasn't even been around long enough in the UK to be considered a resounding success.Actually, it makes sense: the network is going to improve, so it is better to be there at the forefront. However, I wonder what the killer app for 3G really will be - video calling hasn't really taken off, so perhaps it will just be about fast download times and interconnectivity?
I'm just packing my bags ready to head for Las Vegas tomorrow, along with freelance Ashley Norris, for the 2005 Consumer Electronics Show (CES). AsInformation Weekputs it:Hot new gadgets, gaming, telematics, media and content services, and a bevy of other new technologies will make their appearances next week at the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. The conference, which is expected to draw more than 100,000 attendees, is now one of the largest conventions and trade shows to be held in the city. With keynotes from Bill Gates, the Microsoft chairman and chief software architect; Craig Barrett, the CEO of Intel; and Carly Fiorina, the chairman and CEO of Hewlett-Packard, CES provides a cross-section look at the latest technologies from providers of content, software, hardware, and silicon.The hot topics should include portable video players, digital home products (including the next generation DVD wars), VoIP phones, in-car electronics, and everything mobile and wireless. Whether Gates will preview the Xbox 2 remains to be seen.
"British police said on Sunday they had arrested a man after a hoaxer posing as a government official emailed relatives of people missing since the Asian tsunami, saying their loved ones had been confirmed dead. The hoaxer, claiming to be from the "Foreign Office Bureau" in Thailand, targeted people who had placed appeals for information about relatives and friends on the Web site of TV station Sky News," reportsReuters."Sky News said it was 'disgusted' at the abuse of the message board on its Web site and had contacted police as soon as it was alerted to the hoaxes."
It's no secret that publishers like to save all their best titles for Christmas, thereby forcing devoted gamers into an annual Solomon's choice among releases they would normally have bought all of had they come out more than a day apart. Early 2005's not all gloom, though, with the first few months already brewing more than their fair share of pleasant surprises.Nintendo DSIt's got two screens, one of which is touch sensitive, it can play brand new 3D games as well as dear old Game Boy Advance favourites and it comes in a unit that might generously be described as bulbous. Arriving bundled with a demo of the seemingly superb Metroid DS, which uses the touch screen for gun aiming in a surprisingly playable replication of mousepad control, expect plenty more drip-fed hype in the run up to its March release.Oddworld: Stranger's WrathXbox (Electronic Arts)The ignominy of providing one of the lesser Xbox launch titles has driven developer Oddworld Inhabitants to new heights of creative eccentricity. Stranger's Wrath casts you as a Clint Eastwood-style bounty hunter capturing bad guys dead or alive using unique living ammunition. Having more in common with Halo than with past outings, this looks like one of the highlights of early 2005.Gran Turismo 4PS2 (Sony)With instant adrenaline driving games like Burnout 3 and OutRun 2 available, it's hard to look forward to Gran Turismo 4's inevitable slow burn, requiring you to buy and gradually improve some rubber band-driven Nissan Micra over weeks before you can have any fun. Still, if slow and steady is your thing, the fourth Gran Turismo should appeal to your inner geek.Shadow Of RomePS2 (Capcom)Plots to overthrow Caesar, gore-fests in the gladiatorial arena and a crafty mixture of stealth and brutality sees your brains (Octavianus) and brawn (Agrippa) using their complementary skills to uncover ancient Roman conspiracies. If you've ever wondered what a game would look like with western sensibilities and Japanese attention to detail, Shadow Of Rome presents an enticing combination.Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic 2 - Sith LordsXBOX, PC (LucasArts)Knights Of The Old Republic was that rarity: a good Star Wars game. Its sequel looks similar in terms of content, as you build up characters from humble rogues to mighty Jedi or grotesquely twisted Sith Lords, depending on your ongoing behaviour. Another potential watershed of joy for Star Warriors in the run up to Episode III.
Recently released on DVD, I, Robot portrays a nightmare vision of the future where only Will Smith can save us from armies of androids destroying mankind. Let's face it, not gonna happen, is it? Robots have been around a surprisingly long time, living in harmony with homosapiens - check out Boilerplate (bigredhair.com/boilerplate), a nice metallic chap from the 19th century who favoured colander hats.Anyone feeling nostalgic for Robby The Robot (the-robotman.com) should visitwww.androidworld.comwhich has a section on robots in movies, and you can also buy a domestic android called Valerie for $59,000 which includes a one-year warranty just in case she starts throwing plates at you.Slightly more disturbing isrobosaurus.coma gigantic dinosaur bot that cost £1m to build and whose tasks essentially boil down to destroying motor vehicles - it's carniverous, apparently.
Blogs respond to disasterwrote The Guardian, mentioning thatJordan Golson was quick to start assembling links to some of those dramatic amateur videos of the waves crashing ashore, as well as links to broadcast media coverage from around the world.Following that and other mentions, Golson's tsunami blog page atCheese and Crackerswas deluged with hits, and "for all you nerds out there" his main mirror site served up 114.09 terabytes of data in one day.Most videos are now available from mirror sites and/or via BitTorrent, which looks like the ideal application for this kind of bandwidth problem.
"Microsoft's Passport authentication technology lost a prominent partner this week when eBay announced that it would stop supporting customer logins through Microsoft's Passport and .Net services," reportsCNet."The online auctioneer decided to stop supporting the service after Microsoft made an "architectural change" to its online authentication service, an eBay representative told CNET News.com on Thursday. The company's withdrawal of support and Microsoft's changes to the service were not unexpected developments and part of the planned evolution of Passport, Microsoft responded in a statement."Comment:Monster.com, the job site, has also left the service, and Microsoft would like to see more leave as it refocuses Passport on serving users of its own Hotmail, blogging and messaging services where large sums are not at stake.MSN must once have thought it sounded like a good idea to offer to hold 250m people's credit card details and other information online, but the financial risks involved in holding it must greatly outweigh the trivial amount of income Passport generates. In my view, it's not even worth the PR risk, considering the bad publicity that would follow a significant hack.Incidentally, reports that suggest Microsoft is abandoning or withdrawing Passport are simply wrong. It will continue, and I'd guess more than 99% of Passport users won't see any difference at all. What you might expect to see eventually, however, is a federated version of Passport.It's now more than three years since Microsoft implicitly ceded that the centralised Passport architecture was a bad idea and announced plans for a federated system,Open Passport, using standard Kerberos authentication.The international network of ATM machines is the best known federated system. You can use almost any cash machine in a standard way, but the ATM network and the ATM's owner do not hold any of your data: that is held only by your own bank.For a good example of a current federated identification system, seeTrustgenix.
A website which will allow families to identify loved ones in the Thai resort of Phuket went online today.Photographs of the dead and injured taken by volunteers in hospitals and emergency centres have been loaded on to the site. Internet users worldwide who have missing relatives can now upload pictures of them which will be automatically scanned against the database of photographs using a hi-tech facial mapping system.Close matches will then be emailed back for relatives to see if it is their loved one.The site,www.peoplematch.rc.tv/peoplematch, was set up by RC Group, a specialist biometric company from Hong Kong. It is free to use and updated every hour.Volunteers from the company are taking photographs of victims in Phuket and the project may be expanded to cover other devastated areas.A spokesman said: "We hope it will offer hope to families searching for missing relatives or at least provide confirmation of their worst fears."
"Apple is expected to announce a bare bones, G4-based iMac without a display at Macworld Expo on January 11 that will retail for $499, highly reliable sources have confirmed to Think Secret," the site claimshere."The new Mac, code-named Q88, will be part of the iMac family and is expected to sport a PowerPC G4 processor at a speed around 1.25GHz. The new Mac is said to be incredibly small and will be housed in a flat enclosure with a height similar to the 1.73 inches of Apple's Xserve. Its size benefits will include the ability to stand the Mac on its side or put it below a display or monitor."Along with lowering costs by forgoing a display (Apple's entry-level eMac sells for $799 with a built-in 17-inch CRT display), the so-called "headless" iMac will allow Apple's target audience -- Windows users looking for a cheap, second PC -- to keep their current peripherals or decide on their own what to pair with the system, be it a high-priced LCD display or an inexpensive display."
Pac-Mondrian transcodes 'Broadway Boogie Woogie' into a Pac-Man video game: the painting becomes the board, the music becomes the sound effects, and Piet Mondrian becomes Pac-Man.Pac-Mondrian disciplines the syncopated rhythms of Mondrian's spatial arrangements into a regular grid, then frees the gaze to follow the viewer's whimsical perambulations of the painting: a player's thorough study of the painting clears the level.Each play of the game is an act of devotion. Mondrian's geometric spirituality fuses with his ecstatic physicality when Pac-Mondrian dances around the screen while the Trinity of Boogie Woogie jazz play 'Boogie Woogie Prayer'.Pac-Mondrian ishere
"The company that owns the famed Commodore computer brand has been sold to Yeahronimo Media Ventures, a Beverly Hills, California, digital music distributor," reportsPCWorld.com."Tulip Computers, based in Amersfoort, Netherlands, agreed to sell its subsidiary Commodore International for $32.6 million, in a letter of intent announced Wednesday. The deal gives Yeahronimo Media Ventures, founded in July by SATXS Communications and Yeahronimo NV, control over the Commodore brand that has a long history of computer-related products."
Yesterday in acomment piecein the Guardian, the government's constitutional enforcer Lord Falconer (Charlie to his friends) revealed that he was going toblock media scoopsby publishing information dished out to hacks on the web, for everyone to see:"Surely media organisations, for so long campaigners for open government and for freedom of information, cannot be suggesting that their own commercial interests are to them of greater importance than the public's right to know?"Members of the public will have exactly the same rights, at exactly the same time, as members of the media. Simultaneous publication is sensible publication."While you can't help this is an attempt by the government to stick two fingers up to investigative reporters - after all, it makes journalists question whether there's any point running a small policy story that everyone else has access to - it could well play into the hands of the blogosphere.After all, it opens up the information network in a much clearer way for webloggers and enthusiasts who don't know how to get hold of it otherwise. Yes, it could make thepyjamahadeeneven lazier than they already are (why investigate properly when you can do it from your bed?) - but it also opens up those small stories that journalists will inevitably miss by making the background data and policy documents open to everyone.That's freedom of information for you.
A new speech-based search engine is hoping to find a gap in the market, reportsAnanova:A Scottish firm is looking to attract web surfers with a search engine that reads out results.Called Speegle, it has the look and feel of a normal search engine, with the added feature of being able to read out the results."It is still a bit robotic and can make a few mistakes but we are never going to have completely natural sounding voices and it is not bad," said Speegle founder Gordon Renton.An interesting idea, certainly in usability terms, but I wonder about a couple of things: voice technology makes text sound robotic rather than rumbustious at the moment (more Stephen Hawking than Stephen Fry); and shouldn't reader software be part of the browser, rather than the search engine?
[Off topic]Ananimated gifof the 2004 Summatra Earthquake, 0-300 minutes, from theActive Fault Research Center, Japan.
"A University of Iowa student is the first person convicted of software piracy in the Department of Justice'sOperation Fastlink. Jathan Desir, who was convicted of creating online libraries of pirated software, faces up to 15 years in prison," reportsNewsFactor Network."The conviction demonstrates the DOJ's aggressiveness in pursuing intellectual property crime, says Assistant Attorney General Christopher Wray of the DOJ's criminal division in a statement. 'The Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting all forms of intellectual property theft,' he says. 'There is no hiding in cyberspace, and there is no hiding behind borders'."
Also in the Indy,Charles Arthurmakes histechnology predictions for 2005.Some of his guesses are continuity claims for things that have already happened, or are happening (such as VoIP). Others seem a little blue sky - at least in general consumer terms right now ("a barcode reader that can "Googlefridge" a recipe from whatever objects you scan past it").Here are a choice few:Phishing will be used for industrial espionage, rather than obtaining bank details.Legal downloads will outstrip CD singles sales. But record labels will insist on keeping CDs in the charts because downloaders buy such a broad range of content they dilute the marketing push behind new artists - which labels need to survive.Internet Explorer's market share will fall below 75 per cent (from 95 per cent last May) and keep falling as users of older systems and companies shift to safer and more flexible alternatives such as Firefox and Opera.Enterprising Linux resellers will start selling USB memory sticks with bootable Linux distributions (such as Knoppix) stored on them. They'll spread Linux to Windows users.3G phones will start to sell big, but video calls won't until screens get a lot bigger. Viral film clips for phones will be a huge hit, but sent by Bluetooth rather than expensive video messaging.Apple will release an iPod that will have wireless capabilities.Charles also puts forward the idea that Toshiba, Gateway and HP will follow IBM's lead and sell off their PC-making divisions. Hispredictions for 2004weren't too bad, so let's see how this lot makes it.
Jack's post yesterdaygot one thing right: there's no escaping the blog.The cover story in today's Review section of the Independent is (yes) anotherstory about blogs. It's by Michael Bywater, and for those who are familiar with weblogs it doesn't really reveal much detail. But it does show how they are being taken increasingly seriously as a self-publishing form by the Big Media.Writes the author:But it's too easy to dismiss the blog as an artefact, as the recourse of attention-seekers unable to gain an audience in real life. First, of course, real life is increasingly lived on the internet; and second, many bloggers are truly fascinating, sharing specialist knowledge and leading the newcomer into that web of interconnections that gives the medium its name.And third, the blog is not an artefact at all, but a "form". The blog, with its components (the date entries, the archives, the "blogroll" of links) and its conventions, is a medium of communication, a discipline as much as the novel or the autobiography, the play or the lab journal - or the diary.Worth a glance.
Secrecy is a common charge levelled against governments. From January 1, openness takes a giant step forward in combating such accusations, with the implementation of one of Labour's longest-standing commitments: freedom of information.Implementing freedom of information has been a long haul. As the old television series Yes, Minister showed in one of its most telling episodes, freedom of information tends to be something that political parties support in opposition but, strangely, find themselves less drawn towards when in government.But Tony Blair committed himself to it when he became Labour party leader, and we passed the Freedom of Information Act four years ago. Now, after a long transition period in which public authorities have had the full time and the full opportunity to prepare themselves for what will be a hugely significant change, the legislation comes into effect on Saturday.Why do we believe that freedom of information is so important? Because people have a right to know about the issues which affect their lives. Everyone - and not just the media - will have much greater access to information. For the first time in this country there will be a presumption that public bodies should release information to the public unless there is a very good reason for not doing so.Freedom of information is, of course, long established in the US and many other countries. FOI legislation is becoming a standard feature of the constitutional arrangements of liberal democracies, and I'm proud to be a member of the government that is implementing it in the UK.FOI demonstrates the government's commitment to transparency and openness. I believe it will enhance the democratic credentials of public institutions by giving people the right to know what is being done in their name.There will be a few restrictions, in areas like national security and defence. People have a right to know, but people also want government to get on with the job it was elected to do. Within proper openness, governments need room to govern. Good government is open government; but good government is effective government too.Proactive release of information is central to FOI. All government departments have since 2002 been required to have proactive publication schemes. As a result, a huge amount of information is already publicly and proactively available, at national and local level, such as the publication by the Department of Health of local MRSA rates, or by Hampshire police of details of its chief constable's expenses.It is a fundamental principle of the UK legislation that authorities should treat FOI requests in exactly the same way, regardless of who asks for the information. Why the requester might want the information is irrelevant to whether it should be supplied. In dealing with requests, authorities should not consider what the applicant might do with the information once it has been released.If the information is not exempt under the act, it should be released - to the requester and to anyone else anywhere in the world. FOI is about increasing the openness of all public authorities where it is appropriate to do so. FOI is about making information available to all.To that end, when government departments receive requests under the FOI legislation which are of general public interest, government departments will publish the responses. Some FOI inquiries will obviously be of very narrow interest, but many will be of wider public interest.Some inquiries will be for a particular piece of information. It may be that the particular piece of information could be explained into a wider context by publishing more information with it. Publishing more information is fundamental to the government's approach to FOI. If information can appropriately be released to one member of the public, it is by definition suitable for releasing to all.So government departments will publish the answers to requests for information that is of general interest on their websites as well as making them available to the original requester. I have no doubt that this will be welcomed by all those who are committed to open government and to freedom of information, and by the public at large.This approach, which has been approved by the cabinet, is also strongly supported by the independent information commissioner, Richard Thomas.Some members of the media seem to be taking what might be seen as a more partisan view, arguing that responses to their inquiries made under FOI should be kept secret for them. They suggest that simultaneous publication will undo their investigations.I find this response hard to fathom. Surely media organisations, for so long campaigners for open government and for freedom of information, cannot be suggesting that their own commercial interests are of greater importance to them than the public's right to know? They cannot be suggesting that the stories their commercial rivals would not otherwise have are more important to them than openness and transparency?Our approach means that we will publish information requested under FOI that is of wider public interest on our websites at the same time as we make it available to the applicant. Members of the public will not only be able to read stories in their newspapers based on information obtained under FOI, but will also be able to see the original information that the government department supplied. Members of the public will have exactly the same rights, at exactly the same time, as members of the media. Simultaneous publication is sensible publication.I believe this approach will help further transparency and openness, and help end the culture of secrecy that for too long has blighted Whitehall, local government and public authorities. FOI has already begun to change the way government makes information available to the public. From January 1 this process will be sharply accelerated. Freedom of information means open and widely accessible information - and open and widely accessible information for all.&#183;Lord Falconeris the secretary of state for constitutional affairs
A two-year-old boy found dazed, alone and apparently orphaned in a devastated Thai resort was identified and reunited with his family after an aunt in Sweden recognised his picture on the internet.Viola Hellstroem was scouring the internet for news of her holidaying family, who were missing after the tsunami struck Thailand, when she stumbled across a photograph of her nephew, Hannes Bergstroem.The picture of the boy, unharmed and smiling in the arms of a hospital nurse, had been posted on a special webpage set up by Phuket international hospital.Doctors at the hospital could not identify the boy after he was found sitting on a road near the town of Khao Lak, in Phang Nga province, where surging waves swept away hundreds of tourists and trapped people inside flooded buildings."He looked bleak when he arrived at the hospital on Sunday night with some surface wounds on his face and body," said Vilad Mumbansao, a hospital staff member.The boy spoke to staff but they could not work out the language he was speaking. They suspected he could be Swedish when he responded enthusiastically to a man who spoke the language. Hearing of an unidentified boy, dozens of parents desperate to find missing children turned up at the hospital, but it was Mrs Hellstroem who finally identified him on the internet."I screamed for joy," she told the Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet. "We thought he was dead."The boy's uncle flew to Thailand, arriving on Monday evening to claim him."When I saw Hannes on the internet, I booked an air ticket to come here in less than five hours," Jim Hellstroem said. "This is a miracle, the biggest thing that could happen."Five relatives from Gothenburg were holidaying in Thailand for a month when the waters struck.The boy's father and paternal grandfather have reportedly been found in a another hospital, but his mother and paternal grandmother are still missing.
The tsunami in Phuket left Paola di Maio with little more than four litres of water but, crucially, an internet connection. As the information systems designer and her friends helped with the rescue effort while helicopters buzzed overhead, she realised that one thing was missing: information.Together with Dina Mehta, Peter Griffin, and a small band of other internet enthusiasts in the region, including students from New Delhi and a TV producer in Sri Lanka, Ms Di Maio set upSEA-EAT, the South East Asia Earthquake and Tsunami weblog. Visited by 21,000 people yesterday, it has fast become the key online clearing house for people to share information and contact details.While government hotlines jam or ring unanswered and international aid efforts appear uncoordinated, desperate relatives have gone online to search for their loved ones or simply to help the aid effort.At the scene of the disaster, survivors have also bypassed official communication channels. As well as virtual noticeboards, hundreds of actual noticeboards have sprung up. Names, numbers, photographs and appeals for information about missing friends and relatives have been pinned up outside hospitals and beside resorts in Thailand, Sri Lanka, Indonesia and India.The founders of the virtual rescue centres such as SEA-EAT are not surprised that people are turning to the net, with its instantly and succinctly published information offering everything from contact numbers of consulates to details of how to get a portable toilet."The internet is being used more and more by the families of victims because it is faster and the communication is much more effective," said Ankit Gupta, one of SEA-EAT's volunteers based in New Delhi. "One always comes across red tape no matter what in our third world countries."Ms Di Maio said governments and aid agencies could use the web far more."The internet, reasonably reliable and fast, is not used by authorities nor rescue services to communicate, despite the fact that it has been up without interruption during the entire crisis. Governments and authorities should use the internet as we do. Costs would be lower and results much better coordinated."Another online volunteer, Bala Pitchandi, stayed up until midnight at his home in New Jersey in the US helping to publish information on SEA-EAT."Blogging is such a powerful tool since it can be used by ordinary people like me to publish views and news," he said."Dozens of volunteers who have never met have gotten together to start this blog and many of the contributors are there at the scene of tragedy to help the world know what's really going on. Traditional news outlets have to be 'politically correct', but blogs are honest and true to the word."Weblogs are also being used to direct aid. Sanjay, a blogger and TV producer from Sri Lanka, texted his friends as he helped with the aid effort. They posted his observations online."One thing I discovered in speaking to the displaced people there who are living in the temples and churches and schools is that they need clothes as much as food and water," he wrote. "I guess this is something a lot of us tend to overlook. And there is a severe shortage of undergarments. Not a joke. Specially for the women. I guess no one thinks of it as a need but a lot of people are finding it very, very difficult."With the Foreign Office's overloaded helpline often ringing unanswered, many have discovered their holidaying relatives are safe via text message.Those caught up in the chaos or worried about relatives overseas have also used conventional media outlets, which have proved adept at relaying personal messages across the world.Unclaimed childrenOther worried families have scoured online versions of newspapers in Thailand and Sri Lanka to find news of relatives. Phuket international hospital has set up its own web pages with photographs of unclaimed children.For the first time, Sky set up a ticker on its news channel to relay messages from survivors to relatives in Britain. Itswebsitehas also been inundated with messages and appeals for information from families."People want to know as soon as possible," said a Sky spokeswoman. "Sky and other news channels' job is to move information quickly, so it is a natural step for them."The BBC, too, has moved beyond its traditional role of broadcasting news for passive consumption. Traffic has soared at the BBC Newswebsite, which has acted as a giant message board for victims and worried relatives. It received 3,000 emails yesterday."People are using the BBC because it is a brand that is recognised and trusted across the world," a spokesman said."People are emailing in to get information about friends and family; people are emailing from Asia to let family in other parts of the world know they are safe and OK; there are people sharing stories and there are people asking for help."As deaths were confirmed, the BBC's site was also being used in a more emotional way. Relatives of victims posted public tributes to their loved ones."My beautiful sister Lisa died when the tsunami hit the tiny Koh Phra Thong island in Thailand," wrote Chris Jones from Windsor."She was a conservationist, and had dedicated her short life to helping wildlife and the environment. She was 31. Her brother Mark and I and our family are absolutely dumbstruck. She will leave a massive hole in the lives of everyone who knew and loved her. We miss her terribly already. The world was a better place with her in it."
The International Herald Tribune reports onwhen open source code is costly:Shawn Henry, a software engineer, swivels around in his chair, squints at his computer screen and punches up a long list of software code files that document his company's latest headache.These are files for a coming release from Service Integrity, a company based in Newton, Massachusetts, selling software that helps businesses mine their data for customer leads. Each file highlighted in a bright color represents a match with known "open-source" code covered by a license. And each match represents a potential problem that Service Integrity must resolve.Similar scenes are playing out at many U.S. software companies and other businesses as engineers frantically search their files for something they hope not to find: open-source components.
Better late than never dept: Wired editor in chief Chris Anderson contributed a fascinating article to the October 2004 issue:The Long Tail.The basic point is that if you have an unlimited selection of books, CDs, movies, or whatever, the number of sales of the misses can be bigger than the number of sales of the hits -- not individually, of course, but cumulatively. This is "the long tail".Traditionally, these misses have not been available because of the need to find an economic market. Your local record store can only stock a lmited number of titles and will naturally choose the most popular ones. An online store can offer a much bigger selection because it can target a much bigger (global) audience. If it offers not CDs but donwloads, it can offer practically everything.Anderson points out that many of the net's most successful businesses, such as Google, Amazon and eBay, "are about aggregating the Long Tail" (see block quote below).Anyway, Anderson started a blog calledThe Long Tailto discuss the issues raised, and has now signed up to write a book about it.What's really amazing about the Long Tail is the sheer size of it. Combine enough nonhits on the Long Tail and you've got a market bigger than the hits. Take books: The average Barnes &amp; Noble carries 130,000 titles. Yet more than half of Amazon's book sales come from outside its top 130,000 titles. Consider the implication: If the Amazon statistics are any guide, the market for books that are not even sold in the average bookstore is larger than the market for those that are (see "Anatomy of the Long Tail"). In other words, the potential book market may be twice as big as it appears to be, if only we can get over the economics of scarcity. Venture capitalist and former music industry consultant Kevin Laws puts it this way: "The biggest money is in the smallest sales."The same is true for all other aspects of the entertainment business, to one degree or another. Just compare online and offline businesses: The average Blockbuster carries fewer than 3,000 DVDs. Yet a fifth of Netflix rentals are outside its top 3,000 titles. Rhapsody streams more songs each month beyond its top 10,000 than it does its top 10,000. In each case, the market that lies outside the reach of the physical retailer is big and getting bigger.When you think about it, most successful businesses on the Internet are about aggregating the Long Tail in one way or another. Google, for instance, makes most of its money off small advertisers (the long tail of advertising), and eBay is mostly tail as well - niche and one-off products. By overcoming the limitations of geography and scale, just as Rhapsody and Amazon have, Google and eBay have discovered new markets and expanded existing ones.
The new issue of Fortune magazine (dated January 10) has a big package on Tech Trends, led by a big piece on blogging:Why There's No Escaping the Blog. Fortune is a subscription site, but you can read this for free at the moment. I'll skip the summary since it doesn't say anything new, but it does provide a good overview of the ways blogs are impinging on the business world.
"A new version of the Santy worm appeared over the weekend, and according to analysis done by some security firms, poses a broader threat than its ancestors, which used Google to spot vulnerable Web bulletin boards, then defaced them," reportsInformation Week."Dubbed Santy.e, the worm differs significantly from its predecessors, said Moscow-based Kaspersky Labs in an alert. Rather than target only those Web sites running phpBB, software for creating Internet forums using the PHP scripting language, the worm can exploit any site that's left allowed arbitrary file inclusion into PHP scripts."Like earlier Santy variations, Santy.e uses Google to identify exploitable Web pages written in PHP which use the vulnerable functions "include()" and "require()." Santy.e, however, also throws Yahoo's and AOL's search engines into the mix, learning a lesson from the originals, which were stymied when Google blocked their searches."
Although half a mile from his nearest neighbour, Michael Wolff might as well be sitting at the centre of a busy office. At least that is the way the Scottish-based entrepreneur would like to see it.From his home in Lethen, a hamlet near Nairn, Mr Wolff believes the internet, and particularly the increasing availability of broadband, can be used to set up a network of like-minded, capable and keen workers. In so doing, some of the jobs that are being offshored to low cost labour countries could be saved. It is not so much offshoring as home-shoring, a phrase that is starting to catch on in the US at least.New evidence released yesterday points to a continuation of the offshoring exodus. A report by the trade union Amicus predicted that a further 12,000 jobs will be "exported" by the end of 2005, taking the total number of UK jobs offshored to countries such as India and South Africa to 30,000.The union, which represents the financial services sector, argues that the current high level of employment is hiding the impact that offshoring is having on the economy.The Corporate Social Responsibility Foundation has calculated that the estimated 18,000 jobs lost so far will cost the British economy &#163;2.7bn over the next decade. "The result of offshoring in the UK is that many neighbourhoods which rely on the financial services sector could become ghost towns, such as former steel communities," said Tim Arnold of the CSR Foundation.David Fleming, national officer of banking and finance for Amicus, said: "If the economic tide recedes then our communities are going to be left high and dry. You can't simply take 30,000 jobs out of the economy with all the skills and brains that involves and pretend it won't make a difference. You have to put something back in."Skill levelsThe union is calling for new training initiatives to improve the skills of workers while Digby Jones, the head of the CBI, endorses that today with a call for better basic education to help see off the threat of offshoring."High skill levels are the greatest protection ... from the challenges of globalisation," Mr Jones said.From his base in Lethen, Mr Wolff is hoping to persuade major companies that offshoring jobs overseas is not the only way to save money. He is convinced that companies can save costs and keep jobs in Britain by outsourcing work to a network of highly skilled homeworkers."It's exactly competitive with India in cost terms but hugely superior in terms of relations with workers and consumers," Mr Wolff said.He has dubbed this homeworking as "ki-working", borrowing the word ki - which loosely translated means "trusted relationship" - from the Japanese.Ki-working, he says, can demonstrate cost-savings per "effective hour"- that is each hour of work that is actually productive - that can compete with the Indian experience. His calculations show that home ki-workers cost &#163;13.74 an hour to employ, exactly the same as an employee in an Indian call centre. The cost per effective hour for a standard UK-based worker is just over &#163;20 in the same analysis.These numbers are based on the premise that the wages of an employee in an Indian call centre are only 15% of the total cost of employing them. The remaining 85% of the cost goes on operational overheads such as maintaining IT infrastructure and office space which means that the relatively low hourly wages are mitigated by the cost of maintaining the office space.OverheadsMr Wolff argues that a ki-worker can earn about the same as in a UK call centre but the savings are made for companies because they are cheaper to employ as there are no costly overheads and they can be switched on and off as necessary."In this model, the ki-worker earns roughly the same amount per effective hour as the UK employee but needs to be available only 70% of the total time. The ki-worker has been able to compete head on with offshoring and save his or her job and the employer has achieved the same savings," he said."Ki-working is for people whose work-life balance is a priority but who need to have high quality work and be part of a high quality team," Mr Wolff said.At the moment the idea is largely hypothetical and not working anywhere in the UK on a large scale. The AA has 150 workers answering breakdown calls and in 1992 BT conducted a year-long pilot on homeworking for a dozen or so directory inquiry call handlers who used to commute to its Inverness call centre.Mitch Reid, a BT spokesman based in Aberdeen who has worked from home for the past two years, said the experiment found that stress levels fell and that the anticipated feelings of isolation did not arise. The homeworking project for the Inverness call centre workers was never intended to be anything other than an experiment, he said. The Inverness operation was closed in September, however, as cost-cutting refocused work in three other centres in Scotland.The travel industry might catch on to the idea. Some companies are handling business this way already and lastminute.com is ready to consider the use of a network of homeworkers in the new year. A backlash against offshoring might be a spur.In the banking industry, NatWest is basing its marketing on the fact that it does not use call centres overseas in contrast to rivals such as HSBC.Alan Denbigh, executive director of the Telework Association, points out that issues such as trusting the homeworker and managing them has made the concept put forward by Mr Wolff difficult to operate in practice."Remote working is more exacting in terms of management," Mr Denbigh said, adding that it tends to work best with higher skilled individuals. Even so, Mr Wolff thinks that it is just a matter of time before it catches on and points to the experience of the US.Earlier this month the research firm IDC claimed companies were using "home-shoring" for call centre work and calculated that in some cases moving work stations into homes could boost productivity and efficiency while continuing to reduce costs. Some 100,000 people are already working this way in America, IDC said.
"You've got less spam, according to America Online, the world's largest online service. The online unit of Time Warner Inc. Monday said junk e-mail, declined by more than 75% this year, based on its internal member reports," according toReuters."The daily average number of e-mails blocked by AOL's spam filters fell 50% to about 1.2 million e-mails in late 2004 from a peak of 2.4 billion in 2003. Attempts made by junk e-mail senders also fell to about 1.6 billion daily, from 2.1 billion last year."There are more numbers inAOL's press release.
