How do businesses make money? The answer is usually obvious, whether the company is Marks &amp; Spencer, Merrill Lynch or Manchester United. They sell things - sweaters, dealing and advisory services, the chance to watch live football - for more than it costs to make or provide them. Log on to the Web, however, and the picture becomes blurred.For a start, no one seems to be charging for anything. Browsers can read anything from  The Observer to  Pride and Prejudice; receive news and sports information as it happens; find out the location of speed cameras in their local authority; download music for free; get instant medical advice; find out the   weather in Miami; check share prices, even deal in shares for free...But where does the money to support this web of information come from? Who is paying for it and, as important, who is making profits from it? To answer that question you have to look at the types of businesses and information available on the Net.First, there are conventional businesses such as retailers, banks, insurance companies, travel agents and auction houses. These are simply using the Web as a shopfront or branch through which to offer goods or services. Some are online subsidiaries of conventional companies -Waterstones,Tesco,Toys'R'Us, the Co-op'sSmile.   Others have been established purely as Web businesses -Amazon,e-toys,egg,QXL. But all operate on the conventional economic model of selling something for more than it costs to produce it.Then there are the organisations that supply information on the Web as a public service. That includes: government and other statutory bodies such as the Competition Commission; many universities; schools who have to make their inspection reports available online; some companies; pressure groups; even the National Health Service.At the other end of the scale, and in a category few of us searching the Web at home will even see, are business-to-business sites such asGoindustry, an online auction house that helps companies dispose of unwanted assets such as machine tools from decommissioned plants, or trading hubs like those being established byCarrefourorFord.In between, are thousands of other businesses and websites, all hoping to make at least some money by using the Web as a business tool but without looking like conventional businesses. Until earlier this month, many would have relied on taking a share of the telephone charges paid by surfers: for example, half of last year's revenues forFreeserve, the Internet Service Provider, came from call charges. But following the move towards unmetered access - pioneered byAlta Vistaand now widely emulated - these revenues will disappear. In their place are two sources of revenue still at the heart of most Internet business plans: advertising and commission.Advertising is big business on the Web. Virtually every site you click on will have at least one advert. Some estimate that as much as 80 per cent of all venture capital money raised by Internet business is spent on advertising. Some of that goes on conventional media, television   and billboards, for example, but a lot of it is spent on the Web itself. Every time you use one of the major search engines to look for a subject, an advert claiming you can find books on the subject at Amazon pops up. Small wonder, then, that its marketing and sales spend last year was more than $400 million, or a quarter of its total sales.Commissions can be earned in a variety of ways. First, there are businesses such aslastminute.com, which is effectively a travel agent taking a cut of the cost of a flight, holiday or hotel room in exchange for helping the supplier fill it. Or it can be dressed up as an introduction or tip-off fee. An Internet service provider such asAOLor   Freeserve, or a search engine such asYahoowill direct surfers to particular sites, for shopping, investment advice, share dealing, financial management, sports results, music downloads or whatever.The chances are it will have agreed a deal with everyone on that list to take at least a share of any sales they make - if not also an introduction fee for simply directing the surfer their way. Indeed, some take it further   and will try to take a commission on every subsequent purchase made by someone who was first introduced to a retailer through their portal.Not every company will be able to command lucrative commission deals. Internet excitement is cooling; those who control the budgets are starting to be more discriminating about where and how they spend their money. One financial services business describes being asked by one of the smaller search engines to agree to pay a commission of 2p every time it was included in a list of possible mortgage lenders. It finally agreed a flat fee of &#163;7,000.How sustainable are these as business models? The City is growing increasingly sus picious of Internet businesses which rely heavily on advertising. It is not impossible to make money from adverts: there are plenty of free newspapers which do just that, and even paid-for titles make around 70 per cent of their money from adverts. But while there are a limited number of newspapers, the Web sometimes appears infinite. Will there be enough money to go round?Some businesses are trying to drum up subscriptions to    reduce their reliance on advertising, but that does depend on having valuable content. Even  Encyclopaedia Britannica was forced to offer its entire reference library free on the Web to compete with rivals such as Microsoft's  Encarta.Nick Gibson, an analyst with Durlacher, says advertising rates on the Web are still quite cheap but points to the power the Web gives you to target individuals who are likely to be interested in your product and to garner information about your target market. That, he says, means Web advertising could actually command a premium, rather than, as at present, a discount. But he adds: 'Advertisers are paying for consumers to access the Net. That will be difficult to sustain if you have content which you cannot differentiate from others.'Everyone expects a major shake-out among consumer Internet businesses as the Web matures and it becomes clear just how much revenue can be creamed from surfers. Christopher Spray of venture capitalist Atlas Ventures, which specialises in financing technology companies, is enthusiastic about business-to-business opportunities, like Goindustry.This sector is even less developed than the consumer Web but, experts say, it will eventually account for 80 per cent of all e-commerce. And eventually this is where the real money will be made.
Nearly a million Egg customers now have access to an 'online investment supermarket' - due to be made accessible to non-customers in April.The new facility allows people to choose from up to 169 funds, some at reduced prices. Customers can enter details of savings, investments and mortgages, to build up a 'personal balance sheet' which is automatically updated daily as the price of investments change.As part of a launch offer Egg is, until 27 April, giving a '1 per cent cashback bonus', paid into customers' savings accounts, when they invest money in an Isa.Other features ofwww.egg.cominclude 'fantasy portfolios', allowing beginners to 'try before they buy', and information from independent sources on money subjects.In the competition for Isa customers, Interactive Investor (www.III.co.uk) is offering an online 'advice function' free until 5 April. Users 'complete an online consultation in which they are asked a series of questions   about their situation, objectives, attitudes towards risk', and receive a short report, including specific fund recommendations.Norwich Union is another Isa provider taking advantage of the fact that a written signature is not needed to buy an Isa. Onwww.norwich-union.co.ukyou can buy an NU Isa in 10 minutes and get information on performance, value and service. A similar Isa-buying service is being offered by Gartmore onwww.gartmore.com.Screentrade, the online 'insurance supermarket' launched in 1997, is launching a digital TV quotation service on motor insurance to complementwww.screentrade.co.uk.The service is launched tomorrow for Cable &amp; Wireless customers in Manchester, and will be rolled out to other regions and through other TV companies during the year. It will also be expanded to cover home and travel insurance.One of a growing number of general financial information websites isfish4.co.uk- a source of used cars, residential properties and job vacancies as well as a directory of businesses and a listing of news and sports items.At the other end of the spectrum,www.hpicheck.comallows buyers of second hand cars to check the status of possible purchases. The HPI E-Check register charges &#163;12.50 to check up to three vehicle registration numbers to see if any are registered stolen, written off by an insurance company or have money still owing on the original purchase. One in seven checks results in an 'outstanding finance' alert, according to Equifax, which runs the service.
The commies are comingSilicon.com, the online zine for the IT community, is causing eyebrows to move in a northerly direction. The Internet mag has published its e-economy Agenda Setters 2000 Top 50 list and some of the inclusions come from the far reaches of the left field. Chris Gent, boss of Vodafone, tops the table, followed by Steve Case, chairman of AOL. Fair enough. But Jiang Zemin, general secretary of the Chinese communist party's central committee is at number nine?Northern zealSign of the times? More than two in five people looking to change their mortgage will consider using the Internet to find the right deal according to E-loan, the online mortgage site. Apparently Scots and northerners are more enthusiastic about the idea than their southern counterparts.Manx meccaThe current bidding war for the next generation of mobile phone licences - which allow wireless Internet access - may be heating up over here, but one part of the UK will be ready way before the rest of us. BT and Manx Telecom, its wholly owned subsidiary, are set to launch Europe's first commercial universal mobile telecommunications service on the Isle of Man. And you thought Finland was at the cutting edge of mobile technology.All in a nameWe await with interest the inevitable flotation of this week's featured e-business.Dogzbollox.comis a software and media house specialising in providing email and Wireless Application Protocol services. Its slogan is 'email with attitude'. Can't quite see Chris Gent putting it on his acquisitions hit list. Just think of the fun the headline writers would have. 'Vodafone eyes...'
In the 'New Labour' economic trinity of incubators, enterprise and Cambridge, enterprise clearly represents the Holy Ghost. Tony Blair set out his stall in May 1998 by launching an IPPR report,  The Entrepreneurial Society,  at a Downing Street seminar. Since then the entrepreneurial spirit has (with the Prime Minister's blessing) infused the competitiveness White Paper: the DTI has set up the Small Business Services Agency and the Enterprise Unit to help spread the message to the economy as a whole.This is a change not just of style but of substance - a gamble on entrepreneurial growing businesses being able to reach parts of UK plc that the old-established company sector could not. In a week when Gordon Brown will certainly reiterate his belief in the new trinity, it is worth asking what that faith is based on. How important is entrepreneurship, and how well fitted are UK managers to remake themselves in the new mould?First, entrepreneurship does matter. According to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM), a comparative research study carried out by London Business School and Babson College in the US, there is a strong link between new firm start-up rates and measures of economic prosperity, particularly changes in GDP and jobs. So boosting the number of start-ups would probably add to both. 'There are no countries with high start-up rates and low levels of economic growth,' notes the report.But how easy is it to start a company? Not very, is the answer. In the short term, dot.com mania has brought a flurry of entrepreneurial activity, but boosting entrepreneurship depends on deeper cultural and educational factors - and here the news is mixed. In the GEM study, the UK is in the middle of a 10-nation league, well behind the leading group of the US (an easy champion), Canada and Israel. It is on a par with Italy's levels, but ahead of Germany, Denmark, France, Japan and Finland.That sounds OK; but, says the LBS's Dr   Michael Hay, co-author of the report, there aren't really three groups but two: the three leaders and the rest. 'The UK is a long way from moving up into the top group,' notes the report. What's more, the gap can't be closed by more of the same old same old: fundamental change is needed, particularly in education.This comes out clearly in the GEM analysis, which suggests that today's 'British disease' is an 'entrepreneurial deficit' stopping it exploiting its strengths. Thus, in early 1999, only a third as many respondents as in the US saw good opportunities for start-ups in the next six months - fewer than anywhere except Japan.Poor peripheral vision for opportunities is accompanied by ill-developed entrepreneurial capacities. The UK scores dismally on skills, motivation and respect for entrepreneurial activity. On the last count, only Japan did worse (a finding underlined by a recent newspaper report that the Scots think entrepreneurs are less valuable economically than plumbers or bus drivers).The e-commerce frenzy has brought to light other weaknesses. While the UK likes to think of itself as the venture-capital capital of Europe (in fact Germany is catching up), there is a chronic mismatch   between fund seekers and providers. Malcolm Holt, managing director of matchco.co.uk, a start-up which aims to improve the fit, points out that 99 per cent of entrepreneurs fail to attract venture funding, while poor hit-rates increase their caution still further.Frustratingly, the UK has much of the entrepreneurial infrastructure (a good science base, government support and a reasonable funding climate), but not the capacities to exploit it. Building them to the levels of the US or Canada will, says Hay, take years, even generations.In the meantime, are the roots of the enterprise culture deep enough to survive a sustained stock market setback? Good question, says Hay. He believes attitudes are changing, and cites the serious momentum behind technologies other than e-commerce - mobile telecoms and genomics, for example. But this has yet to reach critical mass. He'd like to see more inducements for individuals and organisations (particularly universities) to take the plunge.'The big deal about entrepreneurship in the US is that it's not a big deal,' he says. 'It's an ordinary subject of conversation over the supper table. There's still a long way before we get to that situation here.'Europe fights back in dot.com battleAt a debate organised by Oracle to accompany the launch ofwww.2becom.com, billed as an online marketplace to help European Internet entrepreneurs get started, 67 per cent of an industry audience sided with the motion: 'This house believes that UK/European dot.coms will resist US dot.com colonisation.'No one attempted to deny that Europe had lost the first, business-to-consumer (b2c), round of the e-commerce contest. What swayed the debate was the contention that the much bigger second round, business-to-business (b2b), would be different.Making the case, Mark Suster, American chief executive of construction e-businesswww.build-online.com, noted that venture capital was pouring into Europe, the capital markets were rewarding start-ups, attitudes were changing, and computer and mobile penetration was up to speed. Meanwhile, US b2b start-ups were too busy fighting for US predominance to spend time and effort figuring out the differences between 15 European markets. European companies, on the other hand, have figured out how to combine technological scale with local scope, and adding the US market was a relatively simple step.'We lost b2c,' summed up Suster. 'But I've got news: b2b is a whole different kettle of fish - and Europe.com can win it.'simon.caulkin@observer.co.uk
Trinity Mirror became the latest "old media" group to embrace the new yesterday when it outlined plans to invest &#163;150m over three years in a network of national and local websites.The company aims to develop the business , using content from its stable of newspapers, on the back of its internet service provider and portal, ic24, which has 215,000 users. Another 16 regional portals will be set up with revenues primarily advertising-driven.The group has established a new media division headed by David Clarke, formerly managing director ofVirgin.Net, and set targets of acquiring 1m access customers by the end of the year. Trinity Mirror is offering unmetered access which it estimates will cost &#163;6m this year.But, just as publishing group Emap's investment in the web was greeted with a 12% fall in its share price on Thursday, so Trinity Mirror suffered a 29.5p slide to 709p. Analysts said the online market looked increasingly crowded.The company reported its first set of results since Trinity group bought the Mirror in September last year and turned in a 14% improvement in pre-tax profits during 1999 to &#163;168m. Turnover increased by 4% to just over &#163;1bn and the dividend was lifted 10% to 16p a share.Mr Graf reiterated the board's support for Mirror editor Piers Morgan whose share dealings sparked controversy last month."If you look at the share price then clearly the episode has had no damaging effect on the group," he said. "Would we rather it hadn't happened? Yes, of course."
As literary deals are struck at the London International Book Fair, the book world's major trade show which kicks off tomorrow at Kensington Olympia, where can the reading public get the best deal when buying a book?The price war raging among internet booksellers as they battle for market share supremacy suggests you are likely to find the best cover price discounts by shopping online.But as a Jobs &amp; Money snapshot survey reveals, the story is not straightforward. Prices for popular best-selling titles vary enormously from vendor to vendor and while it is usually cheaper to buy from internet bookshops, no one online vendor seems to consistently offer the cheapest deals. What's more, in some instances you can get a better discount from high street retailers.The conclusion is that, if you know what books you want and you've got the time, it's worth shopping around for the best price on individual titles.Of course, many book lovers would agree that if your aim is to browse the shelves before choosing a book to buy, there is no online substitute for visiting a real store where you can handle the books, read the blurb and sample the texts. Buying from a real bookshop also gives you the advantage of being able to get the book on the spot rather than having to wait an average two days for delivery from an online vendor.In this Jobs &amp; Money survey, we compared prices for the top three books from the hardback and paperback fiction and non-fiction bestseller lists compiled by Bookwatch from data supplied by BookTrack's nationwide sample of sales from 4,600 outlets over seven days ending 26 February.First stop was the internet where a query about how to find the best book prices addressed to the Ask Jeeves site (www.ask.co.uk) linked me to the hugely time-saving and useful Shopgenie site (www.shopgenie.co.uk) which searches online stores for the best prices on various goods.In its book section, you simply have to type in the author and title of your chosen book and specify whether you want prices for the hardback or paperback edition. One click of the mouse and, within a minute, the screen displays three charges - the price, P&amp;P cost and price including P&amp;P - for your requested book from seven internet booksellers. One more click and it will sort them into best buy order. Shopgenie compares prices for Amazon (www.amazon.co.uk); Alphabetstreet (www.alphabetstreet.infront.co.uk); Bol (www.bol.com); Countrybookstore (www.countrybookstore.co.uk); the Internet Bookshop, part of WH Smith Online (www.bookshop.co.uk); the Book Place (www.thebookplace.com); and Waterstones Online (www.waterstones.co.uk). The results for the 12 bestselling titles varied enough to show that it is impossible to predict which vendor will be offering the best price, including post and packing, on any one title. So, if you want to buy a particular bestseller online, it is worth doing a quick search first to find out where you'll get the best deal.But if you want to buy several books at a time, it may be cheaper to stick to one supplier because of the minimum delivery charges levied by some online vendors. Free postage and packing is on offer from Alphabetstreet and Countrybookstore.For book deliveries to UK addresses, Amazon and Waterstones Online charge &#163;1.95 plus 50p per book; Bol charges a flat &#163;2.95 per delivery; the Internet Bookshop charges 15% of the ordered books' full price with a minimum charges of &#163;1.95 and maximum &#163;6; and the Book Place charges &#163;2 for the first book plus &#163;1.75 for each subsequent book.After obtaining prices from internet vendors, we asked Waterstones and WHSmith for their instore prices for the same list of bestsellers. Neither retailer charges the same for titles in store as via their internet outlets.One could argue that to be scrupulously fair, when com paring the high street store prices with internet bookseller prices one should add the cost of return travel to the nearest branch.Taking our sample of 12 bestsellers, Alphabetstreet offered the cheapest price including delivery charges for four titles (including one joint best price with Countrybookstore), the Internet Bookshop for three, Waterstones high street stores for two, Countrybookstore for two (including one joint with Alphabetstreet) and Amazon and Waterstones Online each took credit for one best price.If you have an independent bookshop nearby, one final tip is to check whether they are willing to match any best price you find elsewhere, including those on offer from online booksellers.
Personal finance providers are failing to rise to the internet challenge and the market is suffering. Industry magazine Retail Finance Strategies ranked the websites of the top 100 UK financial services providers in terms of what they provide to customers and found most of them lacking."The majority of financial sites have sparse functionality and limited content, while design and branding is either over-ambitious to the detriment of site navigation or so ill-conceived that it damages the image of the company as a whole," says Edward Humphrey, editor of Retail Finance Strategies. "Despite the innovations of a select few, the vast majority show an alarming lack of strategic planning."Axa, HSBC and Standard Life Bank were among the worst scorers. Out of a possible 100 points, the survey gave them only, respectively, 56 points, 47 and 62.Retail Finance Strategies pointed to these websites' limited functionality - customers can get online quotes but not buy over the internet - and clumsy and confusing navigation as features which let them down.Some companies were also accused of playing catch up to keep their investors happy. Mr Humphrey says: "All the internet ventures announced during the AGM season seem to be more about keeping analysts and shareholders happy, not the customers."Some sites, naturally, fared better than others. Nationwide Building Society topped the list, scoring 91 out of 100.The ability to buy almost all Nationwide products, including mortgages, loans and credit cards through the internet was praised by the report's authors. High quality content, links to other sites, including its own football site - the building society is a major sponsor of football in the UK - and the fact that Nationwide is an internet service provider all made for extra brownie points.Citibank, Egg and Natwest came second, third and fourth. All were deemed to have good functionality and an easy navigation system. These results are made more pertinent by the findings of Datamonitor market analysts on what makes people use internet banking.The analysts conclude that the number of internet bankers will grow by 30% in the next five years, reaching 5.3m, and that the biggest determinant in who these people bank with will be the level of service they get.The rise of tailor-made products and increasing competition over rates means the only way internet banks can distinguish themselves is in the service they give their customers, it says.It also found that online users of financial services tend to be young and know what the internet can do and expect their banks and fund managers to know as well.Additional services such as online finance guides, homepage customisation and the ability to access accounts through internet service providers like Yahoo and AOL are ways of giving a better service through the website, says the report.Offering competitors' products on your website was also flagged up as good customer service. Datamonitor believes that if customers can access other companies' banking products through one website, they are more likely to use that website for all their internet banking.Banks were the most consistent performers in the Retail Finance Strategies study, with the top 10 banks all scoring 77 points or more.The top 10 building societies, on the other hand ranged between 91 points to 58.The top 10 fund managers received similar rankings to the building societies. In the number one spot was Fidelity Investments with 84 points out of 100. Perpetual, in 10th place, scored 58 points.The range of points for the top 10 insurers was tighter, with the number one insurer, Legal &amp; General, being awarded 83 points and the number 10 insurer, Skandia Life, getting 66.
Terry Smith, the outspoken City analyst famously sacked in 1992 for publishing unflattering research on big potential clients of the then Union Bank of Switzerland, is reported to have made upwards of &#163;30m profit on his investment in an e-commerce venture 18 months ago.The man whose guide to spotting dodges in company reports was titled Accounting for Growth is now accounting for a spectacular personal gain in his involvement with procurement group Infobank - practically dead in the water at the end of 1998 and now one of the success stories of the net shares boom.There seems to be just one fly in the ointment for the "analyst without portfolio" at broker Collins Stewart: he is thought to be still holding some of the shares, thus breaking his own golden rule: "Cash is fact - everything else is opinion."Mr Smith's "staggering personal profit" was disclosed yesterday on the Citywire news service, which reported him as saying that his gain, while "a   significant sum", was not as high as the &#163;40m suggested.Collins Stewart helped put together a rescue of Infobank at the end of 1998 when the shares dropped from 330p to just over 33p.The online procurement group has since signed deals with, among others, local government and its shares surged at one point to more than &#163;40, although they have since settled at closer to &#163;30.Mr Smith was not available for comment last night. He is thought to be part of a team trying to buy Collins from its owner, the independent mer chant bank Singer &amp; Friedlander, which has just announced plans to sell off its stockbroking outfits before the share bubble bursts.It was in 1987, when working for securities group BZW, that Mr Smith's blunt personal style first came to light. He was a banking industry analyst with the temerity to suggest clients sell shares in Barclays, the parent of BZW.In 1992 he was back in the news when UBS tried to suppress publication of the first edition of Accounting for Growth, in which Mr Smith alleged many of the success stories of the 1980s owed their growth to fancy accounting.At least one UBS client was offended and Mr Smith was sacked. Unrepentant, he published a second edition in 1996, detailing ways round the "reformed" accounting system.In 1996 it emerged he had dabbled as a franchisee of the Athena poster chain, and insisted on exercising his option in 1994 to sell the franchises back to parent group Pentos. His timing was impeccable - the month after he received his money, Athena went into receivership.
After weeks of hypelastminute.com- the internet site that promises great deals on everything from a weekend in New York to a box of the finest Cuban cigars - went public this week.Despite the company never having shown a profit, more than 200,000 investors rushed to buy in: shares rocketed from the opening price of 380p to 555p on the first morning of trading, sending the stock market value of lastminute.com up from &#163;570m to &#163;832m.The biggest winners were the company's creators, Oxford graduate Martha Lane-Fox and Old Etonian Brent Hoberman, who have come to epitomise the new generation of internet entrepreneurs.But not everybody is convinced. Some City analysts have warned against internet investments.Others have described lastminute.com, which began by selling bargain basement flights but now offers everything from theatre to football   tickets, as a triumph of marketing over content.Defenders of the company argue that it is more than just a bucket travel shop. It is designed for the cash rich twentysomething generation with either not enough time or imagination.Does lastminute.com live up to the hype? The Guardian road tested some of the deals available to try to find out.Return flights to ParisIt's spring, so it has to be a weekend in Paris.By internet:Logging on to the lastminute.com website we are told they're offering flights from only &#163;87 per person including airport tax.Seven clicks of the mouse later and we're nearly on the plane, despite the problem of the only flight available on the day we want to travel leaving at 6.45am and the first flight back being at a similarly ungodly hour four days later.But with the final click of the   mouse a worrying development arises. "Sorry. We might not be able to deliver those tickets in time," a warning sign informs us. "For flights leaving before 2pm on the day you have chosen, you generally need to book before 3pm two days in advance."It would appear lastminute.com isn't quite so last minute after all. We are given a telephone number to call where they would try to arrange delivery.An electronic switchboard puts us through to an attendant at Apollo Travel, which apparently handles flight inquiries for the company. There is a surcharge of &#163;3.50 to courier the tickets to Heathrow for us to pick up on arrival.The total price of two tickets would work out at &#163;180.By phone:Directory inquiry gives us the number of Thomas Cook Direct, where a woman says we need to call a subsidiary, Flight Direct."When were you planning to travel?" Gavin in the call centre asks. Tomorrow is the wrong answer. "I'm sorry, there's no way we would be able to get the tickets to you in time. We're in Peterborough and the courier van leaves for London once a day and it's already gone."But he helpfully gives the number of British Airways and suggests we try them direct.We get through to their call centre. Availability is not a problem. We can fly out of Heathrow at 9pm on Friday night returning on a late flight on Sunday in good time for work on Monday morning.But you have to pay for the choice. Two return tickets plus taxes adds up to &#163;302, more than &#163;120 above lastminute.com's price.Verdict:Lastminute.com was quicker and cheaper, but flight availability was too limited.A sporting eventThe England rugby team take on Italy in the Six Nations championship in Rome today.By Internet:Lastminute.com is offering a package to the game for &#163;169 per person.Clicking the more information button we are told the flight would leave at 7am from Stansted, arriving in Rome mid-morning, and that we would be transferred to a location near the ground where we could have a drink and a sandwich before the match. Our tickets would be sent to the airport for collection.After the final whistle we would be transferred to the city centre, where we would have plenty of time to find somewhere for a drink and a meal before heading back to the airport for a late evening flight to London.But there is a problem: halfway down the more information page the price of the trip appears to have suddenly doubled to &#163;339 per person. After phoning the hotline we are told it is a glitch in the computer system, but the price is &#163;169. New technology is clearly not infallible after all.A couple of clicks later and we're on our way to Rome.By phone:Trying to get to the match through more conventional routes is not quite so simple. Ticketmaster does not sell tickets, and neither does Keith Prowse. But it gives us the number of a broker who is offering tickets for the match for &#163;95 per person.This company can also arrange the same package as Lastminute.com, but this time the price is &#163;225. Not such a good deal.Verdict:Lastminute.com was quicker and much cheaper.A weekend awayA sudden need for a change of scene. It doesn't matter where, just as long as it's away.By internet:Lastminute.com is offering two nights at the apparently sumptuous Tylney Hall Hotel in Hampshire. An executive double room, including dinner and breakfast, works out at &#163;185. Bed and breakfast rates for the same room work out at &#163;99. Both offers come with a bottle of champagne.By phone:The price at the same hotel works out to be almost exactly the same. But it was easier to find on the internet.Verdict:Not much in it.
Coffee bars, like mobile phones, are everywhere. Posturing with your Nokia while trying not to gag on your Mocha Valencia (chocolate syrup, orange syrup, coffee and steamed milk), is a tall order, but if you want to live up to your urban swashbuckler image, it has to be done.The proliferation of branded coffee bars - Starbucks, Coffee Republic, Aroma and Costa - on the streets of London and other major cities has far from reached its zenith. Costa recently declared war on Starbucks: it plans to have 256 outlets by the end of the year - way ahead of Starbucks, which currently has 115 sites.People might fantasise about running their own cafe but surely the market has become far too daunting for an individual to fulfil caffeine-fuelled dreams. Where exactly would you start? "Location, location, location," says Michael Fairholme, of the Urban Espresso Training School in Maida Vale in London, where would-be cafe owners can learn the ropes. "Finding a site is a full-time job."Victoria Reid, who founded Urban Espresso after owning and operating cafes in Australia and who now advises people who are setting up businesses, agrees: "It's a long slog: it can be more than 18 months before you make your first cup of coffee".Jones Lang Lasalle is retained by Starbucks to search for sites around the country. You can appoint an agent to look for you and they will charge you around 10% of the rental as a fee. If they don't find you what you want, you don't pay anything. If you have never traded before, you won't get a prime site as you need a covenant to show the strength of your accounts, which is why, according to Jones Lang Lasalle, "most start-ups are in slightly quirkier positions".Annual rent can be anything from &#163;50,000 for a site in a fairly busy sidestreet in a commuter town to &#163;200,000 for a site in a prime section of, say, Long Acre in Covent Garden.To help get you started NatWest publishes The Business Start-Up Planner and any bank will have a smallbusiness adviser who will be able to put you in touch with your local BusinessLink. Estate agents will also help you get to grips with the legalities of leases.When it comes to staff, Michael Fairholme reckons that the minimum is three people: one on the till; one cleaning up and managing stock and, most importantly, the person who could make your business a success: the   Barista. The person who operates the coffee machine - be it a model by La Marzocco (approx &#163;3,500) or a Faema (expect to pay around &#163;2,500) - is in a profession, which, in the UK, is about to come of age.For as the chains scramble to secure the best sites they are creating a market for Baristas with a more professional vision - not for their own branches - but to work in the new, independent coffee shops being opened by   maverick entrepreneurs.At Cuppa-cino, situated between platforms 9/10 and 11/12 at Clapham Junction station, Jorge Fernandez is in his element: "I will always consider myself first and foremost a professional Barista. I love it. I love to go behind the bar and shout and rant and rave and create. It's a real buzz. When it's busy, and it's pumping, it's a little bit special. You get in for six in the morning. You start guzzling your coffee. It does help to be caffeined up"Created by Andrew Roberts and Amanda Fletcher, Cuppa-cino opened last summer. "It worked pretty much straight away," says Andrew Roberts, who is committed to growing the business without having outside shareholders: "We don't want to lose the fun of it.""It doesn't have to be about cut-throat competition," adds Amanda Fletcher. "It's about quality of life". With plans to open a maximum of seven or eight stores, Mr Roberts suggests that Cuppa-cinos will tend to be located in "unconventional locations".Quality of coffee and developing a loyal, professional team are key, believes Mr Roberts, who buys his coffee from specialists the Monmouth Coffee Company and experiments with offering single origin coffee (espresso is made from a blend), often bought direct from estates, which helps to raise awareness. On the recruitment front, he is quick to point out: "I couldn't pay someone &#163;4 per hour. I just couldn't expect them to arrive and do a good job".Out of London, the entrepreneurial spirits is also flourishing: "Starbucks wants to rule the world like McDon alds so it will do it at all costs", says Steve Sartori, co-owner of the Italian Coffee Company in Worcester. "This leaves opportunities for small individuals. With my hands-on approach I can always do better than them. My service will be 10 times better."Mr Sartori persuaded a family of Birmingham-based farmers, A E Becketts and Sons, to diversify into coffee bars and hopes to open no more than 10 outlets in the next two years. His staff have been with the business since it opened last July and the second shop opened in Cheltenham on 13 March. Looking at sites in Gloucester, Malvern and Leamington, Mr Sartori is avoiding the big cities: "I looked at a site in Bristol which was four or five doors away from Coffee Republic and across the road from Starbucks.Why do I need to jump into that?"Mr Sartori and his team all learned to make good coffee at the Urban Espresso Training School where an afternoon's course will set you back &#163;70, during which time Michael Fairholme will endeavour to help you find "that sweet spot".Infused with passion, Mr Fairholme studied his art with professional Baristas in Italy and is consequently committed to spreading the word about good coffee. "It's a drug," he admits, and after an afternoon learning that you need 7 grammes to make a single espresso and pondering "gramme throw" (the weight dispensed by the grinder) - you have to believe him.The ultimate, reveals Mr Fairholme, is Jamaica Blue Mountain, sold at approximately &#163;35.00 per kilo, which is "naturally perfectly balanced".John Kavaliauskas also learned to operate the "Ferrari" of coffee machines - La Marzocco - under the tutelage of Michael Fairholme, and is now ready to set up shop. Together with his partner, Maria Clancy, he is launching a cafe business called Organic Xpress which has backing from the Social Venture Network Europe (SVNE). Starting in London, and then looking towards Liverpool and beyond, with the first London outlet due to open before the summer, Mr Kavaliauskas can only reveal so much about the nature of the Organic Xpress brand.If it were a car, he says, it would be "something coming out of the RockyMountain Institute: the ultra-light Hypercar, a more enlightened expression of contemporary sustainable living and lifestyles" and adds that while the property search is fraught - he has already been gazumped by a fast food retailer - he remains motivated and enthusiastic."The organic movement has evolved mainly from the 70s: maybe it's ready for a fresh outlook that's really vibrant." He admits he would like to do for food "what Malcolm McLaren did to the music industry"Currently researching fairly traded products, Mr Kavaliauskas is unfazed by the likes of Costa: "Despite the voracity of the big brand chains, it is creating a space for the individual," he says with conviction.And back at Clapham Junction, where the the Cuppa-cino team know all of their regular customers by name, referring to "Mr Short White Brew" or "Mr Tall Latte and Pain au Chocolat", Jorge Fernandez believes that the Barista as a profession will grow as smaller, more personally-driven businesses are developed."A certain percentage of people will appreciate being recognised by staff and will appreciate the fact that a coffee shop has a soul and a heart and isn't driven purely by money."
Don't be misled: tracking down a g&icirc;te or villa on the net takes time. Once you could order a few brochures, spend a pleasant evening flicking through them and then call to make a booking. It's not yet quite so simple on the net. Targeted searches are all very well for finding flights and hotel rooms, but choosing a villa - where the location, appearance and facilities are just as important as the price - is a different matter. You need photographs and maps, and these can take a long time to download on a slow connection.French ConnectionsFrench Connections gracefully overcomes many of these obstacles. Lavishly illustrated, the site is a directory of properties from all over France. Each has its own webpage with photos, prices and the owners' contact details. Some are very good value, but others are out of the reach of most people, like the Chteau de la Tour near Bordeaux, available for &#163;7,000 a fortnight in July.Ch&acirc;teaux and CountryIf nothing except a chateau will do, try the upmarket Ch&acirc;teaux and Country, too. Only eight of them can be rented in their entirety, but there are plenty of rooms available.VillaramaThe rather garish Villarama looks as though it might specialise in timeshares on the Costa Brava but in fact offers a good choice of villas all over Europe. The principle is the same as French Connections: you book with the owner directly. Some properties show an online availability chart so that you don't waste time chasing dates that are already reserved.AbritelThe French themselves use Abritel, which started life on the primitive Minitel system and is beginning to adapt itself to the web. The chief weakness of this site is the lack of photos and details but, as long as you know exactly where you want to stay, it could prove useful.Vintage TravelFor larger villas in Spain, Vintage Travel is well worth visiting; the site is richly-illustrated and fulsome in its descriptions.Holiday-rentalsHoliday homes in Spain, Italy, France and even a few in Scandinavia are available at the long-established Holiday-rentals - a few oddities, such as the sauna chalets with beaver safaris in Norway, make it an excellent place to begin looking.
No ribbon was cut and no minor member of the royal family attended but whenEgg, the net-banking arm of Prudential, opened its online investment supermarket this week the effect was as dramatic as any gala event, particularly for its competitors.The investment supermarket was originally an American idea.The biggest players over there areFidelityandCharles Schwab, with first and second largest market share respectively and control of over 90% of the market. This side of the business alone is worth $176.8bn (&#163;110bn) to Fidelity, which has just overtaken Schwab as market leader.The principle of the investment supermarket is simple. Investors access a website which offers a broad range of mutual funds. These are available at a discount to the price the investor would pay if buying from an adviser or direct from the fund manager, which will usually charge the full initial charge - up to 5.25% - despite not providing advice. So far, it is hard to tell the difference between an investment or fund supermarket and a discount broker, and indeed, the two are very similar. But there are, in theory, two key points of contrast.The first is that where a discount broker offers no advice at all, the supermarket does offer the investor limited guidance. Egg's version has a facility called the "investor profiler" which asks questions about the customer's financial circumstances to build a picture of their attitude to risk and the purpose of the investment. A basket of funds is then suggested on the basis of this picture. It is important that this should not be construed as advice - since that would require more severe regulation - so the recommendations are based on quite loose criteria.Egg suggests a handful of funds based on fund sectors that appear to suit the investor's purposes. There is a fine line, however, between this type of service and the fund analysis service offered by many discount brokers. The only difference is that the brokers do not claim to make any recommendations, only to offer a view.The other differentiator is that the supermarket allows investors to buy and sell within a single account to make it easier to track the value of all the holdings. Egg also provides something it calls the personal balance sheet, into which customers can enter all their financial details, including those held outside Egg. Elements of the customer's finances that Egg can get information on are updated automatically to create a consolidated record of all the customer's financial affairs.Egg says the supermarket is designed to appeal to a broad church of relatively unsophisticated investors who are not comfortable with choosing investments from scratch but do not want to pay for advice. With a starting line-up of only 169 funds out of a universe of over 1,500 unit trusts and open ended-investment companies they certainly will not be bamboozled. Mike Harris, chief executive of Egg, says this is deliberate: "To have 169 funds covering all sectors is enough for most investors," he says.Despite that, Egg does plan to add more to the range as time goes by, but there is a long way to go before it reaches the breadth of service offered by Fidelity in the US, which sells 4,100 funds. Of these 900 have no initial charge; these are known as "no load" funds which have not really taken off in the UK.Another limitation on Egg's market is that until the new tax year, which starts on April 6, only Egg's 1m customers will be able to use it. After that date, it will be open to anyone who opens an Egg savings account.Egg was not the only outfit to open a supermarket this week. Torquil Clark (TC), a Wolverhampton-based advisory broker, also joined the fray. TC's service offers access to 600 funds from 39 managers. TC's 35,000 personal equity plan (Pep) and Isa customers already use the site to track the &#163;350m that is invested in their portfolios but is unlikely to be able to compete against Egg, which has a stronger brand and can draw on the deep pockets of the Pru to maintain a competitive edge.The introductory offers are an illustration of this. Until April 27, visitors to the Egg supermarket will be able to claim a 1% cashback on any Isa investment. Where the Isa carries no initial charge   - most do not - the investor stands to make an instant profit. There are also discounts that bring the initial charges down to a maximum of 1.5% and minimum of 0% - rather than a typical 3.5% to 5.25% - on other funds sold through the market. TC's offers comprise an ongoing &#163;25 flat fee for Isa investments and discounts of up to 5.25%. These are good value, but do not have the instant appeal of the cashback offer.In fact, the cashback offer has forced at least one other discount broker to revise its marketing strategy - an early indication of the sort of   pressure Egg is likely to exert on the current players in the market. Allenbridge, the third largest discount broker in the UK, has traditionally offered a guarantee that its discounts are the lowest to be found. This was backed up by an offer to double the difference if anyone can find a better discount elsewhere.Anthony Yadgaroff, managing director of Allenbridge, says since Egg made its cashback offer Allenbridge can no longer afford to maintain this guarantee. Allenbridge pays for its guarantee by giving up trail commission for sufficient time to make up   the cost. To match Egg's deal would mean making no money for five years. However, the firm will fight back with its own fund supermarket, which is currently under development. It hopes to offer Sharpe ratios and other specialised risk and return measures as part of the service.Mark Dampier, head of research at Hargreaves Lansdown, the UK's largest discount broker, seems more perplexed than alarmed by the Egg deal. "When I first heard about these things a while ago I thought: 'These things could be bad news for us,' but so far I just don't see it," he says. Fidelity and Charles Schwab, with their experience in the US market, are taking a clearer view and plan to launch their own supermarkets this summer.Few details are available on the Schwab project, but a spokeswoman says it will start off in a fairly modest way with a limited range of funds. Fidelity will provide a similar range of fund managers, but each will make their whole range available bringing the total funds on offer to about 300. It will also set up a site for financial advisers.
Martha Lane-Fox, the multi-millionaire co-founder ofLastminute.com, has proposed herself to Tony Blair as an agent to promote e-commerce.The revelation was made yesterday by Tim Jackson, non-executive director of QXL.Com, another leading e-company.Mr Jackson referred to Ms Lane-Fox's offer to make herself available as a new government adviser when he spoke at a meeting in Downing Street on Wednesday night attended by Mr Blair, the Dutch prime minister Wim Kok and some of the leading internet start-up high fliers. Mr Jackson said Ms Lane-Fox had made the offer the last time he had been in Downing Street to see the prime minister.No 10 refused to comment on whether it would take up the apparent offer from Ms Lane-Fox, 27, who has amassed a paper fortune of over &#163;40m off the back of her still loss-making internet bucket shop. They conceded Ms Lane Fox had been to Downing Street for a business seminar and said they look at interesting ideas all the time.Some have suggested that the serious internet entrepreneurs are jaundiced about the success of Ms Lane-Fox who does not come from a computer or business background.Mr Blair has already appointed an e-envoy, Alex Allen, a former Downing Street civil servant, but his aides said they recognised the importance of the internet industry.
There was strong speculation last night that Yahoo, the California-based internet portal, is poised to play a role in the consolidation beginning to grip the new media sector.Shares in online auctioneer EBay rose sharply following reports on CNBC, a US financial cable company closely followed by day traders, that the two companies had held talks about a possible alliance or merger. The station quoted   sources which said there was a 50-50 chance of a partnership between the companies being struck in the next two weeks.A separate report in USA Today said negotiations between the pair had already fallen apart on price. Neither Yahoo nor EBay would comment on what they described as "market speculation". Yahoo has a broad range of alliances in place with other companies, from media organisations, such as Reuters, to e-commerce businesses.It has also held talks with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation about investing in the media group's satellite operations in recent months. In public, Yahoo, which has the second most popular portal after America Online, has committed itself to an independent future. But the $190bn (&#163;121bn) merger between America Online and Time Warner earlier this year has worried rivals fearful of being left behind.Yahoo has grown from a business four years ago which had two employees and no users or revenues. Its revenues run at $300m a year and the   company claims to have 50m users a month.Last year it did two deals valued at $10bn when it acquired Geocities and Broadcast.com aimed at building its presence in key internet markets. Yahoo has launched its own auction market but trails far behind EBay.The deals last year were financed by Yahoo paper, although the price of its shares more recently has stalled. Separately EBay announced a deal with First-e, the internet bank making it easier for auctions to be settled between the US and Britain.
The infamous legend of Milton Keynes lives on. The new city first hit the headlines with its concrete cows. Now it's becoming famous for its e-pizzas. 
Thanks to the aggressive e-commerce strategies by Domino's Pizza, the city is fast-becoming the UK's leading factory for cyber-pizza.Domino's, with its headquarters deep in the heart of Milton Keynes, is currently the only pizza company in the country to offer a nationwide online delivery service. You can access it in two ways. If you're surfing the net and feel like a slice of hot Pepperoni Passion with double mozzarella cheese, log on towww.dominos.co.ukand place your order. While waiting for your cyber-pizza to bake, you can go to the games page for a quick session of Asteroids.Or if you're slumped in front of the TV, exhausted after a long day at the office, and fancy a large Hawaiian pizza with ham, pineapple and some garlic bread, press a few buttons on your interactive TV's remote control and it's normally on your doorstep within 30 to 40 minutes.Domino's says it's selling about 6,000 pizzas a month through Open, Sky's interactive TV service. Overall about 2% of pizza sales (worth hundreds of thousands of pounds) are e-commerce based. In the last set of financial figures, group turnover was up 24%.Domino's has a national delivery service infrastructure in place, which is a big advantage, but its e-pizza pilots using email soon became unworkable. "Dial-up email is not reliable enough when you are delivering someone's food," explains Paul Murray, technical director of Fernhart New Media, consultants to Domino's. "Orders were not being recognised and often ended up on the PC in the manager's back office."Domino's tried to keep email going by playing tapes of Homer Simpson's voice in pizza stores. As soon as an e-pizza order came in, it would be announced over the PA system by Homer. But even Homer could not swing it.Next, pizza orders were sent to the stores by fax through the central Domino's server in Milton Keynes. But it takes time for staff to input the fax details into the  computer systems and the machines often ran out of paper. So the entire fax system is being scrapped and over the next few months the e-pizza ordering service is being digitised: customer orders wil be sent directly to the bank of computer screens above the heads of the pizza-makers.There have been other difficulties. E-pizza customers do not always believe their order has been received via the net and so they usually ring to check, which defeats the whole purpose. Confusion arose over payment. Some customers thought they could pay on the doorstep with a credit card. But they can't - cash is needed.It has been tricky setting up the online service on Sky Digital's Open channel. Pizza orders have had to be standardised for the TV and only a fixed number of pizza types can be offered at designated times. Despite these hurdles, Domino's is starting to enjoy the benefits of e-commerce."We are not talking about huge numbers yet. But we did get a 10% increase last month on internet ordering. We are definitely moving in the right direction," says marketing manager, Anna Taylor-West.The e-pizza team expects the greatest growth in the short to medium term to come from the TV. Young men are the biggest pizza buyers. Research shows they usually can't be bothered to cook and want something quickly - especially during key sporting events."There are two types of company who will do well out of the e-commerce binge," predicts Domino's marketing director, Chris Moore. "The top internet sites like Yahoo and Amazon, and those businesses who have an existing business operation where e-commerce is just an additional sales model."Moore is baffled by arch-rivals Pizza Hut and Perfect Pizza. Neither has launched an online delivery service. "Around 1998 we started piloting e-pizzas in Milton Keynes and they would have known. Now we are trying to create enormous distance between us and them."E-commerce analysts are equally mystified. "You would think the other pizza operations would have followed them already rather than waiting and seeing," says Fletcher Research analyst, Shobhit Kakkar. "Setting up the technical systems is not an easy process at all. The longer the others wait, the more of a head start Domino's will be allowed to get."Pizza Hut has no immediate plans and is taking its time because it's such "a massive project". The company recently announced the introduction of a single national pizza-delivery order number in association with BT. Customers call a central number, charged at a local rate, to place their order, which is sent through to their local store for despatch.However, rumours within the industry suggest that some marketing insiders at Pizza Hut believe the company should have invested the money in e-commerce.Perfect Pizza, which has just been taken over by US-based Papa John's, says it is testing an online delivery service which should go live in three or four months. This is all music to the ears of Domino's which is enjoying all the benefits associated with being the first-mover.However, the pizza business is traditionally very competitive. Domino's has a column in its in-house magazine called Know Your Enemies, and is preparing staff for cyber-pizza wars.Every day, Domino's large dough production factory in Milton Keynes serves a fresh supply of dough balls to Domino's stores around the country. The head office has a pizza university and staff are trained in dough management and pizza-base making.  "Whether orders come from the TV or a computer, our main aim is still to make sure we deliver a hot quality product within 30 minutes," says training coordinator, Tina Johnson.All e-pizzas (just like your bog standard pizza) are hand-made. Which means covering them with cornmeal so they don't rip, creating a border and stretching them (or "slapping" as it's called in the trade), before the toppings are added and they are baked.The internet delivery service has seen a rise in people wanting to create their own toppings. 
On the computer or TV screen, surfers can clearly see what they are buying and read about the ingredients.
During training, Johnson insists all e-pizzas are cut to the right diameter; baked to an even golden brown colour with correct portions of cheese and they don't go out if there are any burned bubbles.With no competitors in sight, it looks as though the 
e-pizza team at Milton Keynes will continue to produce large helpings of fresh cyber-dough.
For the time being, at least.
Dylan Schlosberg might be only 26 years old, but he has plans to revolutionise online shopping. He wants to make the consumer king.Convenience is supposed to be one of the great attractions of net shopping. You can buy when you want, at a good price, with the minimum of hassle, or so we are told.  In practice, you often waste time struggling with slow net connections and badly designed sites. Consumers have yet to be freed from high prices and tedious procedures.Schlosberg thinks his site,Ybag, might change all that. Launched only last week, it aims to let you sit back while retailers come to you. Finally, he claims, the customer is king: power has finally shifted from sellers to buyers.Inspiration for the site came last summer, when Schlosberg found himself perplexed by the frustrating nature of much net shopping.His concept is simple. Users register and describe a particular item they want - like a TV, a computer or even a car. The requests are passed on to suppliers, and they send details of the deal they can offer to the user, who can check in at their leisure to see what has turned up. If something appeals, they get in touch with the seller. They don't need to buy via the net.Schlosberg expects many of the sales Ybag enables to take place on the telephone. "The idea is to offer a quicker, more user friendly, more personal shopping experience on the net," he says. "It's very much what's happening in America at the moment." Indeed, shortly after Schlosberg came up with the idea, several similar sites launched in the US the best-known beingRespond.comandBuyers Edge.In fact, sites like Ybag and Respond.com are just one example of the new kinds of retail ideas being tried online. So far net shopping has focused mainly on giving users access to databases of products, all at fixed prices. At its most basic, it is catalogue shopping with a few   multimedia knobs on. Though it can be very convenient, online the consumer still does a lot of the work, such as searching databases and keying in payment information, previously done by the seller.But these new net retailers plan to take advantage of the net's great strength: its ability to allow users to swap information. The retailers hope not simply to shift product but to shift power as well: to build new kinds of relationships between buyers and sellers, relationships in which the buyer sets the pace and could even affect prices in real time.New sites have sprung up, like Priceline - where buyers name the price they want to pay for travel tickets, hotel rooms, cars and even groceries and sellers then compete to pick up the proposed deal. There is also the aggregate buying site Let's Buy It, where buyers can link up to force down prices.According to co-founder John Palmer, the net has the ability to put the consumer in the driver's seat. "We are consumer-to-business as distinct to business-to-consumer. That means that the consumer tries to direct   proceedings. That's not going to happen in the real world of bricks and mortar - there you are told what products you can have and how much it's going to cost."The pitch of Let's Buy It is very seductive: buyers can either join in with ongoing sales of products, or suggest a thing they want to buy; the site will then try to source something suitable. The more people who sign up to a particular sale, the more the price goes down, so there is an incentive for buyers to tell friends about the site and so build its traffic."Compare it to an auction site where the price is always being bid up and there's only one winner," says Palmer. "At our site, the more people come together, the more the price goes down and everyone's a winner. If you like the idea you want to tell everybody about it because it's going to help you achieve a better price."Then again, do you want all your friends to have the same TV set as you? Palmer says this doesn't seem to be an issue at all. He also rejects the idea that the site is a fad. People enjoy the buying process, he says. They like coming back to see if the price has gone down.But some of the sites that promise consumer empowerment do involve an element of risk. Though the US site Priceline.com does let consumers name their price, well over 80% of the deals are never done because the company cannot find a willing supplier.If a supplier comes up with a deal at the right price, the consumer has to take it. But the deal may not be quite what the customer wanted - Priceline may have to make a couple of changes on route. So Priceline customers get power but they have to be flexible.That said, when it moves into a product sector, Priceline often subsidises deals, so that customers do get what they want and have a good experience. It's good for building traffic, but it's one reason why the site has yet to make a profit. It seems likely that Priceline will move here   shortly, perhaps in conjunction withLastminute.com(the Lastminute network has registered the priceline.co.uk name).Now that it has floated, Lastminute.com will at least have the deep pockets needed to get this kind of reverse auction model off the ground. In the meantime, Ybag's Schlosberg suggests that his site is one of the UK's first reverse auction sites, though he doesn't want to trumpet the fact too loudly, for fear of confusing consumers."They're only just getting to grips with online auctions. But the basic idea is that rather than having one item and a number of buyers, you   have one buyer and a number of sellers."But US e-commerce pundit and author Evan T Schwartz says Ybag "sounds more like a lead-generation service," referring to services which drum up interest in products before tipping off vendors."Autobytel pioneered this tactic in the US for car buying," he says. "This approach has caught on so much that the market is now moving into more sophisticated online car buying choices. One example is Carsdirect.com, which promises to let you build the car and name your own price. The big car makers all have projects underway to do something similar."Ybag plans to make most of its money from the suppliers - it claims to have signed up around 900 so far. After an initial free trial, they will pay to sign up to the service, and each time a consumer gets in touch following one of their emails they will pay a referral fee.The attraction for buyers is obvious. They don't have to put much effort in and they are not tied to picking up the offers that are sent to them. And, though Ybag does not sell itself on price, Schlosberg says that the site does turn up some surprisingly good deals. It's certainly less trouble to use than many of the existing shopping bots (see panel), which still promise more than   they actually deliver. But clearly, if Ybag and the other consumer empowerment sites are to succeed, they need to build relationships and add real value to them. They also need to sign up a significant number of suppliers.US pundits, who have lived for a couple of years with sites that claim to empower the consumer, advise UK buyers to be wary, as the US sites have disappointed, failing to sell even for sensible offers.But the arrival of sites like Ybag and Let's Buy It is a clear sign that online retail is maturing in the UK. As simple retail sectors get crowded, smarter companies are now focusing on   relationship building, on the exchange of information as well as money. This can obviously benefit the consumer.But, as Schwartz suggests, sellers wouldn't get involved if they weren't getting something out of it too. "The notion that all the power is shifting to consumer is way overblown," he says. "The last I heard, Priceline was rejecting seven out of eight bids for airline tickets. So you can name all the prices that you want, but chances are you're not going to get it. Priceline also funnels all the demand data to the airlines, so they get a better sense of the so-called 'demand curves' on every major route in the   world. So what we have here is not really a power shift but rather a balance of power, in which consumers and businesses are trying to use information to win a small pricing edge."Buyer-driven net retail sitesAggregate buying sitesBulk-buying on the net. Buyers club together to get a better deal. The more people who sign up to a sale, the lower the price goes. Let's buyit  is trying the idea out here.Advantages:It's fun, you can get your friends involved and you usually end up with something you want.Disadvantages:All your friends have the same stuff as you, the price may not go as low as you hope, the novelty may wear off.The reverse auctionIn theory, sellers compete for your business, instead of buyers competing for something offered by a seller. In practice, the idea is elastic and confusing. It is most associated with the US sitePricelinewhere you can name your price for flights, rooms, cars and even groceries and then the site tries to find a seller who can meet your price.Advantages:Great deals, if you know what a good price is in the first place.Disadvantages:You usually get nothing,with most prices not picked up by sellers,   even if they are sensible. You need to be flexible if you're buying travel tickets. And do you really want to haggle for packets of crisps?Lead generation servicesHere, you tell a site what you're after, the data is passed on to sellers who then get in touch, quoting a price. Pioneered by sites like Autobytel,which in theory help buyers get better prices out of car dealers. It's now been extended to apply across a range of product categories by sites like Ybag andRespond.comin the United States.Advantages:Not much effort and you don't have to say exactly what you want.Disadvantages:If the site in the middle doesn't do a good job, your mailbox will fill up with junk mail.The shopping botA dedicated search engine you can use to find the best price on a product. Over here the best known include Shopsmartwww.shopsmart.comandValuemad.Advantages:You can find some great deals.Disadvantages:Shopping bots don't search all the sites on the web, so you don't know if you're getting the best price, and they usually only search for specific items - you can't look for "a printer with a scanner".Where to shopYbagwww.ybag.comRespond.comwww.respond.comLet's Buy Itwww.letsbuyit.comBuyers Edgewww.buyersedge.comPricelinewww.priceline.com
The first big insider dealing case involving the internet has opened in New York with two of the main defendants pleading guilty to their part in a &#163;5m fraud. In total, 19 people have been charged with trading secrets in chat rooms.The case is likely to fuel concerns, voiced recently by financial services authority chairman Howard Davies, that similar practices will distort market activity in Britain.FBI assistant director Lewis Schiliro said many fraudsters hoped the internet would provide a cover for their illegal activities."Those who rely on the myth of anonymity in using the internet to pursue their criminal activity should understand that law enforcement has the ability to pierce the veil they hide behind," he said.At the core of the scheme, authorities said, was John Freeman, a part-time computer graphics worker who allegedly stole information from two investment banks, Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse First Boston, for whom he was working.The criminal complaint filed in United States district court in New York, accused Freeman of starting the scheme in mid-1997 after he lost money investing in a helmet manufacturer.He made contact over the net with other disgruntled investors and suggested they trade on inside tips he was able to pick up in the course of his work.Freeman, 34, of Brooklyn, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit insider trading and other charges.Also pleading guilty was insurance agent James Cooper, who had traded on Freeman's information.Sentencing has been deferred until September 15, when both men could face 10 years in prison each plus fines of about &#163;700,000.Freeman himself took a cut of the profits made by his "virtual" circle of investors, said the securities and exchange commission (SEC), the American financial regulator.He staked none of his own money, believing the stock market to be too risky.SEC enforcement chief Richard Walker said the case was "one of the most elaborate insider trading schemes in history".He said he found it alarming to see a resumption of widespread insider dealing similar to the economic boom days of the 1980s.The SEC said this is the first insider dealing case in which it is alleged that sensitive information was passed over the internet.Among others accused of participating in the fraud are a dentist, a retired schoolteacher, a car salesman and a waiter.  Associated Press
Surfing the technology tsunami is not as a big challenge as it might have been a year ago with investors gaining confidence to pour money into companies that have still to deliver real earnings and customers.Among those investors making the leap of faith have been the more conservative and deep-pocketed pension funds, including Hong Kong-based Regent Pacific Group.Jim Mellon, chairman of Regent Pacific which has $1.1bn (&#163;700m) under management, said: "We want to focus on finding hi-tech companies with global opportunities but which are resource poor. We have been an early investor in a number of Asian internet companies and have built up an excellent portfolio."In fact, Regent Pacific's convictions about technology and the web yesterday saw it announce a major corporate restructuring aimed at focusing on those two sectors in Asia.Regent Pacific will change its name to Interman Holdings, an internet investment group it acquired. It will spin off its eastern European operations, which account for half of its funds under management but are not core to the group's strategy. The remainder of its funds under management are in Asian equities where the group will build up its technology fund investments for clients.Regent Pacific also wants to expand its venture capital arm, which has taken stakes in 26 internet companies in the past two years averaging between $250,000 and $3m a start-up. Those investments include shopping site bigsave.com, financial services group techpacific.com and Chinese-language search engine Netease.Mr Mellon and Peter Everington, the British fund managers who run Regent Pacific, have also reduced the group's shareholding in internet firm   KoreaOnline from 60% to 46.2% to raise $117m to reinvest in that business. Korea Online is aiming to be that country's primary insurance portal and will seek a listing on Nasdaq in the summer.Yet what the reshaping of Regent Pacific may be more about is its sagging share price which was near $HK2.575 yesterday (21 pence). The group listed in 1997 at $HK2.62.The Nasdaq listing of KoreaOnline is also a tactic in trying to realise the value of that investment to the Regent Pacific share price, estimated at $HK1.97 a share.They defend the share price by saying the company has paid out $94m in dividends to its shareholders, which include investment guru Sir John Templeton and Japan-based Total Marine and Fire Insurance, in the past three years. It also boasts a 50% unleveraged return on equity over six of the past seven years."We shall continue to target a return on unleveraged equity in excess of 50% and believe this to be entirely consistent with our focus on the internet," Mr Mellon said.
One can't open a newspaper or switch on the television these days without being confronted by the smiling face of Martha Lane Fox of Lastminute.com, yesterday launched on the stock market for a cool &#163;733m. Yesterday's London Evening Standard carried no fewer than four pictures of her. Lane Fox, 27, has hit the two zeitgeist buttons: youth and internet. A picture of her hangs in the National Portrait Gallery. She has become the face of the youthful dot.com companies transforming the City.It's refreshing that the giant strides of cyberspace appear to have put a Prada trainer through the glass ceilings still cramping old-fashioned companies. Not only is Lane Fox a woman, she's also a young woman. In a traditional company, she might have made assistant brand manager at 35; the dot.com industry has made her joint boss of her own company and a virtual millionaire in her 20s. But does MarthaLane.com really represent a victory for women or is the new female face of the internet as big a confidence trick as sceptics claim the whole dot.com boom to be?The truth is that Lane Fox is something of an anomaly in the internet world, which is still overwhelmingly male-led. Lastminute.com was in fact the brainchild of her partner, Brent Hoberman. The decision to make Lane Fox the public face of Lastminute.com is yet another of the smart moves of this extremely smart pair. He is frank about it: "She's prettier than me and a good ambassador for the internet. It makes people realise it's not just run by geeks eating cold pizza."Their company is innovative, dynamic, exciting. So are hundreds of other dot.com companies, yet theirs boasts the second highest recognition factor of all internet sites after Amazon.com. The promotion of Lane Fox as brand icon has given Lastminute.com a huge competitive advantage. Her image is glamorous, sexy, spontaneous, successful, fun-loving: everything Lastminute wants to convey about what it has to sell. And, crucially, she is female.Lane Fox is netty totty, her role   not a million miles from that of the models draped over car bonnets. But the big difference is that she owns the product she is promoting: she is in control. In this way, the Lane Fox phenomenon is indeed a victory for women. She has, in a cool, calculated way, observed the sexist ways of the world and made them work for her. And she has done it on her own terms. She has not compromised her femininity - the pink cardies, the flirtatiousness, the expressed desire to have several babies - yet she can be as tough and aggressive as any man. She is evidence that women no longer have to pretend to be blokes to get on. And that women, too, can conquer cyberspace.But none of this would have worked if the media had not colluded. MarthaLane.com was devoured by newspapers and TV stations anxious to show they are keeping up with a more feminised world. In the British Journalism Review, the Guardian's Katharine Viner cites a Women in Journalism survey showing women featured in only 30% of pictures. Viner points out that over a million women have entered the workplace in the past decade but newspapers have yet to reflect the vast change this has made to their lives.She writes: "At a time when newspapers are under threat ... the only commercially and culturally viable way forward is to be in tune with readers, who must include women. It's about reflecting who women are, what they've become, how their role in society has changed."The very modern Martha Lane Fox succeeds because she fits the old sexist criteria for visibility: young, blonde, beautiful, posh (Westminster, Oxford, descended from the Marquis of Anglesey). If she had been black, working-class, middle-aged - or, worst of all, plain - she probably would have been consigned to the same invisibility as most women. So the net value of LaneFox.com to the female cause is limited but might yet turn out to be profitable.
&#149; Supermarket forces: New Sainsbury chief executive, Sir Peter Davis, has moved swiftly to try to close the gap between Sainsbury and Tesco in e-commerce. A week after moving into the job he yesterday appointed two executives to reorganise the internet shopping division. Angela Megson was promoted from trading director to director of e-commerce, while Patrick McHugh has been drafted in from consultants EDS to develop internet strategy.&#149; Goal: Sports content provider Teamtalk.com was yesterday valued at &#163;307m ahead of its demerger from telecoms marketing group IMS next month. Investors will receive five Teamtalk shares for each IMS share they hold and 41.4m shares are being placed at 145p to raise &#163;60m for the web-based business.
Return of the tiny terrorsArmy Men: Air AttackSony PlayStation     29.99 3DO          ***The third game in the Army Men series lets you take to the air in one of four choppers, lay waste the Tan army, and blast any bugs that may stand - or fly - in your way.The basic idea hasn't changed: this is war between plastic men of the sort seen in the Toy Story movies. The graphics haven't improved much either, being pretty basic in the Sony PlayStation version. However, it's fun to play, and if you liked EA's old Desert Strike series, you'll enjoy Air Attack as well.The single-player mode has 16 missions, where you earn increasingly powerful helicopters, and destroy ever greater numbers of enemies. 
Although the first half dozen levels are easy, the later ones can get tricky. This is just as well, because the single-player game doesn't really have much replay value, and a keen gamer should be able to finish it in a week. Fortunately there are also two two-player modes. You can either co-operate and finish missions even quicker (a good parent-and-child game?), or play against one another in CTF (capture the flag) combat. The reduced field of view in the split-screen mode makes this less than entirely satisfactory, but at least it gives the game a bit more lastability.Gameplay is much the same as millions of other games from Quake on down - keep moving, keep shooting - but using the helicopter to lug heavy things around provides a bit of variety.
Because Air Attack is easy to learn and easy to play, it may appeal more to a younger market - under 12s, perhaps. 
The tongue-in-cheek humour would also amuse a wider audience, but not for long enough to make this a real winner.
Get your mate to buy it. (JS)Importance of good breedingDragon Warrior MonstersNintendo Game Boy &#163;24.99  Eidos Interactive ***It had to happen. Pok&eacute;mon may be an omnipresent force in the children's toy market, with plentiful supplies of trading cards and plastic Pickachus, but one fact needs to be made clear: Pok&eacute;mon on the Game Boy is a simply fantastic game, mixing scarily addictive collect 'n' trade gameplay with above-average role playing game elements.That it has taken so long for the copyists to arrive is surprising with Dragon Warrior Monsters the first of the chasing pack to reach these shores. And surprisingly good   it is too, despite the derivative deformed characters and top down action.That's because DWM packs some tighter plot into its Pokemon-esque nurturing antics. Terry, the unassumingly named hero, must rescue his kidnapped sister by becoming the head monster master. Achieving this goal involves more than simply gathering the beasties. Instead Terry gets to play monster procreation and indulge in some serious breeding.By simply mating any male and female from the 215 species Terry can create one out of a possible 46,000 creatures. The offspring even   inherit their parents' unique abilities - handy, as once they've done their work the parents disappear, leaving Terry to bring them up.  And, while the monster breeding is key, the plot, unlike Pokemon's open-ended yarn, at least offers an end focus to the game.You can, of course, battle on and link up with a human opponent with the winner keeping the defeated creature.  Dungeons and monsters are encountered on an annoyingly random basis but if you can tolerate this you'll enjoy an engrossingly spiced up Pok&eacute;mon-alike.  (GH)International Track and Field 2Sony PlayStation &#163;29.99  Konami 		 *****Once upon a time, the arcade athletics game was the duel of choice for idling adolescents. Invariably featuring a blob that was supposed to be Daley Thompson, it was the ultimate test of strength, skill and all-round machismo. Among those of us too weedy to play real sports, at least.A cursory look at International Track and Field 2 suggests that little has changed. Sure, the competi tors are a little less bloblike now, but the old maxim still applies: whoever has the fastest fingers wins.However, it soon emerges that not all the events here are designed specifically to break the joypad. There's now a much better balance between button-bashing, timing and coordination. This is thanks to the inclusion of six new events: weightlifting, springboard, horse vault, two cycling races, and canoeing.Most of these have been ingeniously converted, and each requires its own distinct technique. Unfortunately, the new rounds come in at the expense of five classics - the   110m hurdles in particular is a grievous omission. Surely there's room enough on a PlayStation CD for more than 12 events?The 3D graphics are smooth and perfectly adequate, although the age-old complaint of lack of atmosphere still pertains: the faceless crowd seems to have only two reactions (disinterested hubbub and hysterical applause), commentary is virtually non-existent, and there are no neat little touches to pique the interest of those not currently competing when you try this out on a boozy Friday night.  (AB)
Bush storyBritish consumer electronics stalwart Bush Audio has once again surprised observers by announcing a series of innovative products. Hot on the heels of the internet TV range it unveiled last week, comes the first ever digital terrestrial PC TV card that enables users to tune into all 11 free digital terrestrial channels.The PCC3, which goes on sale in July priced at &#163;150, also boasts a digital VCR option that stores up to an hour's worth of programming. The card can be upgraded to access Digital Text, and the company is hoping to offer a conditional access module that will allow PC owners to watch ONdigital's pay TV stations.Bush also introduced what   it is billing as the first truly mass-market convergence product. The Ultimate MM hooks up to a TV to enable users to store video programmes on its hard disk, play DVDs and CDs, record CDs, play and record MP3 and WMA files, surf the Net, send emails and run standard PC programs. The company hopes to have the product in the stores in the autumn, selling for around &#163;1,200.Bush has also given more details of its internet TV range. The company is offering two ways of getting TV users on to the net. The first is a &#163;100 standalone box that can bring the internet to any standard TV. Bush is also offering three sets, a 14inch, 21inch and 28inch that have the internet facilities already built in. Internet functions   can be controlled using either a traditional TV handset or the set's accompanying QWERTY keyboard.ONdigitalONdigital has become the latest company to take Tony Blair's words about bringing the internet to the masses to heart. In two weeks time it is set to launch its TV-based email system ONmail. For a one-off payment of &#163;30, subscribers will be able to send and receive emails and use up to five different addresses.As the system uses transparent graphics, users can also compose and send emails while watching TV programmes. The company is also promising its subscribers full internet access via the TV by the end of the year.  Apparently, unlike Sky Digital's Open system, viewers will be able to watch a TV programme and surf the net at the same time.  (AN)NetVistaWhat is "the most dramatic and significant roll out of desktop technology since &#91;the&#93; first PC almost 20 years ago"? According to IBM,    it's the new NetVista family of internet-ready PCs with flat-panel screens, designed for e-business use. In fact, IBM is following Toshiba, Gateway and others in the move to "legacy-free" PC designs, which are made more reliable by leaving out the ISA expansion bus and connection ports that IBM introduced in 1981 and 1983. The systems will run Microsoft Windows 2000 Professional, or Windows Millennium when that becomes available.The range includes the small All-in-One with "a unique neck design" that provides space for the keyboard to fit under the 15in LCD monitor. This machine has a record seven USB ports for attaching peripherals, built-in Ethernet, and optional wireless networking. The NetVista Legacy-free (sic) version is a slimine tower system with five USB ports and two internal PCI expansion slots. Another version, the NetVista Internet Appliance, will be offered only via IBM partners, such as broadband service providers, internet service providers, application service providers, and big customers in data-intensive industries such as finance and healthcare. There will also be a NetVista Zero Footprint Thin Client version, which is    designed to run as a terminal and which "minimises the amount of desktop real estate needed".This will be aimed at banks, airlines and companies with similar applications. IBM's PC division has struggled to achieve profitability and has steadily lost market share over the past 15 years, with the matt black ThinkPad line of notebook PCs being one of its rare successes. However, it plans to invest more than $100m in marketing and advertising the NetVista line. Seewww.ibm.com/pc/europe/netvista(JS)Robot rivalsThree of Japan's leading toy makers are getting together to bring robot football excitement to your living room. Bandai, Tomy and Takara announced this week that they are to collaborate to    create dedicated football playing soccer machines.  The small robots will be controlled by infrared remotes, with games being played on pitches the same size as a table tennis table. Robots will cost around &#163;75. They will be developed in collaboration with the RoboCup Federation - the body which organises the Robot World Cup, whose aim is to create a robot team able to beat the winners of the real World Cup by 2050.  (NM)
Have you been using the net long?About three years. I'm not very technological, I can't type and I'd never used a computer before. So I got a Compaq Presario which is great because it does everything except make me breakfast! I'm a complete news junkie and, on a Sunday, that means that my house is no longer full of Sunday papers as I get it all off the net.Are you happy with the way the net regulates itself?My son has just begun using the net so I am going to get one of those net watchers, but I think that's for families and individuals to decide. I don't think it's a government decision.Any favourite websites?I use theParliamentary Publications Database) a lot because it has Hansard on it. One I use most is thePress Association websitebecause they do a very useful summary of all the day's newspapers. I like theElectronic Telegraphsite. It has very good links and the editorials are on a separate site so you don't have to look at them. I like the fact thatThe Timeshas every word printed in its newspaper on its website. And of course The Guardian. I also look at theNew York Times,The Washington Post) andThe Jamaica Gleanerevery day.Do you ever use newsgroups or Usenet?I don't go to newgroups and I've never used a chat-room. One thing you're never short of as an MP is someone to talk to. I also think that anyone whose only means of conversing with the rest of the universe is through a chat-room is a deeply sad person!Are you sick of hearing the phrase e-commerce?I am a little tired of hearing about all these e-commerce millionaires - that's such a South Sea bubble. I do think e-commerce is the way of the future. With people working more unconventional hours, the idea of using the net to shop has to be very attractive. I've just started usingTesco'swebsite and I do use the net to buy books and CDs.Is it the utopian place that many would like it to be?In some ways yes - in that it's basically free. However, there is an enormous pressure when you're on the internet to buy. So there are these two conflicting messages - one is very egalitarian and the other very capitalistic.Where do you see the net going in the future?I think to my son's generation the internet will be as basic a utility in your house as electricity. I'm from the generation that made an absolute virtue of the fact that we couldn't use or own photo-copiers or typewriters so the fact that I got into the internet is quite significant. What attracted me most was the thought that in 10 years' time I could spend six months of the year in Jamaica writing articles and running my affairs all from my computer.
Poor serviceHurrah...Blair's digital Britain is here, and everyone's favorite communications company, BT, is spearheading this advance into a cheaper realm of the web.Errr, well if you don't include the constant busy lines to the free (0800 number) evening and weekend service, then when you do get through, the most sketchy line in internet history (constant disconnection and timeouts).When I use the standard (0845 number) paying service, my authentication fails constantly although I have been a BT internet customer for three years.So what can you do? Get charged 50p a minute for some school leaver telling you to download the latest software (not applicable for the Mac), and then to be told that you don't know anything about computers! Big company, big mess.Mark Parsonsmikeparsonslc@hotmail.comWrong linesIf BT is determined to convince us all that it is internet friendly with the advent of Surf-time, will it stop fobbing off users who complain about DACS (which split a single line into two, effectively limiting the data transfer rate to 28.8Kbps) with the excuse that they only guarantee fax-quality lines (ie a maximum transfer rate of 14.4Kbps)?It generally takes a lot of prodding from a customer before BT will remove them and install a full line.Ian Warrenwarrenl@gknwae.co.ukText trapIt is indeed a seductive notion to think that the educational experience can be created by hyperlinking ideas. In fact, the reverse is the case. As an educator, my interest is   slightly less in teaching my students facts, rather more in teaching them the structures and relations between areas of knowledge and most of all in helping them develop the ability to form their own structures - which may be very different from mine.Hypertext in whatever form crystallises the structure of knowledge and presents it (subtly) in as rigid and didactic a way as the periodic table shows atomic masses. It may make the acquisition of factual knowledge easier or more pleasant, but it makes the development of an inquiring and synthesising mind very much more difficult.Ian JohnstonStaff tutor in technology, The Open University  (in a personal capacity)Cookie hellWhy do I have to suffer the continuing nuisance of cookies every time I use the net? More and more sites seem to be using them and most will not take no for an answer, but continue to flash up. Even if, in desperation, you return "yes" more often than not they return when you go to a new page, and will almost certainly re-appear when you revisit the site. I find that I often have to leave the net to avoid the irritation, both to myself, and anybody else in the room. Is there any solution?William D Perryinfo@rostra.co.ukWhose mail?Can anyone tell me what browsers are used by Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks in You've Got Mail? Neither Netscape Communicator nor Internet Explorer have the software and so far I haven't found a site that provides it.GL Samsongerald.samson@dtn.ntl.com
Starting upEasyart.com, which launched yesterday, is an unusual internet start-up. Claimed to be Britain's first online framing business, it actually employs people to manufacture - or at least assemble - the products it sells. Most other net start-ups merely sell other companies' products in a different way.Founded by Simon Matthews, the company enables customers to choose a work of art or photograph from 10,000 currently available online, then choose a frame, its colour, and even check it against the colour of their own walls at home.The pictures are then   framed in a factory near Heathfield in Sussex, where seven people are on hand capable of framing and dispatching up to 150 pictures a day. Up to four more local craftspeople can be drafted in if demand exceeds expectations.Customers can also get information about art exhibitions and read critical reviews.Matthews says online art buying is a natural development because it combines three different activities: searching for a painting, finding a framer and then getting someone to deliver. Customers can change their minds about colours and frames without upsetting nervous assistants who are   trying to satisfy several people at once.Easyart is also unusual in that Matthews and his colleagues have all been in the art business before, so they are not coming to it without experience. He still runs the London Air Gallery which he founded. He fondly recalls having had to hang 200 pictures in a day.So far, Easyart has spent &#163;500,000 provided by Brainspark, the incubating firm (which is about to go public), in the form of equity and loans. Brainspark took a 25% stake in the company in return for financing it, providing it with offices, legal advice and backup."They were very important. I can't underestimate their   contribution" , says Matthews. He is now looking for a further round of funding of up to &#163;5m, half of which will be spent on marketing and half on selling pictures in two other ways - through screens in stores and by interactive television.Matthews reckons that the framed decorative art market is worth &#163;900m a year split 3:1 between consumers and business buyers. He and his directors have plans to expand into Europe and into the United States where he feels there is considerable potential despite the fact that online framers are already in business there.
Microsoft plans to go head-to-head with three giant Japanese corporations, Sony, Sega and Nintendo, for the games console market. Leading games companies have already started developing for the system, which is based on PC technology, and which will go on sale in the US in about 18 months.In all, Microsoft claims the console, codenamed X-Box, will deliver about three times the performance of Sony's PlayStation 2, which went on sale in Japan earlier this month. J Allard, general manager of the X-Box platform reckons it will "blow people's socks off".The console represents a change of strategy for the American software house, which has previously supplied operating systems that other companies could use in their hardware. The X-Box will be a Microsoft branded product, and will conform to games console industry business practices, not PC industry approaches. The specification will be fixed at launch, not subject to continuous changes and upgrades, like PCs.Allard says: "We're not confused: this is a single-function device entirely focused on the   games market." Like the Sony PlayStation 2 and forthcoming Nintendo Dolphin, it will also play DVD movies and music CDs. However, John O'Rourke, director of marketing in Microsoft's gaming division in Seattle, says: "We are positioning the X-Box 100% as a games console. We can't try to be another multi-purpose device. We have to focus on creating great games."The X-Box is basically derived from a general-purpose device: the PC. But as Allard points out, "the X-Box will not be compatible with PC games", and PCs will not be able to run X-Box games. The X-Box will be a closed proprietary system with its own peripherals, such as control pads, and will be sold at a competitive (low) price. Profits will come mainly from sales of games - and developers will have to license rights to publish games for the system, as they do with rival consoles.There should be no shortage of software, because the system is based on the DirectX software interface already used by about 97% of Windows games. Allard reckons it will be simple for companies to develop PC and branded X-Box versions of games with just the "finishing off" stage being different.Electronic Arts, the biggest independent games software house, is interested in X-Box games. Acclaim, Activision, Eidos, Hasbro, Infogrames Konami, Namco and Titus have announced their support.Graphics expert Jez San, chief executive of British games developer Argonaut Games, is enthusiastic: "It will be out a year after the PlayStation 2 so you'd expect it to be better, but it's very good for the entire industry: a bit of stability in a PC-style games machine is hugely beneficial."The X-Box - which Bill Gates unveiled at a game developers conference in San Jose last Friday, following launch events in London and Tokyo - also represents big wins for Intel and nVidia. The processor will be derived from a 600MHz Intel Pentium III, with Intel snatching the business from rival AMD the day before the announcement. The graphics chip will be supplied by nVidia. Gates says it will be able to do a trillion operations a second, which will make photo-realistic games possible.The X-Box will run a stripped down version of Microsoft's robust Windows 2000, with the bulk of the operating system on games discs, interfacing with a stub of code built into the X-Box. Allard says there will be no   boot-up process, and the operating system will be invisible to users.To support complex PC-type games, the X-Box will have a built-in hard drive - a first for the console market. It will also have a 100 megabit Ethernet network port. This will   enable users to link machines for network play, or connect to broadband communications networks via ADSL phone lines or cable modems.Microsoft has made a deep study of the console market, and thinks it has the formula. Further, Allard says Microsoft   is prepared to spend the money necessary to establish the system. "The budget we have is astronomical. The launch of Windows 95 is going to look like a whisper compared with what we are going to do on the X-Box."If the company has a weakness, it's that it has not been very good at creating games. It doesn't have properties like Nintendo's Mario and Donkey Kong, or Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog . "Why is X-Box going to be successful?" asked Gates. "The answer is simple: it will have better games. That's what this 	business is all about, that's what the customers want."Microsoft thinks its ace is that most game developers are already familiar with DirectX and will be able to produce great games quickly. But unless it and its allies can come up with something	 special in the next 18 months, the X-Box is not going to fly.&#149;  The X-Box website is atwww.xbox.com.&#149;  A transcript of Bill Gates's launch speech is atwww.microsoft.com/billgates/speeches/03-10gdc.htm
Mobile phones die in all kinds of horrible accidents. Some are smashed when they fall from speeding cars, others are buried alive by family pets, while the really unlucky ones land in the watery grave that is the family toilet.So one company has come up with the novel idea of making a phone that's really tough. The Ericsson R250 PRO is so hard you feel you really ought to call it "sir".This Schwarzenegger of cellular phones is not only big, bulky and orange but, say the makers, water, shock and dust resistant. Its first recipients are likely to be builders, though Ericsson reckons it will also appeal to outdoor sports fans and anyone who wants a macho-looking mobile.We thought the ultimate test would be two weeks on the piste in Switzerland. There we'd push it to the limit, gauging how it dealt with freezing temperatures, soggy snow, and worst of all being submerged in a horribly sticky cheese fondue.As the Online budget couldn't quite stretch that far we took the R250 to the next hardest place we knew - the streets of Hackney - to see if it really is indestructible.Test one: The water tortureEricsson claims "the phone is splashproof".The test: five minutes use in the shower.You are in the shower when the phone rings. Should you risk an all-too-common bathroom accident to answer it?   It's not a dilemma with the Ericsson R250. You can hang it next to your body shampoo. The Goretex membrane finish and rubber gaskets were more than a match for running water.Test two: The premature burialEricsson claims "the phone is dust and soil resistant".The test: to be buried alive.If you hear a faint bleeping coming from the direction of your geraniums it's probably because your dog has buried your phone in the garden.  Most mobiles that suffer this get so choked with soil and dust that they stop working. We smeared the R250 with cream cheese and let greyhound Harry the Hoofer loose with it in a back garden.Ten minutes later we rang the phone and heard a vague spluttering near the apple tree. We pulled the phone out, and after a quick rinse under the outside tap, it appeared largely unscathed.Test three: He shoots, he scoresEricsson claims it "is shock resistant".The test: three minutes of being   kicked around by local footy fans.The R250's metal magnesium frame and rubber inlays are said to protect its electronics from the odd knock or two. So we persuaded our local under sevens footy team to temporarily swap it for their ball. A few Ginola-esque dribbles and Beckham-style free kicks later and the phone was starting to look as if it has been in a tussle or two.Plastic had been chipped from the sides, and the once-pristine orange finish now looked a little grimy. But at the end of the game, our nine year old star striker still managed to use the phone to call his agent!Test four: The ultimate baptismEricsson claims "the phone is splashproof".The test: leave it bobbing about in the toilet for 10 minutes.A splash-proof phone is one thing. Would the R250 cope with total immersion of the most sordid variety? Our men in white coats took the phone to the bath room where it was dropped down the toilet.Several flushes later it was retrieved and taken to the lab for decontamination and analysis. The boffin who drew the short straw gingerly moved the phone towards his face and reported it was still functioning.Test five: It's a long way downEricsson claims "the phone will survive being dropped from a ladder on to a hard surface".The test: a series of drops on to concrete.Finally, came the biggest test. Would the R250 survive being dropped two metres from   a stepladder? Surprisingly, it came through relatively unscathed.There was more chipping of the plastic, but it still worked well. When it survived a three metres drop, it was taken to the top of the house and tossed skywards out of the loft window on to concrete.Incredibly, the outer casing was still intact. However, the glass inside of the phone had smashed and a runny liquid was creating wild psychedelic patters on the screen. There was no way you could see if you were connected to a network, let alone which number   you were ringing, so our boffins pronounced it dead and ordered the wreath.But in a last show of defiance, it still managed to ring when we called the number.The conclusionThanks to our scientific test we have categorically proved that the Ericsson R250 is the toughest phone on the market. So come on Nokia and Motorola - if you think you're hard enough.The R250 PRO is a dual band phone available on BT Cellnet and Vodafone networks, priced &#163;200.
Shawn Fanning may look like a typical 19 year old American science student in a T-shirt and a university of Michigan baseball hat, and until last summer - when he unleashed his first ever attempt at writing computer code - he was. But in a few months, he has gone from being the kind of customer the music business cherishes to the creator of its latest headache.The program Fanning wrote as a class software project, Napster, lets users turn their computers into servers for the purpose of swapping MP3 music files. It is remarkably easy to use: just download it fromwww.napster.com, let it install itself, designate a directory where your files are stored, and gain access to an index of millions of songs stored on computers that have already downloaded Napster.The free service has grown faster than anyone could have imagined. Now transformed into a company based in San Mateo, California, Napster claims its user base grows between 5% and 25% daily. By early March some five million people had retrieved the soft ware and traffic to the service has clogged servers at US universities. In January, officials at the university of Indiana noticed 20% of the available bandwidth was taken by students leaving Napster on all the time, downloading hundreds of songs; by February that figure was 60% and steps were taken to block the service. Other universities have followed suit.The music industry is in no mood to work with Napster as the company has suggested. Since almost everyone uses Napster to swap unauthorised music files, the industry has filed suits against the company, charging that its primary function is to enable and encourage copyright violations and alleging that Napster "has created and is operating as a haven for music piracy on an unprecedented scale".It's going to be a difficult case to prove under copyright and property law. Since no illegally duplicated music actually passes through Napster's computers (it simply matches up the internet addresses of the downloader and downloadee), it doesn't control the files and, its lawyers argue, no law has been broken. Napster is no   more than a software program, they say, and since it is essentially powerless to prevent users from trading copyrighted material - as opposed to, say, their own compositions - it should not be held responsible. "We just put the software out there," says lawyer John Lynch. "So the plaintiff has to prove Napster is inducing illegal activity. And inducing is not what they're really doing."Moreover, if the industry, under the umbrella of the Recording Industry Association of America, loses, the only recourse would be to sue   Napster's millions of users, a clearly futile undertaking.Fanning, a musician himself, claims he envisioned the service would benefit indie bands making their MP3s available for download without going through intermediaries likeMP3.com. Though Napster does not itself store or sell music, like MP3.com it is a means of distribution that isn't controlled by the record industry and gives control to consumers.Elizabeth Brooks, Napster's vice president of marketing, says it never intended to go up against the   industry. "We always intended to work with the industry but we simply weren't allowed to. It wasn't like, 'Oh, we don't know what we're doing' but it was never the goal to get into some kind of battle with the industry."Brooks suggests it's incumbent on the record industry to take advantage of the new medium. "The reality is that the availability of digital distribution is going to wreak changes on the industry," she says. "It's here. What do we do? We need to figure out how to make that work."But Napster itself lacks a   viable business plan and how it will ever earn revenue, let alone profit, from its service is unclear. There is talk of selling advertising, e-commerce ventures like selling concert tickets, promotional involvement with enlightened record companies, even linking users to record companies.For the time being, the start-up is being financed by angel investors and venture capital. It is looking toward an IPO that would doubtless create a market value in the billions. Further into the broadband future, Brooks envisions Napster acting as a nexus for video and film distribution.But as much as Napster might protest shock at being drawn into a fight with the music industry, it has also bought valuable attention. Not only has it saved the company from the single largest expense of a dot com start-up - advertising - but the strife only serves to increase its appeal. And the harder the music industry fights, the more users Napster is likely to attract.
We are now, indisputably, faced with a revolution as significant as the industrial revolution - the internet revolution. Governments across Europe have paid lip service to this on endless occasions. Yet while the initiatives they have undertaken are to be applauded, they are still dragging their heels in responding to the challenge that the revolution presents.First Tuesday, which exists to serve entrepreneurs in the internet and new media space (and which is perhaps best known for its events), believes that it is time for governments to accept that the new economy is as much part and parcel of everyday life as television, plumbing and electricity. We challenge them to adapt to the needs of the new economy, to embrace the revolution and support the entrepreneurs who are taking risks to make it happen.A recent poll of First Tuesday subscribers revealed two key areas of entrepreneurial concern on which we would call upon the current British government to act swiftly - the forthcoming budget being an obvious opportunity - to support entrepreneurs. The Inland Revenue's proposal for taxing freelance consultants (whereby freelance programmers and the like become full time employees after long periods of consultancy) needs considering carefully; and a review of the taxation of stock options is urgent.For the newly established company, stock options present the most attractive, motivational and appropriate way of having staff fully bought into a company's success. Yet tax burdens are a sure-fire way of deterring a society in which people truly have a stake in their own futures.Nor will only small or newly created businesses be affected. More established new media players such asQXL.comare expressing concern about the huge tax burden and join First Tuesday in calling for the government to show its support for the industry in the next budget.We acknowledge that governments across Europe, and beyond, face fundamental difficulties - the internet does not respect the nation state borders that governments exist to serve, and as institutions they work at a slower speed than the internet demands. Because the internet is evolving so quickly, and because first-mover advantage is so powerful, internet companies have to innovate, adapt and respond rapidly. Regulatory and legal processes - from company formation to licensing - are simply not moving at the speed required by the internet.And disparities between countries in regulatory affairs and taxation create untold complexities and inequalities in cross-border trade.Governments themselves are slow in using the technology they urge others to espouse. Email and the web enable entrepreneurs to communicate quickly and efficiently with each other. Most interactions with government require paper. Worse, most governments have no clear strategy for taking advantage of the new technology.It is little surprise, therefore, that government is currently seen as irrelevant to entrepreneurship. Although attitudes to government vary somewhat - Germans and Scandinavians appear to want more government involvement than other Europeans - the resources needed to build companies all come from the private sector and the entrepreneurial community itself. Government is, unfortunately, encountered mostly as an obstacle.Europeans are passionate entrepreneurs. Contrary to conventional pessimism, they are neither defeatist nor risk   averse. They start companies not just because they can make money - although clearly that is important - but also because this empowers them to create the sorts of products and services that they would like to use.Scale is critical to their entrepreneurial success. The internet's global economy creates the opportunity - and the need - for pan-European start-ups. Only by expanding quickly across the region, and the world, can companies grasp the available opportunities and bulk up sufficiently to meet the inevitable American competition.Here again, entrepreneurs encounter government as an obstacle. Harmonisation has a long way to go in everything from consumer regulation to labour law.A variety of financial and other regulations have yet to catch up with the realities of the new economy. Stock options are critical to holding together companies whose core asset is people; yet they are discouraged by many tax regimes. Financial regulations designed for an era of paper publishing make it hard to use the power of the internet to create more information-rich and efficient markets, particularly for venture investments in small companies. And, to name just one more example, conflicting consumer protection regulations stunt the growth of truly European retail businesses.At First Tuesday we call upon the British government to consider these points when announcing changes in the forthcoming budget and to take a lead in promoting change and co-operation across Europe.As with the entrepreneurial community itself, there is a compelling reason to take these messages on board: if you don't take first mover advantage, someone else will. And any advantage that Britain currently enjoys as a bridgehead to Europe - based upon the reputation of its financial market and short term language advantage in internet terms - will be quickly eroded.
If the future really is a "wireless websphere", 5,000 Helsinki residents will be the first to experience it. In Paris on Monday, IBM announced a $1bn project to build a "virtual village" in Helsinki, in conjunction with Sonera, Finland's phone company, and other suppliers.It will be the first community based on third-generation (3G) wireless communications which will deliver high speed internet to mobile and fixed devices. But the backers argue that it will be possible to replicate the model anywhere in the world.Pekka Sivonen, chief executive ofDigia, a Finnish software house, said: "By 2005, the Helsinki Wireless Virtual Village is going to cover more than 1,000 companies and more than 5,000 residents within a one kilometre radius. Together with IBM, we're making a massive step towards realising a relevant and real-life wireless information society."The virtual village will be   run using IBM'sWebSphere Everyplace Suiteof software for Unix computers. On Monday, IBM also announced partnerships with Cisco, Ericsson, Intel, Motorola, Nokia, Palm, Symbian and others to create wireless networks based on open standards. In particular, IBM and Motorola will work together to integrate WebSphere Everyplace with Motorola's Mix (Mobile Internet Exchange), VoxML voice markup language, and Wap (Wireless application protocol) phones.Janiece Webb, the senior vice president in charge of Motorola's personal networks group, said mobile data systems had failed in   the US because there were three different systems, which led to a lack of software support. "We really need a standard. With IBM, we're trying to create a level playing field where you can't hold anybody hostage, and you're only as good as your ability to run fast and innovate."David McKenzie, director of pervasive computing in IBM's European divisions, said: "WebSphere Everyplace is a significant step forward: it will support any device over any network. The product is, as far as we know, the most advanced of its type anywhere."WebSphere Everyplace provides "transcoding" - translation between standard web pages written in standard HTLM (Hypertext Markup Language) and Wap's WML (Wireless Markup Language) - replication and data synchronisation (to make sure data held in different places is consistent), and network management facilities from IBM's Tivoli subsidiary.Mark Bregman, IBM's US-based general manager of pervasive computing, concedes that the right approach now would be to create websites in XML (Extensible Markup Language) and generate whatever code might be required, "but not everybody's there yet".WebSphere Everyplace will be available in about eight weeks for two versions of Unix: IBM's AIX and Sun's Solaris. Versions for the Linux clone of Unix and Microsoft's Windows 2000 will follow. Bregman said the software suite would allow other suppliers to "focus on the applications, not the plumbing".IBM is targeting WebSphere Everyplace at Internet service providers (ISPs) and some "vertical markets" such as banks, travel booking companies, and large retailers such as supermarkets. McKenzie says that more than 100 banks are interested in offering banking facilities via mobile phones. In the longer term, however,   he thinks that B2B (business to business) applications will be more significant than these business to consumer services. Examples include mobile professionals, and sales and service people working in the field.McKenzie also expects "demand from countries where they don't have the wired infrastructure in place, when you can get a 2 megabit wireless service to a fixed device - which you'll get with UMTS &#91;the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System which covers a range of forthcoming 3G wireless systems.&#93;. The TV is going to have a role here: it doesn't have to be mobile."IBM will start by support ing Palm handheld computers - it already sells a rebadged version of the Palm - and mobile phones using Psion's Epoc operating system, from the Symbian spin-off.However, McKenzie and other IBM staff say the intention is to support "any device over any network", including devices running Microsoft's Windows CE and other operating systems.McKenzie points out that IBM already runs one of the world's largest networks with more than 300,000 staff using its Lotus Notes workgroup software. "But we've got one customer talking about supporting 7 million users with five devices each, one of which is a mobile phone, within three to five years. That's 35 million devices!"Installing and supporting networks that can handle that sort of traffic may well transform society, but it will be a huge challenge for the computer and telecoms industries.
PlayStation games for PCsConnectix Corporation of San Mateo, California, has finally shipped its Virtual Game Station software for PCs running Microsoft Windows 95/98, about a year after the Apple Macintosh version. Connectix says the emulator is able to run more than 100 games written for the Sony PlayStation, though there is "limited support for PAL games" as sold in the UK. Prospective buyers in this country are advised to   check the compatibility list on the website atwww.virtualgamestation.com. Meanwhile Bleem!, which has been supplying software to run PlayStation games on PCs for almost a year, has introduced an updated version that works with more than 300 games. Bleem! is also in the process of moving to a new website, but the quickest route is to go tohttp://207.71.8.31.Lara specialEidos Interactive is continuing to exploit its prime property, Lara Croft, and next week will launch a limited edition version of the first three games for the PC. The Tomb Raider Trilogy will also include a mouse mat and a large map showing Lara's travels for 39.99. On the same day and at the same price, the buxom cyberbabe's fourth adventure, The Last Revelation, will also be released for the Sega Dreamcast. This version has improved graphics and sound, including real-time shadow casting and an image gallery.Monster tradingNintendo is continuing to push its Pokmon titles as hard as possible, and plans to release a new Nintendo 64 bundle which will include Pokmon Stadium, according to Computer Trade Weekly magazine.   The Pokmon Stadium Battle Set will offer a limited edition branded N64, Pokmon Stadium, a Transfer Pak and a video of Pokmon cartoons for 119.99. The Transfer Pak allows Pokmon data from existing Game Boy games to be piped to the N64.   Wizards of the Coast has also embarked on a UK tour to promote the Pokmon Trading Card game.The next event is in Glasgow (March 25-26), and the tour will hit Reading, Gateshead, Manchester and the Bluewater Centre, Kent, next month. A starter pack of the trading cards costs 7.25.Sony move cuts pricesPlayStation game prices could soon be available in a wider range of prices, following changes to Sony's licensing system due to take effect on April 1.   This will enable some titles to appear at 9.99, or half the price of Platinum (19.99) re-issues.   Britain's Codemasters has been the first to announce that it will support the lower price point, and will re-release its original Music Creation program - not the new Music 2000 - at 9.99.   However, most full price titles are expected to stay in the 30-45 range.
Patently sillyThe US patents office has long been the object of ridicule and the patents recently granted to  Amazon.com have become the web issue of the week. The online bookseller now owns the rights to its affiliate programmes technology (which lets other website owners link to Amazon and take a slice of any resulting sales) and to its One-Click technology, which enables a returning customer to  pull up purchasing details with a single mouseclick.In the face of a wave of opposition to the patents, Amazon founder and chief executive Jeff Bezos last week rethought the issue and responded in an open letter atwww.amazon.com/patents. Computer book publisherTim O'Reillyand science writerJames Gleickhave also commented. For an overview of the issues read the San Jose Mercury columnistDan Gillmor.IQ seekThose wanting to take their own online IQ test can visitwww.queendom.com, where Queendom's popular exam (more than four million test-takers so far, it claims) has been given a makeover. After you find out how fat your brain really is, there are puzzles, brainteasers, exams and quizzes to keep your grey matter in shape.With flareThose who forget history are doomed to repeat it, which is why everyone should visit the BadFads Museum. This repository of hideousness documents the fashion, collectibles, activities and events most of us would rather forget. The images of alarming sideburns, horrific hairstyles, eight-track tape players and other pop cultural detritus are guaranteed to keep you awake at night. Go towww.badfads.comTalent spotIf you want a job in the BBC, the web might open the door. The broadcaster has decided to find new faces through itsBBC Talent website, though it's hard to tell whether the Beeb thinks there's hidden talent in cyberspace or is simply in search of a recruiting gimmick. Either way, the BBC is seeking some 40 "stars of the future". In some cases, a web element is integral to a person's application. Those applying to the Radio 1 Talent and New Composers sections must take an online psychometric test (for Radio 1) or send in work that will be streamed to a voting online audience (for composers).WebbiesIt's that fabulous time of the year again. Nominees for the Webby Awards ("the Oscars of the internet", says the New York Times, somewhat predictably) are out this week atwww.webbyawards.com, though MTV pegs the event more accurately as "a cybergeek lovefest". Winners are selected by theInternational Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, whose members include David Bowie, Esther Dyson, Francis Ford Coppola, and Simpsons creator Matt Groening. Nominees slot into 27 categories, from Arts to Weird, including five new ones for 2000: Kids, Personal Web Site, Activism, Services and Broadband. But the best feature of the May 11 awards ceremony in San Francisco is that acceptance speeches are limited to five words.Lady thrillersMystery fans are sure to likewww.femaledetective.com, a website featuring female sleuths. Reviews, mini-biographies, book lists and information on author tour dates focus on US and British fiction. The site has plenty of news and links as well.Private livesMany web users don't realise that when they use the net's most popular search engines, their query is often passed on to the site they visit, where it can be used as marketing information or to build help consumer profiles. Sounds scary? Then try a new ad-free, cookie-free "privacy search engine"www.topclick.com.Privacy issues also hit the headlines last week after Wired Newswww.wired.comobtained a copy of a yet-to-be-released US government report, Unlawful Conduct   On The Internet. Most controversial was a suggestion that there should be limits to the level of anonymity allowed to web users. The report is archived atwww.politechbot.com/docs/unlawfulconduct.txt.New and notedFor a mother's day gift that lasts longer than a week,www.e-garden.co.ukoffers living plants, including potted orchids. Film buffs can sign up for the pay television channel FilmFour through its website,www.filmfour.com. Horror champ Stephen King's latest chiller is available this week, only as a $2.50 download fromwww.netlibrary.comfor PCs or handheld devices.
After months of hype, you still have to be lucky to spot a Wap-enabled mobile phone. To own one you have to be even luckier. The launch of Wap (wireless application protocol) has been dogged by technical glitches, lack of handsets and expectations raised far, far too high.So it was with some excitement that I finally got my hands on one of the new Nokia Wap phones. Contrary to some of the hype, they do not mean that you can browse the web on a mobile. Instead, you can look at a number of special Wap-enabled sites published in WML (wireless mark-up language) which cut internet pages down into sizes suitable for a mobile's tiny screen. This means that if I want football scores on the bus, searchable train times on the station platform, even the met office weather before I draw back the curtains, all I do is make a quick call.My first impression was  of a handset more like my first ever mobile phone than the very latest in net technology. Although much lighter than that brick, the Nokia carries a couple of centimetres extra width and has an expanded screen.  It also has a new dial - or "navi-roller" - sitting beneath the screen, acting as a combination of mouse and key pad substitute.Only a few major sites are up and running.  They include the BBC, Lastminute.com and the Guardian. Without wider web access your Wap experience will be limited to the portal your phone goes to automatically, made up only of sites which have partnered with your  phone company.A good first port of call is  one of the few Wap-only search engines such aswww.waptastic.comwhich also carries the latest wap news and a decent set of frequently asked questions. The more functionalwww.wapaw.comacts as both a search engine and directory for WML sites. It's also worth bookmarkingwww.Wapforum.orgif you are technically minded.The next thing was to put the addresses into the phone, no easy task. It is tedious to input complicated addresses using either the navi-roller or the number keypad (and a lot of WML addresses are very long and complicated). This is why the portal operated by your service provider is very important, as it will offer a range of services in one site.If your phone is a Nokia 7110e (new phones from the likes of Motorola and others are coming on to the market), it will have a built in link to a Wap-based portal courtesy of the service provider, in my case Orange. The package includes news from ITN, an online nationwide business directory and even links to Parker's car prices and Loot, the small-ads newspaper.Loot's site is good because its rented accommodation section is online. Searches for rented accommodation can be undertaken while you are actually out looking; exactly the kind of thing Wap is really all about. The other main thing I have been using my phone for is checking sports results. I was delighted that a full match report of the recent clash between Liverpool and Manchester United was available within 30 minutes of the final whistle, but disappointed that recent Six Nations rugby scores were lagging around one hour behind real time.I can also send email. The service athttp://wap0.comallows email that has been delivered to a standard POP account to be read on any Wap phone. It's a little rough at the moment, jumbling up your message with pieces of code, but I could both send and receive email with relative ease. Freeserve has started offering a similar service.Wap's  text-based format means that putting up a site is easy, so expect a number of sites by smaller outfits to compete with the big hitters. My favourite small site is www.londonpool.co.uk, which tells me where the nearest pool table is by London post code, how much it will cost and what kind of drinks they serve at the bar.All these Wap sites can be viewed on a PC using Wap emulators. Nokia's own emulator requires a download of the Java Runtime Environment program.   So I prefer the one supplied byPhone.comthat seems to work perfectly and took only 10 minutes to install. For a cruder look at Wap - without the need of a download - go to the clunkierwww.gelon.net.I've found Wap to be great for utilities such as Loot or London Pool but felt less comfortable for reading large chunks of text on the small screen. But it is a convenient, and not necessarily expensive tool as you only pay as you download. After a minute your connection times out, but the text on the screen remains.   Now, if only I could get used to that retro handset...Wap AddressesThe BBCwww.bbc.co.uk/mobile/mainmenu.wmlFreeservewww.freeserve.net/communications/ mobile_internetThe Guardianwww.newsunlimited.co.uk/wapLastminute.comwww.mobile.lastminute.comLootwww.wap.loot.comParkershttp://wap.parkers.co.uk
Where words can weave their webOxford English   Dictionary websiteNetworks 400 - 1,000 yearly, individuals 350Till only a few months ago, dictionaries and encyclopaedias for real grown-ups were hard to find on the web.   Then,Encyclopaedia Britannicawent online free. It now gets 17 million hits a month. What Britannica did to the  inferior Encarta encyclopaedia - Microsoft has just begun giving it   away if you buy 57 family Millennium Dome tickets - the new Oxford English Dictionary website should   do to Scrabble and crosswords.The subscription rates  look off-putting. If you're purely an individual user, you'd be better off  sticking with the best of existing free dictionaries onwww.facstaff.bucknell.edu/rbeard/diction.htmlor looking for a cut-price deal on the 250 CD-rom.  But otherwise this instantly updateable website should make the OED far more accessible at work, at home and in leisure if you can get hold of a corporate, educational or public library log-on - allowing unlimited users and usage - than it   has been in 20 arm-breaking book volumes at 1,800 a throw.What you get is the world's most admired dictionary, the richest of guides to the glories of the language as well as to its meanings. The site is elegant, image-free and lucidly signposted with a range of  handsome fonts.   You can get it to solve blank letters in clues, using wild cards: with 60 million words, it can't really fail to know the answer. Or you can look up how often John Lennon or the Guardian are cited as sources for word usages. The answer, one notes modestly, is Lennon 16, the Guardian 6,529.   Free tour atwww.oed.com.  (JE)Growing up with networksBay Networks' Netgear Network Starter Kit, Model EB104&#163;49.99 from PC World Cabling supplied is standard UTP, with a four-port, 10BASE-T Ethernet Hub.A lot of people will have added a further PC to their collection recently. Perhaps the pressure on a single machine became too great because homework always took precedence, or the accounts package could not run while someone else was preparing mailing lists.A second machine quickly resolves these conflicts but new bottlenecks appear. Which machine has the dedicated printer? The request: "Can you save your work for a moment while I do a quick print?" becomes all too familiar and frustrations begin again. The overwhelming temptation to rush out and buy another printer should be resisted. There's a much more efficient and cost effective alternative available.Small networking solutions have become widely available over the past few months and it's possible to buy a starter kit that can link up to four PCs   and share devices such as printers for under &#163;50. I chose the Netgear Network Starter Kit which comes with all you need to link two PCs initially, including a four-port hub, network cards for the PCs, cables and software.The hub is a surprise to people used to cabinets the size of coffee machines. It stands about an inch high with a "footprint" as big as a floppy disk. Four ports are available to connect PCs on the network, but if you need more capacity later, one port can be used to daisy-chain hubs together. The network runs at up to 10 megabits per second, enough bandwidth for most home or small business applications.Installing the hardware and software is very easy. Each PC needs Windows 95 or 98 and a spare ISA expansion slot for the network card. Going "inside the box" to do this carries the usual caveats. Disconnect the electrical supply before opening the PC and avoid damaging the cards by touching an earthed metallic object to discharge any static.When power is restored, Windows immediately recognises the new hardware and with the software provided with the kit, quickly installs a driver for the card. All that remains is to name each computer and the network.Adding file and printer   sharing for Microsoft Networks from the network option in the control panel completes the job. If things do go wrong, the Network Troubleshooter in Windows Help is especially good.Any files to be shared across the network must be placed in shared folders. Clicking on the folder with the mouse's right-button reveals the "Sharing" option and such folders can be fully shared, read-only or password protected.Floppy drives, CD and hard drives are shared in the same way. As applications such as word processors on one PC can be opened and run by any other on the network. Printer sharing is a little different but easily achieved using the "Add printer wizard" in Windows.If you bought a printer with a network card installed, you're away, as it can be connected immediately to the network hub.The full power of this approach only becomes apparent as all of the possibilities are explored, but enormous advantages are achieved for less than the cost of adding another printer.But be sure to designate yourself as network manager. Any problems with the kids or your business partner and you can threaten removal of all access privileges!  (KB)Big Blue keeps its business secretsIBM Redux: Lou Gerstner and the Business Turnaround of the DecadeBy Doug Garr,  John Wiley 17.99IBM is still the world's biggest computer company, with more than four times Microsoft's turnover and around 10 times the number of staff.   It also used to be the world's most profitable corporation, but in 1993, it was better known for making the world's biggest losses: $8bn in one year, $16bn over three years. Big Blue was desperate, and hired an outsider, Louis V Gerstner Jr, to turn things around.  The former McKinsey &amp; Co consultant succeeded beyond most people's expectations, and has taken the company's share price from an all-time low to an all-time high. It would be fascinating to know how he did it, besides spending $25bn on stock buybacks, but IBM Redux doesn't really explain.Partly this is Gerstner's fault, and partly IBM's. Gerstner didn't even give Garr - a former IBM speechwriter - an interview, and the company provided only minimal help. Garr does have some good accounts of things like, for example, the dramatic change in IBM's advertising, but Gerstner never emerges as a real presence.  Nor is this a business casebook. Garr does not provide enough details of IBM's financial performance, and he does not analyse the workings of its numerous divisions. There are no tables, charts or graphs.If Gerstner really has effected "the business turnaround of the decade", surely there should be something spectacular to discuss. But there isn't. Most of IBM's divisions are still churning out dull products that are going nowhere fast, with most of the growth coming from a services business of questionable profitability. And although services now bring in a third of IBM's $87.5bn revenues, Garr barely pays them a glance.  IBM Redux is a useful and readable book, and it highlights the characters of several members of King Louis' court. But exactly how Gerstner earned the $500m he could make from turning round the Big Blue battleship remains a mystery. (JS)Programming Applications with WAPBy Steven Mann,  Wiley, 32.50If you are tired of waiting for WAP (wireless application protocol) phones to become available, you could do worse than gen up on the programming language that lies behind it.   Tens of thousands of experts are trying to work out killer applications for internet phones which are likely to be one of the biggest selling consumer products of the decade.  But there is no reason why you can't try to make some of your own programs if only because the small size of screens on the phone means that programming is inevitably less complicated than on the web itself.This book is primarily aimed at application developers but is written in a way that is accessible to ordinary human beings. Once you have typed in a simple seven-line program to produce a simple phrase on screen, it at least serves to demystify the subject.  Mobile phones are about to bring the internet to a mass market. There's no reason why they shouldn't bring programming to the people as well. This won't be the book that does that, but it is a good place to start learning what it is all about. (VK)
Lastminute.com's share price performed a sharp about turn yesterday after its soaraway flotation.After the shares had been issued at 380p they had reached 487p by the close of the first day, valuing the company at as much as &#163;835m. But yesterday they slumped 75p, or 15%, to close at just 412p, a far cry from the first day high of 555p.Furious investors complained in net chatrooms about the much hyped flotation as they watched the profits from their small sharehold ings disappear quicker than one of the online travel agent's package deals.Some analysts blamed the decline on the negative feelings created by the allocation of only 35 shares each to 190,000 small investors.In the chatrooms, small investors were vociferous. Myfyr Madoc-Jones wrote on interactive investor international's website that lastminute.com was "a load of hyped rubbish".He wrote: "That is my opinion of this company, and what I believe to be the true underlying value of their shares."Another user of the iii.co.uk site, Daz Barry, said: "It is not the disappointment of having so few shares that pisses me off but having the capital tied up somewhere."However, some smaller investors are unlikely to sell in large numbers given there would be little or no profit after fees and stamp duty. Retail investors cannot yet trade their shares anyway.As well as travel deal, the company, which is not expected to be profitable until 2004, also sells gifts and theatre tickets, and markets restaurants.
Charles Clarke's view of the regulation of the investigatory powers bill's decryption powers (Letters, March 10) is "we will only prosecute if you're guilty". Internet users manage a plethora of passwords to protect email, files, and website registrations. Failure to produce any password required by any public authority for any official purpose (S.46.2.b.ii) means two years' jail. The court will convict if it believes you were lying about forgetting a password, or uncooperative in finding it.No evidence is needed of involvement in a substantive crime. Moreover, a lifetime gagging clause prevents telling what happened on penalty of a further five years (S.50). The data protection act mandates data controllers to take adequate precautions   including encryption, so they are in jeopardy either way.Caspar BowdenDirector, Foundation for Information Policy Researchcb@fipr.org&#149; To crack down on the black economy, the government intends to amend the data protection act to allow access to individual bank accounts and to force private companies to release data on their employees. Can we expect the same rigour and transparency in the area of public conduct? Will Peter Mandelson's bank account be made public in the interests of mortgage ethics? Will the register of members' interests be cross-referenced with bank accounts and published on the internet?Richard HarrisNewport, Gwent
After months of anticipation and hype, the internet shopping business Lastminute.com finally joined the stock market yesterday and immediately crystallised a &#163;150m paper fortune for its founders, Brent Hoberman, 31, and Martha Lane Fox, 27.Mr Hoberman and Ms Lane Fox, who have become pin-ups for the new breed of net entrepreneurs, were in their Mayfair offices early yesterday to watch the newly floated shares soar from a sale price of 380p to 555p in minutes, valuing the 19-month-old company at &#163;835m at one stage. At the end of the day, after a frenzy of trading on the stock market, the price settled at 477p."I'm not quite myself today," said Ms Lane Fox, trying to compose herself for one of several TV interviews first thing in the morning. Under strict instructions from her American investment bankers at   Morgan Stanley not to make any leading comments on the share price or value of Lastminute.com, she restricted herself to explaining how the &#163;113m raised from the flotation will be used to finance the expansion of the Lastminute sales concept across Europe and then around the world.But the 200,000 investors who rushed to buy shares in the flotation - registering their details in advance at the company's website - suffered severe disappointment. Shares for the public were distributed evenly among applicants, leading to allocations of 35 shares for each investor, which were worth &#163;167 last night. After paying dealing charges and tax, any new-issue speculator selling the shares will be lucky to make a profit.Lastminute started off by selling cheap flights online, but branched out to offer everything from flowers and chocolates to theatre tickets. Mr Hoberman and Ms Lane   Fox believe there is a huge market potential in selling to "asset rich/time poor" customers who are too busy to organise their shopping and who tend to be natural last-minute purchasers.Aside from luring regular internet shoppers, Lastminute.com also expects to see a spectacular increase in purchases made over mobile phones - travellers, for example, might book a flight that way, then also choose a restaurant at their destination through their mobile internet connection.Lastminute is also developing services through digital TV, after signing deals with cable companies NTL and Cable &amp; Wireless Communications.Mr Hoberman, said his immediate task now was "to keep moving fast, to execute the business plan".Many commentators, though, have questioned the valuation attached to a business that will not make a profit for the   foreseeable future and which has transacted deals, such as flight purchases, worth only &#163;4.3m during the last three months of 1999.But Julie Meyer, one of the founders of First Tuesday, a networking club for budding cyberspace entrepreneurs, said she was confident about Lastminute. She pointed out that it commanded a scarcity value among investors."They were pioneers, out there early, and they have built a great brand name. It is now virtually impossible for someone to replicate it. As for value, it is like beauty - all in the eye of the beholder," she said, adding that Mr Hoberman and Ms Lane Fox have been instrumental in widening the popularity of the net in Britain. "These guys have changed the face of e-commerce in the UK. Great brand names do not disappear overnight."
It should have come as little surprise that Freeserve would launch unmetered internet access yesterday (although some in the market at least were caught napping as the share price rebounded more than 8%). It was evident simply from the column inches that cable company NTL and US group AltaVista had achieved last week that the rest of the market would be forced to follow suit soon.Competitive advantages are won and lost quickly in cyberspace - a fact Freeserve knows only too well.It was also inevitable that unmetered access which is common in the US would make its way to these shores before long, although Freeserve may have preferred to keep it at bay a little longer.Revenues in the last quarter were just &#163;3.6m, of which some &#163;2m came from Freeserve's share of phone calls - a figure which will be decimated by yesterday's offer. Far from making cash from its deal through British Telecom lines, Freeserve will effectively be subsidising the erstwhile monopoly from here on in.Ironically in the US - the stick used to beat UK operators - unmetered access on local calls was not arrived at by market forces but as a result of social engineering by government. The pressure in the US is not for removing further barriers but rather for telecoms companies to introduce some kind of charging.Freeserve's offer document published prior to its flotation last summer had admitted that call revenues would fall but hoped that income would be offset by the increasing amount of time people spent online. The spin meisters for Freeserve yesterday were keen to disabuse anyone who would listen that the company is an internet service provider at all.Freeserve rather is chiefly a portal business, they intoned, which will make its revenues from e-commerce and advertising which the company claims is growing at 40% a quarter. In fairness, Freeserve had always said this side of the business would overtake call revenues but would no doubt feel more comfortable if e-commerce and advertising were already the greater share.Unmetered access will clearly result in consumers spending more time online which should be good news for Freeserve but its portal business needs to get itself in better shape.According to investment bank Salomon Smith Barney, Freeserve users spend an average of 15 minutes online at a time, of which only three minutes is spent at the portal. The bank compares that with America Online, the world's largest ISP, where users in the US spend an hour online of which 85% is at the AOL portal. The market can only become fiercer still and the importance of quality content will be all the more important. If Freeserve really can shrug off the drop in call revenues it needs to be doing deals with top rank providers quickly.Go for itThere will have been a lot of back-slapping at the Canary Wharf offices of Morgan Stanley yesterday after the largely successful transfer of that ticking parcel otherwise known as Lastminute.com from private hands to the public arena. This investment bank has a reputation for getting internet flotations right in the US, but has been slow at exporting this expertise into Europe.Whether through luck or good judgement, the end of day premium of 25% was just about "perfect" from a financial advisers point of view. Actual trading in the stock was orderly. Oh, and the flotation of Lastminute.com did not prove to be the needle which popped the supposed market bubble in internet stocks. The new economy has not been abolished.Last week, the advice here was to avoid applying for shares in the flotation, and that proved to be a sensible course of action since the 200,000 speculators who did so received such small allocations they will be lucky to wash their faces if they sell now. Also last week, it looked as if it would be some time before a considered view could be taken on whether Lastminute.com presents good value. But already, given the orderly first day's trading, this company is looking like a short-term speculation which might sit rather better in a portfolio as a long-term investment.Only one of the 32 major internet IPOs handled by Morgan Stanley around the world has fallen below the issue price. And whatever the daft rhetoricals about how ludicrous it is that "value" can be attributed to a company which has only ever lost money (let's start with the BBC ...) , there is an undefinable aura surrounding Lastminute.com that says it just isn't a loser.Across the London investment scene there are all number of suspect "tech" stocks, peddled by fringe brokers and offering precious little transparency even as to their true ownership, never mind the quality of the business models. This is a market where unwary investors will lose the skin off their backs.In contrast, the investment world knows everything it could reasonably expect to know about Lastminute.com. If you believe the internet will change the way we all work, play and communicate, be brave and buy the shares.
British engineering firm Invensys has struck a deal with Microsoft to develop a common system which will interconnect home appliances and other domestic and business devices to the internet.Invensys joins companies like IBM, Sony and General Electric Appliance who have   formed the Universal Plug and Play Forum to work on ways such appliances and products can communicate via wireless networks.Invensys has developed a product called the ControlServerT which allows homeowners and business managers to control appliances, home entertainment equipment and systems from user interfaces in a home or business and from distant locations via the internet." Invensys shares leapt 19.75p to 259.5p.
Microsoft strengthened its alliance with internet navigation firm RealNames Corporation by taking a 20% stake in the group yesterday as a direct challenge to America Online, which offers a similar product.The deal, one of a string announced by Microsoft, means it can use the RealNames technology to allow web surfers to type keywords into a browser's address field rather than lengthy URL addresses filled with dots and slashes.Ford, eBay and MP3.com are among the 50,000 clients of RealNames. They pay the US firm to register keywords.For example, Ford could register "ford explorer" as a keyword and pay RealNames a licence fee or a per-visit fee; users who typed in the keyword would be taken directly to the motor group's website.The monetary value of Microsoft's investment in RealNames was not disclosed because of mandatory curbs imposed because of the net navigation group's impending flotation, intended to raise a minimum of $80m.AOL also has a product which uses keywords to direct users to websites of its partners.Yusuf Mehdi, Microsoft's consumer group director, said of the RealNames technology: "This has the possibility to become the premier way people search on the Internet."We think it's going to give AOL a real run for its money with its closed and proprietary system." The technology includes a tracking system for monitoring the effectiveness of online advertisements.The investment will make   Microsoft the largest shareholder in RealNames, alongside Network Solutions, Draper Fisher Jurvetson and idealab! capital partners.Last year Microsoft struck a two-year licensing and marketing agreement with RealNames to incorporate the RealNames web addressing and navigation service into MSN Search, part of the Microsoft Internet Explorer 5 browser.Analysts said the RealNames deal might increase Microsoft's internet subscriber base by making its MSN web portal easier to use.
After months of anticipation and hype, the internet shopping business Lastminute.com finally joined the stock market yesterday and immediately crystallised a &#163;150m paper fortune for its founders, Brent Hoberman, 31, and Martha Lane Fox, 27.Mr Hoberman and Ms Lane Fox, who have become pin-ups for the new breed of net entrepreneurs, were in their Mayfair offices early yesterday to watch the newly floated shares soar from a sale price of 380p to 555p in minutes, valuing the 19-month-old company at &#163;835m at one stage. At the end of the day, after a frenzy of trading on the stock market, the price settled at 477p."I'm not quite myself today," said Ms Lane Fox, trying to compose herself for one of several TV interviews first thing in the morning. Under strict instructions from her American investment bankers at Morgan Stanley not to make any leading comments on the share price or value of Lastminute.com, she restricted herself to explaining how the &#163;113m raised from the flotation will be used to finance the expansion of the Lastminute sales concept.But the 200,000 investors who rushed to buy shares in the flotation - registering their details in advance at the company's website - suffered severe disappointment. Shares for the public were distributed evenly among applicants, leading to allocations of 35 shares for each investor, which were worth &#163;167 last night. After paying dealing charges and tax, any new-issue speculator selling the shares will be lucky to make a profit.Lastminute started off by selling cheap flights online, but branched out to offer everything from flowers and chocolates to theatre tickets. Mr Hoberman and Ms Lane Fox believe there is a huge market potential in selling to "asset rich/time poor" customers.Aside from luring regular internet shoppers, Lastminute.com also expects to see a spectacular increase in purchases made over mobile phones.Lastminute is also developing services through digital TV, after signing deals with cable companies NTL and Cable &amp; Wireless Communications.Mr Hoberman, said his immediate task now was "to keep moving fast, to execute the business plan".Many commentators, though, have questioned the valuation attached to a business that will not make a profit for the foreseeable future and which has transacted deals, such as flight purchases, worth only &#163;4.3m during the last three months of 1999.
Jason Drummond has been ranked as Britain's wealthiest young entrepreneur by a newspaper survey.The unexpected news was broken to the 30-year-old businessman on Sunday morning - as he was trying to stop his young son chasing a pig around a Surrey farmyard.A telephone call, from a friend, told Mr Drummond that his 64% shareholding in Virtual Internet, an Aim-listed internet domain name, brand and trademark protection group, valued him at &#163;123m - &#163;51m ahead of second placed Robert Bonnier, chief executive of Scoot.com."It was nice to hear but a fairly farcical situation to find out in," Mr Drummond said. "To be honest, though, the money doesn't bother me too much, it's the challenge of growing the business that I like. I'll keep on going for as long as I enjoy it."To emphasise his point, Mr Drummond had wiped the manure off his shoes, slipped back into his suit and returned to the Square Mile by 7.30 the following morning to outline the next stage of Virtual Internet's growth strategy.He said yesterday that the company plans to move from Aim, where it listed in January last year, to the main market and raise &#163;33m to fund both domestic and international expansion. The planned placing is ambitious, given Virtual Internet's market capitalisation of &#163;198m, but broker Hoare Govett is fully underwriting it and early institutional demand has been strong. "My diary for a week of presentations was filled in an hour," he said.Virtual Internet was set up in 1996 to provide internet domain name registration, e-mail, website hosting and e-commerce services to businesses of all sizes. Most of its 45,000 clients are in the small to medium size bracket although more than half of FTSE 100 companies, including Abbey National, Glaxo Wellcome, Marks &amp; Spencer and Rolls-Royce, are customers. New-media accounts include Lastminute.com,   QXL.com, CompuServe and AOL France.As an infrastructure provider it is a decidedly unsexy business by dot.com standards but Mr Drummond likes it that way. In a sector where combat trousers and long-term losses are increasingly the norm he sticks to sensible suits and profit forecasts."If you believe in the longevity of the internet then you should believe in us because we provide crucial services which allow far racier companies to function and grow in this space. We're the pick and shovel providers at the mucky end of the gold rush."Virtual Internet now operates in five countries and is targeting more European cities once the placing is completed. "We want to become the dominant domain-based services company in Europe and the global leader in brand protection. Around &#163;15m of the money raised will be spent on tactical acquisitions in Europe, the US and moving into Asia Pacific. The rest will invested in people, building our sales, marketing and technology teams."Even without his newly raised profile, Mr Drummond believes he has a compelling proposition to put to potential new investors. "Lots of immature companies are coming to the market at the moment and raising a lot of money. We've been around for four and a half years, have a mature management team and investors who are becoming increasingly sophisticated, like our model. We're not dependent on unique users or subscriber numbers, we offer real services to customers who pay cash and come back."In the year to October 31 1999 turnover was &#163;2.07m but losses after tax were &#163;4.4m. Since then former Schroders managing director William Slee has been recruited as chairman and a chunk of senior management appointments has been announced."We are making significant progress as a group, these changes have speeded things up and soon we hope to be able to illustrate that."
Hammers tap softly; drills whine no louder than a dentist's. The soundtrack in the factory where they've been making those spiffing little Morgan sports cars for decades is odd; the smells are even odder - seasoned ash rather than scorched metal - and the sights are positively bizarre.Automated assembly line? Gantry cranes overhead? Oh no. Here, chassis and bodyshells are cradled on wooden trestles or trundled round on little trollies. And as soon as an embryo Morgan sprouts wheels, it's pushed from tin shop to wood shop to paint shop, presumably to get it used to using them.Morgans are made in the Malvern   hills, a location far outside the harsh, doomed motor manufacturing triangle of Cowley, Dagenham and Longbridge. It's a magic domain in mellow, Elgar country, and you might think time has stopped still at the plant, which was producing more cars after the 1914-18 war than it does today (50 a week then; 11 now).It has taken Morgan 64 years to come up with a wholly new model, the Aero 8; a sibling of the 4/4 and the Plus 8, the two models currently on the market. When the Aero 8 was unveiled in Geneva two weeks ago, motoring hacks must have pinched themselves to be sure they weren't dreaming, for so much of the Morgan mystique is wreathed in myth and mist.But no, there was the reassuring   presence of Charles Morgan, grandson of the founder of the family firm, HFS Morgan - fabled inventor of the sliding pillar front suspension (marvellous road grip, but a great denture-rattler), to vouch that a new babe had been born and was legitimate Morgan stock.The Aero 8 is a zappy, aerodynamic design with advanced aluminium chassis, top speed of 160 mph from a 4.4 BMW V8 engine, and a price tag of almost &#163;50,000 - which should test your braking distance. Will so advanced a car really emerge from the low-built, laid-back collection of buildings in Malvern Link, redolent with nostalgia for the first Morgan three-wheelers and the racing circuit?Charles, a former ITN cameraman   with a degree in business management who heads the company now that his father, Peter, is taking it easier at 80, is a little hurt by the question. Morgan's a lot more modern than you think, he says (we'll come back to that) and slightly stung by criticism from the Daily Telegraph at the launch.The DT's motoring writer opined: "My initial reaction was to ask if customers would be able to specify their Aero 8s without the body." Morgan staff looked slightly pained. Most of all, the DT man didn't like the headlamps, and reckoned they gave the car a cross-eyed look.Charles is understandably defensive. These headlamps are "probably the most beautiful in production" - and the most expensive Bosch make, he adds. The Aero 8 is "a modern   concept of what a 1930s sports car should look like". Sure, there are more creature comforts - electrically heated windows and air conditioning for the first time - but then, to be a Morgan owner, you don't have to be a stoic in leather helmet and goggles .From July, two Aero 8s a week will be produced. But why, given that the waiting list for the 4/4 and the Plus 8 is about four years, bother to update? Surely they could go on for ever, turning out 500 or 600 cars a year for avid buyers, who prize them more than shares in a hot dot.com company? And with gross company profits of &#163;3m, the family, like their motors, are doing very well without changing gear.Partly it's that Charles wants to revive the grand racing days of   Morgan and make his mark; partly it's because the length of the waiting list - it once stretched to 11 years - can be so frustrating that some would-be purchasers drop-out - or die, presumably of melancholy.Charles hints that there could even be an expansion of production - they've got spare land "as big a football pitch" on their present site. Expansion! Surely that's enough to tremble the stiff upper lips of vintage Morgan owners, such as those stalwarts who'll turn out in August for the "Mog 2000 Gymkhana", a weekend fest of sprints, races, and reminiscences.But don't get Charles wrong: expansion would be a million miles from mass production: "Even if we were to make 1,500 cars a year, Morgans would still be a limited edition. 50% of them go abroad."The works staff show no signs of being fazed by the advent of the Aero 8. In the last few years, they've got to used to new developments. Well, relatively accustomed. When Sir John Harvey-Jones first came to the factory a decade ago for his TV series, Troubleshooter, he remarked to a foreman who'd been there for 31 years that he must have seen a lot of changes. The foreman famously replied "No, not a great deal at all, no."Maybe not then, but all staff have by now. Time is on the move. For decades, customers could never get through on the phone in the middle of the day because most of the staff lived close enough to go home for   lunch and no one stayed to take the calls. At last, someone does.It is true, too, that at one stage in their production, the half-built carts were actually pushed uphill, by employees, between the different shops. Marketing manager Matthew Parkin smiles indulgently, but insists it doesn't happen any more: now they're pushed down the gradient. There is still a series of separate workshops, but the chaos that used to reign has been ironed out. "We used to start 10 cars together here on a Monday." says Parkin. "Often , there was no space to do anything. Now we start two cars a day, Monday to Friday, and it's all smoother."Morgan has forgiven Harvey-Jones his original blistering comments, and he's been back there for a more mutually-forgiving visit (the programme was shown last Thursday).They've cut the time it takes a car to progress from chassis building, panelling, engine and electrical fitting, painting, upholstery to the final sparkling finish from four weeks to about 17 daysAnd they've done it while keeping intact the air of a coachworks, where many of the stages are still hand-crafted. Sure, there's laser technology for precision cutting aluminum panels, but you can still see workmen with metal clippers. And though the wings are now pressed out of single metal sheets, rather than a skilled, deft patchwork of pieces, the body frame is still made of ash."That's kiln-dried ash," explains Parkin, like a manager in a posh restaurant describing the construction of the house special. Except that, on the Morgan menu, many of the ingredients are still traditional. Connolly leather seats in all cars; and, in the Aero 8, a removable Mulberry leather case for your personal computer.As Morgan is the ultimate name to drop in certain (but not all) circles, they have to be careful, in these days of pushy lifestyle products, who they keep company with by way of accessories. Happily, that's a caveat that doesn't extend to their customers: Morgan don't mind who buys their cars, so long as the customer has the cash - and a life expectancy of at least four years in order to be around on the delivery date.
What are you driving?An Austin Ambassador - Y reg, beige exterior, maroon interior.What does that say about you?I have immaculate taste and a keen sense of colour coordination.What do you like about it/not like about it?Roomy glove compartment - but the catch is broken, preventing access to the glove compartment.Why did you buy it?I have asked myself that occasionally.What kind of driver are you?Cautious, yet swift to react in moments of danger.Any bad habits?I make soft clucking noises when measuring a piece of timber prior to sawing. Why do you ask?Any driving-test tales?Of course not. I passed first time without incident.What was your first car?A 1958 Ford Anglia. It was brown, which helped disguise the rust.Have you ever crashed/got a speeding ticket/got any points?I was involved in a collision with an articulated lorry in the above vehicle. The car was a mess, but it spawned one of my finest songs to date, Incident on the Snake Pass. Fortunately, my injuries were superficial. Having said that, to me they were very real.What do you use your car for?A shop at Netto, and daily runs to the reservoir to check the water level.Have you ever experienced road rage?In Netto's car park I once saw a woman nutting the steering-wheel. I thought, Oh dear, she's forgotten a major item off her list. Then I realised she was just trying to pull her seat forward.What sort of state is your car in?Frankly, it's beginning to niff a bit. I left a slice of gala pie in the glove compartment two weeks ago.What else is in the glove compartment?A road atlas, spare batteries for my organ and a pair of wellies, just in   case the reservoir requires a closer look.Have you ever had any romantic encounters in a car?Once my wife Mary came with me to check the reservoir level. It was abnormally low, and we became concerned for our children's futures. I put my arm round Mary and gave her a reassuring squeeze.What music do you listen to on the road?That's easy: Chris Rea. And, for high-speed motorway journeys, the Lighthouse Family.What would be your dream car?A camper van like Doreen Melody's (She's a good friend of Mary's; they go to Bums, Tums and Thighs together on Thursdays) with a sturdy chrome ladder for immediate access to the roof, and a stove for brewing up during longer visits to the reservoir.Who would be your dream passenger?Chris Rea. I'd like to drive him home for Christmas.Graham Fellows, aka John Shuttleworth, tours his new show, 2000 &amp; John, from Friday.
It's bonanza time.Lastminute. comis coming to the stock market tomorrow and the world is going share crazy. Everybody, it seems, wants a piece of a company that at the 11th hour can get you a flight to Spain or two tickets for the theatre. So much so that by tomorrow night Lastminute.com will be worth - on paper at least - as much as Manchester United, the world's richest football club.The dizzying price tag attached to a company that has been in business for all of 19 months seems a perfect symbol for the giddy mood of affluence that has gripped much of Britain since the words dot com became synonymous with easy money. With a pressure cooker stockmarket fuelling a frenzy of spending, the signs of an 80s-style boom are all around: soaring house prices, roaring sales of the most preposterous luxury goods, and the surest indicator of all, figures for the consumption of champagne that suggest some people are confusing it with sparkling water.But as punters sit and dream of the untold riches that Lastminute.com will bring them, they would do well to ponder four little words - the four most dangerous words in finance. This time it's different. Of course, speculators caught up in the frenzy are not doing any pondering at all. They're sticking to the dreaming. We've had stock market bubbles before, so their argument goes, but they were based on uncontrollable greed and hysteria. This time it's different. We've had stock market bubbles before, but back then there was no Alan Greenspan, the head of America's central bank, to steer us to safety. This time it's different. We've had stock market bubbles before, but that was when companies were run by charlatans and deadbeats rather than dynamic, young entrepreneurs. This time it's different.But what if it isn't? What if this bubble - this wild speculation in companies unheard of six months ago - is about to go the way of all the others, from tulip mania in 17th-century Holland to the Japanese stock market in the late 80s - and end in a spectacular crash?If - or rather when - it happens, it will happen suddenly. And the impact will be savage. Two weeks before the crash of 1929, the New York Times carried a headline:   "Stocks will stay at high level for years to come." A week later, when the first signs of a problem were emerging, the eminent Yale economist Irving Fisher, had some soothing words. "Fisher says prices of stocks are low," declared the stately New York daily. In subheadings it added: "Quotations have not caught up with real values as yet, he declares. Sees no cause for slump."A week later came Black Tuesday, when the floor of the New York Stock Exchange descended into pandemonium and dealers tried to offload shares at any price. Stocks that had been previously been the most fashionable - such as Radio Corporation of America - were among the biggest losers. The pages of the Times took on a more sombre tone.Slowly, perhaps too slowly, today's policy makers are starting to wake up to the idea that it could all happen again, that the laws of economics have not been rewritten by Bill Gates et al, and that unless investors tread warily, Lastminute.com could turn into Lastgasp.com. The chancellor, Gordon Brown, last week urged investors to exercise caution, suggesting "people will want to look at the performance of each of these individual (high-tech) companies."Howard Davies, head of the Financial Services Authority, the City's watchdog, was even more blunt, saying: "When a company is valued more on hope than on expectation, then you can expect it to be a volatile stock. We know from previous experience that many of the companies around at the moment will not be around in three to five years."A similar attempt to let the air gently out of the stock market bubble is underway on the other side of the Atlantic, where Greenspan has been nudging up interest rates to slow down America's booming economy. He believes that there has been a renaissance in the US economy, and he's right, but not one that justifies the extraordinary rise in high-tech stocks on Wall Street. A   year ago, the Nasdaq index of new technology companies stood at around 2,000; it hit 3,000 in November, 4,000 in December and 5,000 last week. Tim Congdon, one of the City's leading economists calls the valuations on the Nasdaq index "insane". Greenspan now has the unenviable task on his hand: how to deflate the bubble without bursting it.Will he be successful? In all honesty, nobody knows. In financial markets everybody is blessed with 20:20 hindsight, but anyone who says they can say precisely when there will be a crash is lying. It could be this year, next year, sometime, never. What can be stated with some justification is that the warnings are justified by historical precedent and that the longer the high-tech frenzy goes on, the shorter the odds on an eventual day of reckoning.Some of the valuations of the high-tech companies look - how shall we put it - somewhat optimistic. Lastminute.com, for example, is expected to have a notional value of &#163;1bn when its shares go on sale today. Its revenues in the last quarter, which included the peak Christmas buying season, totalled &#163;409,000. So far, what the company has going for it is a bright idea and a good brand, but not that many customers. It is losing money, lots of money.Those who argue - as did Irving Fisher in 1929 - that the market is not over-valued would say that there is nothing wrong with that. Plenty of companies lose money when they are getting the business established, when building up a customer base takes precedence over profitability. Capital investment is expensive and so is advertising.In the end, however, companies that succeed in a market economy are those that make profits. That may sound brutal, but it's a fact of life. A company's share price reflects the profits that investors expect it to make in the future, and eventually they will want to see some signs that those profits are going to be delivered. And here's the rub: not only have the vast majority of the dot.com companies never made a profit, but they are unlikely ever to do so. Why? Because there are too many companies chasing business at a   time when profit margins are being squeezed by intense competition.The online market for books is a case in point. Amazon is the market leader in this field, although it, too, has never made a profit. Yet anybody keen to buy a book over the net can log on to a website calledBookbrain.co.uk, which will search all the online booksellers and give a rundown of price, delivery times and the cost of packaging and postage. Take Delia's second How to Cook book, for example. This is available for &#163;16.99 from the BBC but much more cheaply online. According to Bookbrain, Amazon has it at &#163;10.94 including p&amp;p, but two other outlets - Alphabetstreet and Country Bookstore are churning it out at &#163;8.49. All this is wonderful news for the consumer, but doesn't do much for the bottom line of Amazon, or any of the other online bookstores.The cannier investors are starting to latch on to this inescapable truth. Last month's stock market darling,Freeserve,saw a third wiped off its share price last week when it became clear that a price war among internet service providers was bound to cut revenues and profits.While all eyes have been on the go-go stocks in the high-tech sector, shares in so-called old economy companies have been in the doldrums. Brewers, banks, supermarkets, retailers, power companies have been churning out healthy profits, but no one has been even remotely interested in fuddy-duddy companies run by men in suits. For those who believe in happy endings, the hope is that when the bubble bursts for the high-tech sector, the money will simply rotate into the old economy stocks again and the technological revolution - which is for real - will embed itself into the economy without any of the accompanying hype. If that happens, there will be a short period of turbulence, but nothing worse.But there are pessimists who argue that this ignores the factor that has characterised all post-bubble periods - panic. When sentiment turns, it can turn so quickly that policy makers cannot respond quickly enough and by the time remedial measures kick in it is too late. One favourite scenario for the Cassandras is that the determination of America to live beyond its means forces Greenspan to continue ratcheting up interest rates. At some point, companies start reporting that their profits are being affected, leading to a crash in share prices. Foreign investors - up to their necks in Wall Street - suffer big losses, leading to knock-on effects on stock markets around the world. The fall in the stock market then undermines the hitherto strong dollar, affecting exports from Europe and Asia by making them more expensive. In these circumstances, there would be a very nasty global recession, with the strong possibility of falling house prices and the certainty of sharply rising unemployment.The worst-case scenario, of course, would be a full-scale 30s-style slump. This is possible, but still highly improbable unless politicians and central bankers repeat the serious mistakes made in the aftermath of the 1929 crash, when they failed to cut interest rates quickly enough and raised taxes to keep budgets in balance.Graham Turner, economist at GFC economics, said: "This is not going to be pleasant. But only if prices come down so quickly that they turn negative and we get a period of deflation will policy makers be in serious trouble. Otherwise, we should come out the other side." He added that the likeliest outcome was that the men in suits at the old economy companies would have the last laugh. "A lot of internet companies will be swallowed up by traditional firms, who will be able to cherry pick the best brand names at the bottom of the market. Let's be honest: there are some good brands out there but they won't be able to keep going when there is a big correction."For the rest, the future looks less bright. One of the internet's most entertaining sites isiTulip.com, which brilliantly lampoons the whole high-tech bubble. "Now you, too, can enjoy the thrill of owning an uneconomical internet company's stock certificate without fear of losing all your money," it says. "Buy an iTulip.com Stock Certificate. Not only does iTulip.com not have any assets, revenues or profits, it doesn't even exist. Of course, some internet companies won't exist either after the internet stock speculative mania ends."At the moment, iTulip.com is plain funny. Before long, it could seem less amusing.Bubble trouble:  the tell-tale signs* It's spend spend spend, as the lucky winners offload their gains. Champagne and cocaine fuelled the City in the 80s; today the traders blow their bonuses at lap dancing bars. One Oxfordshire estate agent has a waiting list of more than 80 for houses in the &#163;2m-plus bracket. For the super rich, a new age of conspicuous consumption offers retail therapy the rest of us can only dream of. The timepiece of choice for those with real money is the Patek Phillippe Calibre 89 - yours for a mere &#163;1.7m.* Commentators claim that the business cycle has been abolished. In the past when analysts have declared that the fundamental rule of economics - all good things come to an end - no longer applies, it's usually been swiftly followed by the inevitable crash.* The business pages are the most popular section of the newspaper. The Sun and the Mirror tipping shares is the equivalent of Joseph Kennedy's shoeshine boy giving him investment advice - a sign it's time to get out of the market.*There is a lemming-like rush to invest in whatever is inflating the bubble. Thousands of first-time homeowners climbed on board the UK property bandwagon in the late 80s because they were told prices would always go up, only to see the value of their investment crash within a few years.
First Directis planning to relaunch as the first Internet banking store.The bank, which claims it will be 'simple, fast and efficient but warm, safe and friendly', aims to offer one of the largest choices of banking, money and related services via mobile phones with WAP technology and interactive TV and, of course, PCs.You may be forgiven for thinking there are one or two perfectly adequate Internet banking services about already. After all, you cannot watch TV or open a magazine or newspaper without being bombarded by advertising for Internet banking. NatWest, for example, is currently promoting its online service via a high-profile TV   campaign. All the big banks offer online current account services and several new banks, including Egg and First-E, operate purely on the Internet.However, if you think this means you can do all your normal banking transactions quickly and efficiently in your home or office, you are sadly mistaken.Although you can fill in an application to take out a credit card or personal loan and send it via the Internet, your bank will print the application and return it for a signature. Likewise, if you are opening a savings or current account, you will need to send a passport or driving licence and, usually, a utility bill along with the application. And, in some cases, there's no   escaping a meeting with the bank manager if you are not an existing account holder.Even Egg prints off the completed application and sends it back to the applicant to check and sign. The applicant must then return it to Egg with three items proving identity, and a cheque. The whole process takes a week to 10 days - hardly the instant service you expect from an Internet bank.The switch to a seamless Internet-based financial service has been prevented by two pieces of legislation -   the Consumer Credit Act and money laundering regulations. The former requires all lenders to obtain a signature on paper from applicants before extending credit, while the latter requires banks to see physical proof of an applicant's identity.Smile, the Internet bank launched by the Co-op, has cut paperwork to a minimum by requiring applicants to sign just one form, which gives the bank permission to request direct debit details from the previous bank. The signature is retained for reference   purposes. The applicant also fills in a form online which covers all the Smile accounts and credit services.Richard Thackray, of First-e, the Dublin-based Internet bank, believes a certain amount of paperwork remains essential for his customers. 'Because we are a French-owned bank, operating out of Dublin, with customers in the UK, money is going across borders,' he says. 'And we therefore have an extra duty of care to make sure who people are.'However, Citibank and First   Direct believe legislative and technological developments make it possible to reinterpret the money laundering rules in a more electronically sympathetic way.The e-commerce bill, expected to complete its journey through Parliament in April, will ensure that digital signatures (numbers and letters that have been encrypted so they are not recognisable to anyone other than the sender and intended recipient) are recognisable in court.First Direct and Citibank   also believe that instead of requiring customers to send in the traditional proofs of identification, they can access sufficient information from other electronic sources which will satisfy the money laundering requirements.Citibank plans to be first on the market with a signature-free application later this month. Instead of requiring a signature before the account can be set up, the bank will ask new customers to click on an icon to indicate they agree to abide by the terms and conditions of the account. The   bank will satisfy client identity requirements by checking the electoral roll, CAIS - a credit data system - and, in some cases, by phoning applicants to make sure they live and work where they say they do.&#149; Have you signed up with an Internet bank? What has your experience been with service and have you encountered any technical difficulties? Let us know by writing to The Personal Finance Editor,  The Observer, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER.
A bitter turf war is set to explode as two more leading UK Internet service providers prepare to offer unlimited Internet access.Freeserve- the largest ISP, with nearly 1.7 million users - is poised to unveil its own unmetered package, perhaps   as soon as this week, when it announces its latest results. It is understood to have been working on a number of schemes for some time.The UK's fifth-largest ISP -breathe, which has 330,000 users - today offered unlimited Net access for life in return for a one-off &#163;50 fee. In   addition, mobile phone users who sign up will be able to use their handsets to surf the wireless web for free.Sean Gardner, breathe's chief executive, admitted its target was to attract a critical mass of customers to whom it could then sell a range of added-value mobile phone   services. 'The Internet is a land grab and everyone is staking their claim,' he said.Telecom firmsBTandNTL, and Internet portalAlta Vistalast week announced their own unlimited packages. The UK's second-largest ISP,Line One, which is jointly owned by BT and   United News &amp; Media, unveiled its unmetered service last Friday, claiming that it will be the first to go live, at the end of this month.Freeserve's intention to go unlimited was hinted at by chief executive John Pluthero last month. He told  The Observer: 'BT's Surftime product &#91;its unlimited access package&#93; takes us in that direction. I'm sure we will get to the position in the UK where people are being charged a sensible, fixed amount per month for as much Internet use as they want.'
Imagine: it's a dark night, and you are trying to get some cash from an ATM machine. Suddenly you notice a large figure in uniform behind you. Distracted, you mistype your PIN number. The machine demands you type it again, so you do - and collect your money.Then the figure puts his hand on your shoulder and you discover he's a policeman. A large, unfriendly policeman. He says he has reason to suspect you are up to no good and demands that you tell him your PIN number. You refuse or, in the confusion, you can't remember it.Before you know what's happening you've been arrested and are standing before a judge. The charge? Failing to disclose your PIN number to a duly authorised person. The fact that you cannot remember it is no defence. It is assumed that you were up to no good - unless you can prove to the contrary. You are sent down for two years.Unbelievable? Couldn't happen in a liberal democracy? Well, I have news for you.Last week Jack Straw, New Labour's avuncular Interior Minister, introduced a Bill into the Commons which aims to create an analogous situation in relation to data encryption. A PIN number is analogous to a cryptographic key such as you might use to protect your email - or confidential files on your hard disk - from prying eyes. The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Bill gives Mr Straw the power to demand you decrypt data on demand. Failing to provide the key will be a criminal offence, with a maximum penalty of two years in jail, and carries with it the presumption of guilt. You must somehow prove you do not have the key. That you may have mislaid or forgotten it will not be a defence.And if, having suffered a miscarriage of justice under this statute, you decide to complain in public, 'Liberal Jack' has another ace up his   sleeve - you can be sent down for a further five years!Meanwhile, paedophiles and criminals, who really do have appalling stuff on their disks and in their emails, will keep their mouths shut and take the two years for refusing to decrypt on demand. After all, it's a better deal than doing five to 10 years for a really serious offence.There is more.The Bill requires UK Internet Service Providers to install systems which will allow Secretary Straw and his duly authorised goons to track subscribers' communications traffic. That means every email you send - and every reply you receive, plus information on every website you've visited, every book you've bought from Amazon, every air-ticket you've purchased, every piece of software you've ever downloaded. And if you have encrypted your communications - well, see the last paragraph, but one above.On what grounds might the Interior Ministry justify such an invasion of your privacy? Here's a list from Section 20 of the Bill: national security (not defined, of course); preventing or detecting crime; preventing disorder; public safety; protecting public health.Oh, and Mr Straw can lawfully authorise electronic snooping 'in the interests of the economic well-being of the United Kingdom'.Imagine how that last justification will play with foreign businesses wondering whether to set up in e-commerce in the UK. And then ponder the fact that the official line is to make the UK the most e-friendly state in Europe by 2002. Joined-up government, my eye.Meanwhile, the Irish government is legislating to make it illegal even for it to snoop on Internet traffic, so if this Bill makes it to the Statute book we can all move to Irish ISPs.I wonder what Secretary Straw will do about that?john.naughton@observer.co.uk&#149; For links and background seewww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
You wait ages for one to come and then three arrive at once. Last week's news that three Internet companies are to offer unlimited online access made front-page headlines and met with a warm welcome from Downing Street as a big step in its drive to ensure we are all online within five years.The reactions seemed justified: unlimited or 'unmetered' access is seen as tremendously important by UK Internet companies. For years they have looked longingly at the US, where users have been able to surf with abandon in return for a one-off charge. Experts argue that UK Internet usage suffers by comparison. Online users here are conscious that they are paying by the minute, and thus limit their use of the Internet. US users spend twice as much time online as their UK counterparts.But the decisions by US Internet search engineAlta Vista, cable companyNTLandBTto offer unlimited access will have repercussions beyond turning us into a generation of Netheads. The moves can be compared to seismic shifts in the ocean floor, creating choppy waters above. The question now is how many will stay afloat?The answer lies in which companies can make the 'free' model pay. Until now big Internet success stories such asFreeserve, the Internet service provider (ISP) that last week entered the FTSE 100, have generated a significant proportion of their revenue from connection charges. Each time you access the Internet through Freeserve, the ISP makes a few pence. Freeserve believes it makes 40p per user per month from this. At the last set of interim results, Freeserve had a turnover of just over &#163;7 million, and roughly half of this came from connection charges.Unmetered Internet access   means this business model becomes difficult to justify. Surfers will opt to pay the likes of Alta Vista relatively small one-off fees for unlimited use, leading to what is known as 'bill shock' in the trade. As a result, Freeserve's shares fell by nearly 20 per cent at the start of this week as analysts speculated that it would have to subsidise the cost of unlimited access if it was to retain its market leading position.This may have been a knee-jerk reaction. Freeserve has been wise to the notion that the ISP cash cow could not be milked forever, and has been desperately attempting to turn itself into a 'portal' - a must-visit Internet destination that users go to on a regular basis. To do this the company has teamed up with a raft of content providers and e-tailers: now whatever you are looking for, a visit to Freeserve will help you find it. The intention is to make money by exploiting this position through selling online advertising and e-commerce.Since Freeserve has approaching 1.7 million users - outstripping its nearest rival, AOL Europe, by around 100,000 - it should be in a strong position to make the most of this intention, even when it succumbs to the inevitable and offers its own   unlimited-access version. But Freeserve's problem - and ultimately that facing all those who intend to offer unlimited access in the future - is how to stop surfers straying away from the portal. There is nothing to stop you using an ISP's unlimited service to access the Internet and then, having passed through its gateway, leaving it to go elsewhere on the world wide web.Until now, the ISPs could console themselves that they were making money from the connection side of things. Now this seems doomed to disappear. Continuing to charge significant amounts   for access would result in users simply switching to an ISP that offers an unmetered service. 'If companies charge high tolls, they're going to get run over,' said Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America.Figures show how serious the threat of wandering users is to even the Internet's biggest players. Miles Saltiel, Internet analyst at WestLB Panmure, said in a recent report: 'In January, Freeserve had 35 per cent of the access market ,but under 15 per cent of total site visits: in other words, users are logging on to Freeserve then going elsewhere.'The challenge for the major players now is to stop their flock straying, so that e-  commerce and online advertising revenues are sufficiently high to compensate for subsidising users' surfing time.Two things are clear: content and connectivity are the new kings. Sounds familiar? Strangely enough these are also the key drivers that bring in the bucks for conventional television broadcasters. Just as viewers remain loyal to BBC1, Channel 4 or Sky Sports 1 - because they like their programmes, which can be watched easily and cheaply - so the online portals reckon the same must be true for their business strategies. 'What you're now seeing   over here is the Internet equivalent of the TV licence. Just like TV, people are paying a certain amount of money upfront in return for unlimited access,' said Alex Birch, a director of Internet specialist OC&amp;C Strategy Consulting.Birch argues that some of the big US Internet portals are even starting to look like conventional broadcasters. 'It's the model the portals are trying to drive towards in the US. Look at what MSN (Microsoft's portal) is doing with its channels,' Birch said.The most obvious example of this convergence of television and Internet business models came with the recent ground-breaking merger between America Online and Time Warner. Analysts now   speculate about just how long it will be before a raft of Time Warner companies make their services available solely over the AOL network - anathema to all those who argue the Web's raison d' tre should be as a completely open system.Alta Vista's strategy is similar to the AOL-Time deal in that its intention is to turn the search engine into a mega portal that directs users to content and services provided by its sister companies. The search engine is 83 per cent owned by US venture capital giant CMGi, which holds, or has stakes in, more than 60 other Internet firms. So when you use the Alta Vista search engine, the chances are you will see ads for sites and online services which, not surprisingly, are offered by companies owned by CMGi.Likewise, NTL has ulterior motives for ensuring it encourages more people to sign up for its unlimited services. NTL plans to use the new service, called ntlworld, as a means to develop its wider ambitions.NTL will soon launch its digital cable television package, and is currently bidding for a third-generation mobile licence. The plan is to heavily promote its unlimited Internet access to attract a critical mass of users who can then be migrated on to its other new services.'It's a great opportunity to own customers,' said Janice Hughes of new media consultancy Spectrum. 'NTL is using the Internet as a marketing tool.'And, of course, NTL has its own set of partners and content providers, who will be promoted on ntlworld, a   'world' the company hopes you won't want to leave. 'The service will be fresh, hugely broad and hugely deep,' a spokesman said. 'It won't just sell you a holiday; it'll tell you when the pool's open.'So where does this leave BT? Playing a waiting game for now, seems the likely answer. BT is banned from entering the broadcast market until next year, so opportunities for building its own series of channels to rein users in are limited. Significantly, BT last week signed a deal with Yes TV, a company whose technology will one day see BT stream movies over its network.The worry in the industry, however, is that such new developments will place unprecedented pressure on the telecoms infrastructure. As unlimited access explodes - Birch foresees at least four more ISPs opting for the unmetered model within the next six months - so some of the networks will struggle to cope with the extra traffic.'It will be just like the National Grid. Everyone's watching the World Cup. You get to half-time and everyone goes to make a cup of tea,' said Internet analyst Simon Moores of consultancy The Research Group. 'In order to make unlimited Internet access available, a broadband infrastructure has to be in place. There's no such thing as a free lunch.'Pundits have already been quick to predict that a new subscription model will emerge as a rival to the unmetered service. Users would pay for access to high- quality bandwidth, allowing them to access the Internet at much faster speeds.All these pressures - the need for content, broadband and the ability to change business models almost overnight, not to mention the huge offline costs of promoting the online brand and subsidising free access - suggest that only the biggest players will survive in the Internet world of the future.Consolidation between media, Internet and telecoms companies looks inevitable as the race to carve up the Web begins in earnest. And the free-thinking pioneers of the Internet can only stand by and mutter that it was never meant to be like this.Riding this wave of generosityThe  explosion in unlimited Internet access is bound to create confusion among consumers.Basically, there will be at least three unlimited products, with their own pricing structures ,on the market in the next few months. Other, perhaps less heavily advertised products, will also come on to the market.Alta Vista'spackage is based on a one-off, upfront fee of between &#163;30 and &#163;50 and then   an annual fee of between &#163;10 and &#163;20. The company has not finalised the exact pricing structure or set a launch date, which at the moment could be any time within the next three months.BT's SurfTimepackage, to be launched on 1 June, offers unmetered access for &#163;29.25 a month for residential customers. Some users might prefer a different package costing &#163;15.25 a month and offering   unmetered access in the evenings and at weekends.NTL, which will be the first to launch an unmetered Internet access package - on 17 April - has two deals, one for those who live in areas that take its cables, another for those who don't. If you live in a cabled area, you pay &#163;9.25 a month for the phone line. Otherwise you pay a one-off charge of &#163;10 for a telephone adaptor that connects to your BT line. Customers have to agree   to pay a minimum of &#163;10 a month on normal telephone calls.Andrew Boswell, chief technology officer at ICL, says: 'Read the small print. People may well be confused by a complex choice of bundled Internet and voice tariffs, in much the same way as prospective buyers of mobile phones can be faced with a bewildering array of tariff choices.'
It was another wonderful week on the Net. Free this, free that and even free promises of universal surfage from Tony Blair. Who cares about the fine print when everyone's scenting zillions? But maybe Fleet Street and the BBC should start to care: they'll be going to war soon over this uniquely rich greenfield site.The warning figures are there for the Beeb, buried in another of the reports they love to commission from McKinsey. Net usage in America is growing almost exponentially, and it's beginning to hurt TV viewing figures. Now such hurt is coming to a living room nearer home. You can't surf and cook couch potatoes at the same time. You have to have a huge stake in the new media, because it will be a huge part of your future.And, of course, top newspaper executives have identical research forebodings shivering the timbers on their office desks. Here the warnings are starker yet. Five or 10 years on, will there even be a market place for printed words on paper?Migration to the Net is not some optional extra: you neglect defensive action at your peril. You have to be a player - which, in the torrent of mergers and takeovers, means being a big player. Watch this cyberspace.The BBC has certainly been doing that, and the news from its briefings is euphoric as well as highly convenient. Put together the Corporation's existing online services, add many more around the world, make strategic liaisons - and you're talking amazing wealth. If revenues hit their estimated &#163;1.4 billion by 2006 (with the usual Internet premium added) the worth of the Corporation's commercial arm could turn Rupert Murdoch green.At the moment, all the commercial stuff contributes around 4 per cent of BBC revenue: shrimp statistics against the annual &#163;2bn-plus from the licence fee. But that   balance is changing with bewildering rapidity. Who, Greg Dyke may shortly ask, needs a fat licence increase to feed our digital ambitions? The &#163;1.5bn of imposed 'savings' over five years may be easy pickings.Rosy scenarios to make almost everyone happy. The Beeb finds a crock of gold and becomes a true world force; the politicians don't have to keep on taking nasty licence fee decisions; the viewer gets more money spent on programmes and channels while paying (absolutely or relatively) less. Where's the catch?It is, of course, in what happens all around - to a competition out-gunned. BBC Worldwide, the aforementioned commercial arm, already has trouble on that count. When Gavyn Davies looked at Corporation funding last year, he found ITV, independent radio, the Advertising Association and many more queuing to complain about unfairness; and Davies wasn't unsympathetic. 'Very real issues arise when a public service broadcaster enters the commercial arena and, as usual, the devil is in the detail.'Thus far the BBC has sought to silence such devilry through an elaborate code of practice ensuring 'clear separation between publicly-funded and commercial activities', but the Net is a Hellfire club of complications.TakeBBC Online, already Europe's most significant   portal, boasting more than 100 million hits a month (half of them outside Britain). A service without advertising to you or me, sitting at home in the UK, because we're licence fee payers - but not necessarily so, as it's run out across the world in related sites such asBBCAmerica- and vestigially 'separated' fromBeeb.com, Worldwide's existing commercial shop window.You can't put BBC Online down. It's a lush package of news and information. But then it should be. Even last year it cost &#163;23 million to run (11 times the cost of BBC Parliament) - which, give or take the odd bob, is the editorial cost of producing a national paper such as the  Independent. The marketing is vast   and constant, but cheap. Almost every TV and radio programme automatically cross-refers to the website. BBC branding naturally dominates. We pay for it. We can't, in the nicest sense, get away from it.For the user, though, this isn't like ordering a different cable channel. A single key stroke takes you from Online to Beeb.com; they're two peas in the same electronic pod. But the overwhelming reason for logging on to them is Online's commodious news service which, unlike that of every other competitor, real or potential, doesn't even have to think about making a profit because the licence fee covers all that.Newspapers don't have the luxury of throwing up their hands and retreating. They, too, are having to pour millions into the Net, putting their own news online and swimming in red ink as a result.There are sites that will reap big dividends. (TheFTpounds on). There are sites that win prizes and may, in time, produce a good revenue stream (such as  Guardian Unlimited , with 12 million hits a month). Yet the BBC already sits in the middle of the essential battlefield, replete and vastly strong.Like anything else as the Net balloon heads into the stratosphere, today's prediction may be tomorrow's small print apology.BBC Worldwide management isn't universally beloved by those who work with it. Post-tax profits of &#163;12m last year on a turnover of &#163;420m wouldn't set any normal business world alight.But make no mistake: Mr Dyke's Beeb is parked right in the firing line - and newspapers, when they look around them, are bound to start shooting.
