The latest updates for my ATI graphics card come in two versions, and one says that I need Microsoft.net. What is it and do I need it on my XP Home PC? Dave SimpkinMicrosoft describes .Net (dot net) as its web services platform: it enables a company to develop an IT infrastructure that works across a network, such as the internet. Applications can be developed very quickly using Visual Studio 2005 or the free Visual Studio Express. Most Windows PCs now ship with .Net installed -- it should be visible in the Add or Remove Programs panel, or look for its subdirectory in the Windows folder. However, there is no reason to install it unless you want to run a program that requires it. Few do.
"Today we're very pleased to announce the launch of Google Desktop 3 Beta. The new version comes loaded with features that make finding and sharing information even easier and more fun than before," says the officialInside Google Desktopblog.One of the new features isSearch Across Computers, which "makes it seamless to search the content of your documents and web history from any of your computers". Of course, you can't search one of your computers remotely if it happens to be turned off, say, so Google will kindly store your hard drive files on one of its Desktop servers. This applies to your Web history (from Internet Explorer, Firefox, Netscape, and Mozilla); Microsoft Word documents; Microsoft Excel spreadsheets; Microsoft PowerPoint presentations; PDF files and Text files in My Documents. It won't store data from secure (https) pages.The reaction in the blogosphere is likely to be along the lines of TechCrunch'sPrivacy is Dead(er).Even if Google isn't evil (or more evil than is commercially necessary), this idea also relies on Google being invulnerable to hackers (including the ones that work for the CIA), and also able to fend off government agencies with subpoenas trawling for information.Of course, you also have to be able to protect and defend your own computers, even when you are out of the house/office. Otherwise the person who nicks your notebook PC may also get access to critical files on your desktops.... including that little Notepad file where you keep all your pins and passwords.
Inconveniently, I'm extremely busy at the moment so while Shadow of the Colossus sits unmolested beneath my TV set, I've been using my daily commute to play mobile phone and handheld titles - namely Sega's Rub Rabbits and I-Play's Java translation of hit TV series, 24. Both are structured around a sequence of contrasting mini-games, which has brought a little excitement and uncertainty into my bus ride (even more than when my local bus company began employing Eastern European drivers who weren't taught the route and had to keep asking us in broken English where they were supposed to be going).With 24, you play as Agent Bruno a CTU operative embroiled in a shadowy plot to manufacture war between the US and North Korea. In quite a clever post-modern touch, which concedes to the crap graphical performance of Java devices, players must employ Bruno's 'spy phone' (i.e. your own handset) to carry out missions remotely. This way, you're always viewing the action through an in-game cellphone display - thereby explaining the limited visuals and retaining the atmosphere and style of the show. A very good idea.The missions take the form of simple mini-challenges - many of which resemble classic arcade titles and puzzle game archetypes. For example, in the Phone Trace sections you need to pinpoint a mobile phone location by isolating areas of a city map until the signal - represented as little moving blobs - is herded into a small area - an idea originated in the classic coin-op, Qix, and now a shareware puzzle game staple. There's also a Spy Hunter-style overhead driving bit and a decrypting sequence where you reveal a phrase by figuring out the missing letters from a simple code.It's all very casual gamer-friendly, and the snappy presentation between missions, with taut text interchanges involving key characters and lots of cuts to a digital clock, also help with building the atmosphere within limited means. Oh and you're timed though each mini-game - apparently the total time will dictate which game ending you see.There are also several action-orientated challenges where you guide an agent through a series of claustrophobic locations, either stealthily avoiding enemies, or taking them out in little tactical skirmishes. Again, the developer has got round those pesky graphical limitations by presenting each scene in minimal infrared vision. You're informed that, even though you have direct joypad control over the on-screen character, you're actually sort of remotely guiding another operative via satellite. Remember the scene in Patriot Games where an SAS attack on a terrorist base is viewed entirely via satellite cam from a CIA control room? It's like that.So yes, quite diverting, and plenty of interesting solutions to the fundamental question - how do you reproduce the world of 24 on a tiny screen? One complaint, though: the miniscule text was difficult to read on the bus. I was overcome with nausea when I got off and had to stagger home like a drunk.As for Rub Rabbits - it's another kitsch slice of dating fun from Sonic Team in which you must capture the heart of a sexy girl by performing a series of over 30 mini-challenges. These range from chucking love hearts at her while love rivals dance around trying to block them; blowing on the mic to dispatch parachuting men who're trying to deliver roses to the aforementioned lady; and using the stylus to knock over little blokes who are running at you wearing bull masks. Each game is intercut with stylish comic book story sequences while sixties lounge music plays in the background.Yep, it's all very familiar to veterans of Project Rub, but here there are loads more options accessible from the main menu. As well as the central Story mode, there's an area where you can dress up the female lead (using clothes you unlock as you go through the game). I also love the Make A Baby mode where you try out a collaborative cake cutting mini-game with your partner, one of you using the d-pad, the other the fire buttons. Hullabaloo Mode will surely also become a favourite - here, you pass the DS around a group of friends each putting their fingers on specific buttons in a sort of combination of Twister and pass-the-parcel.Highly stylised, self-consciously wacky, predictably compelling, Rub Rabbits is nevertheless more an update on Project Rub than a full sequel. I think even more could be done with the multiplayer element. If Nintendogs can be set up to alert you when another user passes by, surely Rub Rabbits could have something similar in the form of a Wi-Fi speed dating feature?Anyway, the proliferation of mini-game titles is usually blamed on Wario Ware, but, of course, the roots of the genre go back way further. I'm reminded of a few 8bit titles that emerged before games were segregated into genres. Beach Head, for example, where each level introduced a new style of play.Wherever they came from, mini-game titles make perfect sense on portable formats - as we all know, they're instantly accessible and easily abandoned at any point. What I like about these two examples, though, is the way they intrinsically build the mini-games into an over-riding story. It feels like you're getting a full gaming experience but in handy bite-sized chunks. The digital equivalent of cereal bars. But nice.
The reviews are back - back! - in Technology. Wetake a lookat arthouse faves Colossus and Katamari plus Dead or Alive 4, the game that proves the fighting genre is essentially, er, dead. Suffice to say, if you have any interest in games moving beyond the guns/driving/sports norm then both Colossus and Katamari are essential purchases. And then there is Aleks. If you've been wondering where her blogs have been this week then read herarticleabout games and bereavement which will explain everything.
Government inaction is hampering attempts to prosecute people who send spam emails, according to reports.The Information Commissioner's Office, an independent body that is meant to regulate and protect information and electronic communication, says it has not yet got the powers it needs to prosecute those who bombard web surfers with unwanted email."We are still calling for further powers which the Department of Trade and Industry is aware of," a spokeswoman for the information commissioner, Richard Thomas, told Computing magazine. "We want stronger powers to take action."Despite receiving more than 350 complaints about spammers who operate from inside the UK last year, the Information Commissioner's Office has yet to take any legal action. The only real success was in a private action taken by Channel Islands businessman Nigel Roberts against a Scottish company, which resulted in an out-of-court settlement of &#163;300.Spam messages, mainly used to promote fraudulent activity, are estimated to account for around 60% of email that arrives into the world's inboxes. But after an anti-spam law was enacted in Britain in 2003, it became illegal to send unsolicited emails in bulk without permission from the recipients.When the legislation came into force, the Information Commissioner's Office was promised the ability to successfully deal with perpetrators."It's crucial that people feel safe and have confidence in utilising electronic communication technologies," former communications minister Stephen Timms said at the time. But since then there have been no public prosecutions against British spammers, despite studies which show they are responsible for billions of unwanted emails each year."There certainly doesn't seem to be enough progress," said Jeremy Beale, head of ebusiness at the CBI. "You should be able to report spam in your own country and then see it dealt with internationally ... in the UK there has been a particular issue about the information commissioner and him not having enough powers."In the US, in contrast, recent changes to the law have resulted in a number of high-profile cases. More than &#163;6.4bn in fines has been doled out to email marketers as a result of the controversial CAN-SPAM act, but the problem of unsolicited email remains.This week internet giants AOL and Yahoo announced plans to begin charging US companies to send "trusted email" in an attempt to bypass the problem. The scheme has highlighted the level of irritation that spam still causes, but it has been roundly condemned by campaigners and industry insiders."The source of the vast majority of spam doesn't come from legitimate business entities," said Andrew Lochart of email security firm Postini. "They [the plans] don't actually prevent spam, and they ask legitimate senders to pay for the sins of the real spammers."
There's an interesting "where will it all end?" piece from the chaps over at MediaGuardian.co.uk today. It's by Chris Shaw, a senior exec at Channel Five, who looks atwhat's happening with interactivity in news media:This week I encountered a new media buzzword: Disintermediation. Sounds like Dalek talk to me. But apparently it spells doom for the traditional media.Disintermediation means consumers can interact directly with the people running our newspapers, TV and radio. Whether its downloading new shows at will, broadcasting your own homemade video news stories, or just starting your own website or blog, disintermediation is apparently the path to free-market Nirvana where choice is king and content is governed exclusively by demand.His doomsday scenario is that viewers will be asked to vote on which stories will top tomorrow night's news bulletin. I don't think that proposal is entirely specious, and in fact, I think it's limited by his vision of broadcast media. But let's not get into the arguments about whether Shaw is right or wrong, whether he's analysed the situation correctly or how those types of changes are already starting to take effect.In fact, I found it interesting mainly because of the trickle-down effect of buzzwords. Shaw says he has just encountered "disintermediation" in the wild. Anyone watching new media would have seen this thrown around with excitement a lot five or ten years ago, but less so of late.Thissays it's been a net buzzword for at least 12 years, while Wikipedia lists one of its earliest appearances in aneconomics journal in 1981.It's like a media-technology form of Chinese whispers. Anyone got any others?
On Tuesday, say signs in numerous shops around the country, you will be obliged to use your pin to buy things with a card across the counter instead of offering a signature. The warnings are stern, no doubt to the bemusement of many people reading them; we have been using personal identification numbers to buy goods since October 2003, so what's changing?A spokeswoman for Apacs (Association for Payment Clearing Services), the UK trade association for payment processing bodies, says very little of substance is changing on February 14. "After that, if [a retailer] accepts a signature when someone should be chip and pinning, then the risk is with the retailer rather than the bank." At the moment, 1.6% of debit card transactions that should use chip and pin go through on a signature, a figure that rises to 6.5% when applied to credit cards. Apacs says that represents about a quarter of a million people - most being defrauded. But from next week, every shopper should use chip and pin; a retailer who sells something against a signature that later proves fraudulent must bear the cost, a process called "chargeback".Nick Goulding, chief executive of the Forum for Private Business, says the situation is not as bad as when the system was launched, when there was a shortage of terminals, but some retailers will still have problems. "Last year, the banks introduced chip and pin on January 1, in the middle of the busiest time for retailers, which shows how out of touch they were".This time, the problem will be for slightly larger retailers - not the chains, which routinely upgrade technology and swallow the cost easily, but the ones who buy their own electronic point-of-sale (EPos) machines. "They make a capital investment and expect to be using these machines for a long time," Goulding says. Older EPos systems can't handle chip and pin. "They now have to decide, midway through this investment, 'do I ditch the systems or take the risk of having to pay for fraudulent transactions?' It's fundamentally wrong of the banks to impose the timing on people in this way."A fall in fraudNot everyone is so damning. "The level of credit card fraud has definitely fallen since the introduction of chip and pin last year," says a spokesman for the Federation of Small Businesses. "People will have to watch themselves if they don't have chip and pin installed, but our members mostly have - it's not expensive, they lease the equipment from their bank the same as they did before."Individual retailers also see the benefits, particularly on the smaller business side. Alan Jordan owns music retailer Reflex CD and believes security will definitely improve. "I don't buy all this stuff about what would happen if someone watches over your shoulder and then steals your card - I would have thought it's much more likely at a cash machine. That's been possible for years." He has had chip and pin for more than a year and had no chargebacks. "The customers seem to like it, but I do forget to check the signature on a non-chipped card."So the checks are more thorough, but more cracks in the system are visible. According to Apacs, only about 80% of eligible outlets have installed chip and pin terminals. Major retailers including B&amp;Q won't have every terminal ready in time, leading Apacs to suggest that branches without the technology will be most prone to fraud.The reasons for introducing chip and pin were simple, according to an Apacs spokesman - to fight fraud. A study in 2002 suggested that credit card fraud would otherwise move beyond control. "We went through a number of scenarios, and the 'do nothing' scenario would have meant an estimated &pound;800m per annum in fraud by 2005, and &pound;1 billion by 2008," says the spokesman. That study became part of the business case for chip and pin.There are other benefits, too. Larger companies have saved time processing transactions because staff are not fumbling around for ballpoint pens and checking every signature visually, Apacs says, whilst admitting that a company needs to be a substantial size before this benefit becomes noticeable.Apacs plays down suggestions that fraud has fallen simply because it's more difficult to prove that someone has stolen your pin than forged your signature: "If there were a large amount of cases we'd have heard about them."Jordan, of Reflex CD, agrees: "I can see that there could be issues in the case of errors and how one might prove you weren't in a shop, but I suspect these will be a very small number of occasions related to the total number of transactions."Some of these occasions are being aired in the media, such as when a bank denies a transaction is fraudulent because the correct pin was entered - leaving the cardholder, who is convinced they didn't do it, without recourse. "Our biggest concern is when banks refuse to look at the issue because they say if the pin was correct it's not fraud," says Naomi Newman, senior researcher at Which? "That's going against the Banking Code and the Consumer Credit Act, under which the onus is on them to prove gross negligence. Instead we're hearing about them saying that if the pin was known there's no need to regard it as fraud."Considerable risksThere is no data to suggest this is widespread, although Goulding believes the risks will be considerable. "Fraudsters are often a step ahead of the authorities. People have trouble remembering their pin so they write them down, and criminals know where to find them - handbags, for example. It's not difficult to find someone's pin."There will be exceptions to the chip and pin rule, although these haven't been well publicised. People with some disabilities may not be able to remember a four-digit number as easily as the more able. The Apacs spokeswoman confirms that retailers will be able to use a signature - at their own risk - when they judge it appropriate. "If Mrs Bloggs has been coming to your shop regularly and can't remember her pin, and you're certain she doesn't represent a risk, you can accept a signature." There will also be specific "chip-and-signature" cards for people who can't cope with pin terminals.Goulding takes a more cynical view. "There are exceptions for disabled people, but how is a retailer supposed to know when someone is genuinely disabled?" he asks. "The exceptions are for when someone can't see or manipulate the terminal, but if they say they can't, are you just supposed to take that at face value?"Allowing established customers to use a signature is likely to cause dissent unless he or she happens to be the only one in the shop, he says. "If you've just served a customer and accepted a signature because you know them, it's invidious to refuse to serve the next customer the same way just because you don't know them."The authorities might make these exceptions, he says, but they forget that the retailers are going to be facing the customers to explain them.He is also concerned that a world where everyone knows their pin reflexively may bring subtle but far-reaching changes."If you're forcing people to memorise their pin then they're quite likely, after a few drinks on Friday night, to visit the hole in the wall and borrow some money whereas before they would not have been able to remember the thing," he says."There could be all sorts of undesirable borrowing, which will suit the banks as it makes money for them but is undesirable for the business community."Take careIt's a mixed welcome overall, then. IT security expert Robert Schifreen is concerned at some of the downsides. Clearly the system doesn't work for people ordering online. "This won't be possible until every computer has a slot that can verify a card's pin," he says. "There has been a huge increase in online fraud because the criminals have been forced off the high street." People opting out need to be careful, too, he suggests. "I was told by an Alliance and Leicester call centre supervisor that a chip-and-signature card would result in me losing my moneyback [loyalty scheme] points." He was later assured this wasn't the case, which suggests either a severe case of right hand and left hand not meeting up or someone rewriting policy up until the last minute.Indeed, this seems to be a feature of the chip and pin scenario. Ask a selection of retailers what's happening on February 14 and they will tell you it's when chip and pin becomes compulsory, which isn't quite true. Ask them about chip-and-signature cards and you're likely to get a blank stare, as the idea has attracted precious little publicity.Add the idea that one in every five eligible companies has yet to introduce the technology anyway, and you find a rather muted picture. Chip and pin is here to stay - but don't expect a big bang at midnight on Tuesday.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's time for theweekly Technology section, and it's another bumper week...The magic numbers: will chip and pin for retail transactions fight fraud, or just let banks offload it? Guy Clapperton investigatesPirates pursue a political pointA new Swedish party aims to abolish the copyright laws that criminalise file sharers, reports Gwladys Fouche.Survival of the unfittestLotus Notes is used by 120 million of people, almost all of whom seem to hate it. How can a program be so bad, yet thrive? Charles Arthur reports.A sharp increase in the value of paying attentionJack Schofield: Unless you are browsing anonymously, companies are collecting personal data, and they are going to get better at it. Who should own it: them or you?Pick your best shots to rev up the rewardsVictor Keegan: An American friend told me last week that some of the hottest talk among venture capitalists was about Revver.com, a website enabling you to upload your videos in an easy way and get paid for them.Online tax gets positive returnThis year, more people than ever filed their self-assessments on the web, but more work remains, writes Michael Cross.Games of the weekShadow of the Colossus | We Love Katamari | Dead or Alive 4Gamesblog: finally, games are getting in touch with our feelingsAleks Krotoski: It is accepted in the offices of top-flight publishers and research firms that tapping the emotional font is necessary for games if they wish to continue in their bullish trend.TechnobileKieren McCarthy: Concerns grow about internet users who are dangerously addicted to Google. Quick, read it now!Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and telephone number; we'll only print a town name, not your full detailsAsk JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Newly asked questionsWhy did Dell discontinue its hard drive MP3 player?The PC giant's decision to stop selling the Dell DJ may be the final indication that the economies and tactics of the PC market really don't work in the consumer electronics space.Did eBay sales predict the Superbowl winner?The 'eBay sales' idea was simple, playing on the 'wisdom of crowds' idea, which suggests that large bodies of people acting independently will make better predictions than a few acting together. Pity it failed completely on this topic..Why are AOL and Yahoo set to charge for receiving email?Because they are trying to thwart spammers, and make a bit of cash on the side.How is the blogosphere doing?It's in rude health - but you might as well give up if you ever hope to be able to read everything about a given topic.
Yahoo has already come under a lot of well-deserved flak following the imprisonment of Chinese dissident Shi Tao. Now it turns out there's more.Via a morning scan ofBoingBoing, I saw this fromReporters Sans Frontières:Reporters Without Borders called on Yahoo ! to supply a list of all cyberdissidents it has provided data on, beginning with 81 people in China whose release the worldwide press freedom organization is currently campaigning for.It said it had discovered that Yahoo ! customer and cyberdissident Li Zhi had been given his eight-year prison sentence in December 2003 based on electronic records provided by Yahoo.The story that Li Zhi was sent to prison itself is not new [BBC report from 2003], but the fact that the imprisonment came as a result of Yahoo action is. Now the question must surely be how many of the 81 people languishing in Chinese jails for posting critical articles on the net did Yahoo send down?Late last year I wrote an editorialsaying that internet companies had to decide who they support. Each day it seems the answer is coming through more clearly.
I've been watching the recent development of the Opera web browser with interest. First they dropped advertising and now they've released a preview ofOpera 9, which includes a built-in BitTorrent client.I've been waiting for this to happen for a while. BitTorrent's a great concept, but it's not the easiest system: building it into the browser could help the idea go mainstream (of course, you still have to go find the torrents).And although Opera is not as popular as Firefox, partly because it's a closed shop, it is gaining users. Last time out Opera CEO Jon von Tetschner joked that if the program hit 1 million downloads in four days, he'd try and swim from Norway to America (via Iceland) - and although hedidn't quite make it, I think he could well expect faster uptake this time.Note, this "technical preview" is not the final version and the usual caveats for downloading beta software apply.
Imagine a program used by 120 million people, of whom about 119m hate it. Sound unlikely? Yet that's the perception one garners in trying to discover whether Lotus Notes, IBM's "groupware" application, is - as readers of Technology blog suggested - the "world's worst application". The discussions (athttp://tinyurl.com/e4a56andhttp://tinyurl.com/d9gdk) suggest that those who have used it are united: to the average person, Notes displays all the user-friendliness of a cornered rat.Take a few examples from the Lotus Notes Sucks website (http://lotusnotessucks.4t.com), devoted to listing flaws in the user interface. When new mail arrives, you get a message saying "You have new mail". But the mailbox display doesn't update; you have to press a key or menu item to refresh it. So the program is smart enough to know email has arrived, but not to show it - something the clunkiest free email program does routinely. (That's mistake No 38 on the Sucks site.)Or the user dialogue boxes - such as the one that reads: "You must change your password. It expired on 11/20/2005. Do you want to change your password now? Yes/No". Why offer users the chance to say "No"? What if they choose it?A typical processThe panoply of interface errors raises two questions. Why do users hate Notes so much? And why, then, do they use it? The answers illuminate a typical process when companies buy "enterprise" software: the people who choose a product tend not to be the ones who use it.Notes was intended to be the first properly collaborative product. Developed by Ray Ozzie at Lotus (which in the early 1980s made its name with 1-2-3, a combination spreadsheet, database and graphing package), Notes was devised when the internet was virtually unknown, and even local area networks were slow and unreliable. Documents would be stored on a central server, and made accessible to anyone, rather than hidden on personal PCs. It would be able to work on Windows PCs and Macs. Yet even IBM's official history of the product (http://tinyurl.com/ 9mzly), reveals the early quirks that would drive later users mad: "Around this time Apple Computer released the Macintosh with a new easy-to-use graphical user interface. This influenced the developers of Lotus Notes, and they gave their new product a character-oriented graphical user interface." So was it character-oriented, or graphical? You can't be both.The result, which appeared in 1989, is a product split in two: the Notes "client" side, which users experience, and the back-end Domino server, which administers the processes such as storing documents, passing email, hosting messaging discussions and organising shared calendars.IBM acquired Lotus, principally to get Notes, in July 1995, and has driven a series of upgrades. Fast-forward to today, and Notes has gained widespread takeup: users in the UK include British Airways, Toyota, Volkswagen, Standard Life Assurance and most major newspaper groups (including Guardian Media Group). But further investigation shows that its proponents tend to be administrators, and its detractors the end users.The Lotus Notes Sucks site insists its mission is not to put Lotus people out of work. "It's to embarrass them into fixing the egregious problems. Specifically, the front end. Also, to influence people into not buying Lotus Notes until it works for users."The main focus for frustration is Notes's odd way with email, and its unintuitive interface. But to complain about that is to miss the point, says Ben Rose, founder and leader of the UK Notes User Group (www.lnug.org.uk). He's a Notes administrator, for "a large automotive group"."It's regarded by many as an email program, but it's actually groupware," Rose explains. "It does do email, and calendaring, but can host discussion forums, and the collaboration can extend to long-distance reporting. It will integrate at the back end with huge systems. It's extremely powerful."So why are so many people down on it? "Too many companies rely on email too much," Rose suggests. "Email is quite inefficient. People like to 'Reply To All' and send copies of attachments to each other, instead of doing what Notes does, which is to have a single copy on the server that everyone sees."Dave Delay, who worked on Notes from 1996 to 2002, points out that it is one of the few products Microsoft has tried - and failed - to wipe out. "People dislike Notes because their expectations don't jive with the intent of the product. At its core, Notes is a runtime environment for collaborative applications, but when people complain about Notes, they are usually not talking about core Notes. They are talking about the Notes Mail and Calendar applications (http://tinyurl.com/9v94z").Where Notes does win praise is from those who administer it, who say it is secure, stable and flexible. Databases can be tied together, and there is even a "bridge" to Microsoft's Outlook.However, most people aren't administrators, and while Notes' back-end functions have advanced, its user interface has continued in a parallel universe where Windows never happened (though arguably it introduced tabbed browsing years before Mozilla). For Notes users, email and calendaring - the same functions that Microsoft offers through its Outlook and Exchange products - are what they do a lot of the day.Delay's remarks brought one sharp user retort, who observed that "Notes's backend functionality has no bearing on us 100m or so end-users. As far as we are concerned the GUI is the system. And boyo... is the GUI client a heap of ill-conceived, non-intuitive rubbish."Missing the pointStowe Boyd, president and chief operating officer of the collaborative software company Corante, who has a long history of reviewing software, says: "The problem is ... most people don't have Notes, and you need to collaborate with them, too. So, naturally, Notes the platform is judged by comparison with alternative solutions that allow you to communicate and coordinate with anyone, anywhere... not just with other users of the same collaboration product you are using."The point that is missed by advocates is that people want to be able to communicate ... with anyone, not just those who are using the same programs. That's why email was the killer app of Web 1.0. And Notes has fallen by the wayside. That's one of the reasons that something as uncollaborative as Outlook kicked Lotus's ass."That's a red rag to Rose. "Microsoft has been trying to catch up with Notes for years," he says. "It's trying to put collaboration into the next version of Office, something Notes has had for years."IBM wants to know what you think and says that results of a survey, athttp://tinyurl.com/djlxzand intended for those using version 6 and above, will inform the next version. None of the options includes "rip up the interface and start again".You could suggest it, though.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Rare, these days, is the new car that is small and proud of it. How could a new car not feel slightly embarrassed about being small? The overwhelming trend for new cars, even ones that were designed to be small, is bigger: wider, taller, longer, with fatter bumpers, juicier wheel arches, more swollen headlamp clusters. A tag-line you are unlikely to see on any car advertisement in 2006, or for some time hence: "Now in new, smaller-than-ever format."Small is so much not what modern cars are about that most of today's small cars are, if not actually in denial on the topic of their smallness, then at the very least in conflict about it. The industry now likes to call them "super-minis" and the thumping great contradiction within the term describes the problem. Super-minis twist their hands together and say: "I might be small, but I'm not as small as I was. Moreover, much of my smallness is, in fact, an optical illusion, such that, if you fold down the back seats, stow away the cupholders and remove some of the carpeting, you will find you can accommodate three surfboards, two children's bicycles and a heifer."All sorts of things could be said to be informing our desire for bigger and bigger cars. "Today's active lifestyles" (a favourite industry phrase) are routinely said to demand them. (The phrase, roughly translated, means: "You seem to have stuff to lug around.") There would probably be aesthetic reasons and economic factors, too, and doubtless it can be demonstrated that car-size, like skirt-length, functions in its own way as an index of national and international prosperity, and of the fact that we haven't had a world war for a while.But cars cater for people, and people, too, are evidently getting bigger - even (according to recent reports) French people, who have historically been assumed to be genetically resistant to fatness. It's an arresting feature of our time that the more compressed technology gets - the wafer-thin mobile phone, the hard-to-spot music player - the less compressed the people using it become. Accordingly - despite being better placed than ever, from a manufacturing point of view, to come out small and lightweight - our cars must inflate to accommodate us.Gone, then, are the days when a small car could go around unashamedly piping about its tiny-ness in a squeaky voice - rejoicing in it, even. After all, what were all those jokes about how many elephants/ students/ feminists you could get in a Mini, if not outright celebrations of the fact that, when push came to shove, you could get almost nothing in one? Its whole point was to be small and nippy and to shine out as a token of the blissfully uncluttered life.When the Toyota Yaris came out, in 1999, it had something of the Mini's golden-age joyfulness about it. It performed a modest impression of the Tardis - small on the outside, but with surprisingly ample room for four people within. Toyota had re-routed the exhaust to create a flat-floored cabin, meaning that nobody in the back had to sit with their feet straddling the exhaust tunnel, and meaning that everybody found the car engagingly open-plan. It was fetching to look at, simple to drive and even simpler to park - the very model of a modern Mini.The new, revamped Yaris is, inevitably, bigger in all directions. The front end appears to have undergone surgical enhancement and the badge on the nose is plumped up like a boil. Toyota boasts that this latest upgrade is the product of "Big Car Thinking". One would cheer louder, perhaps, to learn that it was the product of small car thinking. What is the point of a slightly bigger Toyota Yaris? The truly admirable and ambitious project, surely - the project genuinely worth some time at the drawing board - would have been to make it slightly smaller.But there it is. An increasingly chubby world demands a little extra slack around the seatbelt and elsewhere; and so the backs of the front seats in the new Yaris are 0.5cm thinner than the ones in the outgoing model, to squeeze still more space out of the rear cabin. The claim is that you can now fit three adults in the back. And you probably can, but you would have to not like them very much. The boot, too, is enlarged. But it's still piffling and it's not going to satisfy anyone with, for instance, a dead body to dispose of.Naturally, the car still does the things it always did well, such as travelling virtually to the borders of the universe on a single tank of fuel and leaving as much of you as possible intact in a crash. But it does those things slightly larger. In 10 years' time, Yarises could be indistinguishable from what we now think of as lorries. That's Big Car Thinking.Model Toyota Yaris 1.4 D-4DPriceFrom &pound;8,995Top speed109mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.7secsConsumption62.8mpgEmissions119g/km (road tax band B)At the wheelMark OatenThey'd rather walkJohn PrescottOn the stereoRadio 2En route forChiswick
A bike has been my main form of transport for more than 20 years, and most of those have been spent negotiating London traffic. So, I asked myself, what could I possibly learn from a cycle training course?Such is the arrogance of, ahem, middle youth. But training is now a boom business: last November, Cycling England awarded &pound;1m to the Cyclists Touring Club (CTC) to deliver a scheme to train more than 1,000 new instructors, and set a new national standard for cycle training (to take over from the old "proficiency" test). So I set aside my smug self-assurance and went back to school.I got in touch with my local provider, Cycle Training UK. Founded in 1998, this not-for-profit firm now has between 50 and 60 instructors. "Last year saw a huge expansion," says David Dansky, my instructor for the morning. Everything they do - from teaching the basics of riding a bike to adults who missed out, to taking whole classes of kids out on the road, to running maintenance courses - is designed to achieve a simple goal, says David: "More trips, more often, more safely."After a questionnaire to check I'm not on any mind-bending meds, and a look over my bike to test its roadworthiness, we make for a quiet cul-de-sac where David takes me through a routine to establish whether I have mastered the basics of bike control. I pass this, so we set off on to the public highway, with David riding behind to observe me.Even something as automatic as riding a bike becomes tricky when you are acutely self-conscious, I discover. It's like telling someone: "Just act natural." It is guaranteed to produce the opposite effect. I'm soon pulled over for a talking-to: I've been riding in the gutter and not looking behind enough."As a rule of thumb," David explains, "cars will leave the same amount of space as they pass you as there is between you and the kerb." But won't it piss off motorists unnecessarily if I'm in the middle of the lane? Not if you're checking behind frequently - that way, drivers can see you're not oblivious. "The key is that you are communicating to other road users," says David. "You need to realise that you can manipulate the traffic."This was my eureka moment. It's not about being mindlessly assertive; it's about making yourself safe by being part of the traffic stream rather than hiding in the margins. I hadn't understood how my behaviour was subtly reinforcing my cyclist sense of self as a done-down victim. In practical terms, perhaps, I didn't learn a lot - but conceptually, it was a major change of gear, a whole new mindset. I am now an arch-manipulator of traffic. And you know what? It feels good.&#183;For more information, seewww.ctc.org.uk/andwww.cycletraining.co.uk/
There are lists of nominees, bits of news and "Grammy moments" at theofficial awards site(Flash), so prepare to welcome Green Day's Boulevard Of Broken Dreams and a lot of cutting edge modern artists such as Mariah Carey, Paul McCartney, Mariah Carey, U2, Bruce Springsteen, Mariah Carey and even Mariah Carey.The official online coverage is atYahoo.Still, mockery aside, the Grammys do have trememdous depth, and anyone who ventures as far down as Category 74 will no doubt enjoy the battle for Best Polka Album. Even lower down the bill is the heavyweight battle between Evgeny Kissin (Scriabin, Medtner, Stravinsky) and Maxim Vengerov (Kreisler, Sarasate, Paganini, Wieniawski), though something else might just nick Category 101 -- Best Instrumental Soloist Performance (without Orchestra), perhaps even Sarah Schuster Ericsson's Night Breeze - Harp Music Of Carlos Salzedo.Update:Poor Mariah Carey, nominated for eight Grammy Awards, only collected three, and lost in all the major categories including record, song and album of the year. She was upstaged by U2, which won five out of five. Surprisingly, as theChicago Sun-Timesnoted, "record of the year was awarded to pop-punks Green Day for their disappointingly lame and tepid ballad, Boulevard of Broken Dreams." I'd thought it wasn't quite lame and tepid enough to be a Grammy winner. Otherwise,The Washington Posthas a round-up, and AP has aComplete list of Grammy Award winners, which records the fact thatEvgeny Kissin won!
[Off topic] Not our department, perhaps, but "The largest study ever to ask whether a low-fat diet reduces the risk of getting cancer or heart disease has found that the diet has no effect," reportsThe New York Times.The $415 million federal study involved nearly 49,000 women ages 50 to 79 who were followed for eight years. In the end, those assigned to a low-fat diet had the same rates of breast cancer, colon cancer, heart attacks and strokes as those who ate whatever they pleased, researchers are reporting today."These studies are revolutionary," said Dr Jules Hirsch, physician in chief emeritus at Rockefeller University in New York City, who has spent a lifetime studying the effects of diets on weight and health. "They should put a stop to this era of thinking that we have all the information we need to change the whole national diet and make everybody healthy."The research only studied women but there's no reason to suppose it doesn't apply to men. Also, it doesn't mean triple T-bones all round. If you want to be healthier, stop smoking, stop drinking too much, stop stuffing your face, and get some exercise. Switching to low-fat pizza doesn't cut it.
Shel Israel is blogging the 16th WinterDemo 2006conference in Tempe, Arizona, at theConferenzasite. Companies/products mentioned include Riya, vSee, Kaboodle, Krugle, Polyvision, Plum.com, RawSugar and TagWorld (allhere), plus MooBella, Blurb, Bones in Motion, TinyPictures, Ugobe, GuardID and others (here). Most are internet-related, but not all. For example:MooBellaof Taunton, MA introduced a vending machine that lets you custom design the flavor of your ice cream. It's already showing up in Massachusetts malls and plans to bring it's chilling effects to a shopping center near you in coming months.OK, now you get the name....
Engadget has announced its best (and sometimes worst)gadgets of the yearin 26 categories, with not many surprises. What's most striking is the discontinuity between Engadget's picks and the reader awards. "Wow, some bizarre picks by the readers, there...." says one comment on the site.True, but it's just the usual boring split: the reader votes look to some Engadget readers like mindless Apple fanboyism, while the fanboys reckon it's "Apple getting stiffed [by] the Engadget Staff". Same old, same old.
Who really won the Super Bowl? Marco Iacoboni and his team at the UCLA Ahmanson-Lovelace Brain Mapping Center say the answer was the 'I am going to Disney' advertisement -- as illustrated above. The team "used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to measure brain responses in a group of subjects while they were watching the Super Bowl ads," andthey report:The Disney ad elicited strong responses in orbito-frontal cortex and ventral striatum, two brain regions associated with processing of rewards. Also, the Disney ad induced robust responses in mirror neuron areas, indicating identification and empathy. Further, the circuit for cognitive control, encompassing anterior cingulate cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, was highly active while watching the Disney ad. We consider all these features positive markers of brain responses to the ad. In second place, the Sierra Mist ad, activated the same brain regions but less so than the Disney ad.Iacoboni also comments that the "three biggest flops seem to be the Burger King ad, the FedEx ad, and the GoDaddy ad."Meanwhile TiVo checked the number of times the ads were replayed in TiVo households, and reports that Bud had four ads in the top 10.The Super Bowl winners in TiVo-landwere: (1) Ameriquest: Friendly Skies; (2) Ameriquest: That Killed Him; (3) Budweiser: Streaking Sheep; (4) Fed Ex: Caveman.Jumping off from TiVo, The New York Times has publisheda long story about the Super Bowl ads. It links to online versions at AOL, Google, MSN and Yahoo, and mentions ESPN, USA Today and The Wall Street Journal, as well as corporate sites and special microsites -- there are loads of links.
It was during the second chorus ofRiowhen I decided thatSingstar80s was the greatest thing in the world ever. Even when the hangover wore off the fact remains - everyone aged 30-40 loves Singstar 80s (or would if they played it) The only thing lacking is, as usual with Singstar, more songs. Oh, and the fact that some people, lets call them "men", aren't quite as keen to do the singing thing.Realising this, or perhaps stumbling on a pile of dusty plastic guitars in a warehouse, US publishers Red Octane created Guitar Hero - the rhythm game equivalent of theYorkie bar. Released in the US late last year to critical acclaim - otherwise known as whooping and hollering - the game is starting its European tour this April. Some of you will have already imported, but for the other 99%, here are the official Gamesblog (ok, actually just mine for now) first impressions of Guitar Hero.Getting the game in the post was slightly underwhelming. I was expecting Ozzy, or at least the bass player from Motorhead, to hand-deliver. The feeling continued when the box was opened.The guitar peripheral itself is more Fisher Price than Ziggy Stardust with a cheap-ish feel and plasticky buttons. But fire up the game - yeah! - and it all makes sense.This is a rhythm game that lets you rock out with guitar rather than leap around on a mat. Ignoring the rock "classics" I dove straight into Franz Ferdinand's Take Me Out. Er, help. Those choppy new-wave riffs were far too challenging - luckily Boston (yes, remember to give your internal taste police the weekend off) were on hand to lead me gently into the world of rock. And once you've got to grips with co-ordinating your fingers on the fret the urge to get down on your knees is overwhelming.And unlike most rhythm games there is actually some substance, with a decent enough (from what I've seen so far) career mode. I'm still playing in the dives though - weeks of Mario Kart DS action have played havoc with my fingers.Downers? Well, it is less social than Singstar - this is all about rawk posturing rather than duets - and there is lack of really interesting music (although Status bleeding Quo would probably work well here) But even though I'm more of a synth man - Moog Hero next please - Guitar Hero delivers in (Ace of) spades.
While the debate rages over whether We Love Katamari is actually a good game or not (hint: it is), here's something for confirmed fans. Students on a fascinating-sounding course entitled, Making Toys: The Insides and Outsides of Electronic Toy Design, running at theParsons School of Designin New York, have created a competitive Katamari game that uses RC cars, velcro and plush toys. You can see a video of the project in actionhereand also read more about its development.If Tony Blair is really serious about education reform he should consider replicating this course and putting it on the syllabus of every school in the country.Image from Yuri Gitman'sMaking Toysblog
Dear Matt,Can you give me any info regarding entry to the 2007 stage of the Tour de France that is open to amateurs?Jonathan Fenwick, via emailYou must be referring to l'&eacute;tape du Tour, in which 8,500 ordinary cyclists get to ride a stage of the Tour a few days before the professionals do. It is a marvellous event, superbly organised, with closed roads, lavish feeding stations and crowds to cheer you on.Information about l'&eacute;tape (literally, "the stage") can be found atwww.letapedutour.com/.If you wish to enter for this year, don't leave it a moment longer (for 2007, you are in good time). The catch is that it is now only possible to register as a UK rider through certain approved travel agents.The change is partly because l'&eacute;tape has become over-subscribed. As an alternative, it is worth considering one of the smaller, but still excellent "cyclosportive" events that are just as challenging and fun. For details, seewww.sportcommunication.com/.Like l'&eacute;tape, many of these take place in the Alps or Pyrenees - so you do need your climbing legs on!
"Dell Inc and Google Inc confirmed on Tuesday they are testing a pre-installed package of Google software on Dell computers, in a potential blow to Microsoft Corp's dominance of desktop software," reportsReuters.It says a report in The Wall Street Journal "said Dell and Google are in exclusive talks to install Google software on as many as 100 million new Dell PCs following a bidding process in which Google edged out Microsoft and after Yahoo Inc withdrew."The idea spooked investors and "Google shares were down 5%, or $19.23, to $365.87 in afternoon trading on Nasdaq" says the story.The problem is that Google will have to pay Dell lots of money to distribute its software. Even at $10 a PC that would be $1 billion, and it could be much more. The Reuters story says:By some estimates, for Google to win broad product placement for its search software on major PC makers could require it to jack up customer acquisition costs by hundreds of millions of dollars from nearly zero now. Google's global popularity means that it acquires most customers for free.Whether all this adds up to a row of beans is another matter, for two reasons. First, Dell changes its bundled software all the time, as it extracts more cash from software suppliers. Buy a Dell one month and you get Symantec and Paint Shop Pro, but a month later it's McAfee and Corel.And if Google really wants to play in this game, there are more than 200 million PCs shipping with Microsoft software, so that's (say) $2 billion a year to be installed on all of them.Second, many -- perhaps most -- users don't want bundled software they didn't ask for, and typically regard it as crap, even if it's actually quite good. There are plenty of blog posts complaining about the tedious and frustrating job of deleting it all.This form of intertia selling can work for anti-virus software suppliers and some broadband ISPs because it can lead to users signing up to pay large sums for several years. In Google's case there is no such payback, and pre-installation could even devalue the Google brand. Especially if it ships stuff as flaky as Toolbar 4.....Still, it's not all bad news. The idea of Google handing out $2 billion to subsidise PC sales will at least make Dell boss Michael Dell a happy bunny.
A quick one for comic book fans. Inspired perhaps by several of the Matrix and Star Wars games, which slot in between movies to flesh out the narrative throughline, Activision has announced that its next X-Men title will exist in a timeframe just before the upcoming X-Men: The Last Stand movie, thereby providing a back-story for the much-anticipated flick. And in an ever-growing trend, the film's screenwriter is being brought aboard to plot out the game - Zak Penn also provided the script for X2: X-Men United as well as Elektra and Behind Enemy Lines.From the screens it looks like a standard, if rather more pretty than usual, third-person brawler. Activision, in its over-excited press release, puts it more like this:"Players will immerse themselves in the signature powers of their favorite X-Men heroes - hack and slash with Wolverine's brute strength to decimate foes; as Nightcrawler, players will scale walls, spin and BAMF through environments to stay one step ahead of enemies; and experience incredible speed on Iceman's ice slide while shooting ice beams and creating hailstorms to freeze the opposition. For even more power, players can utilize fury and adrenaline modes to launch devastating attacks."The game apparently features a combination of melee fighting, stealth-style action and time-based missions as well as global locations and favourite X-Men characters from the movie and comics. If they could bring in a God of War feel, it could be fantastic fun.This whole back-story concept is making more and more sense in our burgeoning world of multimedia cross-platform branding. Videogame developers can get cracking on production without worrying about last minute changes to the movie, plus a game that forms a unique part of a 'franchise' timeline makes itself indispensable to completist fans. It's also a bit more interesting for the rest of us - and will hopefully prevent the directors of enormous blockbusters from inserting scenes purely for the videogame tie-in (pod racing, anyone?).X-Men: The Official Movie Game (a working title, thank goodness) is out on every current platform in May 2006.
If you were watching outside the US, you didn't see them anyway. Or you may just want to see them again.Google Videoreckons you can watch all of them in 20 minutes. For Candice Michelle fans (below), the list includes four GoDaddy commercials, such asSteamy Car Wash, that were not shown on TV.The list also includes Burger King'sWhopperettes, an immortal classic of the genre. However, the Google Video quality (Flash video) is rubbish. It's better to watch it athttp://www.whopperettes.com/(also Flash). This has a QuickTime version, and both sites let you download iPod and PSP versions of the advert.
"People who use the Gmail service will be able to send and receive instant messages directly from their e-mail mailboxes, without having to start a separate application or open a separate browser window. The Mountain View company is rolling out the new feature in stages, starting Monday evening," reportsThe Mercury News.All Gmail users will have IM accounts tied to their Google accounts. Each person's IM contacts list will sit in the left-hand column of their Gmail inbox. When a mouse cursor hovers over a contact person's name, the user can start a chat session, which will appear in a chat window at the bottom of the inbox.The article has some numbers for Google's services from Nielsen//NetRatings. It says Gmail was used by 4.5% of active Internet users during December (Yahoo got 33%) while less than 1% used Google Talk (AOL had 33%).The story concludes:Google appears to be going against the grain of the Internet industry, which is linking communication services to instant messaging applications. Yahoo, AOL and Microsoft have all integrated voice chat into their IM services. And both Yahoo and AOL allow IM users to link to their e-mail services through instant messaging.
Codemasters have released some newSensible Soccerscreenshots today - hurrah. Or so you'd think. Maybe it's just me, but the comedy element, which is obviously being pushed to the fore in the remake, isn't why Sensi is etched in my memory as the finest footy game of the 90s. For me it was the proper teams and players, combined with the fabulous action, that did it for me. Having said that, I much prefer PES to FIFA, so I'm certainly not writing Sensi off. Let's just hope this remake doesn't tarnish Sensi's own glorious heritage.
Take Two has released an extremely long Q&amp;A with Makoto Shibata, the director of the Project Zero series, to publicise the forthcoming third instalment, Project Zero 3: The Tormented. There's some obvious stuff in there about how the games have been influenced more by Japanese culture (namely the country's 'vengeful ghost' myths) than by western archetypes, which has differentiated them from Resident Evil and Silent Hill.But there's plenty of intriguing detail, too, including specific influences, the use of multiple playable characters, and even Shibata-san's own experiences with ghosts:"I once saw a ghost who had a damaged face and I couldn't figure out if it was a he or a she. I was kind of panicked and pretended that I was dead."I feel this story may have lost something in translation...Anyway, this is my favourite horror series, so I've pasted an edited version of the Q&amp;A below. It's still extremely long though, so you might want to save it for your lunch break.Oh and what do you think he actually means by 'subtracting horror'? It seems to be a reference to the series' subtle approach, its long periods of quiet between ghost attacks. Shibata-san is clearly interested in handing over much of the experience to the player's own imagination and sense of anticipation - always key elements in a good ghost story. I don't think it's going to catch on as a genre term though.For the uninitiated, can you please explain what the Project Zero series is about? How would you say it differs from other horror games like Resident Evil or Silent Hill, for example?Both Resident Evil and Silent Hill are horror games. However, their nature is different from our Project Zero series. The Project Zero games are the condensed essence of Japanese horror, and are all based upon Japanese ghost stories. Project Zero 3 (PZ3) takes place in an abandoned manor in Japan, the architecture of which follows a traditional Japanese form. In Japanese horror, fear is not simply generated through surprise; the silence and suspense in-between the action is important too. This silence makes the player's fear build in his or her mind. Japanese horror is always designed this way.Another difference from other horror games is that your opponents are ghosts. Ghosts have no physical existence, and, as such, you cannot predict where and when they will appear. With PZ3 we create a feeling that somebody is watching you while you are playing the game and build the fear in the player's own imagination. The ghosts themselves used to be human. They had anger, sorrow, obsession, and passion. They have their own reasons for being there and for attacking you. Giving opponents this detailed background is also one of the differences from other horror games.This mystery and the background of the heroine are intertwined by fate, and the player will eventually learn the secret of this relationship. I think that this style is unique to the PZ series. I believe that true horror becomes a very personal issue, and is something understood differently by each person experiencing it. Project Zero is the crystallization of my horror philosophy.What are the major influences the team has drawn on in this game and throughout the series?A major influence was the horror movie Ring. The last scene, in which Sadako ( the ghost who comes out of the TV) attacks, provided the inspiration for the battle system using the camera. I was shocked by the brilliant way the film created this nightmarish vision of an up-close ghostly experience.Also, the Manga Yokai (Monster) Hunter series, by Daijiro Moroboshi, inspired me a lot. This Manga deals with themes of Japanese folklore. In this, the hero begins to see another world (the world after death) by accident while he is investigating Japanese folklore. The Manga perfectly re-created typical Japanese images of this netherworld.What can you tell us about the plot this time - is it as disturbing as the tale of twins Mio and Mayu from Project Zero 2?The previous Project Zero had a little fantasy flavour, but we feature a more indigenous Japanese theme of horror in PZ 3. The story partly takes place in present day and features horror that happens in the heroine's ordinary life. The heroine is a freelance photographer named Rei, who lost her fiancée Yuu in a car accident while she was at the wheel. A while after the accident, she sees a vision of her fiancé at an abandoned house she visits on an assignment, and she follows him.Suddenly, she is standing in a snowy courtyard and a mysterious woman with tattoos covering her body attacks her. When this woman touches her, Rei has a vision of an ancient religious ceremony. A woman is laid down in the centre of a room. This woman is Rei herself, and standing around her are young, robed girls with stakes in their hands. They drive them into Rei's hands and feet and as they do this, a tattoo appears and begins to spread all over Rei's body. When it reaches her eyes, she wakes up from the daydream.From this point onwards, she visits the manor in her dreams every time she sleeps. In the manor the tattooed woman walks around, and Rei can hear a strange lullaby. It's now up to our heroine to solve the mystery of the manor and get rid of the tattoo curse that is now upon her. Some of the pictures she takes in the nightmare cross over into her real life when she wakes up. As the player, you investigate the manor based upon these pictures and through this, you solve the mystery.The re-appearance of Miku from the first Project Zero draws the stories of the games together - how does her life intertwine with that of new heroine Rei?Miku takes the role of Rei's assistant photographer. She supports Rei and investigates various things on her behalf. Miku has suffered a psychological trauma, caused during the course of events in the original Project Zero, which also brings her to the Manor of Sleep. Rei does not know about Miku's trauma, but she becomes Miku in her nightmare, and thus comes to learn about Miku's past. They live in the same house, have close relationship and are each facing their own traumas deep inside themselves. The Manor of Sleep calls to people like them who have survived a tragedy.What part does journalist Kei Amakura play in proceedings?Kei is freelance writer, who investigated the Manor of Sleep before Rei. As a result, he has a great deal of knowledge. He helps Rei by imparting this knowledge to her together with encouragement. He is the first male main character in Project Zero. He has no spiritual power, but tries to face his fate with courage.How does the introduction of these multiple playable characters and their unique abilities affect gameplay?Rei is the heroine and has both speed and power, making her a well-balanced playable character. She can use 'photoflash', which makes ghosts hesitate in their attacks, thus giving you an advantage in battle. Players get to play as Miku and Kei in Rei's dream. Rei takes on the role of a priestess who feels the suffering of others. In the end though, she will face up to her own suffering.Miku has strong spiritual power. She can use the camera well, and is able to charge it with the highest spirit power of all the characters. Thus, she can deal out the biggest damage. She also has an item which is able to slow time. On the other hand, her physical power is weak, and the capture circle of her camera is small. She is the character who is the most difficult to master for the player.Kei has little spiritual power and he can charge the camera only once. However, his camera has a rapid-fire function. Also, he has ability to hide from ghosts. He is the type of character who does not fight a lot, but prefers a stealthy approach.Each of the three characters has different features - not just in battle, but also in the way they explore. Miku is small and can crawl into tight spaces - even under the floor. Also, some particular spirits will cooperate with her. Kei, in contrast, is physically powerful and can move heavy stuff. He has a lot of knowledge and can read ancient documents. So you see, they each have different roles although they explore the same environments on the map.What exactly is the 'Manor Of Sleep' and how does it tie in with the mysterious tattoo on Rei's body?(Spoiler alert!)In ancient Japan, people believed that dreams had special meanings. There was a custom concerning a character called the Dream Buyer, who was said to buy and sell good dreams. There was also an imaginary creature called Baku, and people believed that Baku ate nightmares. Baku is enshrined in some temples in Japan.In the context of PZ3, the Manor of Sleep used to be a shrine that people used in ceremonies relating to a particular nightmare. This nightmare had a specific form. People who had lost someone close to them were beckoned by the departed through their dreams. If they followed the deceased, they would not wake up anymore.To combat the nightmare, it received a 'dedication' at the shrine. In other words, people dedicated the pain that they felt at the loss of their loved one to the shrine. However, the way they ritualised this nightmare was very special. They mixed the blood of surviving people and their dead relatives, and they put a tattoo on a Priestess's skin using the blood as paint.I won't go into too much detail, but there was an accident in the shrine. The people extended the Manor with a complicated structure to hide the accident. One day, all the people living in the region of the shrine did not wake up from their sleep. And the shrine was abandoned.In the present day, Rei visits the shrine in her job and from this moment on, she is called to the Manor in her dreams. The Manor is ruled by a priestess who is tattooed all over her body. People who are touched by her will wake up to find a tattoo on their body that expands every time they wake up. Suffering causes the tattoo to expand on the skin. This is the curse, and once the tattoo covers their eyes, they don't come back. At the same time, the tattoo is also a message. The 'victim' receives a vision when the tattoo reaches their eyes. Ironically, the vision is the key to solve the curse, but it's a revelation that arrives far too late.The series stakes a serious claim to the title of 'scariest games ever made.' How do you go about ensuring that you keep the shocks coming, even for fans that have played through the previous titles?We have polished both the story line and game play in order to maximize the experience. In the story line, the player gets fragmentary information which allows them to fill in the gaps within the background of the story. We designed this intentionally so the player would be drawn into the Project Zero world, and would thus imagine various horrid fantasies.This design and approach is different from the previous games in the series. However, I believe that the design fits into the game concept of, "invoke the fear in the player's own imagination". I personally believe that even the greatest computer graphics cannot create greater fear than that which is created by the player's mind. This is an idea we maximized in PZ 3.In terms of gameplay, the battle system has been refined. In the first Project Zero, ghosts made evasion moves, whereas in PZ2, the ghosts edged toward the player, which made for a scarier experience. In PZ3, we've mixed everything up. So for example, if the player meets a ghost they have previously fought, it might move much quicker for this second encounter. This feature makes the battles much more exciting.In overview, with this title we have managed to create the deepest theme of the entire Project Zero series. We researched a lot about ancient Japanese culture and referred to a lot of literature with key words such as, tattoo, sleep, dream, suffer, lullaby, sacrifice, doll, and snow. The more we researched, the more we became scared and attracted (and dazzled) by these subjects. We also researched the meanings of the keywords from a folklore point of view, and all the interesting ideas we unearthed were inserted into the game.I believe that the game gives players a real image of life and death in Japanese culture. I hope, as director of the game, that the players complete it and touch upon the deep themes I worked into PZ3. The overall impression might be a very personal one of mine, but I believe it contains something universal.What makes this the scariest Project Zero game so far?I believe that our method to invoke the fear in the player's own imagination maximizes the recipient's fear. We do not simply show scary things, but provide fragmental information and create a situation that forces the player to imagine these horrors. This is scarier. I personally call it, 'Subtracting horror.'I'm assuming that other horror game creators base their games on films or novels. However, in my case, I created the audio and the visuals based on my personal ghost experience and nightmares. I try to recreate this fear when people play my games. I think that this fact makes Project Zero 3 the scariest game.Have you ever seen a ghost? If so, what would your advice be to anyone who encounters one?Yes, of course I have. However, I can give no advice. I myself am really scared every time I see one, and you cannot predict when you will have an encounter. I once saw a ghost who had a damaged face and I couldn't figure out if it was a he or a she. I was kind of panicked and pretended that I was dead.
Dave Sifry of Technorati has posted the first part of hisquarterly update, which says that exponential growth continues. He says: "Technorati currently tracks 27.2 Million weblogs, and the blogosphere we track continues to double about every 5.5 months." (MySpace, Xanga and MSN Spaces all have more blogs than that, but no matter....)"We track about 1.2 Million posts each day, which means that there are about 50,000 posts each hour. At that rate, it is literally impossible to read everything that is relevant to an issue or subject, and a new challenge has presented itself - how to make sense out of this monstrous conversation."Spikes in posting correlate with real world events, as his graph shows....
Aha: we have a data point on the wisdom of crowds. Basically, it seems crowds don't know nuffin, at least when it comes to who's going to win the Superbowl. Given the fact that Seattle Seahawks merchandise was selling for more than Pittsburgh Steelers gear on eBay, we'd wondered whether this meant that the underdog Steelers were history before Sunday's Superbowl.Turns out they were - but they're history-makers. The Steelers' 21-10 win makes them the first 6th seed playoff team ever to win the title; they had had a poor record, with a 7-5 win/loss record, then won their final four regular-season games to secure the AFC's last playoff spot. They went to Cincinnati and won a wild-card game. They won at Indianapolis, which had the league's best record. And then they handed Denver its first home loss in the AFC championship game. (Thanks Metafilter for the gory detail in the above para.)And what does this tell us about the wisdom of crowds? That perhaps crowds aren't always wise. Sometimes they're just mobs, which of course we know aren't wise at all. (That's what that nice Dr Frankenstein keeps telling us, though the vendors of three-pronged pitchforks insist that mobs are fine by them.)We await the Net's next meme with interest...
'Off with their HUDs,' cries industry news site Gamasutra - the amusing headline to a mini-feature on how game developers are abandoning the use of HUD displays for information like energy, ammo, speed, etc, in favour of in-game representations.The author of the piece, Greg Wilson, mentions Call of Duty 2 on Xbox 360, but there are plenty of other examples. In EA's Fight Night Round 3, for example, the condition of each fighter is represented solely through physical attributes (slumped shoulders for fatigue and so on) - the high-definition graphics apparently portray so much information there is no need for alienating icons and numbers to litter the borders of the game world. King Kong also goes for the natural approach.As Wilson puts it:"Many elements found on a typical HUD are there not out of necessity, but out of convention; they represent a sort of "info overkill" that, for the vast majority of players, has no impact on gameplay at all. For every piece of information you offer the player, ask, "Is this information essential to the game experience?" In doing so, you might find that you don't need to bombard the player with quite as much data as you once thought you did."I'm not sure how I feel about this - certainly game designers are going to have to be extremely careful when going HUD-free. Immediacy of information is often vital - especially in shooters. If you have to squint, or worse, change the camera angle, to see the ammo display on your current weapon you're losing valuable micro-seconds to your opponents. And an accurate health meter can be a vital tactical component.Is this a sacrifice too far in the quest for visual authenticity?
Some way downa free Wall Street Journal articlemainly about Jeff Jordan, boss of PayPal, it says:But PayPal must now contend with Google. The Mountain View, Calif., Web-search giant, which has terrified Silicon Valley with its ability to quickly create new consumer products and services, is developing a rival service called GBuy. For the last nine months, Google has recruited online retailers to test GBuy, according to one person briefed on the service. GBuy will feature an icon posted alongside the paid-search ads of merchants, which Google hopes will tempt consumers to click on the ads, says this person. GBuy will also let consumers store their credit-card information on Google.PayPal is now owned by eBay, and the story says "PayPal generated 23% of eBay's total $1.3 billion quarterly revenue" in the last quarter. I can believe it. PayPal is far from cheap, and only pressure from eBay stops many sellers from charging PayPal users a premium to cover the cost.This is one area where a cut-price Google-backed system could get a warm welcome. However, it's also an area where extreme reliability is needed. Having uninstalled Google's bloated Desktop Sidebar and the flaky Toolbar 4 beta -- and looked at Google Base, the bodged Google Pack and the awful Google Video -- I have diminishing faith in Google's ability to deliver software that is intelligently designed and works reliably.
The blogosphere is going bananas about Fon, a start-up company that plans to create "a global network of shared Wi-Fi connections," mainly because its backers include Skype and Google as well as venture capital firms. It's just received $21.7 million in backing. According toThe New York Times:The service permits subscribers to modify their own routers so that users of Wi-Fi wireless technology can connect to the Internet at many physical locations, in contrast to the limited range of access that is often available now.[Fon founder Martin Varsavsky] said the company would receive revenue from a multi-tiered subscription model, which would permit users to share their Wi-Fi access point with other Fon members freely or sell the service. The network is operating in Europe, and Mr. Varsavsky said that he planned to expand it into the United States and other countries this year.The NYT article points out that other firms have tried similar things, including Boingo, but most have failed:Joltage, a start-up firm in New York, was founded in 2003 and went out of business the following year. Cometa Networks, a San Francisco-based start-up with backing from I.B.M., Intel and AT&amp;T, began in late 2002 and went out of business in May 2004.But Skype could make the difference. According to Varsavsky: "The message will be, if you like Skype, Fon will enable it to be everywhere."
So, while I'm collating this morning's huge pile of fresh videogame news*, what games kept everyone off the streets over the weekend?I finally got round to taking Sonic Rush for a spin - it is, as you probably already know - a blistering return to 2D form for the old hedgehog. Everything they've said about this game is true - astonishing speed, wonderful design, intricate balance... It perfectly indulges nostalgia while adding modern twists. It is immediately approachable, yet the trick moves add depth for Sonic veterans. It is impossible to play without a daft smile on your face.A few reviews have complained about the lack of touchscreen support (you only need your stylus during the bonus stage assaults). But everything else (even the decidedly old skool boss encounters) is perfectly realised.Sadly, Ididn'tget round to playing Rub Rabbits, which Sega kindly sent to me on Friday, or Shadow of Colossus, also a very welcome Friday delivery. More on those later.But enough about me...*Description for guide purposes only. Actual pile of games news may not be 'huge'. Or indeed 'fresh'.
Friday night saw the TV debut of geek comedythe IT Crowd, the latest from the pen of Graham Linehan (Father Ted, Black Books). I stumbled in from the pub to catch the first two episodes being shown. Verdict? Not bad but lots of room for improvement. Complaints about the stereotypical nature of the characters a bit over-sensitive, as well as ignoring Linehan's previous form (Dylan Moran's performance in Black Books is fantastic - as a drunken Irish intellectual) but it needs a bit of room to grow before I could say whether it lived up to his earlier efforts.But for anyone taking notice of the set, it was interesting to note the preponderance of authentic geek materials on display - including, on every surface, stickers promoting theElectronic Frontier Foundation.Why? BoingBoing's Cory Doctorow saysit was his doinghe was on hand: "I was lucky enough to do some small consulting on the show, and EFF was even invited to provide stickers to decorate the set with,"says Cory(who also says he was "drooling" over the show, and calls the decisionto put episodes online"visionary" before laying into them about only providing them in a Windows Media format).Interestingly enough, somebody close to the EFF that I bumped into recently expressed concern about the overwhelming nature of the sticker-frenzy. But any publicity is good publicity, I suppose.
News.com has posted an interesting little piece entitled'Games that stick it to The Man', which studies the burgeoning world of satirical and anti-corporate videogames. A couple of interesting examples are namechecked includingDisaffected, which gives players the chance to find out what life is like as a disgruntledFedEx Kinkosemployee. Then there'sThe McDonald's Videogamefrom Italian developerMolleindustria, a Tycoon-style title which promises to reveal all the dirty secrets behind the burger business.The article casually mentions the movie Supersize Me, but doesn't go on to point out a key differentation between Morgan Spurlock's documentary and these interesting little games: distribution.While Supersize Me made it into the same distribution channels as any mainstream movie (including sinister McDonalds propaganda flick, Mac and Me), you won't find Disaffected sitting on the shop shelves next to the latest Need For Speed title. Generally, these 'anti-advergames' (they're going to have to come up with a better term thanthat) are made available via web download to only a relative handful of smart surfers.As covered before on this blog (I was going to provide a link, but I can't find the stories in question. Come on, it's Monday morning), satire, and political comment in general, are not strongpoints of the videogame business. While the movie industry is capable of opening a route for the odd indie polemic to hit the mainstream, videogame publishers are not interested. In the film business there are still people high up in the food chain who can kid themselves into thinking they're in this for the art. But the culture of videogames is very different. There is no expectation, and therefore no compulsion, tosayanything through games.These indie titles are fun and thought-provoking, but satire is only ever effective when it bounds into the mainstream. Clearly, someone from the movie industry will have to take the lead. Love him or loathe him, if Michael Moore puts the game rights to his next big docu-movie up for grabs surely there will be takers. Videogame publishers don't like satire, but they're quite fond of money...
"Larry Bird and Michael Jordan matching incredible shot for incredible shot as they play for a McDonalds hamburger ... nothing but net. Budweiser Clydesdale horses playing football in the snow ... the boy sipping on his Pepsi so hard he sucks himself right into the bottle ... Cedric the Entertainer trying to impress his girlfriend. What will be the memorable TV ads today?" asks theHerald Times.The big news is that GoDaddy will have an ad. Last year, its second spot was pulled, makingCandice Michelle, professional actress and a World Wrestling Entertainment RAW Diva,briefly net-famous.It should be OK as long as the Rolling Stones don't have a "wardrobe malfunction"....
Some people are bound to wonder if the current widespread blocking of legitimate email (see Ask Jack) is the prelude for paid services, andThe New York Timesreckons that "America Online and Yahoo, two of the world's largest providers of e-mail accounts, are about to start using a system that gives preferential treatment to messages from companies that pay from 1/4 of a cent to a penny each to have them delivered."This is for companies only, but any conspiracy theorist will natually expect individuals to be charged if companies pay up.The NYT story says:AOL and Yahoo will still accept e-mail from senders who have not paid, but the paid messages will be given special treatment. On AOL, for example, they will go straight to users' main mailboxes, and will not have to pass the gantlet of spam filters that could divert them to a junk-mail folder or strip them of images and Web links. As is the case now, mail arriving from addresses that users have added to their AOL address books will not be treated as spam.The mail will be preprocessed byGoodmail Systems.And that "about to start using"? Curiously, a Goodmail press release issued onNovember 7, 2005, says (with my emphasis added):Goodmail Systems, creators of CertifiedEmail - a new class of e-mail to help shield consumers from spam, fraud and phishing, announced today thatThe New York Times Companyis implementing the Goodmail CertifiedEmail service. The New York Times Company will utilize the service for users of its online properties including NYTimes.com, Boston.com and About.com. The Goodmail CertifiedEmail service identifies e-mail from accredited senders and assures delivery to the inboxes ofAOL and Yahoo!customers where the e-mails will be labeled with a symbol indicating that they are safe to open.With malware email getting more closely targeted, it will be interesting to see if Goodmail can be used to deliver phishing emails or even semi-customised Trojans. I'd expect someone to try....
Not exactly the story of the week, but Sony Online Entertainment artistJosh Robinsonposted something about the PS3 and Xbox 360 atDowninfront.tvand ended up losing his job. He was then interviewed byPS3 Week, where he said:Yea I can't believe how out of control everything got. It's absolutely absurd how the internet can take something relatively harmless and turn it into something so insane.Let me first just say, all I really did was write a few paragraphs that gave my opinion on publicly released information. I never actually released any information. After reading my small article the reader is not any more informed about the PS3 than he was before the article. I didn't reveal any tech info and I didn't reveal different shipping plans. I'm still in awe at the whole uproar over what amounts to NO information.Robinson's review was promptly withdrawn but of course had been picked up by various people and reposted on boards such as Beyond3D, where you can stillread it. The critical bit is as follows:Now in my opinion it doesn't matter how good the PS3 is. If the XBOX 360 is better, then it doesn't really matter how the cell processors work or how good they say it is. Realistically one of them will be better over all. Now I've spoken with people who are on the technical side of the PS3. I've also talked with people on the technical side of the XBOX 360. The consistent comment I am hearing from people on my end is, "The XBOX 360 is better". They are saying that it is capable of just doing more. (shrugs) Now take that for what its worth. If you watch all the videos on the PS3 they will say how much more powerful it is than the XBOX and vice versa. Im just telling you what I am hearing. They proceeded to go into a lot of technical info that I don't understand. So I just nod.In a follow-up post, Riobinson is quoted as saying:Im VERY excited aobut the ps3. dont get me wrong. But the delays that we have experienced during the production have been substantial. What most developers are doing are just making a PC game. Then when they get the final system they'll put it on the ps3. Thats it. No big crazy secrets there. ALSO, let me just say that this is very normal for a system launch. I am not bashing it by saying this. It was the same when the PS2 came out. You make a game then port it when you get the final hardware. There is no other way to do it because there is no system yet.GamesIndustry.bizhas also covered the story.
They have become essential for businessmen and officials who are on the move but need to keep in touch, and are a common sight in airports, on trains and in restaurants.But users of BlackBerrys, the hand-held devices which have been nicknamed CrackBerries because of their addictiveness, may soon have to wean themselves off the habit. A legal row over patent rights could force the makers of the BlackBerry to shut down the email service across America, plunging the country's 3.6 million users into technological blackout. Befitting a device which has become a social phenomenon among the elite, those users include Vice-President Dick Cheney, who is hooked on his device, and Nicole Richie, co-star of The Simple Life TV series.The dispute began five years ago when Research in Motion (RIM), the Canadian company which makes the BlackBerry, lost a patent infringement suit to NTP, a small patent holding company in America. RIM is fighting a series of appeals but, if unsuccessful, will be forced to halt its sales in the US and shut down its service there. While BlackBerrys elsewhere would be unaffected, any such ban would have a serious impact on the long-term future of the device.Fans are flabbergasted at the threat facing the BlackBerry. Peter Levene, chairman of the Lloyd's of London insurance market, said: 'It's just nuts. The idea that someone is just going to switch it off in three or four weeks, even if it's only in the United States, is crazy. Everybody has adapted their working habits to it. If you close it off at a stroke the damage could be colossal.'RIM has already won another, unrelated, patent challenge from InPro of Luxembourg which would have cut off the service for Britain's 350,000 users. And it received good news last week when the US patent office ruled that a patent owned by NTP did not cover RIM's invention and should be cancelled.But in a convoluted lawsuit which involves at least five such claims, RIM must wait to see if it is totally off the hook. On 24 February Judge James Spencer, at the US district court in Richmond, Virginia, will decide whether an injunction by NTP in 2003 - which has been delayed by RIM's appeal - will be reinstated. Authorities are likely to take many more months to reach a final decision.Mindful of their popularity among American civil servants, NTP has proposed exempting BlackBerry products used by federal, state or local governments and giving other customers 30 days' grace before any service shutdown.RIM has vowed to fight on, even if the decision goes against it. Its vice-president, Mark Guibert, said: 'There are compelling public interests against entry of an injunction and NTP can be fully compensated through ongoing royalty payments in lieu of an injunction.'The two sides have met to discuss a possible settlement of the case, but without success. They reached a tentative &pound;254m settlement on the dispute in March, but the deal fell apart in June. The US Supreme Court has also rejected a bid by RIM to review the dispute, leaving it to the district judge.Michael Gartensberg, research director at Jupiter Research in New York, said he believed the parties would settle before reaching the worst-case scenario. 'NTP is not a BlackBerry manufacturer and it's not in its interests for RIM to shut down,' he said. 'They are not direct competitors, so it will be interesting to see if they will sit down and sort out an arrangement.'In the meantime, 'CrackBerry' addicts live in fear of their screen going blank. Eileen Wilson, an American real estate manager, said: 'I'll just die if that happens. They'll have to pick me up off my front lawn. It's so addictive. People are going to flip out.'
The technology giant Apple is under fresh fire over its iPod range. A lawsuit has been filed in the US claiming the company is putting consumers at risk of suffering hearing loss.The complaint follows Apple's recent admission that some of its 1,000-song Nanos suffer from easily cracked screens and surfaces. Now John Kiel Patterson, of Louisiana, is alleging that iPods fail to contain adequate warnings. In a complaint, filed in the US District Court in San Jose, California, he claims iPods and their 'ear bud' earphones are defective.The general warning in the users' manual is inadequate, he says,because it does not advise the listener of what is a high volume or a safe level.
"The Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) will become the first law enforcement agency to outfit cars with a device that propels and sticks a Global Positioning System (GPS) onto a fleeing car," reportsTechWeb News.The department will mount the StarChase LLC device in the grill of some squad cars in the fall. "Officers in the car would control a green lazar light, similar to an aiming device that fixes on your target," said LAPD Lieutenant Paul Vernon on Friday. "A small dart-like device is propelled from the officer's car."Rather than engage in a high-speed chase that is dangerous for the public and police, an officer can trigger the GPS tracking device from their car. The officer also will have a remote unit, about the size of a device that unlocks a car, when they're outside the patrol car.Comment: Of course, it would be simpler to make GPS compulsory on all cars. This could easily be paid for using the revenues from speeding tickets (issued automatically using GPS data) and the savings from reductions in crime (especially car theft) and traffic accidents.....
A worm the press calls Kama Sutra seems to have had little effect yesterday, but it's hard to say, because no anti-virus vendor uses that name. Asan AP articlehas pointed out, "Friday's file-destroying worm goes by Mywife at Microsoft and McAfee, Blackmal at Symantec and Computer Associates. ... At F-Secure, it's version E of Nyxem, while Sophos says it's version D. Others variably refer to it as Kapser, KillAV, Grew or Blackworm. The official name? CME-24." (There's a longer list of nameshere.)Anti-virus companies that are working independently and in a hurry will give a new virus a name that fits their own schema, but there's no reason why they couldn't associate their internal name with a number on a centralised database. And there already is such a system:CME, or Common Malware Enumeration.CME-24 was assigned to "Kama Sutra" on January 24, and could therefore have been used in the vast majority of reports.It would also have helped if anti-virus companies had started using its CME number as soon as possible. For example, F-Secure could have called the worm CME-24/Nyxem.E, Trend Micro could have called it CME-24/WORM_GREW.A, and so on.We know there's a problem, and we know there's a solution. Why can't people just use it?
Recent US government attempts to get informaiton from Google have made it clear that search engine users (not just Google users) no longer have any privacy, and asDeclan McCullagh points out at CNet:It's only a matter of time before other attorneys realize that a person's entire search history is available for the asking, and the subpoenas begin to fly. This could happen in civil lawsuits or criminal prosecutions.That type of fishing expedition is not legally permitted for Web mail providers. But because search engines are not fully shielded by the 1986 Electronic Communications Privacy Act--concocted back in the era of CompuServe and bulletin board systems -- their users don't enjoy the same level of privacy.Danny Sullivan has an excellent post the case and the issues atSearch Engine Watch.
IcoPlaystation 2Originally published four years ago, Ico was a minor commercial success in spite of a rapturous critical reception. Since then it has become the stuff of bulletin board legend, with prices on eBay only defused by the announcement of its re-release alongside sequel-in-spirit, Shadow Of The Colossus, on February 17. Ico features a mono-horned boy escaping a vast, empty castle by way of some elegantly designed puzzles. You meet a girl whose language you can't understand and who needs constant protection from shadowy beasts that seep up through cracks in the ground. Beautiful, melancholy and lonely, Ico tends to inspire adjectives not normally associated with video games, and is a classic experience you should not miss.&#183;Sony, &pound;20Full AutoXBOX 360Full Auto's wish fulfilment is very simple: if you've ever wanted very large guns mounted on the front of your car, this is what it would feel like. The antidote to frustration in racing games would be to blow up all those around you, and Full Auto is at its raucous, pyrotechnic best when the all-out destruction wrought by the combined influence of your mine dropper, rocket launcher and momentum causes the screen to become an amorphous debris-strewn fireball. It also has the "unwreck" button, which lets you rewind nasty accidents and simply carry on. While not pretty, it is immediately amusing if lacking the stygian depth of Gran Turismo 4 or driving bliss of Project Gotham Racing 3.&#183;Sega, &pound;50
In line with Nintendo's growing habit of retooling hardware into ever more deviously attractive and tiny packages, the recently launched Nintendo DS is already benefiting from a makeover asDS Lite.Following in the footsteps of Game Boy Advance (itself an extended, more powerful, Game Boy Colour), remade as the clamshell-designed Game Boy Advance SP and more recently as the miniature Game Boy Micro, the DS has until now been quite the ugly sister, with its functional yet chunky looks, especially in comparison with Sony's almost obscenely shiny PSP. Losing its bulbous grey case in favour of a smaller, neater, lighter iPod-esque creamy white one, DS Lite is also likely to be available in its successful metallic pink colour scheme, so beloved of owners of virtual pet bonanza, Nintendogs.Out in Japan on March 2, a UK release has yet to be announced, consistent with Nintendo's tradition of releasing things in Europe after everywhere else.
The tributes atthelondonwhale.comand an email containing a pop video starring dogs and laser beams (pleix.net/movies/Birds.mov) sent us scurrying to the net for more animal weirdness. All manner of animal world strangeness awaits at Amazing Animals (tinyurl.com/2m7ct), including penguins wearing jumpers, a nice collection of spider bites, a buffalo attempting to eat a car and pictures of a whale/dolphin hybrid they're calling a Wolphin. If the latter appeals you can stick a rabbit's head on a gorilla atswitchzoo.com.Elsewhere pick the cutest cat atkittenwar.com; hear how people make duck noises in Mexico (tinyurl.com/c5xaw); share your memories of pretending your dog is a pony atdogriderssociety.comand celebrate a chicken who lived for a year minus his head (miketheheadlesschicken.org).
MondayJapan and the 360How queer: WoW and their unfortunate LGP policyGTA vs Tomb Raider... vs Concorde!TuesdayWhat happens when games are freeGame ads made goodLife after WoWWednesdayPlay a game, feel less painArcade fireCrossing questionsThursdayTechnologySlow news monthLara is backEuropean games companies recognisedFridayPlay your handheld and get smartLess solo play
Just catching up on an event I went along to for a bit on Wednesday night - a debate calledPolitics and New Media: Where Next?, which was hosted by the New Statesman.Attending were many of the great and good of the technology-politics world (a rarified breed, for sure) but there was some interesting discussion and it certainly wasn't all head-in-the-clouds nonsense. So: a quick precis of what took place before I scooted off, and a few thoughts.Alan Connor, a Westminster wonk and blogger for the BBC, kicked off proceedings by talking about how he thought the political debate on the web should evolve - and why bloggers shouldn't just be out for political scalps, but should want to change the framework of the political debate. And why they should avoid the excesses of America's polarised net politics.Jo Twist, another former BBC reporter who now works for theIPPR, spoke at length about the possibilities for political or social activism inside massively multiplayer online games. This generated some scepticism among the crowd, but I think they underestimated the social differences between gaming and existing in virtual worlds. You're never going to get someone to use the job centre in The Getaway (one of Jo's examples), but people are increasingly organising themselves inside worlds like Second Life. Only a fool would ignore them out of hand.Lastly Tom Steinberg, director ofMySociety, said why he thinks an online political revolution exists in building tools, not in the debate itself. Getting MPs to realise that they could communicate with their constituents is, he says, a lot easier and more successful than you'd think - although one observer seemed to suggest that parliamentarians were being bullied. Poor them.(Actually I think the dissenter in question,Paul, has a point in that internet lobbies can distort the picture. But I think it's a necessary stage in development; after all, right now only those with money and time can successfully lobby governments. If MySociety and sister projects likeTheyWorkForYouallow money to be taken out of the equation, so much the better. Lobbies can be horrible things, but they exist outside the internet in far more pernicious forms.)All in all, it was very interesting. Sorry I didn't take any pictures, but there are other reports on the event from the likes ofGuido,David Wilcox,ToryTroubleandNever Trust a Hippie.
You'll recall the theory ofthe wisdom of crowds, and the tests that have shown that people allowed to bet in large numbers can bebetter predictors of when things will happen- the capture of Saddam Hussein, the development of new technology - than just taking a few eggheads and locking them in a room and pushing pizzas (or caviar) under the door.Now the latest hypothesis in need of testing: do sales of goods on eBay indicate who's going to win the Superbowl?If you don't know what the Superbowl is, it's like Aussie Rules football but with mattresses tied to your shoulders, and adverts every other minute. Or Rugby Union where they put the ball in and then start the scrum. With mattresses tied to your shoulders.But enough explanation. The Bowl happens this Sunday, and is between the Seattle Seahawks (in which Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen has a stake) and the Pittsburgh Steelers. (The names are meant to be traditional: Seattle's a port, so the team probably only narrowly missed being called the Seadogs, which wouldn't have sounded right at all; and Pittsburgh was the city where smelting was done, to make steel. QED.)eBay being eBay, it's seeing tons of trades in merchandise for the two teams. And that's beingtracked by Mpire, which at the time of writing has the Seahawks ahead of the Steelers by $146 to $99.99. Because the two teams don't meet during the normal play season, because they belong to parallel leagues (the NFL and the AFL), there's no previous form to measure them by; only such data as we can pluck out of cyberspace. We'll return after these messages..
It happened again this week. No, not another Saints defeat, but that empty feeling that I am increasingly getting when playing offline games. Blame it on World of Warcraft, Mario Kart DS or Pro Evo 5 on Xbox Live, but playing "against the computer" just isn't as much fun these days.Sure, the whiny kiddies that litter Xbox live are hardly enticing, but playing with or against friends really makes a difference. Once you've knocked in a fluke last minute winner against your mate in PES, or taken them out in the home straight in Mario Kart, playing offline feels increasingly empty.Yes, the quality of the game is crucially important. I've been playing a lot of Shadow of the Colossus recently and it certainly wouldn't have been improved by having HanSolo12 howling in my ear while we dispatched the colossi. But the sense of isolation that is integral to SoTC is increasingly rare. Most games now benefit from playing with or against someone else.And here's the thing - a poor game can become better when played online simply due to the unpredictability of human competition. The disappointing Perfect Dark Zero is a case in point. Blindingly average when played on your own, it starts to make some kind of sense when played online, especially in co-op.There has been a lot of recentspeculationabout Sony's online offering for PlayStation 3. Sony was badly caught out by Live, although you could argue that broadband penetration levels are only now reaching the critical mass needed. Whatever. The key element is that no console can now launch without online capabilities - sadly for Sega they were simply ahead of their time with the Dreamcast.Of course, there are still plenty of compelling offline experiences - Resi Evil, for example, should stay resolutely offline - and there is a lot to be said for the deeper experience that the best offline games can offer, especially with story and character development. And yes, the majority of console owners have yet to experience online gaming. But when they do the buzz of competition or co-operation will make playing by themselves far less appealing. Just you watch - online gaming is finally going mainstream.
