I am really looking forward to Fable - Peter Molyneux's new game. Molyneux was responsible for genuine classics like Populous and Theme Hospital. More recently he has been involved in titles like Black &amp; White, a game that ultimately disappointed despite some interesting ideas.Fableis an action RPG - possibly my fave genre - and promises to let you create a unique character in the game. For example, leave him in the sunshine and he'll tan, help old ladies feed the chickens and he'll become "good". This all sounds similar to the excellentKnights of the Old Republicso I'm keen to see how it works. There is a press day later this month, with ol' Molyneux himself demonstrating, so I'll have more news then.
The EIGF kicked off today with a selection of rousing sessions to inspire. Amid the driving Scottish rain, games culture got the Edinburgh treatment. Some of the industry's luminaries turned up for the event and offered their perspective on the state of interactive entertainment today.Steve Schnur, Worldwide Executive of music at Electronic Arts, shouted out that games are the new rock n' roll, and played a selection of heavy beats to drive the point home. He highlighted that the industry's attitude to music has changed dramatically in the three years since he left that "biz" for this one, primarily because the medium is currently seen as an avenue to break new bands.Artists and publishers are now, literally, banging on the door to sign up, sensing a new method of saturation in the target demographic. Indeed, in a title which is projected to sell 6-7 million copies (like the forthcoming FIFA game), a potential single can get played 700 million times to the same group of boys who'd pay out the bucks at the local music shop. That's attracted the likes of club DJ Paul Oakenfold, who has signed an exclusive contract with the Canadian games publishers.The day took a more ethereal turn with the panel talk on the economies of online games. Hosted by Ren Reynolds and discussed with EA's Jeff Brown, Gaming Open Market's Jamie Hale, and lawyers Greg Lastowka and Linda MacKellar, the group debated the legalities, the realities and the practicalities of the vast quantities of money flowing under the noses of an industry which, as Brown eloquently offered, was blatantly ignoring what was going on.It's a strange attitude to take, of course, considering an estimated $75m is traded annually over online auction shops, for character accounts, magical swords and in-game currency, rivaling established real world markets like computers and tennis shoes. However, the debate eventually decided that these persistent worlds, like EverQuest and others, may remain unregulated until companies are hauled into small claims for the transfer of intangible goods. Unlikely in the near future, perhaps, but with such situations occurring in some of the more enigmatic Asian markets, a possibility nonetheless.It seems that every games industry conference has to feature at least some mobile content, and the EIGF was no different. The gathered panelists indicated that the stall in sales and forward motion of the fledgling enterprise was due to poor placement in retail. Like much of the discussion throughout the day, the evasive alternative audiences were the magical chalice, but attracting them is as difficult as tracking down the holy grail.Indeed, the keynote speech seemed to indicate that the current position of the industry was poised on the balance of an enormous breakthrough into other regions of interest, particularly the Asian markets.It was presented by the Entertainment Software Association's Doug Lowenstein, who emphasized that innovation was key to approaching the future of gaming, and warned that the trend was leading towards a creative lull.More soon, from the floor.
The Mac Observerhas folllowed up a story inWired Newsentitled Mac Keeps Lead on Linux. The latest spat was kicked off by Hewlett-Packard when it launched its first Linux-based notebook with the claim that Linux would soon overtake Mac OS. Some people think it already has. However, we have no good way of knowing, because analysts usually count the number of machines that ship with each OS, but with PCs, that doesn't tell you which OS the user actually runs.One of the points made in the Wired article, for example, is that: "While Linux machines are shipping in ever greater numbers, especially to giant markets like China, the vast majority are stripped of Linux in favor of pirate copies of Windows, experts say."The Mac Observer piece also makes the point that Macs are only for the very rich: "in markets where a Mac costs roughly a year's salary, or more, Apple is simply never going to be a significant player. Apple seems to be taking that in stride, however, and is obviously not even considering competing in those markets. There is no profit on the systems-side of meeting that demand, and Apple only competes in markets in which it is possible to make a profit."I've looked for Linux machines and Macs in places like Hong Kong and related bits of China, South Korea, Indonesia and Malaysia, and while there must be a few, I've never managed to find any. Not one. I'd guess that, for the majority of the world's population, the Mac just doesn't exist.Wired News finally goes with an Aberdeen Group estimate that the Mac has 3% of the installed base (which is different from "the market") while Linux has 1%, because this is supported byGoogle's Zeitgeist. For "operating systems used to access Google" for June 2004, this gives Windows 91% (with XP at 51%), the Mac 3% and Linux 1%, the same as Windows 95.Even then, it's not either/or. Many if not most people who use Linux on the desktop still dual-boot to Windows, or run Windows in a virtual PC, and virtual PC programs are still very popular among Mac users. Some of us also have multiple PCs and Macs (and Risc OS in the loft). If we have handhelds, mobile phones, games consoles and other digital gadgets, we also run Symbian, Palm OS, Windows Mobile (CE) and a variety of real-time operating systems, often without even knowing it. They all have their strengths and weaknesses. That's why it's important to retain freedom of choice.
"The Munich city administration has said that it expects its planned migration to Linux to be delayed by only a few weeks as the impact of proposed European Union software patenting legislation is examined," reportsIDG News Service."Bernd Plank, a spokesman for Munich town hall, said today that he expected that the administration would take a maximum of 'two to three weeks' to decide whether the EU's Directive on software patents could affect the city's plan to switch to Linux. There would be no 'dramatic setback,' he added.""In a press statement issued on August 4, the city administration confirmed it was 'standing by Linux,' correcting press reports that the project had been put on ice."Comment:There's a translation of a German report fromHeiseatGroklaw. Thanks to Doug Mentohl for the link.
Legend of Zelda, Pac-Man (NES Classic Series)GBA, &#163;14.99 Nintendo,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;You could never accuse Nintendo of not milking every drop of its back catalogue. The latest wheeze, designed for the summer holidays, is the release of some "classic" games from the 80s. Originally realised on Nintendo's NES system, these relics are proof that not everything retro is cool.The range includes the best-forgotten Xevious and Ice Climber. If you are curious to see what games were like when Duran Duran were huge, then try Pac-Man and the Legend of Zelda instead. The former needs no introduction and is an excellent conversion of what remains a uniquely addictive munch-em-up. The main problem is that you can get perfectly adequate phone versions of Pac-Man substantially cheaper. Unless you have the urge to play on the bigger screen of a Game Boy Advance, it makes sense to go mobile.More relevant is The Legend of Zelda, the first in the venerable series and a far more interesting proposition. It is testament to the original design that this is still highly playable and uses a template that subsequent Zelda games have built on. Players guide elfin adventurer Link around a massive world, as he fights monsters, solves puzzles and rescues the Princess. Progression is drip fed by item retrieval, as previously unreachable destinations - such as islands or mountains - become accessible with newly found objects. Despite the raw graphics, Legend of Zelda is worthy of the title "classic".Greg HowsonSoldiers: Heroes of World War 2PC, &#163;34.99 1c/Codemasters,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;First of all, a warning: Soldiers is hard. No, I don't mean challenging, I mean 60 minutes spent trying to get past the first 60 seconds of the first level - which puts paid to the game's loftier claims of realism.Undoubtedly, liberating Europe in the mid 40s was hard but storming the German frontlines using only one tank and a Jeep (as you have to do in the very first mission) is so unrealistic you get the feeling the developers are cheating on their own rule book. Of course, you play it at Novice level, but no one likes owning up to incompetence, do they?Which is a pity, because in other respects Soldiers takes wargaming to new levels of complexity and detail. With 30 large missions, split across German, Russian and Allied campaigns, everything you might expect from a quality RTS is here minus the resources. Most of the buildings can be occupied, all of them destroyed, and you have hundreds of authentic weapons and units to do it with.You also get a choice of playing modes, allowing you to use standard RTS mouselicks or press the spacebar to take direct control of any unit, moving while firing to negotiate some of the trickier sections.This (and the attention to detail) creates unique situations and challenges - for instance, searching for a petrol container under heavy fire so you can refuel a sitting duck tank - all unknown territory to wargamers.So, although Soldiers is not a perfect game, most of its problems could be solved by a patch, and what's left is another impressive Codemasters assault on yet another new genre.Mike AnderieszRainbow Six 3: Black ArrowXbox, &#163;19.99 Ubi Soft,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Last year, team-based shooter Rainbow Six 3 was the poster boy of Xbox Live, its exhilarating multiplayer online mode making foamy-mouthed anti-terrorist nutters of us all. Unfortunately, the single-player experience was dull, and bugs did their best to sabotage the online fun. So while we're waiting for RS4, this generously proportioned, standalone update fixes all the minor RS3 grievances and adds some excellent new features.For the lone player, there are 10 new missions, built around a zeitgeisty terror plot involving war among oil-rich Black Sea states. It's the usual mix of tense corridor roaming and huge set-piece shoot-outs, with you commanding three AI troops as you move through industrial silos and crumbling back streets.As with previous Rainbow Six titles, the door opening mechanism dominates the action: should you just open it, or perhaps throw in a flash grenade, or - oh, what the hell - lob an explosive charge in, too?The enemy AI is slightly improved, and there's a split-screen, two-player mode for those who want cooperative thrills without the inconvenience of having broadband installed.But Rainbow Six 3 is really about multiplayer, and this must-try element has been re-balanced and re-tuned to near-perfection. New maps, new weapons and new Xbox Live 3.0 features (including lots of well-thought-out clan functionality) make Black Arrow an essential.In short, if you haven't navigated a downtown ambush with a 32-year-old Texan covering your back, and a teenage sniper from Calais scouting ahead, you haven't experienced online gaming.Keith Stuart
Saving the planet is no simple matter. After a year and a half of talks, the Department of Trade and Industry has announced a further three months consultation on two key European Commission directives on the disposal and recycling of electronic goods, and admitted that it will miss the deadline for translating the directives into UK law. However, it insists it will put the laws into effect by August 2005, as laid down by the commission.The directives, known as WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) and RoHS (Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment), are fundamental to reducing the mountain of IT products that end up in landfill, many releasing poisonous waste into the earth. Most problematic is the question of old cathode ray tube monitors that can contain up to 2kg of lead.Despite a growing recycling industry, huge numbers of PCs and related kit end up in landfill each year. The WEEE directive pushes responsibility back on producers and distributors to help dispose of, re-use and recycle old equipment. Producers will have to take responsibility for collecting   an equivalent of the amount they sell each year - like-for-like collection.The UK versions of the directives have been delayed over fundamental details. Central to the debate is the concept of a National Clearing House (NCH) - a non-profit organisation to monitor producers. Some industry experts say the idea unnerved the IT industry because it was suggested that it would require them to supply the NCH with data on sales. That data is commercially sensitive.Other sticking points concern the creation of dedicated collection points, the responsibility of smaller businesses, the responsibility of retailers and the calculation of producer responsibility.Mike Dinsdale, marketing director of printer firm Brother UK, says the delay has caused some consternation: "I get the feeling that the government doesn't have the same confidence in the idea of an NCH as it did before. With the deadline now so tight, firms like ours are already making arrangements with recycling firms to ensure we are ready." Dinsdale also questions why the consultation looks at impact on small firms when this wasn't considered before."We all accept that we cannot keep sending products to landfill and that   we will have to bear costs, but we are dismayed that we are not closer to the final legislation by now."Claire Snow, a director of Icer (Industry Council for Electronic Equipment Recycling), which has been at the centre of the consultation, says that it is now a matter of interested parties focusing on areas where a consensus can be reached. "It's been a very complex process with so many interest groups; it's still very unclear what the role of retailers will be, and how the government will differentiate between consumer waste and commercial waste." She says that business-to-business WEEE waste may be as high as 2m tonnes a year - twice the consumer volume.Not surprisingly, environmental groups remain concerned. Claire Wilton, senior waste campaigner at   Friends of the Earth, says the key aim of the directive must not be forgotten: "This is all about ensuring producer responsibility. It is not acceptable for businesses to wriggle out of this. What we have learned is that consumers want to recycle things but you have to make it easy for them to do so."Others are concerned that the delay is damaging investment in the recycling industry. John Pettifer, managing director of Recycling IT (Europe), says it is affecting his ability to grow his business. "We are about to move into premises 10 times the size, to cope with the huge volume of IT kit we are handling, but we don't know what kind of licences we need to take on more processing." He believes the government is also making a fundamental error in giving   more funds to local amenity waste sites when they will still not have the capacity to process it. "They should focus more funding on processing sites. We are spending &#163;750,000 on new processing equipment."Though most vendors declined to comment on their environmental policies until the consultation is complete, many already have procedures in place. For example, Canon UK says it started collecting toner cartridges in 1990 and has so far collected a total of 81,000 tonnes worldwide. It says it also has procedures to ensure that products collected from customers are either re-used or recycled.The new directives will ultimately decide who must pay for recycling, re-use and disposal. It remains to be seen if prices of electronic and electrical goods will rise as a result.
Spyware catchI was about to upset my teenage daughters by doing what I thought was helpful: using Ad-aware 6.0 to quarantine the 1,663 things it found. Then I got a message from KaZaA saying all was lost, I must reload it or pay $29.95 to get an ad-free version. Shouldn't there have been a warning writ large of the gaffe I was about to make?Tony HillierJack Schofield replies:Malware removers usually do warn you that programs may stop working if you remove files, but perhaps not prominently enough. However, the Quarantine feature in Ad-aware 6.0 means you can restore things you have removed. The real problem is that people seem to be increasingly reluctant to pay for software, even though it is expensive to develop commercially. Suppliers have to make money somehow, and therefore resort to bundling advertising programs (which may be spyware) with their free versions. KaZaA Lite was one response: an illegally hacked version of KaZaA with the ad-ware stripped out. But if you are not inclined to pay, I'd suggest persuading your daughters to switch to a file-sharing program that does not include spyware, such asWinMX.Shareaza P2Pis also worth a look, as it is open source and supports multiple file-sharing networks: EDonkey2000, BitTorrent, Gnutella and Gnutella2 (G2), but not KaZaA's FastTrack.Soulseekis another ad-free, spyware-free file-sharing program, where you can donate $5 for 30 days of "download   privileges" - your download requests go to the top of the queue.Read or not?Is there any way of ascertaining that the email I have sent has reached its destination?G DivechaJS:Most email programs allow you to request a receipt to say that a message has been read. In Outlook Express, for example, create a new message, go to the Tools menu, and tick the option for Request Read Receipt. You can also make this the default option. In Outlook Express, select Tools|Options, click the Receipts tab, and tick "Request a read receipt for all sent messages". However, the recipient can ignore your request and not send one. With important emails, I check that it has been sent by sending a "blind carbon copy" (BCC) to a Yahoo! mailbox. This also provides a useful backup.Permanent waveMy computer crashed to the extent that I had to reinstall Windows 98 to get it running again. Shortly after that, the display on my monitor does not fill the screen, and is wavy along the edges. Occasionally, the screen will vibrate quite rapidly.Jonathan CarrJS:The monitor could be failing and this sounds as though something could be wrong with the monitor's degaussing circuitry. However, it might also be that Windows has automatically selected monitor settings that are too high. Right-click on the desktop, select Properties, click the Settings tab, and then click the Advanced button. Click on the Adapter tab and look for the screen refresh rate. The presentation may vary, and you may have to click a List All Modes button, but there should be several options. Now select a slower one: for example, from an 85Hz setting to 72Hz. (There may be a simpler way of doing this under the Monitor   tab.) Your monitor's manual will tell you the refresh rates and resolutions it was designed to support. However, before chucking the monitor, check that it's not just a loose cable.Backchat&#183;A reader suggestedstopITnowmodem protection software as a way of blocking rogue diallers. Douglas Rome says he gave up on that program last year because it read the 0845 code as a rogue dialler. Paul Myatt, an IT support specialist, usesCheckDialer, a free Spanish program that also works in English. "Unfortunately the email registration page is in Spanish," he says, "but you only have to give a valid email address where they will send a download link". Another option would be blocking hardware such as MMTel's &#163;29.95Modem Protector.&#183;Simon Priest asked about the cheapest way to share a broadband connection, and I suggested an ADSL router and a switch. Malcolm Artley says: "I use Internet Connection Sharing over an XP Pro network with a USB ADSL modem (which came with my broadband connection) and an eight-port switch (which can be as little as &#163;15). The only downside is the computer actually connected has to be on to share the connection." Internet Connection Sharing is also included in Windows Me, and also supports Macs. I cede that this approach is cheaper, but I would still recommend an Ethernet router rather than USB and ICS.&#183;There was a large response to last week's query about renumbering files, possibly because the answer was missing from the website. I will return to it next week.
With all the discussion about the future of the BBC, the issue of the analogue switch-off is in focus again. This the point at which the old analogue TV transmitters are turned off and everyone has to have a digital box to watch telly.What's the imperative? Well, digital television broadcasting is a much more efficient user of radio spectrum than analogue television. In fact, analogue television is about the most inefficient use of spectrum that there is and terrestrial analogue television uses spectrum that would be very valuable for other purposes (almost anything other than television, as it happens: wireless data, mobile communications and so on). Therefore, allowing terrestrial TV broadcast ers to use the spectrum is wasting national resources on a significant scale. But how much is it wasting?It is possible to make this calculation and the Netherlands provides a good example. Less than 300,000 households (out of 7m) receive analogue TV signals. When the Dutch auctioned their 3G spectrum, which was only about a third of the bandwidth occupied by analogue TV, it went for around &euro;2.5bn or &#163;1.6bn (which was low by comparison with the UK and Germany). A rough calculation reveals that the Dutch could give each analogue TV household &euro;10,000 to chuck out their old telly and still be better off.With figures like this, why not just get on with it and switch off analogue? There is already a case study. In August last year, analogue television transmissions in Berlin were turned off: the digital television service now delivers more than twice as many television channels in half the radio spectrum. Berliners who did not want to sign up for cable or satellite had to cough up &euro;150 for the equivalent of a Freeview box (low-income households were subsidised).Why can't we do the same thing here? That is, switch off on a regional basis once digital coverage is up to scratch. And to save the debate about whether people should be subsidised, or how much the subsidy should be, surely the most appropriate solution is a straight bribe. If the government auctions off the analogue TV spectrum to telecommunications operators and other industrial and commercial users, then it should simply split the loot with the public who will be forced to go and buy a Freeview box or subscribe to cable or satellite.The government has already said that its vision is to see digital TV become a means to provide access to e-government services for all citizens. This is primarily because (after analogue switch-off) it will be the most pervasive electronic channel between government and citizens. In theory, at least, shifting service provision to electronic channels ought to save a lot of money so the government should back up its vision with cash.If the government got, say, &#163;2bn from the auction (a conservative fraction of what it raised in the 3G auctions) then it could keep a billion and share the rest. For sake of argument, suppose that 5m households were still on analogue TV: their share would be &#163;200 each. This is more than enough to buy a Freeview box, with plenty left over for a fish supper.
By now, geography was supposed to be history. We should be picking our neighbours from like-minded individuals in far corners of the world, rather than those who happen to live next door. Or cosmocrats, paying our taxes in the jurisdiction where we choose to declare them, not in the country we physically inhabit.Tosh, of course. When the internet was a rarity, many of our online friends were geographically remote. Just being online provided common ground between the most unlikely individuals. Now that almost everyone has access to the internet, traditional communities have re-asserted themselves. Most of us spend most of our online time dealing with people we know, or in communities that matter to us   physically. And much of what matters to us is dictated by geography.Inhabitants of one of the internet's "invisible villages" are quite likely to live in the same physical village, for the good reason that they will share similar concerns. As a new booklet* on "techno-localism" points out, even cosmocrats need someone to empty their bins.The New Local Government Network's dream for techno-localism is to put these invisible villages to work reviving local government. Up to now, according to the authors, councils have seen online communities as a threat to the established order. This is a mistake: instead, local government should embrace "social software" such as bulletin boards and blogs.The pamphlet likens these cyber commons to public parks: the council's role would be limited to   ensuring they are safe, clean and well-maintained. Fantasy? The pamphlet cites community portals set by Torfaen County borough council in Wales and Hartlepool borough council, County Durham, as examples of what can be done.It also argues that there are good reasons to suggest that techno- localism's time has come. If councils are going to take on more freedom and automony, they can no longer treat their citizens as identical and passive recipients of policies set in Whitehall. This implies a level of dialogue much greater than the dismal turnout of local elections.Another reason to get excited is that techno-localism offers a new goal for e-government beyond the 2005 target, transforming it from a bleak menu of official services available online to an enriching participatory experience.Elected councillors tend to be sceptical about such initiatives they undermine traditional structures. Instead, say the authors, celebrate the new model for creating virtual tiers of local government based on communities rather than local authority boundaries. A community portal such as Balham.com could nest between the official local authority portal and a bottom-up activist initiative.Like Graham Greene's Quiet American, the pamphlet's authors have found a third force, operating at the level of local football leagues or church groups. "It is via these activities that local government could re-legitimise itself." Idealism, perhaps, but worth a shot.
Over the next couple of years, hundreds of thousands of doctors, nurses and other NHS staff will be vetted, photographed and issued with smart cards. No, it's not the national identity card programme, though the exercise may provide useful logistical lessons. This procedure is to ensure that the NHS knows exactly who is logging onto a countrywide system of electronic medical records under the &#163;6bn NHS National Programme for IT.The new system's security is under severe scrutiny. The British Medical Association is urging doctors to boycott the new Care Records Service because of fears that it will damage medical confidentiality. Privacy International, a pressure group, last month named the programme "most appalling project" in its annual Big Brother Awards.Documents seen by the Guardian suggest that the NHS is planning extraordinary efforts to protect access. Whether the measures are workable remains to be seen.The documents, marked "NHS confidential", set out procedures for verifying doctors' identities and managing the issue of smart cards and digital keys. These will be needed to use any IT system connected to the new data "spine", which will transmit patients' medical and social care records and allow appointments to be booked electronically. The spine's access-control systems are based on an existing system, the Government Gateway, which routes data between Whitehall departments.To issue the new IDs to 80,000 doctors and many more nurses and other healthcare professional staff,   the NHS proposes creating a network of registration authorities reaching into every hospital and surgery.The principle is that everyone issued with a key will be personally vouched for by an authorised sponsor who is confident of their identity. This must be done through face-to-face meetings. After filling in a form called RA01 (which comes with three pages of terms and conditions in small print), the applicant has to provide a current passport or driving licence and a set of "community" identities to prove address. Nationals of non-EU countries should show that their passports contain "either UK stamps, a visa, or UK residence permits showing the immigration status of the holder in the UK". All records of registration authorities have to be kept for 25 years.Interestingly, there is no mention of a biometric check, such as a fingerprint or iris scan. This is probably because the NHS is waiting to see what procedures are decided for the national ID card.Successful applicants will get smart cards with a user ID generated by the NHS and their own password. The card specifies the user's place in a three-tier hierarchy of privileges. If doctors forget their password or lose their cards, the registration authority has to "arrange a suitable face-to-face meeting" where the sponsor can verify their identity.The new routine will have to be put in place within months, before the first production release of the spine goes live. (A prototype, called Phase One Release One is currently being tested.) NHS IT chiefs hope that the procedures will convince sceptics that an electronic system is more   secure, as well as deterring members of the public from attempting to impersonate hospital staff.An authoritative survey of doctors' opinions suggests there is some way to go. It finds that, although a majority of doctors support the programme, levels of enthusiasm are declining. The survey, by Medix, a specialist medical polling organisation, put   questions to a sample of 852 doctors. Three quarters said they expect electronic records to improve clinical care. On the controversial question of whether patients should opt in or opt out of the national system, there was overwhelming support for the NHS's plan that records should be automatically included unless patients opt out.However, the survey, the fourth of its kind, found that only 54% of respondents were enthusiastic about the programme, a fall from 65% in the previous survey. A common complaint was lack of consultation: 40% said they had received no information. Three quarters of GPs agreed that they should not use electronic records until the BMA's concerns about the system are met.In response to such concerns, the national programme is stepping up a hearts and minds campaign to promote the new technology. "We recognise that important issues have been raised and that we should respond openly and constructively," a spokesman says.To involve patients' representatives, the programme is recruiting a Care Record Development Board to "inform the work" of the national programme. According to the recruitment pack, the board will "identify major issues and create short-term action groups to address them through appropriate consultation." Applicants must be members or organisations, health or IT professionals or managers of an organisation "providing health or social care services".The spokesman says that the programme, until now notorious for its secrecy, would be adopting a higher profile. "We have also recently started a programme of meetings with the media and other stakeholders. We will build the momentum."
In one of the more bizarre movie tie-ins of recent time, Vivendi today announced that a game based on the film Scarface is in production. Yes,Al Pacino's classic flickis coming to a console near you next year. Other than its description as a third person action shooter -Max Payneanyone? - details on the game remain a mystery. We can but hope that there is a least some semblance of a decent plot, but I'm a bit worried about this. Games are growing up, and surely that means we want new and stimulating IP - not samey genres reskinned with film characters. I wonder what other film classics are in the pipeline? Cuckoo's Nest? Godfather? Any others you think would work?
Jackpointed outthe much-lamented departure of Neil McIntosh from the Online team a couple of weeks ago. Well, since Neil's move to work as part of the team onGuardian Unlimited, I've taken the chance to counterpoint his switch with one of my own.I've been a blogger since 2000, and have written for the Guardian on a variety of new media topics since 2001. Now I'm taking over Neil's beat as the deputy editor of Online - and, as part of that, I'll be making regular contributions to this blog... and giving Jack a bit of a rest!So, onward and upward. And to quote the king of chin - "Nice to see you, to see you nice".
In2Games is showing off its curious motion-tracking games controller, Gametrak, at the forthcomingGame Stars Liveevent in London. The device, which tracks full 3D body movement, is set to launch in Septmber bundled with PS2 fighting game Dark Wind. You'll be able to play that, and Real World Golf 2004, at the show.Read morehere. And as Gametrak is compatible with the PC as well as PS2 and Xbox, we're kind of hoping that the follow-up to last year's kinky love sim,Singles, will be compatible with the device...-- PS2 beat-'em-up Dark Wind (left) and the yet to be released Real World Golf are compatible with the Gametrak device.
The LA Timeslooks at what's happening in Brazil and China.....
"Windows XP Starter Edition--an inexpensive version of Microsoft's flagship operating system that does not contain as many features as the standard version--will begin shipping on PCs in Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia in October, said Maggie Wilderotter, senior vice president for the worldwide public sector at Microsoft. The Redmond, Wash.-based software vendor is also working out the details of getting a starter version of Windows XP into two other countries," reportsCNet."The Starter Edition of Windows XP is tailored to each country and differs in a number of ways from the standard product. Microsoft has, for instance, loaded screen savers that reflect local landscapes, flags and traditional designs in Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia. It also comes with a helper CD called MySupport. Users can only run three programs on the operating system at once, however. In addition, home networking has been deleted."
Micrsoft's MSN has launched a blogging service in Japan. Blogger Phil Ringnalda went and had a"first look".... andthisis what he produced.
Google yesterday said pre-qualification for the auction of its shares would close at 5pm, New York time, tomorrow, signalling a determination to keep its flotation on track in the teeth of negative publicity and hostile market conditions.The online search engine said the auction would begin "soon thereafter". Wall Street expects trading in the hotly anticipated shares to start early next week. Google has yet to set a date for its Nasdaq debut.Investors hoping to take part in the so-called Dutch auction need to register on the website, ipo.google.com, to obtain a bidder ID. The bidding will be handled through one of the 28 brokerages overseeing the $3bn (&#163;1.6bn) offering.Google expects the shares to fetch between $108 and $135, valuing the company at up to   $36bn. It is the biggest hi-tech flotation since the heyday of the internet driven boom and will be watched keenly.Google has embarked on the unusual method to sell its shares to bring in more ordinary investors. It also hopes to prevent the initial after-market premium in the first days of trading that allows some dealers to turn quick profits. Instead, the complex nature of the auction and the high price may have acted as a deterrent. There have been media reports of a poor appetite among the investment community with institutions especially concerned that the shares will fall after the IPO.The flotation was initially expected to have taken place this week. It has been plagued by negative publicity, technical problems in the registration process and torrid market conditions. Last week, according to Thomson Financial, seven companies postponed or cancelled IPOs, the biggest number in a single week for three years. The Nasdaq index has fallen by 9% since Google filed its plans.Wall Street was unnerved last week when it emerged that Google failed to register the issue of 23.2m shares to former and current employees, possibly breaking securities laws.Google has disclosed that bidding guidelines vary widely between the 28 brokers taking part in the auction, leaving some would-be investors at a disadvantage. Some firms let interested parties place an unlimited number of bids while others are restricting them to one or a small number.Google on Monday issued 2.7m shares to Yahoo! to settle a long-running patent dispute. Yahoo! is adding 1.1m of those shares to the public auction, lifting the volume to 25.7m.
Tomorrow is the first day of theEdinburgh International Games Festival's conference seriesand I'm your woman on the floor. While I have a few moments in the hotel room (and now in the Elephant House) before the technical rehearsal, I want to give a run down of what's happening during the newest addition to the annual Edinburgh-in, and hopefully inspire you to come back and read the regular updates, including announcements of the firstBAFTA Interactive New Talent Awardsand the game voted by you, the people, as theEDGE Player's Choice, plus interviews with industry luminaries. My work is cut out for me over the next few days, but in the meantime…There are three strands to the whole EIGF, two of which are available to the public:Go Play Gamesat the Royal Museum offers sticky fingers the opportunity to play to their heart's content on all of the nominees of the EDGE Player's Choice Awards and others (including some fabulous exclusives), &amp; theGame Screenings, the interactive industry's answer to DVD Director's Commentary. I'm really excited about this one – Ian Livingstone is kicking off the proceedings tonight with his history of Lara Croft and Hitman and Neil Young is going to give the lowdown on The Sims. Wowee! Anyone can come along and rub shoulders with some of gaming and film notables. There's plenty of crossover here with theEdinburgh International Film Festival; we're screening in the same cinemas. Check out theOdeonwebsite for details.I'm awaiting the conference, a two-day trade event which will explore the culture of gaming. I'm producing a couple of sessions, including the Economies of Online Games (hosted byTerra NovanRen Reynolds with other TNer Greg Lastowka,Gaming Open Market's Jamie Hale,The Sims Onlinecorporate comms rep Jeff Brown and lawyer Linda MacKellar), which will blow the doors open on the real currency trade that's emerged from virtual worlds. If you're interested in knowing more, check out the mind-blowing figures onProskenion, the website of Edward Castronova. It will stun you. Factoid: over $12m has been traded over eBay since the start of 2004 on a variety of things like imaginary castles. Check out James Meek's recentarticleall about it.I'm also putting together a boys v girls battle of the wits quiz hosted by the aforementioned Ian Livingstone. It will be a fight to the death between Emily Newton Dunn, Rhianna Pratchett and Just Add Monsters' CEO Nina Kristensen vs. Denki Blocks' Gary Penn, journo extraordinaire Mike Goldsmith and the man behind countless product launches Seamus Blackley.Another session that will provoke all kinds of blogging will be Pitch Idol, hosted byGamesMaster's boy toyDominik Diamond(rumour has it he's about to invade our screens again with another videogames programme...), which pits the creative juices of a bunch of lawyers, a gaggle of journalists and a privy of PRs versus the smart-alek comments of our panel of industry professionals. We all think we've got the game of the year in our clever little brains. They get the chance to try. We shall see what it really takes to make it interactive.I'll also be getting very excited about the discussion about music and gaming, radical new controllers, and how games compare to Hollywood. Much more forthcoming. I'm exhausted already.Blog at you soon.
Okay so 3D gaming is the Holy Grail as far as most mobile game publishers and handset manufacturers are concerned, but luckily, not everyone has jumped aboard that shakey and uncertain bandwagon. Two recently announced titles show that there's plenty of potential left in the kind of quick, silly game concepts we've come to love on mobile handsets. And as one of them involves fighting with elephants, it's worth taking a look.First up,Sumeais about to launch Java title Jumbo Rumble, a three-player battle-'em-up where you must barge your opponents' elephants off the playing area. Interestingly, the action takes place on a single handset, with each participant using just one key to control their big-eared bully boy. Along with Rumble mode, there's also a Tag mode where one player is 'it' and has to chase the others. Sumea is releasing the game on a number of handset models and across all the major operators later this month.Next, there's Pikubi an obviously Manga-inspired platformer-cum-beat-'em-up from French publisher,In-Fusio. Here you control the titular pink bird as he fights off incoming aliens with a range of kicks and punches. There are 30 candy-coloured levels, split over four themed worlds, plus a bunch of end-of-level bosses. This one's coming out on Orange's range of Ex-En enabled handsets very soon.Pink birds, fighting elephants – this is the sort of thing that takes us right back to the dawn of videogaming, to surreal titles like Joust, Q*bert and Dig Dug, where questions of realism and the ability to 'relate' to characters were meaningless. Its easy to get all misty-eyed about the early eighties, but that was raw gameplay – abstract ideas were allowed to flourish and no one questioned them.Apart from the offbeat titles that trickle out of Japan every year, the traditional games industry is now unwilling and unable to explore absurdity and surrealism. Mobile game developers, however, are free to wallow in it. Check out Morpheme's best-selling Balloon-Headed Boy, or Kuju's saccharine visual explosion, Rocket Girl. Want to see this kind of thing on your PS2? Better start reading Edge Magazine and hitting your local games importer for gems like Technic Beat and singing polar bear oddityKumauta. Long live weird. Long live cute.
"We were driving around the Nevada desert, staying in the kind of Motels where people get murdered…" Jon Hare.Kuju Wirelessannounced last week that it would be thrilling retro gamers everywhere by bringing classic top-down footie simSensible Soccerand fantastic point-and-click shoot-'em-upCannon Fodderto mobile phones. These legends of the 16bit home computer era are being converted by Tower Studios a new outfit set-up by the creators or the original games: Sensible Software's Jon Hare and Mike Montgomery and John Phillips of Bitmap Brothers. Yes, the late-eighties rivals have joined together to bring their witty, intricately designed wares to a new generation. Jon Hare tells us how it happened, including the bit about motels in Nevada…How and when did Tower Studios come about?I started working on a mobile version of a soccer game with Chris Chapman, the original Sensible Soccer programmer earlier this year. I was also spending a fair amount of time with Mike (who is a very long standing friend of mine) and John at the Bitmaps. After a while Mike took over the coding from Chris and we introduced Stuart Cambridge (also ex-Sensible) to work on the graphics.At around this time Mike and I were attendingGDCandE3and somewhere in the middle of this we were driving around theNevadadesert, staying in the kind of Motels where people get murdered in the movies by truckers hell bent on revenge. I think it must have been at about this time that the idea for Tower started. On our return, Mike, John and I looked more seriously at mobile gaming and at getting deals in this area, not only for the soccer game but also for other potential projects on mobile.So how did that unnamed footie title become Sensible Soccer?A lucky coincidence. We happened to meet the guys from Kuju, who told us that they were just about to acquire the Sensible Soccer license for mobile from Codemasters, who of course are the company that myself and Chris Yates (my partner form Sensible Software) sold the Sensible Soccer license to in the first place.What sort of projects are you planning? Are you concentrating on mobile?On mobile we are planning to do Sensible Soccer and Cannon Fodder for Kuju. We also have a couple of original titles up our sleeves and ambitions to ramp up the number of products we are producing on mobile, as we start to build the libraries necessary to be able to take on this sort of work. In addition to this, we are talking to several companies about acting as a production facility, for publishers and license holders that require experienced design/prototyping and production of products onto any number of formats. This is particularly useful when a less experienced development team is being used who require management and direction as well as having a solid game concept and design to work from.What's it like to work on these classic games again? What memories has it brought back?I enjoy working on Sensible Soccer and Cannon Fodder, it is amazing how much info you retain in your head about what you did all those years ago, 12 to be precise. However I do feel considerable pressure to make them as good as they possibly can be. If Sensible Soccer is not the most playable mobile soccer game then we will have failed. Personally I am extremely competitive about this, I want us to be the best, I know that more than any other type of game, football games can develop a colossal amount of goodwill from games players if they are an enjoyable and rewarding experience to play… that is the challenge right now. I have already designed the best 8 bit (Microprose Soccer) and 16 bit (Sensible Soccer) football games - now we have to do it again on the mobile format and in this arena to me being 2nd is nowhere. We must be the best.How do current mobile platforms compare with the Atari ST and Amiga? Are there any similarities in terms of abilities and restrictions?I think all of us find the restrictions a welcome problem, dealing with these require skills that all of us acquired many years ago and it gives us a distinctive advantage over anyone who started developing post-Playstation. The art of using a small memory machine is that everything is possible if you think laterally enough and have an intuition for what you should include and what you should leave out.Are you having to make any key gameplay changes to Sensible Soccer?Main changes are the control system. Four directions instead of eight. Only one key press at a time. Everything else is possible, including the retention of a good degree of the tactics and player skills from the original. We are very happy with our control system at the moment and the speed of the game is every bit as quick as the original SensiHow about Cannon Fodder?Main changes are the control system, although, because we use a cursor like the original, the four directions as opposed to eight require less changes than Sensi, and the one key press at a time factor is obviously something to deal with too. Also we cannot quite squeeze on the 72 levels of the original, and the helicopters might have to go for now.Are you looking into Bluetooth support for Sensible Soccer at all?Not just yet we are running out of dev time, although maybe later on.What do you think about current mobile games? What are your favourite and least favourite examples?I think they are amazingly varied in quality, and one thing I have noticed is that a higher spec phone does not necessarily lead to a better game. The best are Stack Attack, Skydiver and Prince of Persia. The worst are Racket, Nokia Golf and FIFA 2004.What do you like about this area of the games industry?Quick Development times, quick business deals, small teams, control of all areas of the development process…Are you planning on converting any other classic Bitmap/Sensible titles, like Chaos Engine, Xenon or Wizball?Watch this space.Cannon Fodder and Sensible Soccer in all their original 16bit glory.
It was confirmed today that Japanese footy title Winning Eleven 8 - the game that will eventually become Pro Evolution Soccer 4 - hassold 1 million copieson its launch day in Japan (5th August) Though it gets outsold by the FIFA series, the Pro Evolution Soccer series is the best football game available. Even better than the previous champion -Sensible Soccer.Pro Evolution Soccer 4 is out this autumn and promises to be the best yet. Not only is there the possibility of online play via the first ever Xbox version, but there is a glimmer that Southampton may be included. Neither of these rumours have been confirmed, but even I would let the Saints part go if it mean online play via Xbox Live - truly a reason never to leave the house again.
There seems to be a cushion theme going on in the contemporary merchandising of computer games stuff. This "tasteful"pillowclocked byGamespyto celebrate the forthcoming Japanese promotion for the Xbox Live-enabled Dead or Alive Ultimate was announced last week, and these Famicom or Nintendo Entertainment Systemcushionswere spotted in a Tokyo rumble shop back in June (courtesy ofTokyopia). I also recall a delivery of Parappa the Rapper cushions to the office in 2001.If you prefer to wear your gaming collectables you can get loads of cool old skool NES items from US retailer Hot Topic including this wicked"1 Up" wristband. If anyone knows where to pick up these and other useful household merchandise things in the UK, please pass on the good word. I need to fill my new home with gaming paraphernalia.Other items of computer games interest available:Parappa the Rapper toaster(courtesy ofIGN). It toasts Parappa on your Mother's Pride! It will be mine.Tomb Raider chocolate. Not half bad.GameBoy Colour shoes. Ow. The impossible-to-track-downPac Man watch
Google, the US computer company that owns the eponymous search engine, said its much-anticipated £20bn flotation would kick off as early as Thursday, ending weeks of uncertainty among prospective shareholders and investors.The company, founded by the Stanford University graduates Larry Page and Sergey Brin six years ago, said it would start the unusual auction of around 26m shares "soon after" the closure of a registration scheme on Thursday at around 12pm UK time."Please be advised that Google and the underwriters expect the period in which potential bidders can submit a request for a bidder ID at www.ipo.google.com to end at 5pm eastern daylight time on Thursday August 12 2004," the company announced today."The auction for shares of Google's class-A common stock will commence soon thereafter."Google, which included its company motto, "Don't be evil", in its flotation literature, is using a "Dutch auction" process in a bid to make the float more democratic.The company and its lead underwriters, Credit Suisse First Boston and Morgan Stanley, will determine the highest price at which there is demand for all shares, and price the shares at or below that price - a practice known as a Dutch auction.The float has been dogged by delays, technical difficulties and accusations of cronyism and greed.Since plans for the float were revealed, two years ago, the company has suffered a wave of criticism and legal challenges to the float and to its proposed new email service, Gmail.Investment funds have been advising their clients to steer clear of the float, concerned that public appetite for the stock could over-inflate the initial share price, in an echo of the dotcom boom of four years ago.Paul Klemperer, the Oxford economist who, in 2000, designed the government's successful, £22.5bn auction of 3G mobile phone licences, said design flaws in the Google auction could lead to a return to late-90s-style dotcom boom and bust."In this kind of sealed bid auction, only the most optimistic will win, so there may be a new bubble," Mr Klemperer told the Observer earlier this summer.Even the disgraced former Wall Street analyst Henry Blodgett - famous for publicly endorsing internet shares he privately described as "worthless" or "a piece of shit" - has weighed in and described the auction as a waste of time."For reasons that will soon be clear, participating in the Google initial public offering auction is gambling, not investing, and the most likely outcome is a waste of money and time," he wrote in Slate magazine.A recent poll by the US broadcasting network CBS suggested around 90% of small investors would ignore the auction, waiting to buy shares when they start trading officially."My take is Google doing the auction for the little guy and then pricing shares so outrageously is like a veteran rock group saying they're going on tour for the fans and the cheapest tickets are $500 &#91;£272&#93;. A lot of fans will skip it and the average investor will be priced out," one investor commented.Earlier this month, the flotation hit a "logistical snag" after the company was forced to admit to US financial regulators that it may have broken federal securities laws by failing to register £16m in so-called "buddy" shares, issued to staff and existing shareholders prior to the float.However, if it pans out as planned, Google's flotation will make billionaires of its founders, Mr Page and  Mr Brin, and multi-millionaires of the chief executive, Eric Schmidt, and board members John Doerr and Michael Moritz, who between them will retain over 55% of voting rights in the company.Regardless of the success or otherwise of the US auction, overseas investors will be excluded as only US citizens are eligible for registration.UK investors, who originally complained about the restriction, may be relieved that they now have to sit on the sidelines.
Google, the online search engine preparing for a much-anticipated flotation, said yesterday it would hand up to $300m (&#163;162m) of shares to rival Yahoo! to settle a long running patent dispute.The agreement removed a potential liability to the float, which has been beset by delays, technical difficulties and reports of a lukewarm reception from investors.Google is giving Yahoo! an additional 2.7m shares, worth $328m based on Google's target price of $121.50 a share.In return Yahoo! is dropping a lawsuit involving a crucial piece of online advertising technology. The settlement also resolves a dispute over how much Yahoo! is owed for a services contract from 2000 when relations between the two were less frosty.Google said it would take a non-cash charge of between $260m and $290m which would result in a loss during the current quarter.Under the settlement, Google will license a patent held by Overture Services, which Yahoo! bought last year. The technology in question serves up advertising alongside search results linked to key words and is a crucial part of Google's revenues.A Google spokesman said: "We are pleased to have resolved these issues, and with the terms of the agreement."The lawsuit was filed by Overture in 2002. In its defence, Google argued that its technology was different to Overture's. It ranks advertising according to the amount paid by advertisers and click-through rates, to give more relevant results. Overture ranks only according to how much a company is willing to pay.Google also announced that it would increase the shares on offer in the planned flotation from 24.6m to 25.7m.Google commanded 34.5% of all online searches in June in the US, compared with 29.2% for Yahoo! according to the research firm comScore Media Metrix. Yahoo! ended a deal with Google to provide its search facility in February this year, marking a sharpening of the rivalry between the two.The Google flotation had been expected this week but delays were accompanied by suggestions that the high price and complex online "Dutch auction" deterred investors.
Lastminute.com's attempt to persuade investors that all is well with the online travel agent fell on deaf ears yesterday as the stock continued sinking despite a positive trading update four days after its results.The shares plummeted last Thursday after third-quarter figures as traders fretted about trading over summer when the dotcom company makes most of its profits.Yesterday lastminute gave guidance about its profitability for the first time, saying it expects earnings before charges of &#163;25m to &#163;30m in the fourth quarter, making &#163;26.7m to &#163;31.7m for the year.It forecast earnings before charges of &#163;55m to &#163;65m for the year to end September 2005, helped by savings, including the axing of 15% of its workers announced last week.The stock nevertheless continued its slide, closing down 4p at 94.5p, wiping &#163;13.4m off the value of the business. It has lost about &#163;120m over the past week and a half.Chief executive Brent Hoberman denied the company had been panicked into releasing further financial information by the slide in the stock. "We do not react to day-to-day movements in the share price, but the market wanted tighter guidance from the company."He admitted that he had been surprised by the reaction last week. "Do I think that a lot of the messages that could have been taken &#91;by the market&#93; weren't? Yes. Obviously there's a market sentiment issue out there."Last week, analysts expressed concerns that costs would rise within the business over the summer months as it scrambles to get customers by spending on marketing. In a note on the stock, the company's broker, Cazenove, yesterday reduced its earnings forecast because of the impact of rising costs. It is looking for earnings of &#163;29.6m this year and &#163;59.9m in 2005.Mr Hoberman said yesterday the cost of getting customers had remained low in the three months to end June - &#163;6 in Britain and an average of &#163;10 across its entire business. "People have missed that point and I think it's early proof that lastminute.com is attracting customers without a massive marketing campaign."That said, lastminute.com is spending about &#163;3.6m on advertising to grab a slice of the late summer action.The company also confirmed that former vice-chairman executive Clive Jacobs had reduced his 3.5% stake to just under 3% on Friday. He is believed to have sold about 1.5m shares.
There arestrong rumoursthat Xbox 2 will be unveiled at the CES show in Las Vegas next January. Currently codenamed Xenon - why can't they choose a less sci-fi name, like tomato, or seaweed – the Xbox 2 will allegedly be unveiled during Bill Gates' keynote address and will almost certainly produce jarringly large amounts of whooping and hollering from the assembled US games/tech journalists.Other Xbox 2 rumours that have been milling around for a while include suggestions that there will be no hard-drive included and thatthree IBM-designed 64-bit microprocessors(i.e. very powerful) will run the console. Most gamers, of course would settle for a decent Xbox RPG. But that's anotherstory..
Coming home on the train today I saw a sight I'd not seen in a long time. No, it wasn't a spare seat, but something far more surprising. The passenger opposite me was speaking into an original Nokia N-Gage. Yes,sidetalkingwas alive and well on the 6pm Waterloo commuter train.Sidetalking is a phenomenon caused by the odd speaker position on the original N-Gage which meant owners had to hold the side of their taco-shaped mobiles to speak.The N-Gage QD – the much improved second iteration of the N-Gage – isn't bad at all. Not least, because you can hold it vertically when speaking. But the original was so flawed – anyone remember having to take the battery out to load new games – that it'll probably be worth loads on Ebay in 2010. Best keep that packaging...
I've been reading with interest various videogames thinkers' blogs (includingLudonauts,Game Girl Advanceand others) which reference a short survey atPublicBetacalled "Difficult Questions About Videogames". Much to my surprise, I was sent a copy of the questions to answer while I was downloading them (even more surprising was that the questions I was sent had already been answered byDemis Hassabis...) and have spent an unusual few minutes of free time filling them out. Very calm now. Check it out and think on't.
"If you're willing to put up with 4 ounces more weight than an iPod, you can carry around an all-encompassing portable media player and recorder with a built-in color display. That's the fascinating newArchos AV420Pocket Video Recorder. It's a music player, of course, but also stores and shows photos, and it plays and records video — including TV shows. It's not one of the upcoming Portable Media Centers based on Microsoft Windows Mobile, but the AV420 is here now, and it's pretty good, despite some rough edges."PC Magazinehas a review.
"The widespread availability of sensitive information on corporate Web sites appears to have been largely overlooked by information technology and security managers who responded to the Department of Homeland Security's latest warning of a heightened terrorist threat against the financial services sector," reportsComputerWorld."Freely available on the Web, for example, are 3-D models of the exterior and limited portions of the interior of the Citigroup headquarters building in Manhattan--one of the sites specifically named in the latest terror advisory issued by the DHS. Likewise, details of the Citigroup building's history of structural design weaknesses, including its susceptibility to toppling over in high winds, the construction of its central support column and the fire rating of the materials used in the building, are readily available on the Web."
They were once seen as  the preserve of the  geek, but nowadays  personal opinion and  diary pages - weblogs  or "blogs" - are so powerful  that huge corporations are  taking an interest.The sites that  started as observational home pages  for enthusiasts have become so powerful  that they are starting a new  industry of blog monitoring in which  media companies scour the net to  advise brands on how their name is  being talked about online, away from  the traditional newspaper and broadcast  media sites.The thinking behind this emerging  service industry is simple. While  there were only 130,000 sites four  years ago, today there are about 10m.  These web pages can make or break a  company's reputation because they  provide links to one another and  allow people to comment on postings.  In fact the medium has become so  important that Bill Gates has even  launched his own website (atwww.microsoft.com/billgates), which  is rumoured to be on the verge of modernisation - featuring regular  updates rather than just transcripts  of speeches.It is not just computer brands who  are starting to realise that the blog is  a huge image-making network that  cannot be ignored.Olympus, for  example, has devised a new marketing  strategy to embrace the medium.  Whenever a new camera is approaching  its launch, details are passed on  to prominent blogs, a spokesman  reveals, because the sites are crucial  to getting interest ahead of the  launch as well as getting early  feedback on what the public thinks of  the new model.That is the feeling at Ford, which  has recently started to use a blogsearching  service because, as its executive  director of public affairs, Tim  Holmes, reveals, the manufacturer  realised that no modern brand can  afford not to listen to what people are  saying about it online."Like most big companies, we  monitor the press, but the problem  with that is it's always retrospective,  everything's a few weeks old," he says.  "The real value of searching the net, including blogs, is that you get a  live picture of what people are thinking  about certain issues. It means  that you can predict if there is going  to be an issue that's going to grow  and become something you need to  respond to before it gets to the mainstream  press."The classic case of what can happen  if you do not tune in to the blogger  came with a flood of bad publicity  for Maytag, a top-end washing  machine manufacturer in America.  Complaints about one of its models  not emptying properly, and so  smelling out kitchens, had been  appearing on many blogs until they  finally hit the site of Bob Vila, presenter  of a popular property show  called This Old House. It resulted in national press coverage  of a problem that Clare Hart,  CEO of media monitoring agency  Factiva, believes could have been  nipped in the bud, had the company  been alert to the power of the blog."They're a prestige brand and they  really got their noses rubbed in it," she  says. "It's for precisely that reason that  we now offer our clients blog searching  as well as traditional media monitoring.  If you can find out about  problems early on, you can deal with  them before they get so much weight  behind them that they become  serious enough to tarnish your  reputation."A spokesman for Maytag confirms  that the company has monitored the  web for a considerable amount of  time as it is a useful way in which to  keep up to date with consumer issues  and that, in this case, it reacted  speedily to correct problems with the  washers.Hart, however, points out that the  real power of the blog does not lie in  the net giving a voice to people whose  opinions would never have spread  so rapidly before. Their importance is rooted in people trusting one  another's views more than those published  on official company websites."The PR firm Edelman does this  great 'Trust Barometer', which measures  the trust we place in certain  types of people," Hart explains.  "After a doctor, the person we  would most trust is the average person  who's 'just like us' - a company  CEO is eighth on that list. It's the  same for news sources about companies.  After specialist business magazines,  we trust family and friends and  colleagues; journalists are sixth."So it's a pretty shocking piece of  research that shows we trust people  who we feel are like ourselves and are  not out to promote something. That  is why blogs have such power. We  trust them, and if we disagree with  an opinion, we normally have the  option of adding our say."Blogs are not just a potential problem  for brand names, says Sports  Interactive's community director,  Marc Duffy. The computer games  developer - behind, until the end of  last year, Championship Manager as  well as the recently launched NHL  Eastside Hockey Manager - believes  blogs are essential for companies  wanting to stay in touch with their  public.  It is due to launch a follow-up to  Championship Manager (now owned  by Eidos) called Football Manager, for  which Duffy used a company blog to  get feedback from users."We always  keep people up to date with every  stage of development of the game  and then get opinions back," he says.  "We're forever getting really good  tips on what people would add to our  games. One big area, for the new  football game, is how we should  allow football managers to scout for  new talent. If we didn't use our own  blog to run things past our customers  we'd have to launch a game first and  then only get the feedback later on  for a later version."In fact, blogs have become so powerful  that they already have the  launch of a company to their credit.  Kathy Rittweger, CEO of Blinkx, was  on what she thought was just a normal  trip to the offices of Business 2.0  magazine to show the editor her new  search software. Om Malik, one of  the journalists in the meeting, was so  impressed that he immediately wrote  about it on his blog."He called me to say he'd done a  'blog' on us and I have to confess I  was disappointed as it didn't sound  as good as an article," Rittweger  reflects.  "Within a couple of hours we were  being mentioned on thousands of  sites and I had venture capitalists  calling me left, right and centre. The  blog made us so popular that we had  to bring forward our launch from  autumn to June."It's hilarious that we are referred  to as the 'poster child' for the power  of the blog, but we didn't mean it at  all, it was just serendipity. It certainly  ensured we concentrated on making  Blinkx search blogs too, it showed us  that they're just far too big to ignore."
There are many things that acts will do to get noticed on the Edinburgh Fringe. But few people would actually go to the lengths of sleeping with a perfect stranger on every night of the festival as the premise of their show.None the less, this is precisely what Tim Fountain is doing. In his act, Sex Addict, he trawls Gaydar, the gay internet site, in front of a live audience, looking for a man with whom to have sex. The audience votes who he should pick. He then cycles off to whichever part of Edinburgh he has been summoned, has sex, and then reports back on the experience to the following night's audience.In Friday night's preview, he claimed already to have slept with a man from the planning department of Edinburgh city council, a man from the soft furnishings department of Jenners with a dungeon, and was sent off by that night's audience to seek out a songwriter who wanted sex before his taxi-driver boyfriend came off-shift at 6am."It didn't take long," Fountain said the following day. "I was back in the bar 45 minutes later." Fountain claims to have had sex with 5,000 men and one woman.His act will no doubt scandalise and depress in equal measure, though Friday night's mainly male audience seemed to be enjoying themselves. The lavish use in Fountain's show of internet-gleaned images of erect penises projected on to a large screen may give the faint-hearted pause. Fountain said his friend, the playwright Mark Ravenhill, author of the by no means prudish drama Shopping and Fucking, had expressed his shock at the show. "But to me it's not shocking," said Fountain. "It's part of my life: I get up in the morning, have a cup of tea, go on Gaydar and look at erect penises."And it will certainly bolster the arguments of those who talk of sinking standards on the Fringe: the veteran arts promoter Richard Demarco, who co-founded the Traverse theatre, last week talked of the "infestation" of stand-up comics. "If the only purpose of a festival is entertainment then it loses its reason to exist," he said.But Fountain - an established playwright, most famously responsible for Resident Alien, about Quentin Crisp, and Julie Burchill Is Away, which is also playing on the Fringe in association with London's Soho Theatre - is not daunted. "This is what an awful lot of people are doing every day," he said. "Reality is the ultimate outrage."He calls the show "reality theatre". "Some friends and I were looking at the site &#91;Gaydar&#93; and wondered if it would work in front of a theatre audience. The show came first. The fact that it also has a publicity angle is a byproduct... I like reality TV; real people are so much more complex than the characters who are allowed to appear in TV drama."And it's the same with the theatre. I am interested in plays that deal with reality, like David Hare's The Permanent Way and the play based on the Stephen Lawrence inquiry."Fountain is unconcerned by the fact that during the show, those with whom he communicates online have no idea that their messages are being projected on to a large screen and seen by an audience. Nor will they necessarily be told that they will be discussed with a crowd of punters the following evening. "Every comic down the ages has told stories about their bad shags," Fountain said.The one woman who is briefly mentioned in Fountain's show is the comedian Jackie Clune, who has described herself as an "ex-dyke", and with whom Fountain has been romantically involved. Clune is starring in Julie Burchill is Away."I had been directing Puppetry of the Penis," Fountain said of their relationship, "and Jackie was supporting them. I spent so much time looking at penises I went off them, and Jackie spent so much time looking at them she started to quite like them, so I suppose we met in the middle."
As the resident female and Nintendo addict, I am charged with covering all things relating to the fairer sex and computer games. How I love my job. In fact, I've just come off the computer (onto another one) from an enjoyable and uplifting stint writing the Women in Games White Paper whichELSPAis publishing forthwith. My brain hurts.Almost synchronicity then is the release of yet another pithy attempt by Nintendo (and the games industry in general) to attract the elusive women's market.A pink GBA SP. Oh for goodness sake.While I whisper a silent "thank you" I do roll my eyes at the flippant attempt of an industry that knows so little about what we want. What's the good of making a machine that will "appeal" to us when the games that are made don't? Eh?I could go on all day, but instead for those who are interested in a well-researched and cleverly thought-out book that tackles this issue head on, check out Sheri Graner Ray's 2003 release "Gender-Inclusive Game Design: Expanding the market". Or you could come along for the rousing discussions on the Women in Games Development Committee's listserv, which can be approachedhere.If you are a girl and you like to game, don't worry, there's support for people like us. Check out Aurora's superb collection ofweblinksrelated to this very topic. You can expect much much more on the subject from me in the near future, as theWomen in Games Conferencein Austin, TX approaches, and as plans for the 2nd UK-basedWomen in Games Conferenceare solidified.Hear me roar.An (extremely) brief history of Pink products:HerInteractive, headed by female gamers Sheri Graner Ray and Patricia Flanagan, self-publishesMcKenzie &amp; Co.in 1996 after being turned away from most big-name games companies. The game shifts 80,000 units from a small ad in the back of a mag. More of a girl game than a pink game (there is a difference), it followed the young protagonist as she tries to find a date for the Prom.Barbie Fashion Designer(Mattell) is released in 1997. It quickly becomes the big pink Kahuna, the one that simultaneously celebrated and ruined it all. By selling 600,000 copies in one year, it proved that girls do play games, but locked the suits into thinking that this was the only one we wanted.Brenda Laurel sets upPurple Moonin 1997 and kicks up a consumer storm with her Rockett's World series, which challenges myths that girls don't like violence, they don't like competition and they don't like games. The company was assumed into the Mattell behemoth and quietly exterminated in 1999, in favour of something a bit more pink. Like more Barbie.Manipulation simulationSISSYFIGHT2000is a hit with slightly twisted girls and grown ups alike, pitting the good vs. the bad in a playground-situated flight to the death.Nintendo Game Boy Advance (Nintendo, 2001) is released in pink. You know, for girls. Sigh.I am forced to reviewMary King Riding Star(Midas Interactive) in 2001, an equestrian simulation (primarily for girls), and almost get killed trying to ride a non-digital horse.In 2002,Mary-Kate and Ashleycontinued their fiendish attempt to take over the world by releasing a series of strange "female" products, while Britney Spears gets her own game, "Britney's Dance Beat" for the PS2. Gosh, that was popular with the boys.2004. Nintendo releases the GameBoy Advance SP in pink.The revolution will be digitized.
Nokia is offering N-Gage Arena members the chance to download a preview version of the multiplayer turn-based strategy title Pathway To Glory, set for N-Gage release this Christmas."Pathway to Glory is set in WWII and enables players to create and control their own platoon of soldiers in historically accurate missions and to engage in hybrid real-time battle with other gamers from around the world. Gamers can either connect to collaborate and compete in the Global Battle Ground via the N-Gage Arena, or set up a local multiplayer game with up to six other players via Bluetooth wireless technology," explains the press release.Check it outhere.
The sharp fall in share prices in New York last week has called into question the $36bn (&#163;19.5bn) flotation of internet search engine Google which was expected to go ahead as early as tomorrow.Advisers to the complex retail and institutional share placing, Morgan Stanley and CSFB, met over the weekend to decide whether to delay America's largest flotation of the year, according to reports.Google reckons its shares are worth between $108 and $135 each, which would value the company at a hefty 50 times   the earnings that analysts are projecting for next year. But with the market depressed investors are likely to want a more down to earth price tag.On Friday the Dow Jones dropped almost 150 points as employment data showed fewer jobs were created in July than originally forecast, raising fears about the strength of the US economy. The drop rounded off a torrid week for US stocks during which the Dow Jones lost more than 3% and the Nasdaq index of technology stocks - where Google intends to list - dropped 6%.The market's decline has already claimed casualties. Last week computer software company Lindows dropped its price from $9 to $7 in order to get away, while nanotechnology company Nanosys dumped its plans to go public completely.Adding to the gloom over Google's prospects was news yesterday that industry analysts Jupiter Research reckon that spending on online advertising is slowing.A delay to the flotation of Google would present a blow to the bulls in the stock market and hurt the bank balances of the company's 30-something founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page.
IT services and software firm Synstar is today expected to admit it is in talks with Hewlett-Packard over a takeover which could value the Berkshire-based business at around &#163;160m.Hewlett-Packard is looking to increase its European footprint with the deal and move further into the IT services space. Synstar, based in Bracknell, provides corporate customers with everything from basic software support to restoring entire IT networks through its disaster recovery centres.In June it reported half-year, pre-tax profits of &#163;2.2m, down from &#163;3.7m with sales of &#163;103m up less than analysts had forecast. The company was upbeat about its prospects, however, having secured its largest ever contract in September. The seven-year maintenance deal with Fujitsu is worth &#163;200m.Synstar's board is believed to be looking for HP to offer around 100p per share which would value the business at &#163;160m. The shares, which were valued at more than 240p during the dotcom boom, closed at 78.25p on Friday. Synstar refused to comment.But talk over the weekend that computer games software Eidos is close to a takeover is understood to be somewhat premature. There was speculation that French computer games company Ubisoft is considering an offer for the creator of Tomb Raider's Lara Croft at 150p per share. The bid would value Eidos, which has run into difficulties after a string of profit warnings, at about &#163;215m.Yves Guillemot, chairman of the French computer games company, has said in the past that Eidos is an "attractive and interesting company" but Eidos is understood to be assessing expressions of interest from several other potential bidders.US groups Electronic Arts, Activision and Microsoft are all rumoured to be interested. Infogrames Entertainment, which dropped out of talks with Eidos four year ago, is reportedly not considering an offer.&#183;Internet Business Group is today expected to announce that Cornell Capital Partners has agreed to provide the AIM-listed e-commerce minnow with up to &#163;500,000. The share-backed credit line will be used to invest in IBG's current business.
"Private photographs, confidential financial documents and even military secrets have joined the list of files that computer users can download as they scour the Internet," reportsReuters."Some programs, like LimeWire, leave their users especially vulnerable to prying eyes. They search the entire hard drive not only for media files, but also for programs and documents created by Microsoft Word and Excel as well Quicken, which keeps track of financial transactions and account details."The article mentions two Web sites,SeeWhatYouShare.comandFound Photos, where private files and photos are being posted.
My first car? A Renault 5, orange, £15, window mould and holes in the boot. Second car: Fiat 127, blue, £350, more rust than Iron Maiden. Third: VW Polo, £900, maroon, stained seats and only one working lock... you get the picture. Can you judge a man by the cars he has owned? Do they form a sort of motoring CV? If so, you'll know that a) style has never been an issue for me, b) neither has performance, and c) my parents aren't rich. What you won't know is the sheer excitement (and relief) that getting into a new car brings me. Having spent so many years on the rough end of motoring's affections, I really know how to appreciate the smooth. I'm a family man with three young children, and a slobbering dog, and I hope that through these pages you'll get to read not about torque outputs and maximum axle weights, but about which cars make your kids feel nauseous, and which models will make your neighbours sick with envy.Your questions answeredQWhat on earth does all the jargon mean in car ads? It's just another example of boys being boys playing with their toys. Why can't they just say what they mean?Eleanor Dawson, YorkAHi Eleanor, When it comes to small ads, an acronym saves you lineage and therefore money. But as you say, speaking in capital letters also becomes a game in which lonely men who spend their days scanning 'cars for sale' columns can pretend what they're doing is more glamorous than it is. Recently, however, Network Q teamed up with the Plain English Campaign to produce a jargon-free guide to dealerspeak, which included terms such as:18AW - 18in alloy wheels; FAR - front armrest; ESR - electric sunroof; and ICE - in-car entertainment. But even spelling these terms out can bamboozle anybody who doesn't think it's fun to spend weekends lying on your back covered in oil (on second thoughts...). My favourite ad, which I spotted in the Salisbury Journal, stated simply:'Mrs pregnant, Porsche got to go - gutted.' I was never sure whether he was gutted at having to sell his car, or because his wife was expecting.QDear Mr Love, Which car offers the most comfortable back-seat shag?Caroline, LondonASex in cars should never be about comfort, and always about excitement. If it's comfort you're after, a Transit van will do the job. If it's excitement, try the still-warm bonnet of a red E-Type.QLast time I looked the upper speed limit on all Britain's roads was 70mph. Why then do manufacturers make vehicles that can do 150mph? And why do people like yourself go on about how fast cars are? Don't you realise that speeding is illegal, dangerous and stupid!Alastair McKay, BathAAlastair, You're right, the speed limit is 70, though you could be forgiven for thinking it was 90. On your behalf I phoned the press office at Mercedes to ask them why they made such fast cars. Their spokeswoman said: 'We make cars according to the market demand for them. Our customers want fast cars and so that's what we give them.' She did point out that Mercedes has led the way in innovative safety developments, airbags, crumple zones, etc. As to your point about us journalists... well, you're right, of course. However, I have a no-nonsense wife who has little faith in my driving ability, so hopefully you'll find reviews on these pages which take the macho out of motoring.QDear Martin, My mother-in-law is 74 years old and her trusty Polo has finally driven itself into the ground. She wants something similar and has a budget of about £7,000. She says this will be her 'last' vehicle. Any suggestions?Jackie, DorsetA'Last' sounds a bit final. I'm tempted to suggest a leather-clad Harley so she can go out in a blaze of glory. For £7,000, she has plenty of options, but the one that'll turn most heads at the bingo is the new Fiat Panda - and she'll save £1,000.QI'm fed up with driving the mass-produced cars that are churned out these days and have decided to buy a classic. But I don't know anything about cars. Do you have any tips/pointers for the lazy vintage enthusiast?Ian Wickes, LeedsAToday's cars are like Stepford wives. Efficient and reliable, but scarily boring, so a classic is a great idea. The first thing to do is decide what you want to drive, then contact the owner's club of that make. They'll give you all the help and advice you need to find a car and then, importantly, keep it on the road. Auctions are another avenue to explore, seewww.classic-car-auction.co.ukfor details. It's worth remembering that cars made before 31 December 1972 pay no road tax and are cheap to insure. My neighbour, for instance, bought an Austin A35 (his fifth) for £1,800 and has insured it for a year for £90. Another alternative is to join a members' collective, such as theClassic Car Club, where for an annual fee you can drive any of its fleet of immaculate vintage cars.QHi, We thought it might be a laugh to drive to the Olympics. We've got our hands on an old Land Rover. We figured we could sleep in the back. Do you think we'll make it? Baz and Chris, BirminghamAThe games start on 13 August, so you have five days to drive 2,500 miles. Better get started. When you get there, report to the British Team office.They could do with all the help they can get.
Search engine Google was aiming to float on Wall Street this week, valued at up to $36 billion. But the internet company's advisers are meeting this weekend to discuss possibly delaying the public listing after a sharp fall in share prices in New York on Friday.An insider said last night: 'The float is teetering on the brink - it really is 50/50 at this stage, although many of us are optimistic.'The company is being advised by investment banks Credit Suisse First Boston and Morgan Stanley.The initial public offering of shares in Google, which could raise nearly $4bn, will amount to one of the biggest IPOs for years.But many US firms have shelved their IPOs amid volatile market conditions and investors appear unwilling to   subscribe to new equity. A Wall Street analyst said that the Google IPO 'would be a seminal event for the American stock market' as its real significance was that it would test whether or not the recovery in equity prices since the end of the Iraq war had taken hold.'If this float works, a lot of other companies will be encouraged and come to the market later in the year,' the insider added. 'But it will be bad news if the IPO is pulled or the shares fall sharply after the company is listed. If that happens, it could kill off the   IPO market in America and elsewhere for at least 12 months.'Several fund managers have already expressed reservations about Google, in particular its high valuation and the complex way the shares are being sold. Moreover, the Google flotation is taking place at a time when technology companies in the US have been shunned.On Thursday, the IPO hit a technical hitch over the failure of the company to meet its legal obligations concerning its employees' stock option plans. But the   company did not think that the disclosure would mean a delay to the IPO, which is due on Tuesday.At the top of the suggested price range, Google would be valued not far short of its rival internet firm Yahoo! - and this has raised eyebrows within the industry.The auction is being conducted over the internet, and potential buyers will have to register by signing on to a Google website. But only investors who have brokerage acccounts with one of the 28 US banks and brokers underwriting the stock sale, will be able to apply.Google suffered a setback last month after it reported an unexpected slowdown in its huge growth rate. But sources close to Google's founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, said that the tailing-off of growth was due to seasonal factors and would not affect the IPO.
"Now the computer savvy among us can relive the fun of having your very own personal mini-oven with the PC Ez-Bake oven! It fits in a 5 1/4" drive bay and plugs right into your power supply with the included Molex connector," saysThinkGeek. [Thank's to Paul Thurrott'sInternet Nexusfor the link.]
Benjamin Vanderford had a funny way of making a point about the media: he filmed his own fake beheading and distributed the video over the internet.In the footage, which was posted on a militant website and aired on Arab television on Saturday, Vanderford sits on a chair in a dark room, his hands behind his back as he trembles and rocks back and forth. 'We need to leave this country alone. We need to stop this occupation,' Vanderford is heard saying.But yesterday, amid a mounting furore, the 22-year-old, who lives in San Francisco, confessed that he had staged the hoax several months ago, editing the 55-second video using production software to downgrade the quality, so that it would appear genuine.'It was part of a stunt, but no one noticed it up until now,' Vanderford said. The computer   games programmer tried to justify his actions which involved liberally dousing himself with fake blood, saying: 'I see how it could be considered disrespectful. But I think people, if they look at it, will understand the other big issues it brings up.'A small group of disgruntled people in Iraq or Saudi Arabia could just get more attention just by easily releasing something like I did on the internet.'
[Off Topic]"I wish to propose two different answers to the question 'Does money buy happiness?' Considerable evidence suggests that if we use an increase in our incomes, as many of us do, simply to buy bigger houses and more expensive cars, then we do not end up any happier than before. But if we use an increase in our incomes to buy more of certain inconspicuous goods–such as freedom from a long commute or a stressful job–then the evidence paints a very different picture. The less we spend on conspicuous consumption goods, the better we can afford to alleviate congestion; and the more time we can devote to family and friends, to exercise, sleep, travel, and other restorative activities. On the best available evidence, reallocating our time and money in these and similar ways would result in healthier, longer– and happier–lives." From an essay by Robert H Frank in Daedalus, Journal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Vol. 133, Issue 2. Read ithere.
"One step up from the now familiar internet blogger, vloggers upload personal video clips of everything from the US Democratic convention to what they had for their tea, via rants about tax rises and conspiracy theories." Read the story in today'sGuardian.
With the release of Doom III,The New York Timeshas a feature on Id's John Carmack.
The full download for XP2 is 256MB, butComputerworldsays: "The average download for Windows XP Professional is expected to be about 100MB, according to Microsoft. The average download for customers with Windows XP Home Edition is estimated at 80MB. Customers who need SP1 can expect the download to be 20MB larger, Microsoft said."Microsoft recommends users turn on Automatic Updates to get it, though it could take days or weeks."'When we turn on Automatic Updates, the probability is one in a million or one in two million that you'll get it right then and there,' [Barry Goffe, group manager of Windows client product management,] said. 'The number of people that will get it is a number that will be determined by the amount of bandwidth that we identify on the Internet and the number of support calls and the general reaction of people. If things are looking good, we will turn the throttle up. If there are a lot of issues, we will turn the throttle down'," says the article.Comment:SP2 will also be available free on CD from Microsoft and from some US stores. Microsoft UK asked Redmond for permission to distribute it via computer magazine cover discs, but I haven't heard the response.
Crash Nitro KartN-GageSince the early-1990s reign of Mario and Sonic there have been several attempts at inventing the next big mascot. Fallen heroes like Bubsy the Bobcat and Taz the Tasmanian Devil litter the brightly-coloured cartoon roadside, and it's a testament to their dreariness that the only one to endure is bottomof- the-barrel-scraper himself, Crash Bandicoot, back this time for a gokart racing game. Hamstrung by the N-Gage's narrow screen format and beset by a juddering frame rate and graphics that are at best rough around the edges, Nitro Kart is a work of staggering awfulness. The karts have no perceptible feel, circuits feature no memorable corners or cleverly concealed short- cuts and the whole thing feels shabby and slapped together. If you've ever played Mario Kart this appalling shambles will not just be an affront, but actually offensive.&#183;Vivendi, £30Onimusha 3: Demon SiegePS2Capcom's inspiration for Onimusha, the Resident Evil series, is justly famed for its atmospheric environments, welljudged puzzles and hilariously bad voice acting. The latest Onimusha lives up to all those, with scenes from feudal Japan complemented by a timetravelling contemporary Parisian setting: some neat brain teasers involving trading objects through time, and voice acting that for the most part substitutes Jean Reno's dulcet tones for those of a horribly illjudged random American. The familiar hack-upenemies/ absorb-theirsouls gameplay returns, enhanced by Ako the fairy, who as well as allowing you to target enemies also acts as conduit between ancient Japanese Samanosuke and his modern day partner Jacques Blanc. Cinematic, vibrant and gripping, Onimusha 3 constantly compels you to see the next luscious new locale - it's travel porn with samurai swords.&#183;Capcom, £40NewsGame Boy - AdvancedNintendo has announced that the final nomenclature for its new double-screen handheld, codenamed the DS, will be - the DS. President of Nintendo Co, Satoru Iwata, was keen to point out its other surprising qualities, "Dual screens, chat functions, a touch screen, wireless capabilities, voice recognition - these abilities surpass anything attempted before". It may also surpass the abilities of Nintendo's advertising agency to explain these fairly complex and abstruse features to a slack-jawed general public brought up on cheap movie licenses, identikit first person shooting games and half-hearted Grand Theft Auto rip-offs. Although still refusing to discuss niceties like price and release date, inscrutable Nintendo has revealed that there are 120 titles in development, with 20 of those being in-house which, as any GameCube or Game Boy owner will tell you, are the only ones that count.
When Luuk Bouwman finished college he did what so many graduates do and decided to spend a year travelling.He packed his rucksack with clothes and a video camera and jumped on a plane to Peru. Machu Picchu beckoned. But when Mr Bouwman got on to the Inca trail and then further into rural Peru, he took a more unusual route.He slipped into the now ubiquitous - even, he says, in Peruvian one-horse towns - internet cafe, got out his digital video camera and began uploading the tales of his travels on to his website back in the Netherlands. Then, each week, the rest of the world was free to watch his travel diary.Mr Bouwman is the vanguard of the latest internet trend: video logging or vlogging. One step up from the now familiar internet blogger, vloggers upload personal video clips of everything from the US Democratic convention to what they had for their tea, via rants about tax rises and conspiracy theories."When I went there were very few video logs on the web and most of them were very introverted," says Mr Bouwman. "I wanted to take this video web log concept and go as far away from technology as possible. So I took it right into the Amazon."Mr Bouwman was at an advantage to the average person who wants to take up vlogging: he had just graduated from film school.His website (tropisms.org) has evolved into one of the slickest vlogging sites on the internet. It is a way for him and other young documentary makers to self-publish their work. "I get up to 500 unique visitors a day, nothing compared to TV, but a full cinema still," he says.But not all vlogging is so slick. In its most basic form, vlogging does not require very hi-tech equipment: a digital video camera, a high-speed connection and a host are all that is needed. It is still not an easy pursuit, but the gradual simplification of the technology is bringing an increasing number of people into vlogging - and politicising it.Click ondemandmedia.netand you'll find a video of a Manchester anti-war demonstration posted by Anonymous Hero. It's the sort of rally by school and university students too small to make it on to the national media, but here it is being thrown open to a global audience."I set up the site because I saw a need for a portal for independent, grassroots video that wanted to affect social change," says Alan Bushnell, who runs Demand Media. But, though Mr Bushnell says he is receiving more submissions, he admits there are obvious limitations with vlogging."People are taught to write from childhood, however there is no analogous experience of learning to produce video," he says.Steve Garfield, a video producer from Boston, Massachusetts, has no problems with the medium. He uses his website to be a "citizen journalist", which he describes as "anyone who decides to tell a story and share it".Mr Garfield posts about two vlogs a week, on everything from beer and local human interest stories to an off-beat daily report from the recent Democratic convention. There are still only a few hundred vlogging sites on the web - compared with literally thousands of blogging sites - but Mr Garfield predicts that more internet users will get involved in vlogging once the technological barriers come down."As tools come out that make it easier, more people will start creating video blogs," he says. "The barriers to entry now are the number of steps it takes to get a video published on the web. You've got to shoot the video, digitise it, edit it, compress it for web delivery, upload it to a host and post it to your blog."At the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Aisling Kelliher is working on a research project that uses new technology which allows vlogs to be created using the new generation mobile phones."At the moment a lot of people who video log are in schools or institutions where the cost is not an issue and they have access to the technology," she says."I have done three or four experiments with giving people cell phones they could use to create a video log. We got things like a video log of someone recovering in hospital. It was very moving. It's a great way to get people to begin to play around with video."But as the technology simplifies and the cost of vlogging goes the way of all new technology and tumbles, the obvious question looms large: why would anyone want to create video log that, at best, a few hundred people are going to see?"It's a form of self-publicity, of course, anything put out from home pages is self promotion in some form," says Mark Griffiths, a psychologist at Nottingham Trent University who specialises in the psychology of the internet."It may be that they are trying to get an argument out, it may just be a cathartic experience. You are never going to get a single answer. Life can be humdrum and it's a way for people to put themselves in touch with the bigger questions and issues."From Detroit to Ethiopia, all eyes on the futuretropisms.orgWhat started as a personal video log has grown into a collective vlog with a small group of filmmakers. One of the sleekest sites on the net, it includes current vlogs from Chernobyl and EthiopiaSteveGarfield.comBoston-based video producer who wants to show that eventually anyone will be able to create original video on the net. Highlights include a quirky look at the recent Democratic convention in Detroitdemandmedia.netEschews the video-diary vlog concept for video logs that are concerned with social change. Gives a voice to groups and individuals who would never otherwise be heard, but may be a little too right-on for some tastesvidblogs.comBilled as the ultimate public voyeur experiment, the site is full of short films of up to six minutes of ordinary lives.human-dog.comDetroit-based site with a mission to produce non-traditional video. Highlight is a series of interviews about the American draft during the Vietnam war
The reviews for Doom 3, just out in the US, have startedcoming through. Unsurprisingly the visuals and audio get unanimous critical acclaim - Doom 3 really has pushed things forward. Well, graphically at least. The actual gameplay appears to follow the if-it-moves-shoot-it school of first person shooters (FPS). But seeing as Doom basically pioneered this, it is probably forgivable. And anyway, justlook at the thing- it's gorgeous. I can't wait to play it, although I'll have to wait till it's released next Friday - the day I'm off to Turkey for a friend's inconveniently timed wedding. Bah - but maybe it willrun on my laptopso I can play on the plane? Okay, you can stop laughing now.
"French online music store Virgin Mega has filed a complaint against Apple Computer, claiming that the company's refusal to license the copy protection technology used in its iPod is harming competition. The action was filed with the French Competition Council in June and disclosed along with several other legal matters on Thursday as part of Apple's quarterly filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission," reportsCNet."According to the filing, the online store, part of the Virgin family, is seeking various unspecified 'interim measures,' pending a decision on the merits of the case. A hearing on that request is expected in either October or November, Apple said in the filing."
"Cell-phone software makers are putting a new twist on Web logs by tapping into geotracking features in handsets. However, the location-based mobile social networks -- or LoMoSos -- are expensive to use so far, and wireless carriers have been slow to adopt them," reportsCNet."One of the first such products is from WaveMarket, an Emeryville, Calif.-based software maker that invented a way for cell phone users to upload their location, along with photos and text messages, onto interactive street maps viewable by millions of other cell phone users."Comment:This is something that is also being explored in the UK through theUrban Tapestriesproject, which I mentioned in mySmart Placesarticle in Guardian Online. However, I don't think LoMoSos is one of those cute little acronyms that is going to catch on.
