A black-out in the meeting rooms gives Dave the chance to hit the show floor, but he's not exactly blown away by what he finds..."First day of the show proper today but for most it's really day three, as people had arrived at the weekend to catch the hardware announcements."I was down to do PR on our Buzz game behind closed doors at Sony, but upon arrival I found out that power in their area had been down since 3am that morning and no one really knew when it would be back up. Various PR folk, who had spent since last May organising the event, were looking crestfallen. Not only could the games not be played, but the aircon was dead so meetings were a bad idea, and people weren't sure which meetings they were missing since the computers which run the meeting schedules were also down. I used the opportunity to browse the show floors."E3 is always an assault on the senses, but this one seemed bigger than ever, presumably because of the new hardware. Someone told me that it's now the biggest trade event in the world, which I doubt, but it's probably getting close."There would have been a time when I'd try and play every game at the show, but my tolerance for the crowds and noise is weaker than ever and I don't believe you can tell a lot about a game by picking up a controller and trying to play it for a couple of minutes. These days I use the booths as a barometer: which products are the publishers placing their bets on? Are they putting their money behind licenses or new IP? First party or third party? My sense was that Microsoft were putting everything behind 360; Nintendo were hyping their cute Gameboy Micro and less-than-cute DS, and tried to persuade us that Gamecube wasn't dead yet; Sony seemed primarily focussed on PS2 with less of a PSP showing than I expected; EA continue to put their money behind the big licenses and tried and tested IP. Despite the inevitable hype that PS3 and Revolution attracted, they had no real presence on the show floor aside from long queues to see what I imagine is the same footage that has been played at the press events on Monday and Tuesday."The power at the Sony rooms came up around 2pm and it gave me some personal satisfaction to see people clearly enjoying our game. Like most creative things, particularly those done in a closed environment, you're never quite sure of how it will be received, so with that in mind I'm both pleased and relieved in equal measures."
In which David becomes enraged by the term, 'Next Generation'..."One of the talking points of the show is Sony's PSP. Interestingly the whole of Los Angeles seems to be sold out of PSPs, and yet people really want them - the demand must be amazing, and despite the Gameboy Micro, Nintendo must be looking over their shoulder a little nervously. It is very prominent on Sony's giant stand - and for the first time Sony are showing off three machines."The main thing of note is the new fifth generation, or 'Next Generation' machines as they seem to be almost ubiquitously known (this has annoyed me for a long time - we are in a permanent state of 'Next Generation' machines it seems; Playstation 2 and Xbox were 'Next Generation' only a year or so ago). The queue for Sony's PS3 (shown pseudo-privately, presumably to raise anticipation) snaked all round Sony's stand, so clearly it is attracting deserved attention."I think comment on the three contenders is a bit pointless at this stage; their success will very much depend on the eventual games rather than details of Terraflops, Gigahertz, Megabytes, which has been done to death elsewhere, anyway. All that can realistically be shown at this stage is imagery, and this seems unlikely to be where the main 'Next Generation' (Grr) fight will be."I'd like to close on one thing that people outside the games industry probably do not realise about shows like E3: for many it is a succession of meetings in loud, hot rooms, with snatched time to see the show between meetings, which results in much traipsing around seeing brash displays of games you saw here last year, but you still look around in hope for the odd gem. For those people outside the industry it is an unfulfilled dream. For those inside it can be nightmarish at times - but I still enjoy it! Mostly."
Tony escapes from the SN Systems stand and takes a whistle-stop tour of the West hall, where Sony and Nintendo await..."For the unfortunate ones who don't know, E3 is split into three halls; West, South and Kentia. I'm meant to be working - my company SN Systems produces development tools that many video game studios around the world use to code their games. We have a meeting room in Kentia hall which is perfect for demos/meetings as it's in the quietest section of all the halls. We're showing off our latest development tools for the PSP and Nintendo DS as well as discussing 'other' consoles with all the major studios. While all the glitz and glamour of E3 is kicking off, we're presenting compilers, debuggers and profiling tools to a stream of developers who will be shaping the next generation of games."It's a bit of a crime to be at E3 and stuck in a room all day, and while there are, to be fair, more than enough interesting things on show in Kentia hall to keep me busy for the entire day, knowing I was so close to such emporiums of fun in the other halls was killing me.Tony has captioned this photo, "My first console". I'm just wondering what on earth this little display is doing at E3? Did he bring it with him?"So, by virtue of me writing this blog I was able to justify escaping into the madness for a few hours, solely of course for research/work purposes. Madness is actually what the rest of the halls are: so many giant screens, speakers, pod after pod, queue after queue of developers waiting patiently to dabble on the latest title. You really have to see it to believe just how huge and loud the show is, the expense that the studios have gone to, in order to promote their games is incredible. With limited time you have to be ruthless so today I decided to split my focus and concentrate on the West hall where Nintendo and Sony are rubbing shoulders. Both of them occupy huge areas on the show floor, flexing their muscle on plush white carpet and blazing giant screens. You can't help pick up the pace as you approach."Then, you see the queues and crowds. I took the easy option and hovered over each pod hoping for a space but with the attention span of rat in a cheese factory I skipped from pod to pod thinking, "Yep I'll have that one on pre-order". Quickly I realised what would be getting my money: Mario Kart DS, Nintendogs (three copies please, one for me and two for my nephews Stef and Alex who already have it on their Christmas list to give to 'Uncle'), and Zelda (like it needed saying)."Nintendo heaven," says Tony."Soon I was deflecting to the other side, not because I wasn't impressed but you know quality when you seen it and you don't really have to think, 'is it worth playing'? Sony have an equally impressive show area, a multitude of playable PSP demos to hover over once again. Virtua Tennis, "Yep, I'll have that on pre-order" and on it continues. Honestly, sometimes I think I should get my company to pay me in 'game vouchers' and save my bank the hassle.Tony in the process of creating his lengthy pre-order list."Next on my whistle stop tour was Konami, praying for a PSP version of Pro Evolution Soccer but I was to be denied this pleasure with not even a sniff of it anywhere. "Still, that's a pre-order without question" I think to myself as I wander off."It's now 8.20pm and I'm sitting outside a café in the warm LA air writing this blog, waiting for some food to arrive. I've been up since 4am and eaten a burger and fries, one banana and half a bag of jelly babies. I'll eat, go to bed and repeat the whole romance again in the morning."Tony LiviabellaSN Systems
One thing that has stood out on the Xbox 360 games shown here at E3 is how realistic the faces of characters are getting. And while this is great for realism, it does throw up the thorny old subject of gaming violence.One 360 game - the ludicrously titled Condemned Criminal Origins - is likely to get the Daily Mail and their ilk up in arms. Not for the right reasons - namely that it looks pretty tedious - but because this is a violent game that looks unnervingly realistic.The action I watched saw the player hitting opposing gang members with nailed planks and generally spilling copious amounts of blood - all in 360 clarity-o-vision. I'm sure CCO will be an 18 when released, but that won't deter the headlines.However, it would be nice to see the next-gen consoles using their graphical prowess to show us more than just better-looking ways to kill a computer character. In the meantime expect more calls to ban violent video games over the coming year.
E3 2005 didn't start well for the thousands of media present, including me. A power cut lead to huge registration delays which lead to serious frustration. I finally got in about midday and headed straight for the Nintendo stand – but the Zelda queue was massive by that point so I postponed my visit to Hyrule until tomorrow. Thankfully the day was saved by two great games, both totally different – Call of Duty 2 and Spore. COD2 on Xbox 360 doesn't offer much more than the original did - i.e. visceral and atmospheric WW2 combat – but it looks so lovely that you can forgive it. Forget all the videos and hype – here is a next-gen game played in real-time that looks fantastic. But the real pleasure of the day was listening to Sims creator Will Wright demonstrating his new game Spore.The geek genius was a delight to listen too as he took us through a game that if it fulfils half its potential will be a classic. Players create a single cell animal and grow them into fully fledged creatures. These can then be trained and nurtured into tribes and cities. I assumed this would be it – a Black &amp; White style creature game with Sim City overtones. And this would have been enough for most designers – but not this one.If your creation gains enough intelligence they can enter space and colonise different planets, all of which have their own inhabitants. These are designed by other players and incorporated into your game – Wright described it as a single player multiplayer game. From planets you can move to solar systems and galaxies, creating alliances or enemies. The six of us in the demo actually applauded at the end, such was the passion and ambition shown. In a gaming era dominated by shooting, scoring and steering, it's great to see something different. Whether the finished article matches up to the hype – and parts of the demo did remind me of Black &amp; White era Molyneux – remains to be seen, but at a noisy E3 a quiet game of animal creation stole the day.
Boot camps aren't just for young offenders and royalty. The government is planning to put its IT managers through a standard training regime as part of its effort to reduce the number of computer-assisted policy embarrassments. Like its counterparts at Dartmouth and Sandhurst, the proposed government IT academy will build an esprit de corps to accompany graduates throughout their careers.It is the brainchild of Ian Watmore, the government's IT tsar, who wants to create a new calibre of government IT manager. "When people join the IT profession, they join to have a career," he says. "What we in government do today is recruit them into a job."A career structure will encourage good people to stay in the public service by offering a route to the top. Watmore's plan implicitly challenges the tradition - a running joke in the television comedy Yes, Minister - that the best qualification for modern public administration is an Oxford degree in dead languages. When one of the show's few competent Whitehall characters was asked why he wasn't running a department, he replied: "Alas, I'm an expert."Several enquiries into IT project disasters have suggested that it would be a good idea to put experts in charge. Last year, a hard-hitting report by a Commons committee recommended that the Department for Work and Pensions recruit "sufficient numbers of skilled project managers with knowledge of IT projects to negotiate contracts and to monitor their IT suppliers effectively".The department says it is taking steps in that direction. Across government, however, there are still not enough managers with the right expertise. One problem is that a senior civil servant will typically run a big IT project only once in their career before being promoted - or departing for the private sector.Watmore thinks the public service employs about 30,000 IT specialists: 10,000 in central government and 20,000 in local councils, the NHS and other services. Turning this collection of individuals into a profession is one theme in a government-wide IT strategy due to be published this autumn. The strategy will also cover ways of transforming the machinery of government through IT, and computer security.The strategy will recognise that 10 years of IT outsourcing has left parts of government unable to act as an "intelligent customer". Watmore, as a former managing director of Accenture's UK operations, was responsible for taking over some of the largest government IT functions. He does not intend to turn the clock back to running systems in-house. In fact, "if we have more skills, arguably we would need fewer people".The academy idea is still at an early stage, he says. "We're looking at some form of government IT academy system through which we bring new recruits. Common and consistent training run on a pan-government basis."The academy may even be a virtual institution. Watmore says: "We are exploring all the options. It's important that we have some form of unified training."Graduates will have a career path to become top-level chief information officers, the kind of people who in private industry would sit on the board. "There's no reason why that should stop there, and the chief information officer should not go on to be a permanent secretary," Watmore says.The new approach poses several dangers. One is that fast-tracking a cadre of bright young things will embitter the generation now in charge. Another is that graduates will be poached by the private sector, which has its own problems in creating a coherent career structure.The good news for government IT managers is that they are no longer always the poor relations. Pay for government contractors rose by one third last year, according to a survey commissioned by the Association of Technology Staffing Companies.Watmore says there is a good reason why British government IT projects are risky - they are gigantic, not just in comparison with the private sector but with their counterparts overseas. "The UK government is unusual in that it has systems that run at a national level on a citizen base of 60m people, so its scale and complexity is unusual. When you go to other countries, similar systems are run at a state level."The Work and Pensions Select Committee warned last year that it may take more than professional skills to reduce the run of disasters. It blamed ministers for committing their departments "to projects that are completely unworkable".Although civil servants are supposed to sound warnings of risks, few are brave enough to do so. Even an expert can find it hard to say: "No, minister."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
While it's a little early for holiday book lists, here are a couple of must-reads for anyone interested in the billions that this government is spending on new IT. Stuff them in your beach bag with the factor 16. Anyone involved in spending those billions shouldn't wait for the beach.Title number one, The NHS IT Project, the biggest computer programme in the world ... ever! describes what it says on the cover. It is the first biography of the &pound;6bn-plus effort to computerise the NHS in England. No doubt there will be more.The NHS national programme for IT is important not just because it is big. Author Sean Brennan points out that any scheme to redecorate the NHS's waiting rooms would probably be the world's largest painting programme. Rather, it is an attempt to change the whole culture of healthcare, and not just in the NHS. This should be of interest to a great many people beyond the techies and NHS managers who have so far noticed what is going on.By necessity, it is an interim history: the real work of implementing new systems has only just begun. However, Brennan performs three useful services. First, despite seven pages of "common abbreviations and acronyms" (God help us when we get to the less common ones), he explains the project in a way that makes sense to ordinary patients. Computers really can improve your health, or at least make your doctor less likely to kill you.Second, he sets it in context. Like all revolutions, the national programme has its founding ideology, which states that before the Year Zero of 2002, all was darkness and chaos. Not so. Brennan reveals that the much-despised ancient regime laid much preparatory work, without macho deadlines or billion-pound contracts. He also explains why much of that effort fragmented into dead ends.Finally, he provides an intelligent answer to the inevitable snap question: will it work? Brennan's answer is that it jolly well ought to. Apart from the glaring exception of the "spine", the central repository of electronic health records, there is no single deadline or point of failure. Just thousands of local implementations of systems of a type that we really should have got the hang of by now.Brennan adds an important caveat. Clinical engagement - which means doctors agreeing to use the systems and to change their ways of working to take advantage of them - is not an option.Another caveat appears in book title number two. Rip-off! The scandalous inside story of the management consulting money machine is a colourful and sometimes breathless confirmation of all our worst suspicions about the suits who gather like flies around public spending programmes. Author "David Craig" admits to a part in one scandal, persuading a health authority to spend &pound;2.3m, which enabled a bunch of US consultants to live the life of Riley. That was in the 1990s. Of course, it couldn't happen now.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The weather forecasters might be confident the temperature in the UK will nudge 100&deg;F this summer, but we are taking no chances. And if you are jetting off in search of guaranteed warmer climes, here are a few ideas as to what to squeeze into your bag.First is the pocketable &pound;110 Sony NW-E407 1GB Network Walkman player (www.sony.co.uk) Not only is it arguably the best MP3 Flash model on the market but it also delivers 40 hours of playback before the battery needs a recharge.For music while swimming, Oregon Scientific has the &pound;130 512MB MP120 (www.oregonscientific.co.uk), a waterproof player that attaches to goggles or a bathing costume. The really brave might also invest in the H2O Audio SV-IP4G underwater housing for the iPod, which retails for $149 (www.H20audio.comFor snapping images underwater, the &pound;250 Pentax Optio WP five megapixel digital camera is worth considering as its waterproof case means it can be used at a depth of up to 1.5 metres (www.pentax.co.uk). Alternatively, Fujifilm's &pound;300 FinePix F10 Zoom six megapixel camera comes with underwater housing that works down to 40 metres. It also has a facility that automatically sets the flash to off and adjusts the sensitivity up to ISO 1600 in low-light situations, so you can snap away without frightening the fish (www.fujifilm.co.ukIf taking your camera phone, you can make sure your wish-you-were-here taunt to the office arrives on time by using O2's photo card system. You take a snap, add a cheeky comment and send it to O2. For &pound;1.50, the network turns it into a postcard and ensures it lands on the victim's doorstep the next day (www.O2.co.uk).For the environmentally inclined, it is worth packing those solar-powered gadgets you spent most of the year failing to get to work properly. Solio's &pound;60 solar-powered recharger (www.everythingipod.co.uk) and Eclipse's &pound;70 Solar Gear carrier bags (www.eclipsesolargear.com) harness the big yellow one to deliver emergency power to your devices.Other gadgets we'll make room for include the Kensington &pound;9.99 FlyFan, a USB-powered mini fan (www.kensington.com), the not-very-travel friendly but cute &pound;39.99 Neptune tide clock (www.initialideas.co.uk), which tells you the best time for surfing and swimming, and the &pound;17.95 Backgammon beach towel (www.boysstuff.co.uk).And, finally, if you can't live without TV, NHJ's &pound;120 VTV-201 wristwatch TV (www.firebox.com) and the &pound;250 Neosol Cliod portable media player with TV tuner (www.microdirect.co.uk) can pull in signals from most European countries.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
For years, it has been an article of faith at every conference about mobile phones I have been to (and I've been to quite a few) that the mobile phone is especially important. Someone will always say in a presentation that consumers are more likely to leave home without a wallet than without a phone.As far as I know, this is true. Mobile phones are indeed indispensable, although, oddly, they are also seen as being dangerous: witness recent media discussions around the urban myth that mobile phones cause petrol stations to explode.Yet twice in the past month, I have found myself on a train to London without my mobile phone but with my iPod. I am starting to wonder if it means something more than age-related forgetfulness.Perhaps it is psychological. When I was coming home on the train without my iPod, I was sitting next to man who spent the entire journey loudly eating a large bag of crisps and sitting opposite a young couple discussing whether it was Prince Philip or Prince Edward who really pulled the strings in The Firm. Who wouldn't long for their iPod in such circumstances, and imprint a mental note to never forget it again.Conversely, when I forget my phone it is an annoyance, but no more. It is not as if I am a transplant surgeon, frantically awaiting news of the donor liver coming in from Heathrow. Generally speaking, it doesn't matter whether I talk to Roger about the Nantwich invoice right now or tomorrow morning.Still, from time to time, I used to look forward to getting a new mobile phone. I am an early adopting, gadget-loving geek up there with the best of them. I couldn't wait to get a new phone with Bluetooth, I was very happy when I could synchronise my phone with my PowerBook, I looked forward to picking up a new phone with an email client and I was oddly excited about my first camera phone.Yet my current phone has an FM radio I have never used, an MP3 player I have never listened to, a camera I have used half-a-dozen times in six months, a diary that I glance at now and then, some games I have never played (including one I paid for, just to see how it worked), and a calculator that, again, I have never used.It isn't just me. The top three uses of mobile phones in Western Europe are still voice, text and phonebook. This is why PC synchronisation is important.I have stopped looking in the windows of phone shops, and I am hard pushed to imagine what would tempt me to get a new handset for the time being. Much longer battery life, maybe, but not a better camera, radio, MP3 player or tool for getting stones out of horses' hooves.It may well be that mobile phones are no longer interesting. Just as my kids love their iMac but don't seem to think of it as being special - it is just a thing around the house, like the TV or fridge - so mobiles are becoming appliances.But my iPod - now that is something special.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Mobile phonesFeel the beatT-Mobile and Sony Ericsson have announced an exclusive partnership for the launch of the D750i phone, which some are claiming is the best camera phone to hit the market - and certainly one of the lightest. The handset, which will be linked with T-Mobile's electronic music brand Electronic Beats, has a two megapixel camera with 4x digital zoom, autofocus and preflash, as well as 38MB of internal memory and a 64MB Memory Stick. There will also be support for the launch with music festivals across Europe, as well as a "strong presence" in Ibiza, clubbing's spiritual heartland. The D750i will be available from next month.www.t-mobile.co.ukDedicated photosUK mobile phone network 3 has become the latest company to offer subscribers a mobile blogging service. 3's My Gallery enables users to upload images and video shot on their camera phones to a dedicated website. Once the files have been uploaded, users can add a comment or description of the image. The files are transferred to the website via multimedia messaging (MMS), which limits the size and quality of the images. Users can also specify whether they want their gallery to be private or public. The picture hosting service is free to all 3 subscribers, though users pay standard MMS rates for each picture they upload.www.three.co.ukDigital camerasSilver framedOlympus has unveiled its latest top-end compact digital camera, the Mju Digital 800. Set to go on sale in July, the eight megapixel model features a tough weatherproof body finished in silver metal or dark blue. Features include a 3x optical zoom, nine automatic exposure modes and a macro shooting option. Images can be framed and reviewed on its 6.4cm LCD monitor and stored on either the camera's 19MB of internal memory or an x-D storage card. The camera also shoots video in VGA quality with sound.www.olympus.co.ukHardwareCome back to lifeIf you're tired of finding out that your CDs, DVDs and games are scratched beyond repair, then help could be at hand. SkipDoctor, from Pinpoint Consumer Electronics, promises to bring most damaged discs back to life. The device, which retails for &pound;29.99, takes less than a minute to burn off the surface of your scratched disc without losing the data underneath. That proposition might sound worrying to the faint-hearted, but if you have nothing to lose, it could save your data.www.pinpointce.co.ukAt home with IntelTo make the PC a little more living room-friendly, Intel has unveiled a prototype computer design that takes its cue from the Op Art movement of the 60s. Created by Ryan McElhinney, the E-Shell is influenced by Eero Aarnio's bubble and ball chairs, and has an unusual curved design. Finished in white, the prototype features a Hi-Grade DMS II 3400 entertainment PC with TV tuner, DVD reader/writer, and radio player. It also boasts a 3.4GHz Intel Pentium 4 Processor 550, 512MB of Ram and a 250GB hard drive.www.intel.co.ukBon VoyagerPlantronics is hoping to capture the high-end Bluetooth headset market with the Voyager 510. Set for a late summer launch, the &pound;50 model features noise-cancelling technology, which Plantronics claims significantly improves performance, is fairly light (15g) and features a swivel boom mic that can be folded away. The headset, which supports Bluetooth V1.2, features multipoint connectivity, enabling users to switch between Bluetooth-endowed mobile phones, PDAs and laptops. Battery life is rated at six hours talk time and 100 hours standby. It works with the hands-free or headset profiles of mobile phones from Nokia, Siemens, Samsung and Sony Ericsson.www.plantronics.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukStat of the week - Wiki wonderOpen source encyclopedia Wikipedia is now the second most popular reference source on the web, according to new statistics. Almost 4% of all reference traffic came to the site, which has more than 500,000 articles written and moderated by the public.
Flimsy linesUnreal Championship 2Xbox, &pound;39.99Epic Games/Midway, ***In the world of first-person shoot-'em-ups, Unreal is one of the oldest and most respected franchises. In its day, it achieved plaudits for technology but was derided for weak storylines - which explains why Unreal Championship 2's single-player game has possibly the flimsiest excuse for a storyline ever. It is a wonder they bothered with cut-scenes and a storyline, since this is essentially a multiplayer game you can play on your own against artificial intelligence-driven "bots".It is destined to be played almost exclusively on Xbox Live, although the single-player game is useful for getting you up to speed in advance of taking on human opposition. Unreal Championship 2 distinguishes itself quite successfully from other first-person shooters by adding close-in, hand-to-hand action to the customary weaponry. It has a welter of moves designed to balance the effectiveness of hand-to-hand and ranged combat, such as jump attack and an "adrenaline" system that lets you temporarily select the ability, for example, to make super-high jumps.The upshot is more tactical than the average first-person shoot-'em-up, and differing character abilities (brawn versus manoeuvrability, for example) add further depth to the gameplay. Casual gamers won't enjoy the fact that Unreal Championship's single-player game is pretty much non-existent. But hardcore first-person shooter fans should lap it up via Xbox Live.Steve BoxerTwist and flipYoshi's Universal GravitationGame Boy Advance, &pound;29.99Artoon/Nintendo, ***This oddly titled game takes its name from the fact that, via a slightly chunkier motion-sensitive cartridge, the gravity of Yoshi's world can be flipped around by twisting the GBA.OK, so this isn't the game to play when short of elbow room. It also draws strange looks out in public because it has the same feverish arm gestures as those ball bearing maze puzzles in Christmas crackers.It does take a bit of time to master the unusual controls which, among other things, can be used to roll balls, swing on platforms, run up walls and try to keep gravity on the side of Nintendo's cutesy green dinosaur.The object of the gameplay is basic and involves collecting coins, rescuing fruit-bound egglets, vanquishing enemies or simply getting through a level as fast as you can. Yoshi also turns into objects such as a ship, a balloon or a bouncy ball, all of which require particular manipulation to control.The levels get a bit monotonous and the storyline and characters don't add much to the game. Controls can also seem sluggish, especially when Yoshi has to jump and grab things in midair. The whole twisting control may sound gimmicky, but it is a refreshing take on what would otherwise be an uninspiring platformer.Rhianna PratchettMock the bardThe Bard's TaleXbox, PS2, &pound;39.99Ubisoft, ***Role-playing games (RPGs) suffer from an image problem. Seen as the preserve of bearded geeks who enjoy mulling over hit points, armour upgrades and Elf temptresses, they suffer from the reputation gaming as a whole had before the PlayStation.This reputation is undeserved, with the genre providing some of the finest games this year, such as World of Warcaft and Jade Empire. But even the biggest RPG fans would admit their games are a little po-faced, a little too concerned with minutiae.The Bard's Tale is different. Not because of its setting - typical sub-Tolkein fantasy - or the premise - kill goblins to get stronger - but because of the characterisation.The star isn't the usual cliched hero or spikey-haired adolescent. Instead, he is a world-weary slob more interested in chatting up women than polishing his sword.Much of the game involves conversations with in-game characters, which can result in amusing dialogue. But while it makes a pleasant change to have a decent script in a game - especially one that gently mocks RPG conventions - the action remains all too familiar.Players build up their character by undertaking quests and indulging in heavy doses of combat. They then retreat to the towns to divvy out experience points before heading out to kill more nasties. Unfortunately, the combat - an integral part of the game - is disappointing, with sluggish controls and an over-reliance on samey tactics.Greg HowsonTop 5 games - all formats1.Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith2.Forza Motorsport3.Championship Manager 54.Lego Star Wars5.Fifa Street&#183;Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, ©2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Behind the manicured front lawns of Cobham's houses, the curtains are twitching. But it's not the state of your marriage or where you found that impressive hedge trimmer they want to know about, it's how much you paid for your house.According to a survey, the residents of this well-kept Surrey town are the nosiest in the country when it comes to house prices. The research by myhouseprice.com found that Cobhamites were nearly 10 times more likely to use the website to find out how much their neighbour's home cost than the rest of England and Wales.Sally Luxmore of the American Agency, a lettings agency that rents homes to the many expatriates attracted to the town, was not surprised by the level of property-related gossip in a town she dubbed the home of "gin and Jaguars"."Let's put it this way," she said, "people round here are certainly very interested in keeping an eye on their investments. A lot of people have bought to let."The dinner party set proba bly love sitting around talking about how much their houses are worth."Her colleague Sharon Seibengartner agreed: "When you go to value a house for rent they often say, 'My friend got so much hers.' You can't really say, 'Well, their house doesn't have an avocado bathroom' because you have to be a bit more diplomatic than that."The website, which uses information from the Land Registry to offer the details of more than 6.5m properties nationwide, charges &#163;1 to tell you how much the house down the road sold for and give you a report on how much the local property market is fareing.The service has proved popular with searches on more than 250,000 properties since its launch five months ago.Dan Cookson, who co-founded the company in Scotland three years ago, said: "All of the areas that came out in the top 20 were expensive. These are people who have more to lose and gain from movement in the housing market. They are wealthy individuals who are likely to research an area before investing."The average price of a property in Surrey is &#163;312,669 - more than one and a half times the national average -so it is perhaps no coincidence that Cobham and Virginia Water, which came second in the survey, are in the same county.There could also be other reasons for the level of interest in this town of 6,600 households.Earlier this year, Chelsea football club opened its train ing ground on the outskirts of the town, and players including Frank Lampard and John Terry have homes in the area."I reckon it's people trying to find out what the footballers payed for their places," said Dee Macauley, owner of Cobham's Suzanne Boutique, which does a nice line in Burberry raincoats."But Cobham had always been a wealthy area and celebrities round here are nothing new. It's near London, crime is low and we're surrounded by beautiful countryside. I can't think of any places nicer to live."The signs of affluence are everywhere in the town, from the jewellery shop and designer boutique, to the stores selling exclusive homeware, and at least eight estate agents in the high street.Every fourth car is a BMW or Mercedes, and the cafes are full of women in designer clothes sipping chilled white wine with friends.Anthony Blackman, marketing manager at Roy James Fancy estate agency, said: "It is the villagey atmosphere of the town and its proximity to London that attracts the wealthy, including a large American community."It's not surprising people are preoccupied with house prices because it's almost impossible to buy here for less than &#163;500,000," he added."But I wouldn't say people were nosy. In fact, people here are very conservative and rather old school. There aren't many nouveaux riches - apart from the footballers, of course. It's mainly old money."But one woman, who runs a newsagent's, said: "You've heard of the listening bank," she said."Well ,this is the listening shop. I hear it all, but I wouldn't say people were that interested in property - though that might be because the millionaires don't have to come out to buy their cigarettes and chocolate."Property hotspotsThe top 10 areas and their average house price1Cobham/Oxshott(Surrey) &#163;624,9862Virginia Water(Surrey) &#163;564,5913Beaconsfield(Buckinghamshire) &#163;589,3654Kensington and Chelsea(West London) &#163;721,4195Harpenden(Hertfordshire) &#163;371,4206Merton(South-west London) &#163;283,6657Richmond upon Thames(South-west London) &#163;384,6668Sunningdale/Ascot(Berkshire) &#163;428,9959Walton and Weybridge(Surrey) &#163;360,07210North Ferriby / Swanland(Humberside) &#163;218,164
Microsoft has always liked the idea of having a regular income. Now it might get a new one, by remotely looking after the health of users' PCs for a monthly or annual fee.An automated Microsoft service called OneCare is now being tried out on Microsoft staff. It will get a public beta test later this year, and should reach consumers next year.OneCare will be like Windows Update, but cover a wider range of problems. "Customers don't differentiate between security issues, maintenance issues and support issues, they just want someone to take care of it," Dennis Bonsall, from Microsoft's technology, care and safety group, told Associated Press.Typical tasks will include installing a two-way firewall, making sure operating system patches are up to date, checking for viruses, Trojans and spyware, backing up data (or warning when it is not backed up), and so on.This should be good for everyone. Just installing firewalls and applying patches on PCs would dramatically reduce the amount of malware activity on the net.Of course, there is no point in Microsoft offering to secure PCs that cannot be secured - for example, ones running DOS-based versions of Windows (3.x/95/98/Me). OneCare will therefore only support PCs running XP with Service Pack 2. However, there are already more than 185m of those, and there should be another 185m by the time OneCare is launched, so this restriction won't limit sales.Anyway, people who won't make their PCs more secure for nothing, by installing SP2, are probably not going to pay for a security service.OneCare will disappoint those of us who think Microsoft should ship a full firewall plus anti-virus and other anti-malware defences free, as part of the operating system. However, the US Justice department and/or the European Union could view such additions as illegal bundling, and could consider them anti-competitive, because dozens of companies - Symantec, McAfee, Sophos, Trend Micro etc - make a healthy living in these areas.So it is hard to see why Microsoft should give stuff away if it risks getting it in the neck from regulators.And if OneCare takes off, it could boost Microsoft's income. At the moment, if someone buys a PC with Windows pre-installed, and uses it for four years, Microsoft earns about $1-$2 (or &pound;1-2) per month. It is not hard to imagine OneCare costing more than this.OneCare could also encourage users to stick with Microsoft's utilities. What will happen, for example, when security holes are found in the Firefox browser, AOL's instant messaging software, RealNetwork's media player, and so on? I can't see OneCare rushing to the rescue.Finally, Microsoft has been working on trusted computing architectures that can prevent any non-approved code or file from running - at some risk of a publicity backlash.However, OneCare subscribers could be ideal customers for Microsoft's Next-Generation Secure Computing Base. NGSCB will start with the Secure Startup feature in Longhorn, which uses the Trusted Platform Module TPM 1.2. It's a foot in the door.LinksWindows OneCare Livewww.microsoft.com/windows/onecare/Next-Generation Secure Computing Basewww.microsoft.com/resources/ngscb/
US internet auction site eBay yesterday made its first acquisition in the UK, buying up online classified advertising group Gumtree.com to add to its existing Kijiji.com network of local sites.Gumtree started in London in March 2000, the height of the dotcom boom, to help people who were planning to move to the city, or had just arrived, and needed help getting started with accommodation, employment and a good night out.The website, created by entrepreneurs Michael Pennington and Simon Crookall, is one of the capital's largest flat share and job sites. Other Gumtree sites have launched for Manchester, Reading, Guildford, Bristol, Brighton, Birmingham, Edinburgh, Cardiff, Dublin and Glasgow as well as in Australia, New Zealand and South Africa.EBay intends to use the site as part of its Kijiji - which means village in Swahili - service which already operates community sites in countries including France, Germany, Japan and China.No financial details of the deal were released.
Damned DACSBroadband has just been made available in our village, and several of us have discovered we have DACS (Digital Access Carrier System) limiters on our BT lines. BT assures me it does not limit the line's bandwidth when used for dial-up access to the net, but my maximum speed is 26.5kbps or slower. If DACS is artificially restricting the speed of my line, is BT allowed to provide a different level of service from that it provides to others without a DACS limiter on their line?Roger LooseJack Schofield replies:DACS is an expensive system that digitises communications between your phone and the local exchange. This improves the line. However, BT only installs DACS hardware to split one line between two houses, or to provide one user with two lines, because it is cheaper than running extra wires to the exchange. Unfortunately, DACS converts back to analogue signals at the exchange, which messes up the V.90 modem system. According to the DACS FAQ (http://frank.gwc.org.uk/~ali/dacs/), you should get 33.6kbps, so try setting this speed. Without DACS, you should get 44-56kbps, so it does limit your bandwidth.BT usually says it is only required to provide universal speech and fax services, plus "functional internet access". This means about 28.8kbps, so DACS should always qualify. BT is not obliged to provide broadband access.DACS is incompatible with all high-speed data systems including ISDN and ADSL, so your best chance of getting a line un-DACSed is to order one of those. BT can provide you with ADSL by switching its DACS equipment to someone else's line, so do it sooner rather than later. If BT sounds less than keen, order ADSL from one of the smaller (but probably more expensive) broadband suppliers. Email a few, telling them your line is DACSed, until you find one that wants your custom enough to do battle with BT. This will work unless BT really doesn't have any spare capacity and it would cost too much (reportedly, more than &pound;900) to install another line.The Broadband Resource (www.samknows.com/broadband/) is a good source of information about exchanges, services, local loop unbundling (LLU) etc.Back it upI've downloaded an evaluation copy of Second Copy from Centered Systems, which you have recommended in the past. I intend to use it to back up data to CD under Windows XP. However, Centered's website says it uses packet-writing software which treats the CD drive like a hard or floppy disk, and you also say (CD Saver, April 28) this is too unreliable for back-ups. Could I use Second Copy to produce a back-up folder on my hard drive then copy that to CD, say once a week?Frank EntwistleJS:Second Copy runs in the background to keep a continuous back-up of your data, so if you point it at a CD-RW drive, it needs to use the optical CD like a magnetic disk. This is less than ideal for long-term storage, but as a short-term back-up, it is much better than nothing. You could point Second Copy at a folder on your main drive, but when that drive fails, you will lose both your original data and the back-ups you have not copied to CD-R. It would be better to point Second Copy at a different drive, which could be an external USB or FireWire drive, or even a removable USB storage card. This may involve extra costs, so it depends how much you value your data.Space saver?I am starting to transfer my CD collection to my laptop's 40GB hard drive. Would I save significant space if I compressed the drive using Windows XP's NTFS?Paul ShepherdJS:Probably not. The NTFS new technology file system lets you choose built-in compression for certain files or folders, or for a whole hard drive. This works transparently - files are compressed and decompressed automatically - but it does make your PC run slightly slower. However, it only compresses files when it can see that this saves space, so a compressed NTFS drive usually contains some uncompressed data. MP3 music files and JPeg images are already compressed twice, so a third compression under NTFS is unlikely to save much space, and it may not even bother.The first compression is "lossy" and reduces the file size by throwing away less important data. The second involves applying standard non-lossy Huffman coding (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huffman_coding) to the resulting file. Huffman may not offer the highest compression possible, but it is fast and convenient.Backchat&middot; Last week, M Barker mentioned he'd been told broadband would be inappropriate as his PC was 15 metres from his phone point. I suggested moving the master socket. ADSL socket-to-ADSL modem cables are typically three metres long, though Maplin Electronics has five metre and 10 metre lengths. However, Ian McRobert, Geoff Robinson and others say they are using 15 metre or longer phone extension cables with no problems. Dave Jones is using a 25 metre RJ-11 cable, "described as 28AWg, costing &pound;24.99", fromwww.NetworkCables.uk.com.
One of the year's most compulsive mobile games involves lobbing a pebble into the sea and trying to get it to bounce as many times as possible. Although Skipping Stone, due to be released in July by British publisher I-play, may sound like a relic from the days of the ZX Spectrum, the eccentric cartoon visuals and perfectly tuned rhythm action-style gameplay make for an irresistible package.The most interesting element is that you only need one button to control the action - the very definition of pick up and play. And this is only one example of a coming revolution in mobile game design.Predictably, Skipping Stone was not developed in the West. It is from Korea, where mobile handset and application design is years ahead thanks to a mass market with a voracious appetite for advanced technology. The company responsible, Gamevil, is an originator in the realm of one-thumb gaming. Its 2003 title Nom ("running man") required you to control a tiny figure as he ran around the outside of the mobile screen - fighting, jumping and even kissing girls - all with just one button.Last year, Korean developer Com2Us launched Skippedy Seed, a one-thumb rope skipping game featuring an array of cute unlockable characters. It has been a huge success, utilising a unique feature of the latest Korean handsets: pressure-sensitive buttons. The harder you press, the higher you jump.Western developers are catching on, however. Having picked up Skipping Stone for European distribution, I-play has now commissioned another one-thumb game - an addictive puzzle title named Jewel Quest, developed by Ontario-based studio Big Blue Bubble. The company's chief operating officer, David Gosen, sees one-thumb titles as a core element of its business.Elsewhere, Finnish studio Sumea, now owned by American publisher Digital Chocolate, has had great successes with one-thumb play. Its brilliant and highly amusing human cannonball sim, Johnny Crash, requires gamers to tap a single button to retain Johnny's altitude as he flies through the air avoiding obstacles. A more advanced sequel, Johnny Crash Does Texas, is out soon.One-thumb games make important concessions to mobile handset design. It is, after all, often fiddly and uncomfortable to play games that require two hands - or even two fingers. Demanding such dexterity breaks the ethos of mobile phone operating systems, which allow users to carry out complex functions such as photo messaging with a single digit.If developers can learn to treat the mobile phone differently from games consoles, a Tetris-like explosion in casual gaming is possible. The future is just one button press away.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Moving accountWhat happens when customers move house and try to get their broadband account moved? My provider, Demon, has refused to move my account and is making me take out a new one - forcing me to pay for the old one and the new one as well as a new &#91;expensive&#93; setup fee. Wanadoo merely asks a &pound;25 moving fee and sets it up directly. People often move, and it seems some broadband companies have not yet sussed out that fact.Gillian McIverNottinghamMobile moneyWith regards to Jack Schofield's piece on PDAs (Column, May 12), I have a Dell PDA and would be interested in a combined phone device if I knew Windows Mobile achieved everything my machine copes with. For example, would it synch with Microsoft Money?Mick PlumbWorthingProblem ticketsI ordered seven PC components for next day delivery from ebuyer.com so I could build a PC for my brother. The next day only three items turned up, and only one was what I ordered. There was also an email informing me that due to unprecedented demand some items might not arrive on time. I raised a problem ticket on its website only to be told I wouldn't receive my order until I returned the unwanted items. Sadly, you can only raise a return number when all your order has been shipped - which mine hadn't. After many attempts to ask for a telephone number I am still unable to speak to anyone. I was offered free shipping on my next order but as I have yet to receive my previous order, this seems hopeful.Dan BridgeCardiffPass notesIn addition to the methods you have recommended for passwords (Ask Jack, passim), I would recommend csPasswordwww.chrisseaton.com/software/cspassword/. It uses a choice of encryption algorithms, Blowfish (448 bit key) and Tea (128 bit key).Tom CorcoranLondonFine at half the priceFollowing Online's recommendation I bought a Nokia 6100 mobile phone. A beautifully designed model and a joy to use, but if only it worked. While I could text my son, who is working overseas, the 6100 would not receive his replies. Eventually, I convinced Carphone Warehouse it was the phone at fault - another phone of the same model also didn't work. With my refund I bought a Siemens A65: not as pleasing, but half the price and it works fine.Graham WilliamsWickFair playThank you, Mike Anderiesz, for mentioning in the review of Stronghold 2 (Games watch, May 12) its buggy state, and the developer's good reputation for fixing bugs. Far too often, reviews ignore bugginess in "good" games and don't inform users of the developers' policy on fixes. In today's commercial climate, where games are often rushed to market to meet publishers' deadlines, this can be fatal to a game's long-term health. Well done for standing up for the poor user, who is often left with a potentially good game that is made unusable by a lack of support or patches.Misha DormanBathProblems routedHenry Phillips (Feedback, May 12), who experienced problems when upgrading his Mac to Tiger, should ditch his Hermstedt WebShuttle and buy a router. End of problems.John PeacheyDorkingHardwired to expireIn reply to S Hayward (Feedback, May 12), we have also noticed printers that are hardwired to expire. We have increasingly seen this trend with printing supplies, where they are programmed to "run out" after a certain number of copies, regardless of whether any capacity remains. Hewlett Packard seems to be a prime example. Epson users can overcome the obsolescence themselves. Washing the ink pads under the cartridges seems to work.Dave AshworthLondonBlogBack: what our readers saySo, most online crime isn't hi-tech at all (Digital highwaymen, May 12). That echoes comments of Kevin Mitnick at Toshiba's recent Mobile xChange forum, and our post on the Sumitomo bank raid in London. What hasn't emerged is the fact that most police forces haven't been given the manpower to go after these criminals, and the banks seem to be dragging their feet on giving them the details they need to prosecute.www.bleedingedge.com.auThe open access movement is gaining strength in Europe. According to the Wellcome Foundation, "the public is being 'double billed' - 90% of research is paid for from public funds, then publicly funded libraries have to pay to see the results".www.mppllc.com
In harmonyThe Apache Foundation, an open source developer group, plans to develop an alternative version of the Java 2 Standard Edition (J2SE) run-time environment. Project Harmony will result in a royalty-free Java Virtual Machine (JVM), the execution environment for Java applications that sits on an operating system, such as Windows or Linux. Apache claims Java's owner, Sun Microsystems, has not opposed the development, though in the past it has fought to ensure royalties are levied for any third-party JVMs. The Harmony JVM will be available free and is to be licensed by Apache under the open source banner.http://tinyurl.com/a5fyhFlash stopperTomTom has announced a package of "tested safety camera alerts" for its GPS satellite navigation systems. The company says the information about speed cameras will "encourage &#91;motorists&#93; to drive more safely, while at the same time save themselves money wasted on fines". The alerts can be downloaded from the TomTom website for &euro;69.95 (about &pound;48).www.tomtom.comSafe and secureWindows XP's wireless networking offers improved security with Microsoft's release of Wi-Fi Protected Access 2 (WPA2). This Wi-Fi Alliance standard is supported in many new wireless hardware products, but the lack of Windows support has prevented full use of these capabilities. With the upgrade, Microsoft is opening the use of Wi-Fi to security-conscious government departments, hospitals and other organisations. The additional inclusion of Wireless Provisioning Services Information Elements (WPS-IE) allows wireless hotspot service providers to support all levels of security, from zero to WPA2, to suit the requirements of individual users. The standard is an implementation of the IEEE 802.11i secured wireless specification.http://support.microsoft.com/?id=893357Web shyPublic and business access to e-government sites in the UK is some way behind other European countries, according to statistics from the European Commission's Eurostat service. A key chart in the report, Statistics in Focus - Internet Usage by Individuals and Enterprises 2004, shows only 16% of UK households have broadband access. This puts the country joint seventh, alongside Austria and Luxembourg. This may explain why only 7% of the population have obtained local authority forms online compared with 21% in Lithuania. Generally, the Scandinavian countries seem to have embraced e-government the most.http://tinyurl.com/asauqTip-top protectionSmall and medium-sized enterprises will be given access to similar intrusion detection systems to those used by corporate giants in 3Com's next range of network hardware. The capabilities stem from the US company's acquisition of Tipping Point and its IPS intrusion protection system. The Tipping Point software was originally sold to Fortune 100 companies, but 3Com is promising a simplified version for inclusion in its low-end switches (though it promises the software will remain platform-independent). Intrusion protection systems detect and shut out hacker attacks, preventing the exploitation of undetected security holes.www.3com.com/index_jump/tippingpoint_info.htmlTime to tellThe Internet Watch Foundation has launched a campaign called Wipe it Out "to stamp out the downloading and distribution of indecent images of children in the workplace". Based on a survey of 200 IT managers, the IWF claims 74% of UK companies would not report employees caught downloading indecent images of children to the police, and almost 40% would not even discipline or dismiss these employees. The IWF says it is trying to communicate the fact that the law was changed from May last year to make it easier for IT managers to report such offences. It plans to distribute its "best practice guidelines" to more than 3,000 IT managers in the UK, and will hold a conference in London on June 15.www.iwf.org.ukNo dealEspotting denies it has a joint venture for its Pay-Per-Call product with Think UK, as reported in this column on May 5. "We were very surprised to see Think UK's press release stating that we have a joint venture with them," says Mike Kerans, from Espotting's parent company, FindWhat.com. "We are looking at launching Pay-Per-Call in the UK, but have not announced timings or agency partners we will be launching with."www.espotting.com
Did you enjoy writing music for a computer game?It was about doing something interactive, which I've never really done before. The music has to change all the time so it was a different approach - technically limiting but challenging. There's more room for manoeuvre than in the old 8-bit days of computer games, but then you tend to make things even more complicated.Were you familiar with Splinter Cell?I wasn't a massive games fan. I play a few games quite a lot. I was into video games as I kid. It's changed a lot, though, as games aren't so much directed towards kids. Games are moving closer to being interactive movies. There's a degree of realism now. When you look at Splinter Cell, it's as if you're watching a movie and controlling the main character.What games did you grow up with?My dad worked at a language school so sometimes he'd come home with a Commodore 64, or an Acorn BBC. I loved Aztec Challenge (www.quernhorst.de/atari/ac.html), and Ghosts 'N Goblins (http://emustatus.rainemu.com/games/gng.htm). I recently read an article where someone was complaining about how "the charm of 8-bit Super Mario sounds was lost" and how soundtracks of computer games were trying to become too grand. But you couldn't put an 8-bit soundtrack on something like Splinter Cell, it would sound stupid. Whole games have changed, not just the sound.Do you see the gaming and music worlds merging even more?As production values expand and there are fewer technical limitations, there's scope for giving music a bigger role. I think everyone agrees on the importance of musical direction, whether in a movie or game. I approached it as if I was scoring a movie. I used all my heroes who've scored movies as a point of reference and tried to create recurring musical themes throughout the game. The process of scoring was meticulous - no sound was lifted from a sample. If you hear a gunshot, it's because sound designers at Ubisoft went into the desert and shot a load of guns.What is your view on MP3s?A lot has to do with perceived audio quality and that is subjective. I'm more interested in formats that give you genuinely higher quality. I'm also not concerned with the transfer of information - if I have to wait a week to get a track in its entirety, I'll wait. I have no use for an iPod.Do you record on 24-bit all the time?Definitely. It takes up more hard disk space and things take longer to process, but hard disk space is much cheaper than it was and processors are faster so it balances out. My hope is always that technology will become cheaper and more accessible. I would never have been able to get into music or afford an orchestra in a track but the advent of samplers 10 years ago allowed me to use sounds I could never have used before. Advances in technology have levelled the playing field.Visit:www.amontobin.com&#183;Ninja Tunes is holding a competition to coincide with the release of Amon Tobin's album. To win a B&amp;W 5.1 surround sound system, visitwww.ninjatune.net/amon5.1/Amon Tobin's bookmarkswww.ubi.com/US/www.trashbat.co.ckwww.splintercell3.com/uk/&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
This week, our relaunched Gamesblog (http://blogs.guardian.co.uk/games) has been following the three major games console launches at the E3 conference. This is what our bloggers and readers had to say about the next generation consoles.Microsoft Xbox 360The Guardian's Greg Howson:Excited then? I am. The Xbox 360 looks like packing a serious punch, with powerful processors, snappier design and - to the delight of any gaming widows/ers - a lack of wires. Throw in the updates to Xbox Live, the customisation facility and the myriad playback options and you have a piece of kit that will have tech-heads drooling. And it should be released globally this year.Killerbee:Besides a few bigger numbers on the specifications sheet, sleeker casing and lots of marketing guff about "HD", there's nothing about Xbox 360 that really moves things forwards. And am I really the only one who found the line-up of exclusive titles a little bit uninspiring? I certainly have far more faith in Nintendo and even Sony to produce the titles that will really move gaming forwards.Be4ch:Microsoft seems to have listened to consumer comments and the Xbox 360 is a nice-looking piece of kit. The bit with the lights around the on/off button to indicate controller ports is a nice touch.Andy:I think we have to look at the bigger picture. If Sony doesn't get its online strategy together then it's a waste of time. I'm actually looking forward to Revolution, but I have to applaud Xbox's delivery of efficient, quick and easy online capability.Nintendo RevolutionThe Guardian's Aleks Krotoski:Nintendo's Revolution is unfortunately coming a paltry third place after the Xbox 360 and Sony's PlayStation 3 in the media-saturated race for the next-generation hearts and minds. They have kept their heads down after the handheld DS launch.PurpleChair:Nintendo is like some awful restaurant that serves tiny portions with a drizzle of sauce all over your plate. Sure, it tastes nice, but where's the rest of it?Dicehiggins:I am psyched about this announcement. I have been wishing NES would go wireless and online. I can't wait to see what they do with it on this new console. I think the thing that would really shoot this new system up the charts is to bring back those games we all loved from the days gone by.Matt Hanson:I'm not very happy with the news that Nintendo is going to include a DVD. I buy games consoles for &#91;playing&#93; games, not to watch DVDs - they should just concentrate on gaming. I'd like to see them include backwards compatibility for NES, SNES, N64 and GameCube games - the retro scene is big at the moment.Sony PlayStation 3The Guardian's Greg Howson:Games shown with the PlayStation 3 included a stunning-looking Killzone and a new shooter called the Killing Way. These two games impressed the most as they were graphically a huge step forward, although the same genres - shooting, driving and fantasy - featured heavily. The Xbox conference wasn't bad, but nothing shown matched the look of Killzone and some of the other PlayStation 3 titles displayed.Pratik Patel:I never thought I'd ever say this, but the Xbox 360 looks miles better by comparison.Don Carlos:It's nice that it's backwards compatible, but the arch top is a bit poo and the new pads are awful. Really awful. The games look astounding though. Killzone is so rich and detailed it blows the Xbox 360 away.Bert Cobain:The specifications are awesome (spec porn), though it's not as cool looking as the Xbox 360. So PlayStation will have the grunt, and Microsoft will be appealing to iPodders - potentially a complete turnaround then. This will be interesting.Scott Burton:I am a sucker for spaceship/80s futurist styling, so I love the look. But that is just the skin. Sony is using cutting-edge CPU technology with its Cell vector processor. I think the PS3 will have the edge for horsepower, and Sony can land the best games.Benj:What we really need to know is whether the curvature of the convex and concave surfaces of the PlayStation 3 and XBox 360 are such that the two can nestle together snugly? The next really important question is: Who goes on top?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The latest Philips Streamium device is perhaps the smartest yet. Like other products in the range, the 23iF9946 23in LCD TV latches on to either a wired or wireless network to enable the user to listen to music (MP3, WMA) files, view images (JPeg), or watch video (DivX) that has been streamed from their PC.It should be easy to set up, although it encountered problems with our wireless network. The 23iF9946 works brilliantly when wirelessly streaming audio, copes well with JPeg images and compressed DivX files, but struggles with higher-quality video files.The interface is a dream to use, and being able to wirelessly stream audio and video content from the web is a neat touch. The set has plenty of facilities, including an onboard FM radio tuner and Dolby Virtual Surround sound. However, the quality of the TV images isn't as good as some rivals and, at &pound;1,400, it is pricey.www.streamium.com
Imagine you are fighting your way through a maximum-security compound to rescue a genius software developer from the clutches of a tyrannical regime. You're bloodied, tired and under attack. In a hail of fire, you dive to the ground, taking cover behind a rusty red drinks machine in the corner of the room.As you pause to gather breath, you take a moment to see the branding on the side of the machine. Coke. Saves your life, that stuff.You are, you will have guessed, in a videogame. And the machine you are hiding behind wasn't placed there by accident. It was put there by the game's developers, in partnership with a media agency, in exchange for a substantial sum of cash.Here's the clever bit. In a month's time, you come back to play the game again. You roll behind the machine to take cover - and you notice it isn't red any more. It's yellow. And it is trying to sell you a chocolate bar.This so-called "dynamic" technology - the ability to serve different adverts, or different product placements, into next-generation games means there will soon be a lot more advertising in the games you buy.Most vocal among the agencies is a New York-based company called Massive. Its network, which went live last October, has served dynamic billboard ads into titles including Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell and Anarchy Online. In the London area, for example, gamers can view an advertisement for the breakfast show on local radio station XFM.There have also been a series of product placement deals. Vodafone mobiles will appear in the gameplay of racing game Juiced; McDonald's has opened virtual stores in The Sims; and Crazy Taxi passengers ask to be dropped off at Pizza Hut.The market is growing, with EA Games, the leader in in-game advertising, making $10m from ads last year - about the same as the budget for a single major game.With gamers so captivated - agencies talk excitedly about huge numbers of "eyeball hours" - advertisers are optimistic about reaching a young adult audience that is drifting away from TV. But the objection remains: do the ads risk alienating the gaming public?There is a divide between the purists and the mainstream, suggests Luke Guttridge, from gaming site Ferrago. "Call me old-fashioned, but I was hoping there would be something of a backlash from consumers against these measures," he says. "However, it seems I'm in a dwindling minority; EA games fly off the shelves in ever-vast quantities."Matt Davies, business development manager at Codemasters, makers of Colin McRae Rally, says this is because developers are still being careful. "I have a game in development that is a shooting-type game, and clearly you can't get silly there. You don't want somebody drinking a can of Coke because that just doesn't work. &#91;But&#93; you can have washed-out posters with different brands or a drinks machine that would definitely be there &#91;in real life&#93; - it is all about balance."Monika Madrid, who manages strategic partnerships at Ubisoft, makers of Splinter Cell, thinks it is the setting and storyline of a game that will decide whether an advert is appropriate. "A game that is based in medieval times probably isn't best for product placement," she says. "We want to be in the forefront of this industry, but we are very careful in remembering that at the end of the day we are a videogame company, and we are responsible for entertaining a lot of people."Developers and agencies all agree there can be benefits for gameplay, with genuine ads adding to the sense of realism. It might also make games cheaper, or even free. Anarchy Online, for example, is available in two formats: a subscription format without adverts, or a free version with them. It is not hard to guess which version is more popular.Money from advertising, says Nicholas Longano, chief marketing officer at Massive, can even support greater creativity. "Videogames are really the only entertainment medium that does not have a secondary stream of revenue," he says. "So in an industry where you have to take risks, which are driven by hits, publishers have come to be to a large extent risk-averse. This is why you see so many sequels - and I think the gamer loses out."Some also point to the high cost of creating a top game - up to $15m for next-generation console titles - as a reason for low innovation. But Ferrago's Guttridge says: "It seems to be the centralisation of game development, rather than the actual costs, that is killing off developers. Publishers are increasingly moving development in-house, rather than gambling on original titles from independent game creators. This pooling of resources is driving the increase in in-game ads."He strikes a cautious note for the future. "The rise of in-game ads shows a worrying move away from creativity, towards the derivative. Advertisers might not wish to associate themselves with 'alternative' games or, more likely, games that don't appeal to their demographic."
E3 hasn't even started yet, but already the internet is alive with talk about the key games of the show. So, to put all the chat into perspective, here are the ten key games revealed during the many pre-E3 press events. Obviously this is pretty subjective, but I'm going on a precise mixture of forum talk, what colleagues at the event are saying, multi-format coverage, and, of course, personal prejudice. Where possible, I've also linked to screens, videos or further info.Photo byJon Jordon.Killzone 2 – PS3Was the Sony Conference demoreallyin-game footage, or just a pre-rendered hype job? Whatever the case, it's mission accomplished for Sony - everyone is talking aboutGuerrilla Software's as-yet unnamed PS3 follow-up to the futuristic FPS.You can download a trailerhere. There's more info and commenthere.Metal Gear Solid 4 – PS3The game was first mentioned back in March, but now Konami has confirmed that it's coming to PS3. There are very few details out there, apart from the fact that series creator Hideo Kojima is taking a step back from the development process. Maybe there will be less movie sequences this time round then?GTA: Liberty City Stories – PSPReturns the action to Liberty City and features whole new storyline. Developer Rockstar Leeds is promising a similar open-ended experience to previous GTA titles, as well as top voice talent and loads of music. Will you be able to upload the soundtrack to your music menu and listen to tracks as MP3s? Any multiplayer Wi-Fi features? They're not saying…Read the press releasehere.Quake IV – PC, Xbox 360Typically for Id it's been in development for years, but some new details screens, and of course news of the Xbox 360 version have now been released. Employing the new Doom 3 engine, it promises blisteringly fast and detailed visuals as you take on the role of elite soldier Matthew Kane as he battles the alien Strogg empire.There's a big featurehere. And an interview about the 360 versionhere. PC screenshotshere. Press releasehere.Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess – Game CubeEasily the stand-out GC title at Nintendo's pre-E3 briefing – but then its competition was made up of lacklustre genre titles given the Nintendo spin, such as Super Mario Strikers and Dance Dance Revolution Mario Mix. We're promised a more adult look and feel this time round, and Link will be able to shape-shift.More infohere. Screens and the GDC trailerhere.Project Gotham Racing 3 – Xbox 360Perfect Dark Zero might have received a muted response at the Microsoft bash, but this returning brand looks stronger than ever with new environments, new vehicles and, of course, astonishing visuals. It'll be interesting to see how the game utilises the 'always on' connected element of Xbox 360. From the series' genesis – Metropolis Street Racer on Dreamcast – the concept of a global racing event has been an important element (for example, MSR used the built-in clock to ensure that the London, Tokyo and San Fran time zones were correct). Thisshouldbe the title that really showcases Microsoft's worldwide gaming community.Info and screenshere.Gears of War – Xbox 360A trailer for Epic's futuristic third-person shooter has been wowing journos for months, but until E3 it was assumed that the footage was pre-rendered. Now it seems it was all in-game. True, it's another tale of humans versus nasty monsters, filled with big guns, big vehicles and big environments, but the sheer scope, detail and visual majesty of the project will sweep us along.Press releasehere. Details, screens and videoshere.Viewtiful Joe DSThe pick of a not exactly plentiful DS crop (althoughCastlevania DSruns it a close second), Capcom's vibrant 2D platformer is a natural fit for this quirky machine. No details as yet, but the game will feature a new character and support for the touch screen.Screenshere.Final Fight: Street Wise – PS2 and XboxCapcom's pre-show event was crammed with scintillating goodies including Onimusha Dawn of Dreams, Devil May Cry 4 and Okami, but this one caught the imagination of gaming veterans thanks to its old skool heritage. It's a sort of pit fighting adventure game, mixing elements of GTA with countless 3D beat 'em ups. Sadly, they've borrowed that whole 'respect' theme from current street racing games. Oh dear…Xbox screenshere.Doom RPG – mobile phonesWell I had to putonemobile game in here. Published by Jamdat and developed by Id and Fountainhead, this is a turn-based take on the classic Doom gameplay – a set-up possibly inspired by Metal Gear Acid? It's marines vs monsters again and apparently loads of the classic enemies return. A nice idea.
Admit it: we all love a bit of Tomorrow's World futurology.But what do you do when tomorrow becomes today? That's the strange feeling you get readingthis storythat robot doctors and nurses have started patrolling London hospitals:"Sister Mary" glides between beds and allows the controlling doctor to visually examine and communicate with a patient from anywhere in the world.Meanwhile, a patient at London's Guy's Hospital has recently undergone live kidney transplant surgery carried out by a robot - the UK's first.The da Vinci robot has also been used to remove bladders and repair hearts.All well and good, but what about their bedside manner?Actually, thinking about some of the doctors I'd had over the years, they probably weren't too far from being cold, emotion-less machines. Roll on the robots!Update:SocietyGuardian.co.uk has an article calledRobodoc revolutionises ward rounds.
We've mentioned software piracy acoupleoftimeslately, but a new survey by the Business Software Alliance took me by surprise a little:The BSA today published the results of its 2004 Global Piracy Study conducted by IDC, which reveals a software piracy rate in the UK of 27%, down two percentage points from 29% in 2003.It doesn't surprise me that people in their homes are using pirated software (or, more likely, using unlicensed copies on multiple machines), but I expected that the business market - which this survey looked at - would be lower.Britain isn't as bad as Germany (29%) or France (45%!), but still more than a quarter of all software being used by businesses is pirated, counterfeit or unlicensed.I just spoke with Mike Newton, BSA spokesman in the UK, who told me that the BSA are "looking to the Labour government to honour its pledge to protect our intellectual property. They recognise that the economy is going to be increasingly focused on IP, and unless we protect our own intellectual property, how can we expect other countries to respect IP coming out of the UK?"Are we simply unable to conceive of virtual goods in the same way as physical ones? Does it indicate that we should embrace open source ideals? What is the real problem here that drives people to use pirated software?
An unending stream of next generation tech spec information has been flowing from the West Coast of the US since last Thursday, when the Xbox 360 team uncovered its insides to the MTV masses. But what in the world does it all mean? If you could happily die without knowing what a terraflop is, never fear, gamesblog will breakdown the jargon and, with the help of some friends, give you the details on what's really going on.Editorial note: the Nintendo Revolution is its own entity; the company is focussing on content rather than high-tech so the below only deals with heavy-hitters Microsoft and Sony.First up, the brains of the machines.Much has been said on the difference between the two machines' noggins, some biased towards the Microsoft and others towards Sony. The CPU in the latter has more going for it in terms of "core" hardware but the former's cores - while fewer - are more powerful. According to game designer Nick Harper,The cores really place the power in the hands of developers. The Xbox 360 has 3 running at 3.2GHz each, the PS3 has seven apparently. So theoretically the PS3 is faster, much faster, which means it can do a lot more complex things. These days complex things refer to physics calculations and graphics operations. But it's all about how to use them as the power can only be exploited by using the cores together. It's a bit like having several complex puzzles to solve with several clever people available. If you give each person one puzzle will they solve it quicker than if you give all the people one puzzle at a time? The better developers will make their code efficient, meaning theoretically better games.The PS3 will be more complex to develop for, which might mean that the first wave of games will be better on the 360. Having said that, the PS3 line up looks a lot more impressive right now. We'll have to wait and see what Greg plays with on the floor at E3.In terms of the active memory on access, the PS3 is two times as powerful as the PS2 and the Xbox 360 is twice that. Nick says,The reason memory speed is an issue is purely for framerate. If you have a massive polygonal monster (err literally) to display that's a lot of vertices to process, on top of texture mapping, normal mapping, light mapping, per pixel shading etc etc yawn. And you're trying to squeeze all that data down a pipe to be processed and spat out at the other end. The faster your memory the more you can squeeze down the pipe at once, meaning the more data you can process. So memory and processor speed are very connected.Now for those teraflops. The more there are, the faster the machine can do sums. In more high-tech speak,gamesindustry.bizsays:a measurement of how many of the floating point operations crucial to the graphics and physics in modern games can be processed per secondSony wins in tech-talk on this crucial ground, with two times the terraflopping of the Xbox 360. Says Nick,Expect to see this utilised for physics and world realism. The actual core games probably won't change that much because we're still using the same input devices - analogue stick joypads. But certainly expect to see more going on. Some of it will be irrelevant to a game but pretty - trees swaying, individual leaves being affected by wind and so on; some of it will be much more relevant - armies of bad guys swarming toward you, massive explosions, things collapsing with true physics, etc.With all the different processors added up, PS3 can perform twice as many raw calculations per second. In practise though, the different chips will need to wait for each other to catch up, so it will never run at full tech speed.Next, the graphics.High-Definition, High-Definition, High-Definition. It's all about HD. Both companies are "totally stoked" about the HDTV revolution expected to take the US by storm (propelled by the media, of course), which should saturate the market with screens twice as detailed as current widescreen products. Of course, because both Sony and Microsoft purport to be releasing media centres, this means there'll be plenty of HD for non-gaming applications. For interactive software, however, the PS3's announcement suggests that the graphics in the machine are twice the current market leader on PCs.PS3 will be able to output a higher-resolution (i.e., more high definition) signal, but there are very few TVs in existence that can use this highest resolution. In a few years though, who knows? Games will also have to be made in widescreen compatible. In the meantime, I'm pleased that both companies will still support my old televisual clunker.Sony's machine is unique in that it offers two HD outputs, for the ultimate in multitasking. Game on one, FAQ via the Ethernet connection on the other. They don't want us to move ever again, do they? Can I have fries with that?Third, memory.There is far far far more memory in both of these machines than most people will be able to fill, but that's not stopping either Sony or Microsoft from calculating for future profits from upgrade sales on removable hard drives. Microsoft's will probably ship with 20GB - a behemoth amount (think 5,000 songs on an iPod). PS3 purchasers will have to buy their hard drive at the pay point. Both machines support memory cards. Microsoft's will be 8 times larger than PS2's current 8 MB card, but Sony's will support their SD memory sticks. More memory will come from the USB ports - a whopping six on Sony's machine and three on the Xbox 360. That means I'll be able to save my draft PhD thesis on my new console, as well as on computers strewn throughout the UK and USA. Egad, the possibilities. More normal folk will be able to view files and listen to tunes that they'll keep on these removable memory devices.Fourth, music.The days of stereo are over; let's move on to surround sound. As with the previous iterations of the consoles, both the 360 and PS3 will feature Dolby 5.1.Fifth, controllers.For some reason, Sony will support the odd number of seven controllers on its PS3. A theory going around my house is that they suddenly realised they had more Bluetooth-width than expected and bumped up the number of possible controllers to seven. An alternative view is that they oversubscribed with eight and are now having to make the best of the limitations. Whichever, the PS3 supports more players in the same room than the Xbox 360 which only offers four. Really, though, with internet access on both machines and the new HDTV taking up most of the space in the living room why have so many friends in person; just play with them online.Sixth, online.Both machines will release with out-of-the-box Ethernet capabilities. Both will be WiFi enabled (but hopefully will be better than my current provider whose "wireless" adaptor is attached to my laptop with a very long wire and whose service is infuriatingly sporadic) and both hope to corner the market on downloadable content. Internet access, music downloads, movie downloads, video and text chat (with the later-released video cameras): this is the showdown space for the non-gamers, and this is where Microsoft kicks butt. For gamers, Microsoft is also in the lead with their profiling service which should offer a useful service to folks who want to play hard-core online titles, meander through the Final Fantasy MMOG or just play drafts.Microsoft simply has more experience with the online medium, so it's expected that their implementation of Live will be better. From what I've heard on the inside, it's definitely easier to design for.Finally, release dates.The Xbox 360 will be released everywhere by the end of the year, and the PS3 will be out (for sure in Japan) in Spring 2006. Just enough time to take the wind out of Microsoft's sails.The pretty pictures on display at the Sony launch may have wowed some of the gathered, but as others have already commented earlier on this blog, Sony has a habit of showcasing amazing video clips at their launches and the gameplay in the actual products can leave much to be desired. Unfortunately there's not one chunk of hardware that can make gameplay better or worse; it's up to the designers to craft the interactive experience in a suitable, engaging and balanced way.Although graphics will improve with every generation, these new consoles appear to be pushing processing power beyond the point where it places limits on gameplay. Good games for the next generation will depend purely on the imagination of their creators rather than the raw power of the consoles, while uninspiring games will continue to be disguised by ever prettier visuals.Final thoughts from Nick:At the end of the day there's very little that can be taken from either Sony or Microsoft's presentations in relation to gameplay - these were pure graphical demonstrations. None of the games show a particular leap in terms of gameplay content, certainly not compared to the visual leap. And primarily this boils down to the user interface. We've pretty well reached the point of complexity with dual analogue sticks, analogue triggers and four face buttons, so while you can expect to see more content in terms of things happening, not much originality was on display. Gameplay advances will come from peripherals and Sony really showed that off with their kooky EyeToy games. Nothing wrong with controlling two bondage-clad Japanese spy chicks via videoconfering in my mind :)(Ahem.)There's a lot pulling for the hearts and minds of next generation gamers. At this point, it's a battle between brand and multimedia functionality. As Greg has remarked, the real test will be the software. Take it away Howson!many thanks to Max for help and translation
Microsoft are being sued for patent infringement by a Guatemalan inventor who says they stole his software for linking Excel with Access, according toCNet:In a lawsuit, Carlos Armando Amado said he filed a patent application in 1990 for software that links Microsoft's Excel program with its Access database application via a single spreadsheet, and that he unsuccessfully tried to sell it to Microsoft two years later.Amado is seeking damages that could exceed $500 million in the lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court of Central California.Patent infringements of this type are often impossible to pin down - and Microsoft has more than its fare share (the company says it has around 35 more infringement suits pending).With no regard to this case, but to the general system of enforcing this kind of intellectual property, I often wonder if courts really understand the technology that's being talked about.And if that's the case, can high-priced lawyers argue their way around genuine infringements by taking advantage of the court's naivety?
Flaming gullah! It seems that eBay has bought out London-based classified siteGumtree, which is kind of like a Craigslist for the Australian, New Zealand and South African communities.Actually the buyout came from Kijiji, a classified-focused offshoot of eBay, which makes clear the indication that this is about advertising, not just about selling."Gumtree has built a great business over the past five years and it matches the Kijiji model very well," said Josh Silverman, vice president of new ventures in Europe for eBay, responsible for Kijiji. "We look forward to working with the Gumtree team to further build the online classifieds business in key markets around the world."Pointless trivia:Kijiji means "village" in Swahili.
The third diary comes from Dave Amor ofRelentless Software, the Brighton-based developer of 'lifestyle' games. Relentless works closely with SCEE, in the past contributing to the Eye Toy and Sing Star titles, as well as producing the DJ-ing sim, DJ Decks &amp; FX. The company has a major new game, Buzz, at this year's show..."So I'm back in LA again for another E3. In previous years I have worked the show floor, had back to back pitch meetings with publishers and hung around when I didn't really have any cause to be there. This year is something of a junket; talking up our Buzz game that Sony releases before Christmas. It's a pop quiz game, which comes with four buzzers and should prove to be a big title, following in the footsteps of such titles revolutionary titles as EyeToy and SingStar."Today Sony Computer Entertainment Europe had their press event at a venue on Sunset Blvd. We were the only product doing a live demo in front of the thousand-or-so assembled journalists. This kind of exposure is a real coup, but I've spent the last day and a half in rehearsals praying that the software does what it's supposed to."Now, a couple of hours after the event has passed, I can relax a little. The demo went well and was well received, but it seems that every piece of current generation software is being drowned out by the noise that PlayStation3, Xbox 360 and Nintendo Revolution are making."Tonight the British Consulate are entertaining UK developers, but in LA, a man without a car is barely a man at all and there's little chance of me getting there before it's time to head home. Instead I'll recuperate in the hotel bars in West Hollywood, where hundreds of videogame folk will no doubt be dissecting the merits of PS3, 360 and Revolution. So far, despite a strong initial showing from 360, PS3 seems to be wearing the crown."David Amor Relentless Software 18th May 2005The crowd at Dave's Buzz presentation...The Buzz demo in process
Considering the speed at which fashions are revived in other spheres of popular culture, it was perhaps bound to happen in the world of technology too.Anticipating a growing backlash from consumers befuddled by the myriad features on phones, the world's largest mobile company is to launch a range aimed at those who simply want to make calls.After spending the last 15 years concentrating on delivering ever smaller, lighter phones with more and more add-ons such as digital cameras, video calling, music players, internet access and colour screens, Vodafone is planning to go back to basics.Those who have seen the new product, likely to be called Vodafone Simply, say it will feature the bare minimum of buttons, doing little beyond making calls and sending text messages.The company will launch the range across several countries, aiming at an older market who have not been persuaded to upgrade their phones by the craze for ringtones, wallpapers and games. The new phones are also likely to be available on transparent price plans.According to insiders, Vodafone will announce the launch on Friday. Next week, the company delivers its preliminary results, which analysts expect to show that its hi-tech 3G service, launched last year, has not signed up as many customers as it hoped.One UK company is already making money from the appetite for simple phones. Retrofone, an online retailer that launched last year, sells around 500 phones a month to those who hark back to the days when mobiles were bigger and tougher.Its customers are "30 to 40 and have plenty of money but just want a phone for its original purpose", said Olly Pegg, the company's founder.
Our second diarist is none other than David Braben, co-programmer of legendary space trading game, Elite, and founder ofFrontier Developments..."I've just got back from a party at the British Embassy - catching up with many people I hadn't seen for a long time. It is an amazing contrast - the beautiful, manicured gardens of the Embassy with the noisy hustle and bustle of Los Angeles. It is also great and much appreciated to see some government recognition of the British games industry."The E3 show hasn't started yet, but the mainstream media is already throwing the gauntlet down for the 'next generation' between Microsoft and Sony. What is most apparent here is Sony coverage (which is everywhere) - billboards around LA, at the show (see picture) - there was even a large sticker on the TV in my hotel room. Is Sony rattled - or maybe Microsoft feels the battle is elsewhere?"I was at the show earlier and we were helping set up various computers and console kit. A real frustration is the premature pervasiveness of LCD TVs - the change is dramatic; last year there was a mix of conventional CRT TVs/monitors, but now I think there is a perception that CRTs are old fashioned. The down side is they simply don't (yet) work as well for some things - colours don't match, interlace doesn't seem to work reliably. Even this hotel have ripped out their TVs, and replaced them with giant flat 16:9 screens - but they mess with the aspect ratio, so everyone on TV is short and fat, and there's no option to show as 4:3. Progress, I imagine. I think I'm getting old!"David BrabenA PS3 teaser poster in the looooong glass corridor between the two main halls
I've asked three developers from different areas of the UK games industry to write diaries of their experiences at this year's E3 show. They'll be reporting in daily and, hopefully, supplying a few photos to accompany their stream-of-consciousness rantings. First up is Tony Liviabella fromSN Systems, the Bristol-based company that designed the key development tools for PSone, PS2 and PSP and is - I suspect - now working with DS and PS3.Here goes:"In the past I'd always squashed my nose against the proverbial window of E3: breathing heavy with jealously that people got to go and I couldn't, so I know all too well the pain of gamers across the globe as E3 draws near."When I joined my current company SN Systems that all changed and my soul was wiped of this indignity for evermore. This will now be my third E3 and while I've enjoyed the previous two shows immensely, this year is different. New hardware beckons and the atmosphere at the show should be electric."What could be better I hear you ask? Well, going to the media briefings before E3 is always a good start. You basically get to see everything a day before E3 starts, presented to you by some of your heroes while sitting in a comfy chair in front of a spectacular stage somewhere in glossy LA. There's also that warm feeling of knowing you're a few hours away from free food and alcohol to aid to the whole ambiance. Oh yes, if you like your games then this is the footballing equivalent to a World Cup final ticket."Unfortunately, I only made it to Nintendo's event (didn't actually have a ticket for the other's-so I still have some burden to share). So my thoughts so far? While I've no doubts I'll buy all three of the next gen systems, the Revolution in my opinion is the sexist and most stylish by far. It's small, clean and classy coupled with the ability to download the back catalogue of NES, SNES and N64 games as well as play NGC stuff is simply genius. The PS3 demos look awesome, especially Killzone and technically it really packs a sledgehammer of a punch. I can't see anything but success from the console. As for the Xbox 360, I like the design although it's still a touch large, the changeable face panels is a nice feature but it will really come down to the games. If it's on the shelf before Christmas, can I really see myself resisting a purchase? Not a chance. Basically, it looks like I'd better start earning some brownie points with my wife, Dot, as the space around the TV is about to get a whole lot more congested."So onto tomorrow and the start of the show, if I've learnt anything about E3 then it's 'go with a plan'. There's so much to see that if you don't make a point of searching out certain titles you find the show's over and you have missed half the goodness. So I've made a cunning list of all the games I must seek out and play. Tomorrow, I plan to focus on Nintendo and Sony's booths or at least that's the idea, most likely I will get sidetracked but then that's the beauty of the show. The demo of Zelda I saw at the media brief was enough to give me goosebumps so I'll be making a beeline for that for sure, Nintendogs is another, Mario Kart DS, Ico 2, all the new PSP stuff, oh the list is endless. By the way, did I mention that I missed Birmingham beating Arsenal on the weekend to be here? It's all good. 'Keep right on.'"Until tomorrow,Tony Liviabella
Sony has given the first glimpse of its PlayStation 3, the video games console that it hopes will keep the latest offering from Microsoft at bay.The company showed the PlayStation 3 on a film production stage amid a blaze of publicity last week, ahead of a games convention in Los Angeles.The next generation product is promising greatly enhanced graphics that the company boasts will bring film-quality graphics to games.PlayStation 3 will use Sony's Blu-ray disc format, capable of holding six times the capacity of existing DVDs. Reporters at the launch described intricate detail in a game demonstrated, including individual tattoos and specks of blood on the face of a warrior and skin rippling when punches were landed.The console is about the same size as existing PlayStations but has a sleek, curved appearance. It will be able to run games already in use for its two earlier versions.The continued success of the PlayStation is vital for Sony. Games have accounted for about 40%-60% of Sony's operating profits over the past few years.The games market has bigger revenues than Hollywood and film studios have dedicated departments to launch gaming versions of their latest releases.Microsoft is promising a fierce battle for market dominance. The company is launching the latest version of its Xbox console before the end of the year in North America, Europe and Asia.The launch of Xbox 360 will be months ahead of the latest Sony release, which is planned for spring 2006, giving it an advantage in attracting new gamers.Worldwide, the PlayStation has sold about 85m units, the younger Xbox has sold nearly 20m and the Nintendo GameCube around 18m. Nintendo is also preparing a next generation console, called the Revolution, which will appear in shops next year.Sony said PlayStation 3 will offer multimedia functions, including the downloading of music, the ability to play high-definition films and video conferencing."The PlayStation 3 truly is a system to be placed in the centre of the living room," said Ken Kutaragi, creator of the original console.Sony did not say how much the latest console will cost. Nor did the company give details of the games line-up planned.Microsoft aims to have between 25 and 40 games available for the Xbox 360 by the end of the year, including Final Fantasy XI and an official NFL American Football title.Earlier Xbox games will also be compatible with the new console.
Australian pop star Kylie Minogue was forced to temporarily shut down her website after it was deluged with visitors after she announced she has breast cancer."Due to the overwhelming response to today's sad news regarding Kylie we have had to disable the site temporarily," read a message posted onkylie.com."We hope to have the site back online shortly and apologise for any inconvenience this may cause."The pop diva, who has had to cancel her Australian tour and her appearance at next month's Glastonbury festival, announced she had been diagnosed with cancer early yesterday morning.Australia's prime minister and scores of fans delivered their best wishes to the former soap star as she prepared to undergo treatment."A young woman, Kylie Minogue, any young woman of that age to be diagnosed with that condition -  it does send a shudder through you," the prime minister John Howard, told Southern Cross radio."I think all Australians feel for her and wish her well and hope that it has been detected in the very early stages and she will make a full recovery," he said. Mr Howard's wife Janette was treated for cancer in 1996.Minogue, 36, announced on Tuesday she has breast cancer and will undergo treatment immediately. Experts say she most likely will have any lump surgically removed and may undergo radiotherapy or chemotherapy to fight the possible spread of the cancer.In a statement, Minogue said: "I was so looking forward to bringing the Showgirl tour to Australian audiences, and am sorry to have to disappoint my fans. Nevertheless hopefully all will work out fine and Ill be back with you all again soon."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Sony Europe held a conference this afternoon to put a PAL spin on yesterday's announcements. Nothing earth-shattering was announced but I did hear Phil Harrison - who presented the PS3 demos - say that the fantastic Killzone footage was essentially in real-time. What that means I don't know, but I'm hoping to speak to him tomorrow to find out. The highlight of the shindig wasn't EyeToy Kenetic, the keep fit game, or Buzz, a new music quiz that comes with special controllers. No, it was Shadow of the Colussus - made by the team who made the seminal ICO - that did it for me. There wasn't even a great deal to the demo - essentially horse riding - but the marvellously washed-out lighting bought back happy memories of Yorda and the castle. E3 finally starts tomorrow (6pm UK time).
Just out of the conference. The key announcements:Nintendo Revolution unveiled - due out in 2006 the sleek looking console (about the same size has 3 CD DVD cases)will have full backwards compatibility with Gamecube and, crucially, allow users to download games from Nintendo's 20 yr back catalogue.Game Boy Micro - out before Christmas. A small and relatively sleek new Game Boy. Essentially a rebranded GBA SP, this offers no new technology but is going for the style gamer marketNintendo DS wi-fi gaming - new online service for the DS launches later this year with wireless Mario Kart looking good.Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess - more footage shown of this dark new Zelda game. Fans whoop, and enjoy a collective spine tingle moment.
Now, I'm a bit likeHenry's Cat- I know everything about nothing, and not too much about that.But one thing I do know is that I'm not keen on paying for news content over the web. So why oh why is the New York Times going to start charging forits opinion pages?The New York Times is to join the Wall Street Journal and the Financial Times in charging readers of its online edition for access to its star columnists.From September only readers who have paid the annual subscription charge of $49.90 will be able to read columns and op-ed pieces from the New York Times and its sister paper, the International Herald Tribune.Arthur Sulzberger Jr, the chairman of the Times Company and publisher of the newspaper, said the decision to charge was the result of a year of research.I understand that news operations are expensive things (I know, I work in one), but the NYT - which has a prestigious standing on the web - seems to be intent on undermining its own credibility with abandon.As has been said elswhere: newspapers don't just need to beonthe web, they need to beofthe web; and you can't do that if you require people to pay $50 a year.Pointless trivia:Henry's Cat creator Bob Godfrey was the man behind Roobarb and Custard and has been nominated for four Academy Awards, and scooped an Oscar in 1975 forGreat, an animation about Isambard Kingdom Brunel.
The New York Times is to join the Wall Street Journal and the Financial Times in charging readers of its online edition for access to its star columnists.From September only readers who have paid the  annual subscription charge of $49.90 will be able to read columns and op-ed pieces from the New York Times and its sister paper, the International Herald Tribune.Among the writers whose work readers will have to pay to read are the paper's Pulitzer prize-winning star columnist, Maureen Dowd, an outspoken critic of George Bush.Arthur Sulzberger Jr, the chairman of the Times Company and publisher of the newspaper, said the decision to charge was the result of a year of research."The advertising growth on the web has been just spectacular the last few years," he said. "But like any business, it's going to mature over time, and when that happens, it will flatten and then you'll get into the normal cycles just like we do it on print. And at that point you're really going to need to have another revenue model.""This is going to help sustain the quality of the information that we make available."The New York Times said most of its news and features would remain free, and subscribers to the print edition of the paper would not have to pay the annual charge.Subscribers will also have access to archived stories and to a new section entitled Ahead of the Times, which allows readers to see features from the paper's magazine and property section before they appear in print.The paper already charges for some content, including its crossword puzzle, news alerts and online archive, although articles are free for seven days after publication.The Wall Street Journal is the only national newspaper in the US to charge for all its online content.But rivals have been slow to follow suit and the Los Angeles Times last week stopped charging users a fee for its online entertainment listings and reviews.In the UK the FT charges for access to certain news stories, company reports, the Lex column and its archive, while the Times recently began charging overseas readers to access its online edition. But most newspaper content is still provided free of charge.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Well, not technically from E3, actually from my living room, but nevermind that. Here's a quick round-up of vaguely interesting pre-show announcements, before the coverage begins properly tomorrow. Greg has covered the major console stories, so here's some stuff on games...Photo by Jon JordonJust CauseBlimey, Eidos is back from the dead! And it has a new game, Just Cause, a free-roaming stealth shooter developed by Swedish outfit Avalanche studio."You take on the role of the flamboyant Rico Rodriguez - an undercover CIA operative specialising in regime change - as he tries to overthrow the corrupt government of San Esperito. This rogue South American island is suspected of stockpiling WMDs and it's your job to negate the threat to world peace. It could be to your advantage that this tropical paradise is about to implode as various factions vie for power - it just needs a gentle nudge in the right direction."Remote island? Free-roaming gameplay? Cocky anti-hero? Why, it's… it's… it's Far Cry meets GTA!There's a websitehere.Revenge of the BitmapsUK developer Macrospace has announced that it's bringing three classic Bitmap Brothers games to mobile: Speedball II, Xenon and, yes! (fist punches air), Chaos Engine!"The first game to launch will be the mobile version of 'Speedball 2: Brutal Deluxe', a violent and futuristic sports game which puts you in control of Brutal Deluxe, the newest team on the block. Your objective is to defeat all the other teams and claim the Speedball championship, but standing in your way are 9 opponents with the same aim in mind. Speedball 2 is a game where kicking and punching your way to victory is not only allowed, it's rewarded!"For the mobile version, Bluetooth play modes have been added, allowing you to go head to head with friends and enemies. Also, players will be able to save and upload their favorite instant replay moments to the web. Speedball 2 will be one of the titles being showcased at this year's Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles, USA."Well, fans of legendary early nineties Amiga games can come home from the show early - their needs have been satiated.Capcom deliversHere's what the company had on show at its pre-E3 press conference:Final Fight: Street Wise (PS2, Xbox) - 3D reincarnation for the classic fighting game. 'Street Wise'? does it involve a road safety theme?Beat Down: Fists of Vengeance (PS2, Xbox) - Visceral beat 'em up adventure set in an urban hell patrolled by ruthless gangs. Hemel Hempstead perhaps?Resident Evil Outbreak File #2 (PS2) - This is already out isn't it?Mega Man Zero 4 (GBA) - Capcom's little mascot returns in another frenzied bout of Japan-centric 2D platforming.Mega Man Battle Network 5: Team Protoman and Team Colonel (GBA) - Isometric battle fun. There's more infohereif you're interested.Resident Evil 4 (PS2) -Allegedly, the conversion process hasn't gone smoothly, but we can get our mits on it in October.killer7 (GC, PS2) - Gorgeous, stylish grapic novel adventure from Shinji Mikami. Gohere.Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney (DS) - Interesting court room drama game. Hey, is this a whole new videogame genre? More detailshere.Onimusha: Dawn of Dreams (PS2) - Yep, it's back again.Here'sthe press release.Devil May Cry 4 (PS3) - Just announced today, actually. A not altogether helpful press release is righthere.Devil Kings (PS2) - Hack 'n' slash adventure filled with ninjas and other swordsmen,apparently.And from Clover Studio:Okami (PS2) - Disarmingly beautiful historical adventure.Viewthe screenshots and weep.Viewtiful Joe DS (DS) - Viewtiful Joeandthe DS? Can you imagine a more exciting combination?Viewtiful Joe VFX Battle (PSP, GC) - First in the series to feature multiplayer competitive action. Gamespot has a few detailshere.Quite a few mouthwatering morsels there. Capcom also announced another horror themed shoot 'em up to sit besideHaunting Ground. Dead Rising is a zombie blaster produced for the Xbox 360 by Onimusha creator, Keiji Inafune. Apparently inspired by Dawn of The Dead, the action follows freelance photo journalist Frank West who pursues a 'juicy lead' to a small suburban town and ends up trapped in the mall with hundreds of the shuffling undead. Hasn't Capcom got bored of cribbing Romero by now?City Of The DeadAnd the zombie/Romero-related news doesn't end with Capcom. The forthcoming George A Romero-directed title, City of the Dead, developed by Kuju Interactive, hasdraggeditself to the show. It's based on, yes, a remote island. Which handily takes us back to where we began.
Hmmm.Thishas been loitering around the web for a few days but it only just arrived it in the gamesblog inbox (from the same crew who sent the invite to meetMiss Playboy UKearlier in the year).Frag Dolls UKis a Spice Girls-like collective in search of women who want to break down the gender barriers of gaming while competing in video gaming tournaments. Fantastic, I say.They've been around since Summer 2004 in theUSand now Ubisoft want to develop a British branch:FRAG DOLLS UK will represent women in gaming – girls who are serious about games but want to have fun too … and get paid for it. The members will become role models for other girl gamers, and help encourage more women to play games. Potential candidates for the team must have a positive attitude, extensive gaming knowledge and ability, and - above all - a passion for games.As an aside, you must also not be afraid of photo shoots, makeup, being promoted as a product, strange men staring at you - but not speaking to you - and constantly being challenged at your skill 'cause you're female.All interested parties, headhere. Alternatively, get in touch withgamesblogand we'll follow your path to girl gamer stardom.
"Don't put your iPod through the washing machine. And if for some reason you do, don't try to fix it with a screwdriver."So says theSydney Morning Heraldin response to the case of one Melbourne teen who tried fixing his music player and found himself on the wrong end of a small explosion.The boy was treated by paramedics at his Bayswater home for breathing difficulties after ingesting fumes emitted by the device as he pulled it apart in his suburban bedroom about 7.30pm on Wednesday. Country Fire Authority spokesman Peter Philp said the leaky iPod had been taken away for testing by CFA investigators.But don't worry, folks. Everything was right in the end, according to an ambulance spokeswoman: "We treated him on the scene for minor breathing difficulties but he was fine and then we scooted out and helped save the rest of Melbourne."
While Greg was swanning around dodgy warehouses in deepest, darkest LA,hanging outwith all manner of pop stars, I was feeling ten years older watching Teenage Fanclub (with short hair) at the Concorde 2 in Brighton. My voice was too distinctly absent to politely whoop after their series of new tunes and greatest hits after a Saturday night 5am bout with SingStar Party (apologies neighbours) and so I spent my time thinking about "pop" and how entertainment has changed since I saw the TF a decade ago for 99p in a basement club in Glasgow.In that bizarre new environment, surrounded by others of a similar age and musical proclivity (i.e., no longer teenagers and not such big fans), it dawned on me that the rise to chart fame could conceivably change with the profiling systems in place with the next-gen connectivity of the forthcoming consoles.Forget Stock Aitken &amp; Waterman, Sony have established a new pop academy/boot camp paradigm. Once celebrated for broadening the market by giving the teenyboppers the "fame" they wanted with a PS2, a couple of microphones and an EyeToy, the PS3 might be their greatest recruiting tool for their music label. I wait with a combination of horror and fascination to see the first pop product released on the market fully trained by a combination of SingStar, Dancing Stage Euro Mix and EyeToy (for pouting practice). Who knows; my stellar performance to the Scissor Sisters'Take Your Mamacould in future be automatically beamed back to Sony Corp (dance moves and all) for vetting by the A&amp;R guys.At the minute, not a lot is being made of the access Microsoft and Sony have to the profiles that the future consoles will keep at floating points (and potentially HQ) about players. If anything, it's being celebrated from a consumer and - most definitely - a marketing perspective. Certainly the information and the community functions of the Xbox 360 - from language preference to how others perceive you - are great for building up a sense of belonging, but how do we know we're not being watched? Sure, my supermarket card follows me around and tells Brand Name X that I use their toilet tissue and watch these DVDs, but it doesn't have a camera on it.I used to joke that when I was playingShenmueon Sega's dearly departed internet-enabled Dreamcast, shifting boxes for my virtual daily bread, I was actually linked to Sega Corp and was performing some kind of encrypted function that was keeping their employee overheads low. Obviously mine and others' "productivity" was such that the console went down regardless. I read too many dystopias when I was younger, but maybe that bulky envelope in the post from Sony is my new record contract. Wouldn't that be a surprise.The pop star phenomenon could conceivably happen in the short term, without any Big Brother antics, particularly if it becomes possible to upload one's performance to a community access page. Like a cross-betweenAm I Hot Or Notand viral marketing campaigns, an underground burn might grab the attention of the powers that be and the rest could be chart history. This could be the end of desperate reality dirge like Pop Idol. One reality check, though: the current products are limited in their jukebox and won't immediately offerJohn Peel-like innovation.Media where you really are the star. I can see this really taking off. Once again, a point for games and nada for television.
Not, it's not some random bloke holding an answering machine: this is top Sony salaryman Ken Kuturagi with the new PlayStation 3.There's something more than a little Battlestar Galactica about the design of the new machine: curved top, sharp front, incorporated booster jets and hyperdrive.Are we surprised? A little. Is it better than Xbox 360? I'm not sure. But if you really want to find out the lowdown and leave your thoughts, then pop over to ourGamesblog, where the debate is already heating up.(Photo by Stephen Shugerman/Getty Images)
No, don't worry... I have not turned into the technological equivalent ofJamie Oliver. I'm far from pukka, don't ride a scooter and have about the same regard for buffalo mozzarella as I do for scabies.But food is important to me - when it gets in the way. And so it was that I cast my over a report from TechRepublic, which has come up with a list of theworst foods for your keyboard(warning: it's a pdf) and thought I'd share it with you:Rice Krispies (with or without milk).Dry Rice Krispies go everywhere. One slight puff of air and they are in your hair, on your desk, and infiltrating the nether regions of your keyboard. Removing them is relatively simple, howver; type vigorously for a few minutes to reduce them to Rice Krispies dust and then apply suction. Wet Rice Krispies are more stable but more difficult to extract.Of course, the ubiquitous snaffling of sandwiches at the desk often causes crumb issues and the other night we did have a problem with a Powerbook and a glass of red wine.But I think my worst offender has to be nutty bars like Tracker: a superglued collection of grain and nut that explodes into little bits as soon as you bite into it.What's that I hear? I think it's my keyboard is groaning in agreement.
The three biggest names in video game consoles were yesterday jostling for pole position as tens of thousands of industry executives and gamers prepared to gather at the Electronics Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles.The prize is a big slice of a market expected to be worth more than &#163;6bn by the end of the decade.Nintendo got off to what some analysts consider a weak start yesterday with the news that its next-generation video game console, the Revolution, will not appear in shops until next year.Sony, whose PlayStation 2 already dominates the global console market, is also expected to launch the PlayStation 3 next year.First out of the blocks was the Japanese firms' American rival Microsoft, which said last week that its Xbox 360 console will be available in the United States in time for Christmas.Sony and Nintendo were due to give details of their new machines in Los Angeles ahead of the expo, which is expected to attract more than 63,000 industry executives and began last night.With faster chips and better graphics at their disposal, manufacturers say their next-generation consoles will prove more attractive to gamers.An early launch means that Microsoft, which has poured hundreds of millions of dollars into console development, appears to have the upper hand.Aside from running games, Xbox 360 owners will be able to play music, watch DVDs and hook up to the internet.Like the PlayStation 3, the Xbox 360 will be compatible with high-definition TVs, a major selling point for gamers.Microsoft is also banking on a new version of its popular Halo game series to take the wind out of Sony's sails. Few people will be surprised if Halo 3 pops up around the same time as Sony decides to launch the PS3.But the LA expo, better known as E3, will be Sony and Nintendo's opportunity to convince gamers that biding their time until the first half of next year will be worth the wait. This year, about 400 companies from 80 countries will exhibit the latest machines and the software to go with them.Sony is banking on the PS3 to lead its recovery while other branches of its once untouchable empire remain in the doldrums. The PS2 has been responsible for 40%-60% of Sony's operating profits over the past few years, filling in holes left by the malaise in the firm's core electronics division.Sony boasts that the PS3, which may not appear until next spring, will run on a processor jointly developed with IBM and Toshiba that is 10 times more powerful than the latest PC processors.More than 85m PlayStations have been sold worldwide, while Microsoft has sold 20m of its consoles and Nintendo 18m.Though Nintendo, already in the midst of a battle with Sony for control of the handheld console market, has yet to divulge much about the Revolution's capabilities, the machine is expected to feature voice recognition, wi-fi and touch-screen controls.The Revolution will be Nintendo's smallest game console. It will be "backward compatible" - able to run 8cm disks originally produced for the earlier GameCube, as well as new 12cm optical disks, on the same self-loading media drive.Even the promise of new software titles has not stopped some analysts from suggesting that Sony and Nintendo are guilty of poor timing."It is a huge competitive advantage to be first to market," said Jason Maynard, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, a clear sign that Microsoft is, for the moment, ahead on points.
I left The Killers doing their Duran Duran pastiche at the Microsoft conference and have just got back. And you know what? If the footage shown today is anything to go by then PS3 is the initial "winner".The Xbox conference wasn't bad and certainly felt like an event, despite the cringeworthy bussed-in groupies that sat behind the stage, hollering at every announcement. But nothing that was shown matched the look of Killzone and some of the other PS3 titles shown.Now obviously this is very early days and graphics don't make a game, but for chief Robbie Bach to say that his was the most powerful console around felt a little ridiculous.Where 360 does appear stronger than PS2 is online. The dashboard looked clean and simple, with a real feeling that connectivity is the core to the console. The Xbox 360 is, "the ultimate digital box", said Bach. There was also none of the worthy, yet dull, technical presentations that blighted the Sony presentation. Both conferences had senior EA staff as part of their presentations, highlighting the importance of the number one publisher. I wonder if they'll complete the triple by appearing at Nintendo tomorrow morning?Anyway, the key Xbox 360 announcements were:Launching with 24 titles before Christmas 2005 in US, Europe and Japan (ambitious stuff - my guess is Thanksgiving weekend for US, December for Europe and Japan)Backwards capability with the original Xbox (good news and sensible too..)Plan to widen demographic by offering casual games – cards, retro etc – via Live Arcade (makes sense, especially when you see how popular these games are)Gameswise one of the big announcements was the arrival of Final Fantasy Online on Xbox 360. This fills the MMO gap on the console. Also impressive was Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, the free-roaming RPG, and the Zelda-esque Kameo. Ghost Recon 3 was shown in-game and while it looked decent it didn't stand up to Killzone's footage on the PS3.Elsewhere the conference was memorable for Peter Moore – senior VP marketing – getting a little carried away on stage. Apparently playing the Xbox 360 is like, "living a lucid dream" and helps you reach the "Zen of gaming". Er, right, thanks Pete. Also there was a not-quite-as-bad-as-it-sounds sketch involving Bill Gates and Steve "I love this company" Balmer discussing the new Xbox whilst queuing for Star Wars.Of course, footage is one thing – the proof is in the playing. So although Sony won out in the looks department it's only Microsoft who will be showing actual next-gen games this E3. So when the show opens on Wednesday it is these that will give us the first hands-on glimpse into the gaming future.
Five thousand households are to become willing guinea pigs for a new experiment that the BBC expects to revolutionise the way we watch television.Randomly drawn from applicants around the country, with the only stipulation being that they have high-speed internet access, they will be the first to experience the BBC's so-called interactive Media Player, or iMP.The corporation will move a step closer to delivering what it calls "iTunes for the broadcast industry" later this year, launching a public trial of iMP, which allows viewers to download any show from the previous week that they may have missed.Yesterday's announcement by the BBC comes at a time when broadcasters, telecom companies and hardware manufacturers are pouring hundreds of millions of pounds into defining the way we will watch television in the next decade.While live sporting events, popular reality shows and soaps are still liable to attract big audiences, broadcasters expect viewers to "time shift" more and more programmes and watch them "on demand".The media industry has been talking about convergence - the idea that all entertainment, from television to music to movies, will be delivered to a single box in the living room and relayed around the house - since the dotcom boom of the late 1990s.But several factors have recently coalesced to make the vision a more likely reality. There are now over seven million UK households connected to high-speed broadband lines, while companies such as Microsoft are having some success with new devices that merge the home computer with plasma screen TVs.Telecom giants such as BT and France Telecom will also later this year launch new initiatives to link the internet to the TV through a set-top box. A company called HomeChoice already offers a similar service in the London area.Meanwhile, the success of digital music players such as the iPod, the continuing evolution of the mobile phone and the likely success of handheld devices such as Sony's new PSP have convinced broadcasters that viewers in the future will also download TV shows to portable players to watch on the move.The BBC has invested heavily in developing content and services that will appeal to online viewers in an effort to be ahead of the game. Executives reason that whether they view content on their computer screen, web-connected TV or a portable device, they'll want to access BBC shows "any time, any place, anywhere".And as competition has increased, from multichannel TV and now the web, the corporation recognises the need to widen the distribution of its content in order to make a convincing argument for the licence fee.The BBC said that it would use the iMP trial to assess the demand for different types of programmes, with soaps such as EastEnders, dramas such as Hustle and Spooks and comedies such as Little Britain expected to be among the most popular.The phenomenon of illegally downloading programmes over the internet hit the headlines earlier this year when a leaked copy of the return of Doctor Who was made available using BitTorrent technology.For some time, the BBC has been investigating ways of legally delivering programmes online but has faced significant problems in clearing the idea with rights holders such as Hollywood studios, acting unions and independent production companies.The pilot scheme, initially limited to 5,000 people and running from September to December, will look to iron out any outstanding rights issues and resolve teething difficulties with the technology ahead of a full launch next year.Using the iMP, households involved in the trial from around the UK will be able to search through more than 190 hours of TV shows, 310 radio programmes, regional programming and some feature films. After seven days, the content will be automatically deleted from their computer.The BBC hopes that iMP will become the standard way of downloading television programmes over the internet in the same way as Apple's iTunes has become the favoured means of downloading music for iPod owners.Unlike personal video recorders such as Sky Plus, viewers will not have to signal their chosen programmes in advance, allowing critically acclaimed shows to benefit retrospectively from a favourable review or word of mouth.Already the BBC's interactive radio player, which uses similar technology to that proposed for iMP, adds millions to the radio division's listening figures. Some shows, such as Radio 1's Essential Selection, have as many "catch up" listeners online as they do when broadcast live.Ashley Highfield, the BBC's director of new media and technology, said: "iMP could just be the iTunes for the broadcast industry, enabling our audience to access our TV and radio programmes on their terms, any time, any place, any how - Martini media."We'll see what sort of programmes appeal in this new world and how people search, sort, snack and savour our content in the broadband world."The BBC - which is developing iMP alongside another major project known as the Creative Archive, which aims to offer a huge library of classic shows for download - will try to keep costs down by using "peer-to-peer" technology to distribute the programmes.Instead of storing the material itself, those who sign up to use the service will share the weight of the downloads among themselves. Inbuilt digital rights management software is designed to ensure that users cannot keep the programmes for longer than seven days, transfer them to disk or send them to friends.Initially, the service will feature programmes from all the BBC's television and radio services but it is also in talks with other broadcasters about making the iMP a gateway to other channels.Channel 4, which recently launched a broadband-only documentary channel and a new music website, is understood to be particularly interested in taking part.Search engines such as Google and Yahoo! are also investing millions in developing "video search" tools that allow web users to trawl through and download all the audio-visual content on the internet.Commercial rivals have already voiced fears that the BBC's substantial investment in iMP and the Creative Archive could damage their chances of making money from the concept.The corporation said that the trial would also look at the possible commercial impact of the services, enabling the BBC governors to decide whether it should be given a full launch.From Pong to Betamax - TV hits and missesHitsRemote controlUS electronics company Zenith introduces the Lazy Bones remote control, attached to the TV with a long wire, in 1952. First infra-red remotes appear in the 1980s, to the relief of couch potatoes everywhere.TeletextBBC launches Ceefax in 1972, ITV's Oracle follows in 1975. Both become huge successes, particularly once remote controls proliferate. Even with the launch of digital text services, many still prefer the blocky graphics and interminable loading times of the original.PongFirst launched in 1972, the paddles which connected to the TV and offered hours of fun with two sticks and a square ball proved the forerunner for Space Invaders, Clive Sinclair, Nintendos, Playstations and a games industry worth &#163;2bn per year in the UK alone.FreeviewAfter emerging from the ashes of the failed ITV Digital, the free to air digital service backed by the BBC is in more than 5m homes.MissesBetamaxIn the first, and most bitter, format war Sony's video design was comprehensively beaten by JVC's VHS, despite connoisseurs insisting it produced better quality pictures. Both were launched in 1976 with those who had plumped for Betamax recorders left to rue their purchase.Laser discThis early forerunner to the DVD used giant 12-inch discs and was a conspicious flop.SquarielsAgain, early adopters had a difficult choice: the smaller, more elegant "squariel" of British Satellite Broadcasting or the big white dishes of Rupert Murdoch's Sky TV. The smart money went on the latter when Murdoch sealed exclusive deals for football and films and bought out BSB. Sky now has 7.7 million subscribers.
Just got out - more details later, but these are the basics.[Update:Is PS3 the early winner in the console battle?]Launch Spring 2006Backwards compatibilityBlu RayCell ProcessorNVIDIA graphics – RSX @550mhz. Up to 1080 progressive scan256mb RAMDetachable 2.5 hdd slot6xUSBMem stick and SD!HDMI x2 outputGigabit EthernetBuilt in WiFi b/gBluetooth up to 7 controllersMovies, video, photos, internet accessGames shown included a stunning looking Killzone and a new shooter called the Killing Way. These two impressed the most as they were clearly in real-time. Graphically a huge step forward, although same genres - shooting, driving, fantasy - featured heavily.Pic taken by me so a bit basic..more images later.
The sign on the way into the Sony Press Conference is big - Wi-Fi access will be only available after the event. They lied - a quick wireless search has found me some access and now I'm on. The clock says 1.00pm but my body says 9pm. By the time Microsoft unveil the 360 again tonight I'll be ready for my cornflakes. Anyway, at the moment there isn't much to report. The conference isn't due to start for 2hrs and people are milling around comparing goatees and t-shirts. A quick grilling of the PR's reveals nothing, except an assurance that we will be impressed. Thanks guys. Rather than talking about the weather - it's cloudy and muggy if you were wondering/bored - I'll post more later, probably when something has actually happened.
Dan Gillmor, ex-Merc man and author ofWe The Media, has soft-launched a Web site to provideCitizens' Journalism for the Bay Area. He writes:I've moved my blog to Bayosphere, where I'll report and comment on the Silicon Valley technology community -- and a whole lot more including my observations about the burgeoning arena that's variously called citizen journalism, personal publishing, grassroots media and a lot of other things. They all have something in common: the read-write Web.As you'll see in days and weeks to come, I'll be one of many voices, including yours. I'm a host here, not The Editor. Communities have values; we'll have the kind that make this a place we want to share with visitors and each other. So while our postings and conversations will frequently be impassioned, they'll also be civil. Beyond that, we'll be adding tools that make it easy to join in and to do good work, often collaborating with others.Let's build a space where people can find news and opinion they can trust, and information that helps us in our daily lives.
