The one over-arching attitude blogging has given the world is snarkiness - the snide pleasure of mocking others that began with laughing at Lindsey Lohan's boots but now extends to everyone and everything. For those struggling to cope with this flood of smart sarcasm, here is an alternative: a young chap called Jake who is spearheading a new movement where fun for fun's sake is reclaimed for the world's growing population of male kidults. To join him, you can click the big pink button and travel to one of hundreds of random "fun idea" posts, like the art of blowing bubbles inside bubbles, making a giant tribute to Mario with pushpins or playing football in your underwear. Alternatively, you can just marvel at a photograph of Robocop on a unicorn.
Those with long memories and an eye for the absurd may remember the abortive launch of the Gizmondo handheld device in 2005. With a launch party featuring Kylie Minogue and laughable claims about taking on Nintendo at their own game, the company eventually descended into farce, peaking when one of its execs crashed a speeding Ferrari in LA that turned out to have been paid for with funds really meant to help build and sell games consoles. The result was a swift exit from the market, the shutting of their eerily empty Regent Street flagship shop and the disappointment of the handful of starry-eyed optimists who'd actually parted with cash in return for the doomed device. News of a Christmas 2008 relaunch was therefore greeted with some amusement, and fresher news of its non-appearance with manufacturing problems and the credit crisis cited, isn't so much a surprise as business as usual.
The economic downturn supposedly means that we're less swayed by how a product looks than how much it costs, yet the battle to hypnotise us into purchasing some fancy brand of jam instead of the cheap supermarket version continues apace. The wine industry, for instance, is making great strides in designing wine to not look like wine by putting film stills on the labels, raised Alfa Romeo grilles on the bottles and, in Spain, selling cava in a box that transforms into a lantern. These and many other packaging design innovations within industries ranging from automotive and athletic to fashion and food are celebrated on this good-looking blog. Everything here is beautifully swish, but nothing comes close to the packaging perfection of Tunnock's Caramel Wafers.
The three of us circle the Toyota iQ2 warily, eyeing its truncated rear and thinking the same thing: "There's no way I'm getting in the back of that." It's your classic, back-seat Mexican stand-off."How are we going to get all the gear in?" says Mark, the camera assistant."Let's see," I say, trying to be positive. If we loiter any longer, people will think we're trying to nick it.I set about folding down the driver's side rear seat and pushing the front passenger seat forward. There is more space on the passenger side because, instead of a glovebox, the iQ has only a slimline leather wallet. They have virtually removed that half of the dashboard, which frees up loads more leg-room.The subtle jockeying for front seat position has begun. I head for the passenger door, appearing to sacrifice myself to the indignities of the rear seat, then, suddenly, I feint to the left and shimmy to the right like a young Cruyff (or perhaps John Sergeant after too many mince pies), before double-backing to hold the door open with a polite smile. Mark, who was pretending to tie a shoelace (did he really think he'd win with that old trick?), realises he has been outmanoeuvered, sighs, and folds himself into the back beside a motley assortment of bags and cases. The photographer, who was studying his light meter intently, nabs the passenger seat. "Any chance I can move back a little?" he asks. Mark, to his astonishment, says that, actually, yes, he can.In fact, if it wasn't for the camera gear, we could have squeezed a shorty behind me, too. That would be four grown-ups in a car 265cm long: just a ruler's length longer than the two-seater Smart. Remarkable.As you'd expect, the iQ's turning circle is Bubble car tight. If it's been raining and you're a bit jerky with the throttle, you can skid the whole thing around 90 degrees on its back wheels. Mark, rubbing the back of his head, grunts that I'm not to do that again.But the iQ's unexpected forte becomes apparent only as I barrel down the slip road towards the motorway. I instinctively turn up the stereo - via a dinky little joystick on the steering wheel - and brace myself for sonic torture, but for a three-cylinder, one-litre car it is amazingly quiet. In the wheelie-bin Smart, passing juggernauts can make you feel vulnerable, like the Borrowers at a roller disco, but the iQ feels like a "proper" car.Mark's head may be just a couple of centimetres from the back window, but you don't feel so exposed up front: there is almost as much shoulder space inside the iQ as in its larger brother, the Auris. That's impressive, but if we look lower down the Toyota range, we encounter a problem. While the Fiat 500 comfortably out-cutes the iQ, and the new Ford Ka is a sharper drive, the iQ's biggest threat comes from a sibling: the excellent Aygo, at almost &pound;3,000 less.Is the iQ, like the Audi A2 before it, too clever and costly for its own good? Well, it's certainly not as clever as the prototype I saw at the Tokyo Motor Show in 2007 (an electric version: now that would have been something to get excited about), but there is one obvious market for it: Smart owners with friends. The only question is, are there enough of them?Toyota iQ2Price£10, 275Top speed93 mphAcceleration0-62 in 14.7 secondsCo2 emissions99g/km (road tax exempt)Eco rating8/10At the wheelPopular Smart ownersBound forThe nearest Hello Kitty storeIn a wordSmart-er
Yup, you guessed it -Banjo-Kazooie Nuts &amp; Bolts. Or maybe not.  In fact it was - gasp - FIFA 2009, withsales of 2 millionin the UK. Impressive stuff and deserved too - FIFA 2009 is a leap forward for the series, especially online. Bear in mind though, those 2 million sales were on multi-format. The biggest selling single format title was the slightly underwhelming Mario Kart Wii. Other big sellers include Call of Duty: World at War, GTA: IV, Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games and er, Carnival Funfair.  The latter two, along with Mario Kart, will probably still be selling big throughout 2009 as well. Damn Nintendo and their chart-hogging format. Anyway, surprised by any of the games on the best seller list? Or maybe by some thatdidn't make it?
Afterevaluating the quality of my predictions for last year, I've been studiously avoiding absolutely everyone else's predictions for the year ahead so that I couldn't be accused of stealing. It's been remarkably hard. But I have, with one exception noted below, succeeded.So now here are my predictions for 2009. And let's agree to come back on, say, 8 January 2010, and see how it all went.Life, death, growth and disappearance1) At least three companies will withdraw from the PC manufacturing business. The economic crunch is still biting, and there's precious little profit to be had in the market – and what there is mostly belongs to Apple, Hewlett-Packard and Dell.2) There will be more "netbooks" – aka ultraportables, aka liliputers, like the Asus Eee PC – than ever, and their sales growth will far outpace that of the PC market. The companies which withdraw from the PC market will instead fight over the netbook market.3) Sun Microsystems won't have a near-death experience, but it's going to keep shrinking. Its $1.6bn loss in the fourth quarter might have looked scary, but that was just a writedown. In fact costs are under control and the company has plenty of cash.4) Vonage will die. I'm sorry, guys, butyour income statementshows you have debts of $276m, cash of $112m, and are paying "interest" (on the debt) of $5m per quarter, which means losses of $7m per quarter. That's just not sustainable, and debt isn't going to get cheaper to service either.5) Palm will come close to death, but advance sales of its Pre webphone, plus a little more money from its venture capitalist backers, will save it.6) Twitter will find a way to charge for its service, from at least some users, and so move towards at least revenue, if not yet profit. Its growth will become explosive.7) Many – as in thousands – of IT jobs will be lost. Lots will go in finance as that industry shrinks; but there's a general trend now where small companies are beginning to rely on cloud services from companies like Google, Microsoft and Amazon. Those don't need a lot of people. (Ever seen a job advert to work on a cloud service?).8) IT will more and more resemble the building business. Either you specialise, or you're coordinating the project, or you're doing simple, low-paid work that someone from another country can and will do for less.Microsoft9) Windows 7 will be pushed out of the door in time for the end of the year, and particularly for Christmas sales. It won't be perfect, but it will get corporates interested in an upgrade from XP, which Vista didn't.10) Microsoft will buy chunks of Yahoo (after being forced to overbid by challenges from Google), which will raise yowls of pain from all over the web. And then in six months people will have forgotten all about it.11) XP will finally be declared dead once Windows 7 is released, because a version of Windows 7 will be made to run on netbooks.12) Internet Explorer will continue to lose share to Firefox, Apple's Safari and especially Google's Chrome.13) No Zune phone, and no Zune in Europe either.Ubiquity14) Unfortunately I couldn't avoid seeing one prediction – by Mac developer Fraser Speirs, whoforecastthat "appreciable numbers of people in the UK will start to use 3G USB dongles as their sole connection to the internet." I don't agree, actually. But: dongles will fall in price, and data charges will too as the phone networks realise that it's a great way to tie people to lucrative contracts without having to subsidise them with mobile phones. So they'll become pervasive. Let's put a number on it: 3 million users, PAYG or contract, by the end of the year.15) Being able to transfer sound and, increasingly, video around your home between different devices will become more important, and more and more products will appear built around theDLNA standardto assist it.16) Femtocells – which improve mobile reception inside homes and businesses by providing a mini-cell, and pushing the data over your broadband connection – will struggle because the mobile companies will price them wrong, thinking they should be a niche, and hence expensive, product.17) Mobile networks will tout phones on the basis that they let you contact your friends on Twitter – rather than last year's favourite, Facebook – via the data connection. (SMS will remain too expensive for Twitter to use outside the US.)Linux18) Advocates will declare that 2010 is going to be "the year of desktop Linux" while the bugs are ironed out this year.19) But in fact the sales of netbooks running Linux will mean that it's best-selling year for desktop Linux ever.Apple20) Let's start with a banker. No self-replicating worm for Mac OSX or the iPhone's OSX by the end of the year.21) Snow Leopard will be released for sale in May 2009. Yes, I know: Apple hasn't even demo'd it, apart from a brief description by Steve Jobs at the Worldwide Developers' conference last July. It didn't turn up at Macworld this week. But betas are progressing, and this date means it will have been slightly more than the average delay for OSX releases since Leopard's release in October 2007 – which leaves time for an announcement and release schedule.22) Snow Leopard squashes down application sizes, and uses the graphics processing unit (GPU) to help processing. Butwhy would you want to do that?Hard drive space is halving in cost every year. Leopard takes far less of a typical disk than its predecessors. OK, Leopardleft some unnecessary files in therewhich bloated the installation. It feels oddly as though Apple is imagining a Flash drive-based machine able to run Snow Leopard, with a comparatively weak processor that uses the GPU to hide the fact. Plus itowns a chip design company. Even so, I don't think it will offer a tablet computer. Or a netbook. Neither fits with its strategy – which is all about the iPhone, and pricey computers.23) Apple will charge for the Snow Leopard upgrade – just as much as it has for previous upgrades.24)ZFSwon't be built into the kernel for Snow Leopard; it'll be an optional install, for server honchos.25) Steve Jobs will remain chief executive through the year. That might sound like an obvious prediction. It isn't.26) The iPhone hardware won't be updated before the autumn.27) The iPhone software will be updated to 3.x, which will bring copy-and-paste and photo messaging. About time.Environment28) Oil prices are diving, but electricity is still not getting cheaper. Expect more companies – even quite big ones – to reduce their in-house server usage in favour of outsourced pay-per-process services offered by Microsoft, Google and Amazon.Free Our Data29) The government will take a deep breath and acknowledge that it must make a significant part of Ordnance Survey's data available for free unfettered reuse – and will do it.Processing30) In 1992 I wrote a feature based on some analysts' predictions about how in five years we'd all be using speech-to-text input for our computers. We didn't. Even now the best speech-to-text programs have to be carefully trained with a single voice. They can't do ad-hoc transcription of a conversation in a room, say. But once we start to harness the power of graphics processing units (as Snow Leopard will be able to) for general parallel processing, we'll start to be able to untangle what is speech from what's just noise; decoding sound is a parallel processing task which our brains do wonderfully. Throw some GPU power at it and by the end of the year we should see programs able to turn the ad-hoc spoken to the written almost faultlessly.Of course that's going to have a dramatic effect on all sorts of businesses – journalism among them. But we'll cross that bridge when we come to it, some time in 2010. It feels so far away now, doesn't it?
To most people, Las Vegas is the home of cheesy entertainment, drunken weddings and has-been crooners. But this week the city became the heart of the hi-tech future where a purse-sized laptop and a mobile phone made from recycled plastic bottles were just some of the gadgets of the future on display.The annual Consumer Electronics Show, one of the biggest of its kind in the world, has seen more than 2,000 companies unveil their most innovative, exciting – and outlandish – products in the charge to wow consumers.Among the cutting-edge gadgets generating the most buzz was the tiny Sony Viao P laptop – which has an 8-inch screen and costs around £800, but could easily be mistaken for a purse thanks to its incredibly slim design and shiny case.On the other side of the coin, the Eee keyboard from Taiwanese company Asus was also generating interest of a different sort – from those who were left puzzled by the machine; a computer keyboard with a fully-functional PC hidden inside.While television technology is one of the mainstays of CES, unlike most previous years 2009's show did not feature a record-breaking giant TV set. Instead, many manufacturers were showing off internet-connected television screens, which allow viewers to pull in the latest news headlines, read email or chat with friends – all while still watching the television.But many of the most talked-about products unveiled at this year's CES proved to be those that were the most futuristic.Sony chief executive Howard Stringer showed off a pair of glasses that could project a 3D image onto the lens – allowing the wearer to watch three-dimensional movies while still being able to see the world around them. They are still at the conceptual stage, but Korean manufacturer LG paraded a watch that took a leaf straight out of Dick Tracy by doubling up as a touchscreen mobile phone."It's undeniably fun," said LG chief executive Scott Ahn. "How else can you re-enact those scenes from your favourite sci-fi or spy movie?"For all the talk of futuristic gadgets, however, this year it was the theme of green technology that underpinned the event – with messages about improved environmental impact from almost every manufacturer and exhibitor.Nowhere was that more apparent that in the latest wheeze from mobile phone company Motorola: a handset made from recycled plastic bottles.The Renew, which will cost around the same as a normal phone, has no snazzy features – but the company thinks it could saves millions of discarded bottles from becoming landfill.Despite the green message, the irony of talking about environmental protection amid an ocean of huge TV screens and floodlights was not hard to miss. One expert revealed that the energy footprint of CES is the equivalent of 24bn iPods running simultaneously.Elsewhere, the impact of the credit crunch was even more apparent. In the weeks leading up to the show the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), which organises the event, had predicted that there would be a drop in visitor numbers from around 140,000 in 2008 to 130,000 this year. But with thinner crowds than expected, estimates on the ground suggest that it could be more drastic – possibly as low as 100,000 visitors by the time the event closes its doors on Sunday.For all the gloom, though, not everyone was turned away. Thousands of industry insiders, analysts and journalists still turned up to see what was on offer.Those who remained loyal saw high-profile business leaders such as Microsoft's Steve Ballmer take to the stage to introduce new products, even if he too made reference to the current climate."We may be tempted to temper our optimism and scale back our ambition," Ballmer told the crowd during his speech on Wednesday. "But no matter what happens with the economy or how long the recession lasts, I believe that our digital lives will only continue to get richer."Perhaps the biggest winner at the show was the beleaguered smartphone maker Palm. After several years of struggling to compete against rivals such as the iPhone and the BlackBerry, the company unveiled its new handset, called the Pre, in what was widely seen as a make-or-break announcement.The Pre, which will not be released in Britain in its current form, received rave reviews for its touchscreen and web-friendly system – and drew praise from attendees despite no confirmed release date or price.After seeing the gizmo for just a few minutes, leading gadget website Gizmodo was even driven to declare undying love. "It is maybe the most interesting phone I have seen this decade," said editorBrian Lam.
The footage is shaky and low quality, with chaotic shouts and protests from onlookers at a subway station in San Francisco's east bay. But itclearly shows three policemanroughly handling a group of young men – including one who is pinned to the ground by two officers and shot in the back.This shooting of 22-year-old Oscar Grant – who died later in hospital – has outraged many in California and triggered riots in Oakland in a case that many feel echoes the brutal beating of Rodney King by LA Police in 1991.Transport police were called to the Fruitvale train station in the early hours of New Year's Day after reports of a fight. Grant was one of a small group of men taken off the train and restrained, at which point several passengers began to film using mobile phones and cameras.Inone piece of footage, Grant is seen kneeling and holding up his hands before being pushed to the floor. Despite the shouts of protests from onlookers on the train, one officer –  later identified as 27-year-old Johannes Mehserle – takes out his gun and shoots Grant in the back as he lies face down on the platform. Passengers cry out in disbelief before the doors of the carriage close seconds later.Despite police reportedly confiscating footage from onlookers and initially claiming there was no official CCTV coverage from the station, several versions of the incident found their way to Google-owned video-sharing site YouTube and have been widely circulated on the internet since New Year's Day.One witness, 19-year-old Karina Vargas, claimedfootage filmed on her phonesupports a case for criminal charges to be brought against Mehserle. Vargas added that she will make the video evidence available to the Grant family."This video is for everyone to see," she told theKTVU news channel. "I want to show it to his family. It is for everyone to see that this was not right."YouTube lists more than 500 videos related to the incident, including copies of TV reports labelled "Bart [Bay Area Transit Authority] police cover-up", as well as a musical tribute to  Grant by an R&amp;B group. Footage from witnesses at the station has notched up hundreds of thousands of views and fuelled angry protests in San Francisco.The San Jose Mercury News reported $150,000 of damage in riots on Wednesday night, while Oakland mayor Ron Dellums – who is rumoured to be a possible candidate for a job in Barack Obama's administration – appealed for calm.Mehserle, who has refused to give an official account of the incident, was initially suspended on paid leave but resigned from Bart police yesterday. Grant's family has filed a $25m lawsuit against Bart, led by lawyer John Burris, who was co-counsel for King in his case against Los Angeles police.In a press conference on Monday,Burris told reportersthat, after speaking to witnesses on the train and watching their video footage, he could "easily determine that Mr Grant was killed by this officer under circumstances that were woefully unjustified"."It is the most unconscionable shooting I have seen, ever ... A price has to be paid, and accountability has to occur," he said.Grant's mother Wanda Johnsonappealed for peace, saying the family "believe this situation is going to come to a close and justice will be served". "I'm asking you please, please stop [the rioting] and let justice prevail," Johnson said.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Here's a cool event, happening in London on 30 January sent in byFiona:Global GameJam, the British leg of the international game development gathering, taking place simultaneously around the world over 48 hours:"In a Game Jam, participants come together to make video games. Each participant works in a small team on a complete game project over the course of a limited time period, usually over a weekend. With such a small time frame, the games tend to be innovative and experimental."The Global Game Jam (GGJ) is the first of its kind: a Game Jam that takes place in the same 48 hours all over the world! The Global Game Jam will start at 5:00PM Friday, January 30, 2009 through 5:00PM Sunday, February 1, 2009, (all times local). All participants in the Global Game Jam will be constrained by the same rules and limitations, with each time zone having one distinct constraint."So if you have any mad skillz or fancy having a go at collaborative game-making, sign up onUpcomingand head on down. I wonder if atext adventureis the order of the day...Check out this event and more on ourGoogle Calendar,and do let us know if you've got any more games-related events you'd like us to add.
Palm'snew Pre handsetis the first step on the company's road to recovery, according to executive chairman Jon Rubinstein.The handheld computer company, which has fallen back in the face of serious competition in recent years, unveiled its new gadget on stage yesterday at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.The sleek black Pre, which Palm hopes will mount a serious challenge the iPhone and BlackBerry, is a touchscreen mobile phone with a pull-down keyboard and wireless charging station. It is a marked departure from the company's previous hardware, and also runs Palm's new operating system, WebOS.In an interview with the Guardian, Rubinstein, who was until April 2006 head of the iPod division at Apple Computer, said that the Pre — which will initially go on sale in the US only sometime later this year — was merely the first part of Palm's recovery plan."We're just getting started," Rubenstein said. "We've been fighting the battle with basically both hands tied behind our back for the past year and half. Now we're getting on the playing field, and we're going to be extremely competitive. But it's the beginning."Many see the announcement as a make-or-break attempt by Palm to regain the initiative in the lucrative smartphone market.Just a few years ago it was the undisputed champion of the high-end handset market and beloved by many business people. But after a series of missteps and struggles, today it lies fourth in the smartphone league — behind the BlackBerry, iPhone and Windows Mobile.Rubinstein, who joined 18 months ago after a long stint at Apple — where he was one of the key executives responsible for the iPod — admitted that Palm had failed to capitalise on its early dominance."We created the smartphone space and the mobile space — so, yeah, we need to make the company really great again."The version of Pre which went on display at CES runs on America's CDMA phone network, and is therefore incompatible with European mobile systems.But although Palm will not say when it might arrive around the world, Rubinstein did confirm that a 3G version of the Pre that could go on sale in Europe was already in development."This is a CDMA device," he said. "But we have a UMTS, 3G version in the pipeline as well… Palm is a global company and the world is important to us. Europe is an important place."Initial reaction to the announcements was good, despite no news on when it might go on sale or what it would cost. But Rubinstein refused to say whether he thought it was enough to silence the critics."That's not for me to judge, that's for you to judge," he said. "The early indicators are that people are very excited about the work we're doing."Early reaction to the Pre, which was shown off by Rubenstein and Palm's chief executive Ed Colligan, has been positive. Michael Gartenberg, a mobile analyst at Jupitermedia,observedthat "The real challenge for Palm is now going to be execution. Everything that Palm showed today was dead on. Palm had their shot to tell their story and they executed well... No doubt, Palm is back. The mobile space in 2009 just got a whole lot more interesting."
Vigster: the social network for gamersVigster is the PlayStation3's Home without the proprietary software, the flashy avatars and the dancing. It'sDooffor the consoles. Olu Bolutiwi got in touch to tell us about the gamers' social network, sharing his vision for gaming trophy rooms to come.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.Vigsteris a video game social network, Internet Video Games Database and a social gaming platform where users can create virtual game shelves to show off their games collection, connect with friends, discover new and exciting video and computer games, rate and write short and long reviews on video games, create and play video game quizzes, voice their opinions, have their say, comment on games, share games, share gaming experiences, buy video games, explore games and much more. Vigster is working on building the biggest and the best community for millions of gamers around the world who are passionate about gaming using advanced social metrics.How do players control the game?Users can utilize the Vigster network to undertake all gaming related activities from video games to casual games, users also have the opportunity to contribute to the network by adding resources e.g. screens, videos, asking and answering questions on GameAnswers, participating in the forums etc.  There is also a Vigster's virtual currency called "VigsterPoints" that rewards users when they add value to the network.What is your background?I am a technology expert in the depths of the world capital (London) who's always been passionate about technology, gaming and video games in general. I am a Software Engineer by profession and have been in the technology industry for more than 9 years. I love playing games and I've been playing since the era of the first PlayStation. I've always wanted a network where I can share my gaming passions and express them virtually. The passion doesn't end there, am also interested in the development of video game etc and hope to commence on that very soon.Name your competitors.The beauty of Vigster is the fact that we are really unique; Vigster mixes social network, casual gaming and a gaming IMDB all together. We have a few competitors especially from the UK; there isUgame.netPlayfireandgamerDNAfrom the US.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?We have thousands of players on our network and more and more users are joining us daily in order to join in the Vigster experience. Our network offers gamers the opportunity to earn while they network with fellow gamers. There is no other gaming network that offers this unique service.What's your biggest challenge?We've faced several challenges while building Vigster especially around the Internet Video Games Database (IVGDB) area, there have been thousands of games developed to date and it's an enormous task archiving and building this library. Because of the concept of Vigster, we decided to build an IMDB for games that will power up the social network; we've had to work with gaming companies, developers, publishers and retailers in building our library. Currently is one of the biggest video games database on the Internet and in a few months time will become one of the biggest if not the biggest video games library. You'll find games for consoles from 1970s to date on Vigster.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?A member of the team once brought a 360 into the office and before you could blink an eye the entire team was playing Gears of War 2 all day into the night on a very busy and serious development day for us.  I guess that is what you get when you are surrounded by a team so passionate about gaming.What's your distribution/publishing plan?...we'll like to grow and grow till we become the largest gaming social network on the planet.Are indie games the latest killer app?Well you can not be ignorant to this aspect, with web browsers becoming more and more capable and smarter with enhanced functionalities it's very much possible to see indie games become really big.Are you the next big thing?Well I'll say yes to this. Why? Because of the several upcoming innovative features that we plan to introduce at Vigster, it's going to have a major impact in gaming and how video games combine with the internet. We aim to be the leading gaming social network and that is a big challenge giving the competition that exists in this sector. As part of being the next big this is our aim to appeal to everyone, young and old, big and small. To sum it all up we are really looking forward to this.
What's your favourite piece of technology?That would have to be my car. I've only recently acquired a computer, and I need my sons to be here to help me with it. I see people with laptops as being enslaved to something they can't live without.How has it improved your life?By enabling me to get from A to B – but keep in mind that there is a lot of interesting stuff in between A and B.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Yesterday, to drive into town and back out again – because public transport is useless, especially in this country [Ireland].What additional features would you add if you could?You see, I actually have a satnav thing but I haven't put it in the car yet. I think that would be handy to use, but I don't know where to start, so if someone else would do it for me, that would be good.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?It will be obsolete in a minute – it's full of rust, because I live beside the sea and I drive through it as a shortcut. At this point I'm just driving it until it stops.What one tip would you give to those who don't use a car?Move very quickly across the road when you see them coming, because drivers are ruthless.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?If I have to be one or the other it would obviously be luddite. I'm not in denial about technology, but my mother used to say when I was a kid, "son, you're handless", because I couldn't fix anything. My ambition is to be a luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably the car, when I bought it. It cost about 16 grand.Mac or PC?[Calls away to his son] "Is it a Mac or a PC?" It's a Mac.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played list?A Man Needs a Maid, by Neil YoungWill robots ever rule the world?Well I hope so, because they will probably be more intelligent.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd like to own a movie camera – a proper one, with film, not a digital thing. Celluloid has more character.•Stephen Rea's new film, Stuck, opens across the UK today
The - yes! - Friday edition of Chatterbox
Bobbie Johnson presents the last in our series of special live podcasts from the floor the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, one of the world's biggest technology showcases.Today we get down and dirty with gadgets, with everything from recycled mobile phones to sexy laptops.And if that's not enough, we talk to Jon Rubinstein from Palm about whether the company's new gadget – the Pre – will help it survive.Joining Bobbie in the pod today are Susi Weaser of ShinyShiny and Tech Digest, and Dan Sung from Tech Digest.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Palm's press conference at CES today achieved what most of us would have considered impossible a year ago: it created more interest than Apple's Macworld keynote. Hot topic of conversation on the interweb tubes right now is thePalm Pre smartphone, and its new webOS operating system.The Pre has both a 3.1-inch multi-touch screen and also -- like the Treos I used to use in the old(ish) days, but unlike Apple's iPhone -- a physical keyboard. (A slide-out version, in this case.) AsBuzz Andersen(ex-Apple) tweeted: "the Pre exposes some areas of weakness for the iPhone. Apple's probably going to have to step things up on the hardware front."Other features include 8GB or memory, USB slot, GPS, W-Fi and a removable battery. Oh yes, and wireless recharging. Pre applications are developed in HTML, CSS and JavaScript, just like Web pages.Where the Pre differs from Palm's original take on the PDA market is that it hasn't been designed as a PC companion device. Palm boss Ed Colligan said: "The default thinking of this platform isn't to hook up to a desktop PC, it is to connect to the cloud."At Mobile Devices Today,Michael Gartenbergcommented:The UI [user interface] is smooth and works pretty seamlessly as they've showed. Palm's always understood how to do a good mobile UI and it's clear that they've applied everything they've learned over the years to this device and platform. The Synergy technology is very impressive and looks like it allows for multiple sources of information stores, such as Outlook, Google or Facebook. Best part is that even though it's in three places, the OS can figure out not to duplicate everything. This is really important.There are a few drawbacks. First, you can't buy one, just pre-order one: it will be available in the first half of this year, Palm says. Second, Palm has done a deal with Sprint in the US so, as with the iPhone, there may be some people who want to "jailbreak" it. Third, Palm has not been doing very well recently, as described inThe New York Times's Pre coverage. One quote:"Palm finds itself in a very difficult situation given the economic times," said Mark Donovan, a mobile phone industry analyst with comScore. "They're flying into a headwind here."This is a tough market that already includes the RIM BlackBerry, Apple's iPhone, Nokia's Symbian, Microsoft's Windows Mobile, Google's Android and various others. They can't all be winners, and until now, Palm had looked like a loser. It will be interesting to see how it turns out.For informative photos and a liveblog of the Palm event, see Ryan Block atgdgt,Engadget, orGizmodo, among others.
Just a few years ago most people were content watching their videos on a TV in the living room. But even though we now watch television over our computers, on high definition flatscreens or even on our iPods, we have still only seen the tip of the iceberg.That's according to Japanese electronics giant Sony, which today unveiled a pair of futuristic glasses that project 3D video onto the lens while still allowing you to see the world around you.The glasses, which are still a prototype, were among the products that Sony unveiled at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas – one of the technology industry's largest showcases, where more than 2,700 exhibitors show off their latest gadgets.The glasses, which Sony claims could be on the market in just a few years, will also form part of a new push by the company to embrace 3D television – and make all of its technologies internet-connected.Sir Howard Stringer, the company's chief executive, said that by 2011, 90% of all the products made by Sony - including television sets, cameras and video players - would be able to connect online..As an example, he unveiled the company's latest digital camera – a model with built-in Wi-Fi internet access and even a web browser, allowing budding photographers to upload their pictures directly to the internet without ever touching a computer."If you can imagine it, we can help you make it real," Sir Howard said. "At Sony we're trying to dream the impossible … to turn imagination into reality. No drop in the economy can change that."Sir Howard said that 3D – for years restricted to one-off stunts and B-movies - was now coming of age, and would soon be available in cinemas and on TV screens worldwide. Major Hollywood studios Disney and Dreamworks were among those demonstrating 3D, and John Lasseter – one of the founders of Pixar, famous for films such as Toy Story, Finding Nemo and WALL•E – joined Sir Howard on stage to extol the virtues of high-definition, three-dimensional video."You can't go back when you have this," he said.Sony CEO Howard Stringer shows off a new Sony VAIO P-series Lifestyle PC at CES. Photograph: Rick Wilking/ReutersSony also took the wraps off its new laptop computer, the 8-inchVaio P Series Lifestyle PC. The machine, which will cost around £850, has generated interest from the industry for its sleek and lightweight design.Despite being one of the dominant forces in the technology industry through the 1980s and 1990s, Sony has struggled to retain its place in recent years. Faced with tough competition from more abrasive and aggressive Korean manufacturers like Samsung and LG, Sony has found it hard to coordinate the different parts of its sprawling business.Sir Howard, who was born in Wales, was brought in as the company's first non-Japanese chief executive to streamline and focus – but since taking on the role in 2005, he has yet to revolutionise the company.And although, it is finding it hard to make an impact in key areas. Over Christmas the company's PlayStation 3 games console – which is at the heart of Sony's plan to convince people to buy high definition video – struggled against its competitors, the Nintendo Wii and Microsoft's Xbox 360.And in other areas, the company is also facing the impact of the recession."These are certainly challenging times," Sir Howard said. "But I can promise you that the consumer electronics industry will ultimately prevail."
British broadband users are being left in the slow lane by their internet service providers, with one in five people who sign up for the most popular high-speed package actually getting less than a quarter of the advertised speed.UK consumers are getting an average broadband speed of just 3.6Mb per second compared with a technically feasible top speed across the nation of 4.3Mbps, according to new research from regulator Ofcom.The figures, reached after more than 10m individual tests, are significantly lower than previous forecasts and well below the headline "up to" figure used in advertising, which Ofcom reckons is now an average 7.2Mbps."This report goes to show how little consumers get for their money," said James Parker, broadband manager atmoneysupermarket.com.An average speed of 3.6Mbps also means that UK web users are experiencing some of the slowest broadband access in the developed world.Speed has become a fierce battleground between the ISPs over the past year, as more and more consumers are watching television programmes through applications such as the BBC's iPlayer and need fast, reliable connections.BT has already upgraded all its customers to speeds of "up to" 8Mbps – and runs a speed check on a prospective customer's line before they sign up – while Virgin Media, which has its own fibre optic network connecting roughly half the UK's homes, recently announced the roll-out of broadband at 50Mbps.But while advertised speeds are going up and up, many people are not even getting the slower speeds they are being promised today. One in five people who take an "up to 8Mbps" package – used by 60% of internet users – are actually getting connections of under 2Mbps.The research, conducted in association with broadband performance specialist SamKnows, shows that while most consumers are happy with their broadband service, speed is an increasing area of dissatisfaction – especially among consumers who use their connections for data-hungry applications such as gaming or the iPlayer.While 93% of consumers are satisfied with their experience of web browsing, only two thirds – 67% – of those who use their broadband connection to watch or download TV programmes are satisfied with the experience.Last year Ofcom strong-armed UK ISPs into implementing a code of practice which requires them to provide an accurate estimate of the maximum speed a customer can expect to get when signing up for a service.ISPs must also explain to customers the factors which determine the actual broadband speeds they can receive andgive guidance on how to improve their connections.Dissatisfaction with broadband is twice as high in rural areas – especially the east Midlands, Wales and Scotland – than it is in urban areas. In fact the research, which was based on 7,000 tests of the connections of 1,500 homes over a 30-day period, shows the widening gap between the broadband speed "haves" in cities and the "have nots" in the countryside.Speeds are lower in the country because of the technology used for broadband services. All broadband providers except Virgin Media have to use BT's copper lines to connect people's homes to the internet. The longer the line between house and the local telephone exchange, the slower the speed. Lines tend to be shortest in urban areas and speeds are on average 15% faster than those in rural areas.Consumers in London receive the fastest average speeds, according to the Ofcom report, with those in the north east of England, Wales and Scotland receiving on average the slowest speeds.Closing the so-called digital divide has become a political issue. Earlier this week, David Cameron said a Conservative government would put all homes within the reach of high-speed broadband networks within 10 years."In Britain we have some of the slowest broadband speeds in the developed world and when it comes to investing in next generation broadband networks, like fibre optics to the home, we're doing very badly compared to countries like Germany, Japan and America," he said.Later this month new communications minister Lord Stephen Carter will publish his initial thoughts about creating what he calls Digital Britain, which is expected to look at ways of expanding the roll-out of super-fast broadband services across the UK.BT has plans to spend £1.5bn bringing the next generation of super-fast broadband within reach of 10m homes, or about 40% of the population, but getting the whole country within the reach of such networks is going to cost billions more.• The full Ofcom report can be foundhere
A Letter From Clippy, The Microsoft Office PaperclipDear Microsoft Community,For the first time in more than a decade, it looks likeI'mwriting a letter.Unfortunately, my apparent absence in the latest version of Microsoft Office set off another flurry of rumours about my health, with some even publishing stories of me on my deathbed.As many of you know, I have been slowly rusting since Office 97. The reason has been a mystery to me and my doctors. A few weeks ago, I decided that getting to the root cause of this and reversing it needed to become my #1 priority.Fortunately, after further testing, my doctors think they have found the cause: I am an 11-year-old paperclip. Sophisticated tests have confirmed this diagnosis.The remedy for this oxidization problem is relatively simple and straightforward, and I've already begun treatment. But, just like I didn't get this rusty in a week or a month, my doctors expect it will take me until late this spring to lose it. I will continue to irritate the living shit out of people during this time.I have given more than my all to letter writers for the past 11 years now. I will be the first one to hand over responsibility to Scribble The Annoying Letter-Writing Cat if I can no longer continue to fulfil those letter writing duties.So now I've said more than I wanted to say, and all that I am going to say, about this. All further announcements will come in the usual way: through Robert Scoble's frozen yogurt shop working friend.Lots of love,ClippyHello fromSan Francisco. I'm in town forMacworld– officially – but unofficially I'm also here as a fugitive from British justice. This most recent bout of legal trouble started a couple of days ago, as it often does, with a phone call from a policeman. A detective constable in Bethnal Green who earlier in the day had paid a surprise visit to my friend Anna to see if she knew my whereabouts. "He's in a whole lot of shit," were (Anna swears) his exact words. Why the police think I live at her house is anyone's guess, but Anna turned out to be the perfect criminal's moll, cunningly palming them off with the truth. That I don't live in her house, that I'm out of the country and that she hasn't seen me all year. This failed to satisfy them, hence the phonecall.Apparently, the policeman explained, there had been a burglary in East London and, much to his evident glee, my fingerprints had been found at the scene. What with me having now fled the country, it was pretty much an open and shut case. Except for the slight detail that I'm not a burglar. In fact as it turned out, the reason my fingerprints were are the scene of a burglary is that the scene of the burglary is a hotel room. Or, more accurately, a serviced apartment that I rented for one night last November when I wasliveblogging the American election.Annoyingly, of all the billion fingerprints found in the apartment, only mine matched a record on the police national computer, and so I was their lead suspect. You see, despite never actually been found guilty of committing any crime – although do check out mylast bookfor details of how lucky I am that that's the case – the fact that I have been arrested in the past for something astonishingly trivial means the police have my fingerprints on file. And because of that trivial arrest, I was suddenly being wrongly accused of burgling a flat. It's a classic story of wrongly-accused criminality: from not committing petty crime, I've graduated to not committing increasingly more serious crimes. In a few years, unless I seriously don't not change my ways, there's a real risk I'll end up not in jail for not committing arson – or perhaps even not-murder. Of course, I blame the fact that I didn't grow up without a strong father figure, and my lack of not having a decent education. School of soft-knocks, that's me.And yet, being falsely accused of something both serious and weird does make me realise how Steve Jobs must feel every time he's wrongly accused ofbeing dead. It's really the only thing people aretalking aboutat Macworld. What with his continuing weight loss and his decision not to perform one of his classic "Stevenotes" at the conference, the consensus among people who have absolutely no inside knowledge at all is that he's not long for this world.Admittedly, the consensus may have a point. Hormone imbalance or not, Jobs did survive neuroendocrine tumours – a fact that he neglected to announce to the world until after its apparently successful treatment. And now once again, the world learns that the CEO of Apple (a publicly-listed company) is ill only after he claims to be getting better. Like the Alan Partridge of the tech world, Jobs is a man  who is constantly bouncing back but never seems to quite make it. But at the same time – so what? People die. It's pretty much the defining characteristic of living things. And when they do, other people are usually found to replace them. It's perfectly foreseeable that when Jobs dies, Apple will manage to find one person on Earth capable of running a company that makes computers with one mouse button. In fact, there's a real possibility that he or she might already be among the 31,999 people who work at Apple but who aren't Steve Jobs.But that's not the point. The point is that the attendees of Macworld have to talk about Jobs's health because there's absolutely bugger all else to talk about. In previous years we've seen the launch of the iPod, the iPhone and the Macbook Air. Game-changing technologies, unveiled with the unique presentational flair of Steve Jobs. This year we get a slightly better Macbook Pro, a slightly better iLife suite and DRM-free iTunes, all announced by Philip Schiller. It was like watching the bearded lady trying to encourage people to pay to see PT Barnum – wrong messenger, wrong message.Desperate to track down some buzz about anything other than a man who isn't dead, I decided to crash a Macworld "TweetUp" – a spontaneous conference party arranged via Twitter. Surely among the Mac geeks in attendance, someone would be excited about the new MacBook's extended battery life? But no. Instead, somebody had made a Steve Jobs mask and the partygoers were taking it in turns to be photographed wearing it. In fact, apart from Steve talk, there was only one other notable topic of conversation, prompted by the fact that I write this column. And it was, of course, the pipe guy.It started with Megan McCarthy fromTechmeme. "So what's the deal with the pipe guy?" she asked. I had to think for a moment. "Pipe guy? Um... wait... do you meanJack Schofield?""Yeah. Is the pipe for real?""I think it's a real pipe, yes.""Wow. That's pretty awesome."Gabe Rivera, Megan's boss, wandered past. "Hey Gabe," said Megan, "This is Paul – he writes for the Guardian.""Did you ask him about the pipe guy?"And so that was Macworld – a conference so devoid of exciting news that the people of Silicon Valley have had to importJack's pipeas a talking point. In fact the whole thing has been such a letdown that I'm starting to get paranoid. Since I started writing this column, I've been to two big conferences –Le Weband Macworld – and both have been a disappointment. I'vewritten beforeabout the fact that everything I write about tends to take an immediate turn for the worse (sorry Steve). If I keep travelling to conferences at my current rate, there's a chance that by the end of 2009 I'll have killed off the entire technology events industry.In a few hours I'm due to fly to Las Vegas for theConsumer Electronics Show. So far the hype has been pretty positive. The event kicked off with a keynote from Microsoft's Steve Ballmer and the BBC ran the headline "Tech show bucks global downturn". If by Sunday, when the conference ends, it's all turned to shit – with no exciting product launches, complaints about internet connectivity problems or, God knows, a meteor hitting the convention centre – I'll know for sure that I'm to blame.So here's my pledge: if I do manage to ruin CES, I'm going to do the right thing. I'm going to fly straight back to London, walk into the first police station I see and admit to the burglary, and possibly also the future arson and murder. Hopefully they'll lock me up and throw away the key and my orgiastic buzz-killing spree can finally be brought to an end. Nothing less than the future of the technology industry is at stake.One way or another it's going to be an interesting few days. And of course I'll tell you all about them next week. But right now me and my new pipe have a plane to catch.Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com.
Users of social networking site MySpace will be able to message their friends while watching TV, following a partnership between the News Corporation-owned site and a web TV project led by Yahoo and the processor manufacturer Intel.The Widget Channel will make selected content and functionality from some of the biggest internet names available through an interactive bar at the bottom or side of the TV screen.A demonstration at the giant Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas late yesterday showed that MySpace users will be able to update their profiles, message friends, browse photos and post comments.The MySpace widget will sit alongside similar tools from the Yahoo-owned photo-sharing site Flickr, messaging service Twitter, and a host of mainstream content firms including CBS Interactive, MTV, Disney and Comcast. Additional widgets could also offer click-through advertising or web-based retail and a development platform to allow more external companies to build applications for the service.Yahoo's president of Connected TV, Patrick Barry, said the service would "revolutionise" TV by bringing web widgets to millions of people."By combining the key attributes of the internet, including openness, community, and personalisation with the power of television, the MySpace Widget for TV users will be able to take new advantage of a device they are incredibly familiar with – the television – to access their important MySpace features and information," Barry added.The Intel and Yahoo project wasfirst revealed last summer. Powered by Intel's CE3100 media processor, the service will be made available on a series of TV sets, set-top boxes and through Blu-ray players.This move reflects a wider strategy among web content firms to make their services accessible from as many outlets as possible, including mobile phones and other through websites, but also to bring interactivity to the television.Yahoo also revealed at CES yesterday that it has produced a "widget engine" for a series of Samsung HDTV sets, which will offer information and content from Yahoo Finance, Flickr and USA Today. The Samsung HDTV sets will be available in 13 countries, including the UK, from this spring.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
While the games industry appeared to be bucking the economic trend with a bumper year over the Christmas holidays (at least for Microsoft), it seems that many gamers in the US are sticking with their old faithfuls. According toNielsen(pdf), the PlayStation2 was the most popular console of the year. FromMCV:The stats show that the PS2 accounted for 31.7 per cent of the US' total game time. Microsoft's Xbox 360 claimed the second spot with 17.2 per cent, followed by Nintendo's Wii with 13.4 per cent.Ouch - the original Xbox was next, followed by the PS3, not far ahead of the Nintendo GameCube.Of course, while folks like us get all het up about the latest hardware and software, there's a massive user base of the original consoles. Heck, I bought my grandmother a copy ofDr. Kawashima's Brain Training: How Old Is Your Brain?this year, and that was the big seller in 2006.On mobile, nostalgia also seems to have captured the imagination, with Tetris, Wheel of Fortune, Pac Man (both Mr. and Mrs.) and The Oregon Trail in the top ten across all carriers.What are your guilty old gaming pleasures?
In today's instalment of this special series of Tech Weekly podcasts from two of the world's top technology shows:Bobbie Johnson straps on his shades and slips on his best gambling shoes to visit Las Vegas for the Consumer Electronics Show – which promises to deliver all manner of weird, wonderful and whizzy gadgets over the next few days.There'll be everything from big TV screens to tiny projectors, and run the gamut from gas-guzzling supercars to the greenest technologies around.Technology writer Will Head and Kat Hannaford, the news editor ofT3.com, join Bobbie to discuss the gadgets that have tweaked their interest during their snek preview of the show.Plus Bobbie also speaks to Robbie Bach, Microsoft's president of entertainment and devices.  He's the man in charge of the Xbox and Zune, so he discusses Microsoft's recent hardware failures, and the effects of the recession.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Am I missing something? Did I get off the train before the reality police came on board to check my ticket? Or am I simply deluded when I say that I don't think online games cause college students to drop out any more than, say, binge watching The Sopranos (or The Wire or M*A*S*H or Thirtysomething or Friends or whichever series traps students in front of the TV nowadays) or hanging out at the local caf making 'zines at four o'clock in the morning every night wired on bottomless cups of black coffee and spouting pretentious philosophical overtures (oh my misspent youth)? According to several people quoted in anarticle in The Guardianon Monday, including a representative of the US Federal Trade Commission and a student adviser at University of Minnesota Duluth, my attitude towards online gaming and academia would suggest that I am a few tools short of a box. Here's a choicequote:[Student adviser Vince] Repesh says the game can be more pernicious than other addictions. "If somebody has a chemical problem, you usually see side-effects from it," he explains, "but you can't tell for a long time if someone is just sitting in front of a computer. I have seen straight-A students who go to Fs because they think World of Warcraft is more important."At least five students have come to Repesh over the last academic year with serious addictions that were causing academic problems, he says. Three others admitted they were seeking professional help from a psychologist or counselor about their need to play.Let's recap. First, there is no conclusive evidence based on anin-depth review of the literaturethat gaming can be qualified as 'addictive'. There is some research which says yes, and some which says no. TheByron Review(pdf) takesProf. Mark Griffith's (2007) definition of addition to consider the effects of excessive use of videogames on kids:In order for a true 'addiction' to exist the individual would need to show thefollowing:* salience (how important it is to someone);* mood modification (it is used as a way of consistently and reliably modifying their mood);* tolerance (needing more and more of it to get the same mood modification);* withdrawal symptoms (there is a set of consequences to its removal);conflict (the activity produces a conflict such that it has a negative detrimental effect on relationships, work, academic studies, life); and* relapse (if you have cut down or stopped there is always the tendency to relapse back to excessive levels).Griffiths argues that fewer than 7% of people in the UK are 'addicted' to games based on these criteria. But Byron makes two very important points:...[W]e need to consider whether excessive gaming by children is due to the addictive nature of video games for them or if it is more a matter of parents not feeling able to manage their children's behaviour effectively. Children can take many activities to excess if their behaviour isn't moderated and balanced, whether it's playing games, watching TV or eating. Research has yet to determine whether some types of game are more addictive than others or whether there are inherent features, either individual characteristics (e.g. children with obsessive compulsive tendencies) or circumstantial features (e.g. children in situations of boredom) that predict high usage. It is certainly conceivable that children with particular cognitive, behavioural or personality characteristics may be more vulnerable.A further issue here is that there is a cultural judgement about excessive behaviour. In the context of video games, excess is looked upon as being a bad thing. In the context of, say reading, it is conceived of as much more positive – the term 'book-worm' might be muttered somewhat proudly.While her points consider children, a similar argument could be made for college students and other non-child gamers.Unfortunately, they weren't considered by the FCC, nor were they considered in the article. Feel free to add your commentsthere.
Senior Microsoft executive Robbie Bach has hinted that there may be cutbacks as the Seattle software giant looks to tighten its belt during the recession.Over the past week there has been growing speculation that Microsoft is preparing to make significant job cuts, as it prepares to scale down a variety of projects in the face of the current financial crisis.Talking to the Guardian at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Bach – who heads up Microsoft's entertainment division – sidestepped questions about future cuts. But he did admit that the Seattle software giant was looking at ways it could improve its efficiency during a recession."I'm not going to comment on all the rumours," he said. "But I think we're doing what everybody does: we look at our resource and say, 'do we have it deployed in the right way?'.""If there's a more efficient, better way to deploy them – working on different projects, moving them around – then we'll do that."Among the divisions which could be hit hardest is the group run by Bach, which contains a portfolio of products such as gaming, music and mobile phones.While gadgets like the Xbox 360 and Windows Mobile have proved relatively popular, Bach's division has only just started making a profit after billions of dollars of investment over the past decade – leaving it vulnerable to cutbacks.And other incidents have not helped the cause, either. Just last week, thousands of the company's Zune music players broke down after being struck by a bug caused by the fact that 2008 was a leap year. Anxious customers were left stranded, but the problem eventually righted itself automatically just a day later.Bach said that the episode was no reflection on Microsoft – despite coming in the wake of a string of technical problems with the Xbox 360 console, which were blamed on rushed design and poor manufacturing and led to a hardware recall costing more than $1bn."The truth is if you look across any technology product, if you're in this space you're going to have things like this come up," he said."Sony's had things like this come up, Apple's had things like this come up, we've had things like this come up. The thing people will judge you on over time is how effectively you deal with it."However, despite optimism that his division was on the right track, Bach admitted that even supposedly "recession-proof" industries such as videogames were also feeling the pinch."Recession-proof is probably a misnomer – because no matter what business you're in, what's going on now has some affect on your industry.""In the short term we have to be careful how we spend our money ... [but] we'll absolutely see it through to the other side. We view this as a long-term business we're building."
Steve Ballmer took the stage to deliver his first keynote speech to the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas last night, unveiling more details of Windows 7 – as had been widely expected.Ballmer, who was speaking at the event for the first time, also announced that a preview version of Windows 7 would be available for download by the end of this week.During the speech, Microsoft demonstrated some new tricks, as well as claiming that the new version of Windows will have extensive support for touchscreens and a number of improvements over its predecessor, Vista.In what seemed a veiled reference to that system – which was widely criticised for being incompatible with millions of add-ons when it launched – Ballmer said the company was putting extra emphasis on delivering a useable product."We're putting in all the right ingredients: simplicity, reliability and speed," he said. "And we're working hard to get it right and to get it ready."It was Ballmer's first major industry speech since the retirement of traditional CES headliner Bill Gates, and details of what the company was set to announce had been widely circulated ahead of the event.Most of the announcements were minor product tweaks, including deals with Facebook, the addition of new services for the Xbox 360 games console, and improved connections between Microsoft products and cars made by Ford.Among the more significant changes, however, was a new distribution deal with computer manufacturer Dell. The deal will see a slew of Microsoft products – including Windows Live search – pre-loaded onto all consumer machines from the Texan PC maker.The move was trumpeted by Microsoft as a victory over Silicon Valley rival Google, which previously had a similar deal with Dell. However, it was not the only announcement targeted at one of Microsoft's rivals.The news that the forthcoming version of the company's Internet Explorer web browser for mobile phones would support Adobe's Flash system was a clear shot at Apple, which has refused to add support for it to the iPhone.In a relatively downbeat and low-key presentation, Ballmer referred several times to the recession and the current struggles faced by most large corporations. But despite the current outlook, he suggested that technology companies were better placed to ride out the storm than those in some other industries."We may be tempted to temper our optimism and scale back our ambitions, but no matter what happens with the economy or how long this recession lasts, I believe our digital lives will only continue to get richer," he said."There really is no turning back from the connected world, and the pace of the technological advance bringing people closer together."
The only surefire way to stop criminals stealing data from secondhand computers is to destroy the hard drive, a study by Which? Computing magazine has warned.Even though people think they have wiped data from machines before they sell them on auction sites or put them onto rubbish tips, the files remain on the hard drives – and can contain vital information such as bank details and other personal data sufficient for identity theft. They can be recovered using specialist software that is widely available.The magazinerecovered22,000 "deleted" files from eight computers which it bought from the auction site eBay – demonstrating that normal deletion is insufficient to remove the data.Criminals source used computers in order to find such useful data, the magazine warned. "PCs contain more valuable personal information than ever as people increasingly shop online, use social networking sites and take digital photos," said Sarah Kidner, editor of Which? Computing. "Such information could bring identity thieves a hefty payday."One Which? reader, Alexander Skipwith, had to pay £100 to get his hard drive back from a man purporting to be in Latvia: he emailed Skipwith with a personal photo to show that he had access to his hard drive, which contained bank statements and a mortgage application. Skipwith had previously been told that his faulty hard drive would be wiped of personal information when it was replaced by a computer manufacturer.The problem washighlighted last Augustwhen a computer with bank account numbers, mothers' maiden names and signatures of 1 million American Express, NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland customers that previously belong to Mail Source, a data processing company, was sold on eBay. The account details were discovered by the buyer, an IT manager from Oxford. Two days later police made an arrest in a separate case overindividuals' details from Charnwood Borough Councilsold on a computer on eBay.The problem lies in the way that hard drives store information. An index file on the hard drive, written by the computer processor, stores and updates a listing of where on the physical hard drive each file is located. When the user "deletes" a file on their system, the index entry is removed – but the file itself, with its data, remains. Sophisticated tools are able to find the files themselves and recover that data – which can be incredibly detailed,including a user's browsing and email history.While that can be useful in situations where there is a hard drive "crash" – allowing the recovery of some or all files – it can be disastrous if the drive falls into the wrong hands.Dr Andrew Jones, head of computer security at BT Exact, told the Guardian last August that the process bypasses the normal checks on what you can view: "It's like [computer game] The Sims: instead of going through the front door, you take the roof off and you look down on the drive from above." Encrypting the drive during use can offer some protection.Which? Computing recommends using a hammer to be absolutely certain of destroying the data. (The US Pentagon recommends shredding them, although this is requires specialist equipment.) But there is also software available online which will overwrite the entire hard drive with 0s. This does have the advantage that the computer will retain some of its value – while not being quite as valuable to villains.HOW TO SECURE YOUR DISK1Use encryption. Vista Ultimate has BitLocker; Mac OSX has FileVault. There is also TrueCrypt, which is free and cross-platform.2Use secure erase programs such as blancco; for a list, seehowtowipeyourdrive.com.3When you've finished with your computer, securely wipe it and then reinstall the operating system from scratch. Or remove the hard drive and smash it with a hammer.
Chatterbox Thursday
WhilethatSteve didn't turn up at Macworld, the other big one has just started his keynoting career: I've just stepped out of the hall where Steve Ballmer's had his first bash at being the main event at CES.It started off well, with a few jokes (Jerry Yang keeps asking to be his Facebook friends, he jokes) and a little tribute to Bill Gates, who's off saving the world and all that.He made a nod to the Gloomy Economic Climate, largely by saying it didn't matter so much if you were an innovative company.But then, after doing the usual CES routine (that is: talking about how the world and its citizens are now connected through technology) he started ripping through a series of pretty-much-as-expected announcements.So: Windows 7 beta is available now for developers, and will be globally available on Friday.Windows Live will be integrating with Facebook – through Facebook Connect – and Microsoft is now in a partnership with Dell to pre-install a whole bunch of Windows Live stuff on their consumer PCs (edging out Google, which a Microsoft spokesman was very pleased about earlier on today when I spoke with him).Ballmer doesn't do any demos himself, instead handing the work over to a series of other presenters: first a perky demo lady came on and showed us around a few aspects of Windows 7 (multitouch; exposing your desktop with one move – sound familiar?).And then, slightly bizarrely, we're treated to a performance by Tripod – a comedy singing trio with a schtick straight out of Flight of the Conchords – who warble a little tune about ignoring your girlfriend because you're obsessed with playing Xbox.Talking of Xbox, it was then time for Robbie Bach, who showed off a few new Xbox services, trailed Halo 3 and took the reins from Ballmer. At one point his wireless controller looked borked, but he recovered, before going on to get whupped by a little girl.By this point, Ballmer – usually a ball of energy who can keep crowds entertained merely by letting them watch as his head changes colour as excitement level increases - had been off the stage for AGES.***Finally he does return, to tell us about the way that computing's going to develop – more integration, devices that understand each other and the internet, and smarter software.Sidenote: Ballmer has really big hands. I mean big. Like snow shovels. Maybe that's why he can't do demos."There are really a lot of exciting things going on," he says, before introducing another presenter – Janet from Microsoft Research, who talks about stuff that the company's working on in the labs."Despite the economy, I hope you'll agre with me that our industry has an incredible, incredible opportunity ahead of us," he says to wrap up. "It's been my pleasure to be here with you today."Overall, then?I think a C plus is the absolute best I can muster. I'm happy to admit that I was waiting for a moment of pure Ballmer mania – the man is like a human cannonball when it gets going. But it wasn't to be, - not a great departure from Bill Gates in the past, but not playing to the man's strengths.I'm happy to admit I was waiting for a moment of pure manic madness – the man is like a human cannonball when he gets going. Would have been nice to see it – as well as some more of the innovation he said Microsoft would be relying on.
I've come across a few news items recently re privacy issues, such as Phorm, and perhaps of more concern, the proposals suggested for government legislation to allow the monitoring of internet traffic. What can we as individuals do to protect our privacy?Peter McCutcheonPhorm involves rerouting traffic from the ISPs that adopt it.  It appears that in the implementations of the system being considreed by UK ISPs, users will be able to opt out by setting a cookie within the PhormDiscover (formerly webwise.net ) domain to prevent redirection or by disabling cookies from webwise.net. There are also ways to nullify the attempt to use Phorm for advertising purposes, such as the Firephorm add-on for Firefox.  However, some processing will be required to establish the opt-out.   Ultimately, the best choice is to change your ISP to one that does not use Phorm or any similar service.Another way to avoid Phorm - and to protect your privacy - is to access the internet via an encrypted proxy server. If your datastream is encrypted, it doesn't matter if your ISP uses DPI (deep packet inspection). A search for secure anonymous browsing will find plenty of services. It's about five years since I looked into this area, but the sites I tried at the time, such as Megaproxy and IDzap, are still going. I found Megaproxy's paid-for service worked best, but there's a good list of options at IP Info. However, bear in mind that, although your ISP won't be able to see what you are doing, the firm that decodes your datastream and accesses the net on your behalf can. It boils down to who you trust.Anonymous internet services usually set up a "clientless VPN" (virtual private network) service that works through the web browser, so check if they also encrypt email. Lots of businesses now use VPNs for secure access across the net, including the Guardian, so encrypted traffic must be very common.Anonymous surfing services often make you agree not to use them to do anything illegal, send spam etc. Some also prevent you from downloading files using automated downloaders.• This corrected blog was restored on 5 April 2011 following the outcome of an investigation by the Readers' editor. In its original form, it said that Phorm involves rerouting all traffic from the ISPs that adopt it, whether users opt out or not. It has now been corrected.
My wife has had aphasia since her stroke, and she often struggles to get more than the first one or two letters of a word exactly right. We're using Open Office's predictive text, which helps, but is there a better solution?Tim JonesThere are several programs that are designed for people with physical impairments or severe dyslexia that should be more useful than Open Office's predictive text or Microsoft Office's AutoComplete. Two that are often used in British schools are Don Johnston'sCo:Writer, £149 and Penfriend Ltd'sPenfriend, £90. Penfriend will predict the next word and offer a menu selection without the user typing even one letter.Another option isVK TypeHelp, described as an "adaptive predictive typing assistant". I would look at Co:Writer first as it is the one listed on theAphasia Nowwebsite.Otherwise, I would suggest contacting a local aphasia self-help group and finding out what they recommend. Speakability may be able to put you in touch with one (email speakability@speakability.org.uk or you can call free on 080 8808 9572).
The Windows Task Manager provides information on CPU and memory use. Is there a way of analysing disk use? It is sometimes alarming to see the disk light coming on for no apparent reason.George HalahanSysinternals has a page full of free programs,File and Disk Utilities, but the results from drive analysis programs are usually too detailed for ordinary use. With XP I useAnVir Task Manager Free, which tells you everything you need to know about what is happening in Windows. It puts three meters in the Systray, and hovering over those shows CPU use, memory use and "disk load". You can also view the details in a spreadsheet-type table.Vista, however, has a great Computer Management Utility. Run the Windows Task Manager, go to the Performance tab and click the Resource Monitor button. This shows CPU, memory, disk and network use. The disk section tells you what's reading from and writing to the drive.If you know of a better program for Windows, please let me know!
At some stage, usually later in a computer's life, there is no alternative to a complete OS reinstall. I can't see how this can be possibly be done for netbooks running Windows XP, even if rescue CDs were provided.H JohnsonDo a web search and you will find that plenty of people have found ways to install Windows XP, Vista etc on netbooks without a CD drive, and there is an example atLiliputing. However, you can reinstall the operating system from an external hard drive used for backups, and many netbook buyers will already have one for their laptop or desktop PC. Some users have or will buy a USB CD-R drive to install software and do backups.Otherwise, times have changed since Windows 95/98/SE benefited from a reinstallation after 18-24 months. I have a 2003 laptop and a 2005* desktop running Windows XP Pro, and both are still fine.*dates corrected before posting!
The Macworld keynote delivered by Apple's head stand-in Phil Schiller turned out to be a snoozeathon, or as Reuters put it:Apple disappoints - no Jobs, big news at Macworld("with no dramatic products or master pitchman Steve Jobs, the company's final Macworld performance disappointed Wall Street.")As a BBC reporter tweeted at the time: "Oh dear. It's Garageband 09 next! No wonder Jobs pulled out of this one!"But John Paczkowski, atThe Wall Street Journal's All Things Digital, had a quote from someone who thinks differently:"[The] Macworld keynote was underwhelming as expected," said Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster. "The lack of significant announcements adds clarity to Steve Jobs' absence. We believe he remains the primary spokesman and active leader of Apple."In other words, this wasn't a transfer of power: El Jobso is going to give the real keynote later, and he'll use it to announce the things that Schiller wasn't allowed to unveil -- Snow Leopard, the new Mac Mini, theDaily Mail's iPhone Nano(out by Christmas!) and, ideally, theMacBook Wheel("One more thing…"). Either that or a special 25th Anniversary Macintosh, because if you paid $7,500 for the20th Anniversaryversion, the massive 2GB hard drive is probably filling up.The Mac's 25th anniversary is on January 24, but perhaps that's too soon. On the other hand, Apple is losing money by having an old turkey like the Mac Mini hanging around, so Jobs won't want to leave it too long. February? When do you think?
Biometrics may seem new, but they're the oldest form of identification. Tigers recognise each other's scent; penguins recognise calls. Humans recognise each other by sight from across the room, voices on the phone, signatures on contracts and photographs on drivers' licences. Fingerprints have been used to identify people at crime scenes for more than 100 years.What is new about biometrics is that computers are now doing the recognising: thumbprints, retinal scans, voiceprints, and typing patterns. There's a lot of technology involved here, in trying to both limit the number of false positives (someone else being mistakenly recognised as you) and false negatives (you being mistakenly not recognised). Generally, a system can choose to have less of one or the other; less of both is very hard.Biometrics can vastly improve security, especially when paired with another form of authentication such as passwords. But it's important to understand their limitations as well as their strengths. On the strength side, biometrics are hard to forge. It's hard to affix a fake fingerprint to your finger or make your retina look like someone else's. Some people can mimic voices, and make-up artists can change people's faces, but these are specialised skills.On the other hand, biometrics are easy to steal. You leave your fingerprints everywhere you touch, your retinal scan everywhere you look. Regularly, hacker s have copied the prints of officials from objects they've touched and posted them on the internet. We haven't yet had an example of a large biometric database being hacked into, but the possibility is there. Biometrics are unique identifiers, but they're not secrets.And a stolen biometric can fool some systems. It can be as easy as cutting out a signature , pasting it on to a contract and then faxing the page to someone. The person on the other end doesn't know that the signature isn't valid because he didn't see it fixed on to the page. Remote logins by fingerprint fail in the same way. If there's no way to verify the print came from an actual reader, not from a stored computer file, the system is much less secure.A more secure system is to use a fingerprint to unlock your mobile phone or computer. Because there is a trusted path from the fingerprint reader to the stored fingerprint the system uses to compare, an attacker can't inject a previously stored print as easily as he can cut and paste a signature. A photo on an ID card works the same way: the verifier can compare the face in front of him with the face on the card.Fingerprints on ID cards are more problematic, because the attacker can try to fool the fingerprint reader. Researchers have made false fingers out of rubber or glycerin. Manufacturers have responded by building readers that also detect pores or a pulse.The lesson is that biometrics work best if the system can verify that the biometric came from the person at the time of verification. The biometric identification system at the gates of the CIA headquarters works because there's a guard with a large gun making sure no one is trying to fool the system.Of course, not all systems need that level of security. At Counterpane, the security company I founded, we installed hand geometry readers at the access doors to the operations cent re. Hand geometry is a hard biometric to copy, and the system was closed and didn't allow electronic forgeries. It worked very well.One more problem with biometrics: they don't fail well. Passwords can be changed, but if someone copies your thumbprint, you're out of luck: you can't update your thumb. Passwords can be backed up, but if you alter your thumbprint in a n accident, you're stuck. The failures don't have to be this spectacular: a voice print reader might not recognise someone with a sore throat, or a fingerprint reader might fail outside in freezing weather. Biometric systems need to be analysed in light of these possibilities.Biometrics are easy, convenient, and when used properly, very secure; they're just not a panacea. Understanding how they work and fail is critical to understanding when they improve security and when they don't.• Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer:schneier.com
Crime watchPolice forces in England and Wales have published colour-coded maps showing recorded crime levels.Child trackerGet your child to wear a NuM8 from Lok8u Ltd (£149.95 plus a monthly subscription) and you can track them using GPS.Parental chatbots wantedThe US defence department wants to develop "virtual parents" which will chat to children while their real parents are on duty.Finger substituteThe QDOS Jet Pen (£19.99) emulates a finger for iPhone 3G and iPod Touch users.Skype going BoingoSkype's next software will enable access via more than 100,000 Boingo Wi-Fi hotspots, starting with Skype 2.8 Beta for Mac.Snap up a flashy LegriaCanon will start shipping a new range of Legria HF S high-definition flash memory camcorders in April.Xbox 360 updateMicrosoft says sales of Xbox 360 games consoles have reached 28m worldwide.Cheaper net radioUK company Frontier Silicon is launching Venice 6 receiver chips and software that it claims will enable low-cost internet radios.
Yes, you should – even though the suggestion will dismay PC manufacturers and retailers who would prefer that you buy something now to help their sales.Windows Vista has a mixed reputation at best, whereas Windows 7 is impressive even in its current preview form: the public beta will be made available tomorrow and most observers expect it later this year. Traditionally, canny users hesitate before installing a new version of Windows, preferring to wait until the first service pack. The counter-argument in this case is that Windows 7 is itself a kind of service pack for Vista, adding polish and fixing its more annoying features without changing so much that applications no longer work. Early tests of the just-released Beta 1, as seen in the build leaked on the internet last month, suggest that performance is better than either Vista or XP on the same hardware. Whereas Windows XP is the version that will not die (living on through the explosive growth in netbook sales), Vista will vanish in an instant once 7 is available.Yet, even though it will pay to wait for Windows 7, Vista is better than its reputation. Windows Server 2008 shares the same kernel as Vista updated to Service Pack 1, and is well liked. Vista's problems began when Microsoft rushed its initial release. Many device drivers were either not ready or poor quality, some launch machines were underspecified ( still the subject of a class action against the company), while others were laden with too much unnecessary third-party software. Two years on, at least the fi rst two of these problems are fixed.Still, the difference with Windows 7 is that Microsoft has focused on usability, whereas many of the changes in Vista were for security or engineering reasons, and either delivered little visible benefit to users or were actively disliked. An example is Vista's User Account Control (UAC), which throws up a dialog every time you make a system change: potentially useful for guarding against malware, but to some an intolerable interruption. Windows 7 makes UAC quieter while preserving most of its benefits.The most obvious new feature in Windows 7 is in the taskbar – which, like Apple's OS X Dock, can be used to launch applications as well as to show what is running. The Vista sidebar has gone and gadgets now live on the desktop. Home networking is easier to set up, media sharing is built in and there are sensible defaults for users joining work laptops to home wireless networks. Libraries in Windows Explorer let you merge content from several locations. There is also support for touch control for devices with no keyboard.In the end, it is not new features that will make or break Windows 7, but whether it delivers a smoother, faster, more pleasant experience than its predecessor. Signs are it will. Underneath, though, it is the same old Windows. To sum up: Windows 7 is Vista done right, no more or less.
There is no such thing as a free lunch. But is there such as thing as a free telephone call? This was the promised nirvana when calls started to be routed through the internet more than a decade ago. Now, as we enter 2009, some pundits claim that 2008 was when VoIP (voice over internet protocol) died - strangled by regulation and the determination of telcos to resist a highly disruptive technology.Let's remind ourselves how disruptive it could still be. The internet offers a free infrastructure to make telephone (and data) calls, though you usually have to pay a subscription to a provider. But it is only free if you call Skype-like from one computer to another or else from one wireless-enabled mobile to another as long as they both use the same provider and there is free wireless access at both ends.There's the rub. This whole space is a jungle. There is no such thing as ubiquitous wireless, just competing providers charging ludicrous amounts to read emails or call someone, as long as you don't stray out of their Wi-Fi zone. This may ultimately be a failure of government policy to encourage a universal service but the providers aren't much better. Three of the biggest remaining VoIP operators, Skype, Jajah and Truphone - all of European origin, incidentally - don't enable subscribers to talk to others on another VoIP system. It's crazy and will have to change - and indeed TRuphone has this week - but currently this wonderful technology is grossly under-exploited.I was reminded of this while testing a new application over the weekend by the innovative Truphone, which turned my new, second-generation iTouch rather magically into an internet phone. All you need is free software from Apple's app store and earphones with a tiny microphone attached, sold by Truphone.It worked well phoning landlines (when there is a 3p a minute charge for connecting to the final mile via a telco) but not when I wandered away from a home or free Wi-Fi connection. I couldn't make a call using the internet all the way as none of my friends use Truphone and it doesn't yet connect to Skype or Jajah users. Truphone also has an app for the iPhone itself offering a cocktail of internet and telco connectivity which would be very useful as it can be used anywhere for cheap domestic and international calls.But it would be premature to write VoIP off for several reasons. First, disruptive technologies take time to displace existing ones. Second, the prospect of a prolonged recession will make people think of cheaper ways of phoning, particularly abroad. Jajah reports a strong uptake since July, not in overall interactions, but in the mix between VoIP and other modes. Third, the bloodbath that has seen the demise of dozens of VoIP startups has left a streamlined market with all to play for. Skype is still the runaway success of computer-to-computer usage with over 130m registered subscribers. Jajah, wisely steering away from direct competition with Skype, dominates the indirect VoIP market as the provider for the likes of Yahoo, MSN and ComCast. Vonage is, well, considering its options. And in the rest of the space Truphone and a few other innovative companies have a great chance to fix the missing link: enabling mobiles to link seamlessly with the web and talk to each other.Voxbone's iNum, for instance, offers a single global telephone number enabling users to talk anywhere for free irrespective of what VoIP services they use. That is interesting because they will be working with rather than against the likes of Jajah and Truphone. Free calls could, however, come from a completely different direction. A new US company, Ring Plus, offers free telephone calls anywhere in the world at no cost. All you have to do is give a few demographic details and agree to have a targeted advert instead of your ringtone. It does not seem to be accepting UK postcodes but it is one to watch. The best rings in life may yet turn out to be free.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Previously, the only good thing about being in hospital, apart from staying in bed all day, was the freedom from mobile phones. Not any more. This week, the Department of Health said that NHS trusts should allow "the widest possible use" of mobile phones in hospitals. There is evidence that electromagnetic radiation emitted by mobiles can interfere with some electronic medical equipment, resulting in anything from a juddering screen to displaying incorrect figures to even switching off; and hospitals will still forbid the use of phones in wards with life-saving equipment, possibly soon to be the last public refuge from annoying ringtones.Even airlines are starting to introduce hardware that allows the safe use of mobiles at altitudes of more than 3,000m, the "cruise" phase of a flight (mobiles are still thought to pose an interference risk with flight navigation and communication systems during take-off and landing). The use of a mobile phone has never been proved to be responsible for the crash of any large passenger plane, but according to the Civil Aviation Authority mobiles were linked to around 20 incidents of aircraft malfunction between 2000 and 2005.Mobile phones are still banned from petrol station forecourts, for fear that the battery could produce an incendiary spark, but Adam Burgess, senior lecturer in sociology at the University of Kent and author of Cellular Phones, Public Fears and a Culture of Precaution, says that the forecourt fires previously blamed on mobile phones are now believed to have been caused by body static. "We live in a more anxious society than ever, where we assume there is danger everywhere," he says. With the previous ban on mobiles in hospitals, Burgess points out, "there has been a financial motive in keeping charges for the fixed line hospital phones rolling into Trust coffers".All this isn't to say that mobile phones are definitively safe - there are still questions about the effects of radiation from phones on health. But if we do all have to go into hospital to have lesions on our brains removed, at least we will be able to use our phones.
There's more than 100 ...• Are there any big brands in theGuardian's Top 100 sitesthis year (18 December 2008)? Yes - one. That's all. Oh dear. With the exception of the BBC, (and Dilbert, Doonesbury and the CIA!), there are no non-web native brands in the Guardian's Top 100.No charities. No fashion, transport, telecoms, banking. Why isn't LloydsTSB or Barclays the authority on savings rather than moneysavingexpert.com? Why isn't Canon the daddy of photosharing instead of Flickr? Why isn't HMV the godfather of online music recommendation?It's obvious - brands still aren't embracing the digital space.knitwareblog.com• Cooliris. This browser add-on is an image-based search engine, in which you scroll through a "wall" of images to find your match, news item, or product. This approach is truly innovative and really worth trying.dereksou.blogspot.com• Worth a look through, although I still don't get the Twitter bias - I'm sure no one is interested in hearing about how tired I am every two hours!pri.me.uk• One snag for me is that the Guardian only recommended two sites for blogging: Bloglines and WordPress. WordPress is great and just came out with a new version. But I haven't seen as many changes happening in Bloglines compared to Google Reader. My readership data is going to be way skewed, but I do think Google Reader is more popular than Bloglines these days.mattcutts.com/blog• It's pretty disappointing to not find Mixx included in the news recommendation category, absolutely no mention of Friendfeed and to see Matt as one of the best Twitter apps is frankly ridiculous.thenextweb.com• "The web really is becoming the operating system." And no mention of Internet Explorer under the browsers category either.disassociated.comWikipedia would never be used by a "reference" librarian. Reason: unauthoritative.Rita MusaWiganSnow Leopard's spotsWith Microsoft bleeding market share and Vista replacement Windows 7, which doesn't include OpenCL or anything remotely similar, not expected until June, Apple's got an opportunity to not just add more users, but also extend its already heady technology lead. (Apple's Snow Leopard prepares to show off its spots, 18 December.)mac.blorge.comDon't call meYou and your readers no doubt find untraceable cold calls from outside the UK annoying - especially if, like myself, you are registered with the Telephone Preference Service (Who's really on the phone, 11 December 2008).Your article wisely suggests that the only realistic ("non British") solution is to hang up. But I prefer a slightly more aggressive tack. Every time I get an automated call with a recorded message prompting me to connect, I gleefully follow the instructions and make sure I sound most excited to participate in the offer when the operator answers. And then I politely ask him or her to hold the line for a moment and put the handset down next to the telephone while I carry on with my business.James Brown,GlasgowA real puzzlerAccording to question 37 of your online quiz, the government has a service on which it is possible to report your death. While there may be a web service available to do this, I do not believe technology has advanced to the point where dead people can report their deaths. If the technology does exist, I look forward to reports from beyond the grave.John Gill,Ottowa, Canada• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk, or join in the debate on theblogs.
Our list oftop 100 sitesbrought, as we knew it would, plenty of ideas for those we had missed. Here, then, is a selected list of the ones that commenters on the Guardian'sTechnology blogthought we should have included. We've had to create the vague category of "Miscellaneous" because so many wereBloggingBloggerblogger.comfree, and I for one have never had any spam. (Nomester)Tumblrtumblr.com(affisch)CartoonsAchewoodachewood.com(pollymagoo)Create/collaborateBasecampbasecamphq.comthe number one collaboration site out there at the moment. (rdapple)GamingGameFAQsgamefaqs.comis the single most useful site I have ever found. (CommentRestricted)Playfishplayfish.com(London-based) has four of its five games in the Facebook top 10 list. (RBremer)Location, locationHIP Algarve Channelhipalgarve.netnice interface easy use and quality focused video, on top of it all it will makes you dream of warm sunshine and good times. (duchesse)ManchesterConfidentialmanchesterconfidential.co.uksee how a city-based site can deliver wit, food and drink reviews and occasional stuff about the built environment. (howardsharrock)MapsMultimapmultimap.comalready has birds' view photos of town centres, useful for seeing where you're going before you get there. (rainbowbob)Sanoodisanoodi.coma British geo-social site that exploits mobile and the web, and one that understands the restrictions placed by all current digital mapping providers - ie, they own any content that you create on a map. Try it, but not if you use IE6. (PaulSandham)MiscellaneousDoubleDateFirstdoubledatefirst.comI've got to mention it as that's where I met my wife! (benmascari)e-resistiblee-resistible.co.uka site for ordering takeaway food online. The interface is very whizzy. Definitely one for the bookmarks! (tribble)FixYafixya.comhaving a problem with any equipment, car or other low-tech device? You have the option of free postings or immediate access for a fee. Impressive service. (membargo)Freecycleuk.freecycle.orgenables you to pass on all those things you might reluctantly, and guiltily, have dumped just because they are taking up space, to others who can use them, or even desperately need them. (Daddo4)I Say Cool!isaycool.comis interesting. you just upload a subject and everyone votes on it. (howardsharrock)Inside Futbolinsidefutbol.comit's like an online version of World Soccer magazine. (JonKarlsson)Let's share careletssharecare.comis basically a dating agency for childcare. It enables parents to share childcare in their local area, during holidays and after school. (pamspam)Scotland's Informationscotlandsinformation.comfor anyone keen to find out about library/archive/museum collections in Scotland. (shewolf)Stephen Frystephenfry.comone of the movers and shakers for 2009. His opinion seems to count for as much as anyone's right now among the "geeksphere". (IanTurner)storytlrstorytlr.comI'm surprised not to see a single lifestreaming site in your list. I personally believe that it will be a major trend for 2009, especially after the "blogging is dead" discussion of these last months. (eschnou)Money/finance/consumer fightbackComplaint Communitycomplaintcommunity.combecause with Consumer Direct, where is the social networking? Where are the active expert advisers? Where is the ability to identify and mobilise and resolve large scale consumer issues, not just individual concerns? All of this and more is why we launched the site. (COMPCOMM)MusicA New Band A Dayanewbandaday.comit's full of small, weird and strange new bands, some of which are great, and some of which are just plain unusual, but it's a really nice little site. (Glummo)Allmusicallmusic.com, the database for all music, including classical. (Constantine.)Deezerdeezer.com100% legal (apparently) music streaming site that allows you to listen freely to anything you like without signing in. You can make play-lists, select favourites and share them with your friends. It also has all that smart radio stuff thatLast.fmhas and it links through to Amazon and iTunes to buy tracks or albums. (MaxOswald)Emusicemusic.comSod 79p an mp3, emusic offer 75 downloads per month for 15 nicker, which is what, 20p a track? (moogmug)Jangojango.comso much better than Last.fm and free. (Constantine)Moshmosh.nokia.comNokia finally seems to be bridging the gap between mobile and web. (PaulSandham)Slice The Pieslicethepie.coma brilliant UK website that allows you to invest in and find new bands. (AgeOfReason)SpotifySpotify.com(affisch)We7we7.comYou can listen to entire albums for free, but a payment is made to the PRS etc funded by the inclusion, at the start of the track of an advertiser's sonic logo. (howardsharrock)News recommendationArts and Letters Dailyaldaily.comit has news, comment and all journals - the granddaddy of them all, and still one of the best sites. (Constantine)Daring Fireballdaringfireball.netan excellent, tech/Mac orientated website, hosted by the very witty John Gruber. (hughsiss)Deliciousdel.icio.us(or delicious.com, as they now seems to prefer, transmogrifying Joshua's poetry into ugly Yahoo prose). The original and best social bookmarking site, the original tagging site, and (for me, anyway) the second most useful resource on the web. (nirq and others)OffbeatFOUNDfoundmagazine.composts found written notes and ephemera and it's on the top timewasting sites. (Nomester)news:liteNewsLite.tvcovers odd and quirky stories, a welcome antidote to all the doom and gloom in the news at the moment. (JoshHog)Ravelryravelry.comthis is probably very un-nerdy but I've become completely addicted since I discovered it. Hard to believe that it's an online resource for knitters; yes, I know. (courgettequeen)PhotographyPicasapicasa.google.comISN'T Windows Only [Not now the Mac beta has just been released - Tech Ed]. It works quite fine on my Mac and has a great Plug-in for iPhoto to Boot, much better than the Facebook one. (franksting)Physical from virtualThe Fabric Pressthefabricpress.comget past those ubiquitous (I wonder how those cheap blanks are made) T-shirts and design your own 100% cotton and cotton home accessories AND stay British. (facchettiburnich)Social softwareIssuuissuu.comthe most attractive online ebook social network and resource. (tallcast)Ping.fmping.fman awesome site for publishing info to multiple social networks at once. (franksting)Twitter, and associatedTweetagtweetag.comamazing use of AJAX and tag clouds. (rdapple)VideouvLayeruvlayer.comthe future of video, pictures and multimedia. (holidaycheer)• This article was amended on Thursday 15 January 2009. We had referred to a website as basecamp.com, when it fact is should have been basecamphq.com. This has been corrected.
In January 2008, the picturesque west Highland village of Applecross contained 32 buildings with postal addresses. A year on, it has only 24. This is not the result of some new Highland clearance, but an absurd consequence of UK government bodies treating data collected in the course of their work as a commercial asset rather than a national resource to be shared.What is happening in Applecross, and other parts of the UK, is the removal of homes from the national database of postcodes when Royal Mail decides they are not in permanent occupation. In parts of the country popular with such homes, this can be a large proportion of addresses: half the homes sharing the postcode IV54 8LR disappeared from the database last year.Postman Pat and the fat catsThis cleansing has profound consequences for people who use the database, Royal Mail's Postcode Address File (PAF), for anything other than delivering letters. A postcode is usually the first personal detail demanded by telecom or insurance companies. The database is also used for planning the provision of public services - including emergency ones - and by commercial GPS navigation systems.Highland Council, which is responsible for Applecross and other areas with large numbers of holiday homes, is worried. Ian Ross, chairman of the council's planning, environment development committee, said: "We are increasingly concerned with the removal of a number of postal addresses in rural communities. Such action by Royal Mail can have significant implications for householders in their ability to receive a broad range of services. We have been investigating this trend locally and have had informal contact with Royal Mail. We now intend to formally request that Royal Mail reconsiders this action."Royal Mail says it has a policy of removing addresses from the database when houses are unoccupied. "If the postie can no longer reach the delivery point, or if a house is obviously completely unoccupied, the postie informs us and the address is removed from the PAF. If it later becomes occupied, it would be put back on."Royal Mail has a strong incentive for cleansing the database: its lucrative business in delivering unaddressed (junk) mail. In areas where delivery staff rarely visit many addresses, undelivered junk mail will pile up at delivery offices, and cost money to deal with.Followers of Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign will recognise a classic example of the conflicts that arise when government bodies wear commercial hats. Although (for the time being) 100% owned by the state, as a business Royal Mail is required to put its commercial interest in its postcode data above that of the wider public interest.Turf wars between Royal Mail, local authorities and Ordnance Survey over the ownership of postal addresses have a long history, imperilling everything from emergency services to the national census. Local authorities are particularly bitter about the current state of affairs because they have the statutory job of creating addresses in the first place. As one council specialist put it: "Local authorities create addresses, Royal Mail adds the postcode - then this data is sold back to us by Royal Mail and Ordnance Survey."Public policy is beginning to recognise the absurdity. Three years ago, a review by the post regulator Postcomm said the PAF was "vital to a wide range of UK businesses, government and other organisations ... an integral part of 'UK plc'".Private propertyLate last year, the government belatedly published a national strategy for making the best use of geographical information used by public bodies. Among other measures, it calls for the creation of a national "location council" to ensure that essential data are properly managed - and not expensively recreated across different arms of government. The initiative is strongly in tune with the implementation due this year of the European Inspire directive, which seeks to end the situation in which neighbouring countries cannot make plans to deal with common issues because their national geographical databases do not line up, and the UK government's own Power of Information policy.As ever, there are forces pulling in the opposite direction. The future commercial model of Ordnance Survey, owner of one of the three national competing databases of addresses, is under review by the Treasury. Outright privatisation is one option being considered.Meanwhile, Royal Mail itself is being groomed for a private sector future under plans revealed by Peter Mandelson, the business secretary, last month. However, a private owner is likely to be even more jealous about the intellectual property in postal addresses than the current one is.• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog.
You've got an email from your bank. Or at least, it says it's from your bank. But what if it's a fake? Chances are it is: up to 150m phishing emails are sent every day, according to the Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG). Sophos estimates that 58% of email users receive at least one each day and 22% get five or more. And people fall for them: figures from Apacs, the clearing banks' organisation, found that in the first half of 2008, online banking fraud in the UK increased by 185% to &pound;21.4m.But if the email is really from eBay or PayPal, it will have been digitally "signed" - that is, end with a string of digits generated from a private cryptographic key and the original message, using DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM), an emerging standard created by Yahoo and Cisco in 2008 after years of deliberation. An agreement with Yahoo and Gmail means users of those email services won't receive messages purporting to be from either organisation if they lack DKIM signatures. They won't even make it as far as the spam folder.Digital signatures sound like a formidable weapon against phishing, since in theory they give users a way to check that emails are genuine, and they're less likely to open the fake ones. Ever since Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) arrived in 1993, people have had a way to cryptographically sign their own emails, as have organisations - you can create your own cryptographic key for free. We could all be free of phishing; yet we aren't. The question is, why not?In 1999 Jim Bidzos (currently the interim chairman and president of VeriSign)told the RSA data security conference: "Public-key cryptography is a solution in search of a problem, and e-commerce is that problem." In 2000,the Guardian reportedthat public-key infrastructures (PKIs) could be used to ensure electronic communications are trustworthy. But in 2009, PKI is still waiting for its heyday."PKI is everywhere and most of us don't realise," says John Bullard, global ambassador for the identity authentication system IdenTrust. "But it's predominantly used in the corporate world where transaction values are higher. For example, your direct debits and salary are wrapped up in a PKI-based digital signature when they're sent to Bacs (the banks' automated clearing service)."Keys to the problemBut it hasn't reached the user level yet. One problem is the number of different encryption systems available. There's DKIM, as well as the commercial PGP, its open-source alternative Gnu Privacy Guard (GPG), S/MIME and more. "We're in an era where there are a lot of PKI systems," says Bullard. "Individual solutions create little islands of trust. The problem comes when you try to go from one island to the next."Garreth Griffith, PayPal UK's head of risk management and a director of Get Safe Online, says the competition between digital signature technologies has delayed their implementation. "The battle between companies to figure out which one to adopt created a time-lag," he says. "Should you build for all of them or wait for one to become dominant? When Cisco and Yahoo came together to create DKIM, that was a huge step forward as people could start to back someone and develop accordingly."So why aren't digital signatures being used more widely? "Mail senders, providers and ISPs need to implement their parts of the systems, such as Google's deal with eBay and PayPal," says Mark Bowerman, a spokesman for Apacs. "PKI is very secure, but it's complex and slow to roll out to large numbers of people. The take-up by mail providers to support PKI has been relatively low to date, so the benefits are not yet as apparent as they could be."Some email clients that support signed mail add an icon, such as a ribbon, to signed messages, or offer an option to view more details, but many providers and clients don't display digital signatures. "I haven't seen any of the major email clients do much with the information, even if it's there in the first place," says Adam Geller, vice-president of enterprise and government authentication for VeriSign."The technology is very capable, but the way it's being exposed to end-users leaves something to be desired. If I receive an email from PayPal that is not officially signed in a way I can validate, I should assume that email is suspicious. But your email client may not show you that in a meaningful enough way."At the Anti-Spam Research Group (ASRG), chairman John Levine agrees: "Email providers should be doing it. The better we can tell email is real, the easier it is to build a case against the guys selling the fake stuff. The vast majority of big companies buy email from specialist vendors who say yes, this is really important and they'll do it in the next version. The big providers know about it and the technology is quite sound, but the software vendors are slow."Lack of supportAccording to Jon Callas, chief technology officer for PGP Corporation and one of the authors of DKIM, email providers are reluctant to let end-users see digital signatures because they don't want to deal with the ensuing support calls asking what they are."The large ISPs wanted to be able to make DKIM completely invisible because they didn't want to get tech support calls. Yahoo wanted to show their users, others don't. If 1% of their customer bases called in, it would cost enough that they wouldn't want to do it," he says.And that's the crux: the cost of phishing emails falls on the person who receives it, not the organisations that let it through, whereas the cost of those support calls falls firmly on the ISPs; so even if implementing signing would lead to an overall fall in fraud, for which ISPs' customers (and banks) could be grateful, there's nothing in it immediately for the ISPs.For the mail that doesn't get filtered, end-users need to be able to check whether or not it's signed. After all, there's no point adding digital signatures to emails if nobody bothers to look for them. "Criminals play on trusted brands," says PayPal's Griffith. "You see a word you trust and you drop your defences. It takes time to educate end users to look for that seal and know what it means, just as it's taken years to educate consumers about looking for a lock on a secure website. The boom of web-based email programs makes it even more complicated."Even so, Callas says progress is being made. "Email providers are starting to support digital signatures, but it's a gradual process. It's starting to work - early adopters are seeing a drop-off in phishing attempts."However John Colley, managing director (Europe, Middle East and Africa) of (ISC)2, which educates and certifies security professionals, and formerly head of information security at the Royal Bank of Scotland, says digital signatures aren't a viable solution. "The use of digital signatures as a means of verifying emails to customers has been widely assessed as impractical," he says. "The registration and key maintenance process to verify encrypted emails would have to be as effective as the process of applying for a passport, putting the costs too high for vendors that cater to the wider public."Unpicking the lockColley says there is also too much required of the non-technical user. "They are not going to make the effort without a clear understanding of the value they get for it, which requires an awareness exercise - better to just educate on the phishing risk itself."The security expert Marcus Ranum, who invented the proxy firewall, says PKI won't work because there are too many other risks. "Even if there was a global public-key infrastructure, there would immediately be a global black market for stolen keys to be used for spamming," he says. "The keys would probably be a file, encrypted, sitting on a user's hard drive. That file, and the encryption password, would be stealable by a Trojan horse or spyware. We'd be right back where we are now."So the advice remains the same: don't click on the link in the email from your bank. Go to the website via your browser. PKI may be the solution to a problem that's been identified, but the problem is that nobody can be persuaded to pay for it.• This article was amended on Friday 9 January 2008. The headline, 'Signed, sealed, delivered: by who?' was grammatically incorrect. This has been corrected.
One of the biggest problems faced by current game designers is the diversity of the audience. A few years ago, it was all about challenging the stereotypical hardcore gaming demographic. But now, Wii, Facebook apps and the PC casual gaming scene have brought in a wider, less "sophisticated" audience. And with development budgets hitting tens of millions of dollars, this market cannot be ignored.Difficulty, then, has become a key issue. How challenging should a game be? And what does challenging mean anyway? Certainly, making everything easy peasy is not the answer: many pundits believe that Google's MMO, Lively, failed because its lack of complexity bored users. "Reduce the tasks and features of a virtual environment far enough," claimed the MMO news site Massively, "and you have Flickr".Other titles have had more success by punishing inexperienced gamers less when they mess up. In the latest Prince of Persia adventure from Ubisoft, it is impossible to die. Fall off a cliff and you'll be saved by your AI sidekick. Some have found that this makes for a less compulsive experience, but others see it as a refreshing release from the tyranny of the checkpoint.But there are more flexible approaches to the difficulty quandary, and we'll see them employed more. For online gaming, expect to see plenty of asymmetric multiplayer modes, in which both newbies and veterans can compete successfully, thanks to handicap systems that, say, provide better armour and greater weapon damage to beginners. The co-op mode in Gears of War 2 was designed specifically so that one friend on Easy could play aside another on Hardcore. Gears' designer, CliffyB, said he wanted to make the game more "girlfriend-friendly". You can interpret that how you like.The other trend is procedural content, where a game will continuously adapt to each individual player. Valve's thrilling zombie romp Left 4 Dead, for example, features an "AI director", which selects where to spawn enemies depending on the abilities of the participants. This will become the norm rather than the exception, especially as developers move away from linear, corridor-style designs and embrace truly open worlds. Eventually, every game will be a sort of virtual solipsistic utopia - no one will ever have the same experiences because everything from physics to scenery to AI will mould around the playing styles and preferences of the individual.In the future, then, if we want to find out what we're like as people, we won't take personality tests or consult star charts, we'll boot up Resident Evil 7, and see what comes out of the dark to get us.
Aphasia writerMy wife has had aphasia since her stroke, and she often struggles to get more than the first one or two letters of a word exactly right. We're using Open Office's predictive text, which helps, but is there a better solution?Tim JonesJS:There are several programs that are designed for people with physical impairments or severe dyslexia that should be more useful than Open Office's predictive text or Microsoft Office's AutoComplete. Two that are often used in British schools areDon Johnston's Co:Writer, &pound;149 and Penfriend Ltd'sPenfriend, &pound;90. Penfriend will predict the next word and offer a menu selection without the user typing even one letter.Another option isVK TypeHelp, described as an "adaptive predictive typing assistant". I would look at Co:Writer first as it is the one listed on theAphasia Nowwebsite.Otherwise, I would suggest contacting a local aphasia self-help group and finding out what they recommend. Speakability may be able to put you in touch with one (emailspeakability@speakability.org.ukor you can call free on 080 8808 9572).Protecting your privacyI've come across a few news items recently re privacy issues, such as Phorm, and perhaps of more concern, the proposals suggested for government legislation to allow the monitoring of internet traffic. What can we as individuals do to protect our privacy?Peter McCutcheonThere are ways to nullify the attempt to use Phorm for advertising purposes, such as the Firephorm add-on for Firefox (http://bit.ly/aj0084). However, the best choice is to change your ISP to one that does not use Phorm or any similar service.Another way to avoid Phorm – and to protect your privacy – is to access the internet via an encrypted proxy server. If your datastream is encrypted, it doesn't matter if your ISP uses DPI (deep packet inspection). A search for secure anonymous browsing will find plenty of services. It's about five years since I looked into this area, but the sites I tried at the time, such as Megaproxy and IDzap, are still going. I found Megaproxy's paid-for service worked best, but there's a good list of options at IP Info (http://bit.ly/aj0085). However, bear in midn that, although your ISP won't be able to see what you are doing, the firm that decodes your datastream and accesses the net on your behalf can.Anonymous internet services usually set up a "clientless VPN" (virtual private network) service that works through the web browser, so check if they also encrypt email. Lots of businesses now use VPNs for secure access across the net, including the Guardian.Anonymous surfing services often make you agree not to use them to do anything illegal, send spam etc. Some also prevent you from downloading files using automated downloaders.Tracking disksThe Windows Task Manager provides information on CPU and memory use. Is there a way of analysing disk use? It is sometimes alarming to see the disk light coming on for no apparent reason.George HalahanJS:Sysinternals has apage full of free programs, File and Disk Utilities, but the results from drive analysis programs are usually too detailed for ordinary use. With XP I useAnVir Task Manager Free, which tells you everything you need to know about what is happening in Windows. It puts three meters in the Systray, and hovering over those shows CPU use, memory use and "disk load". You can also view the details in a spreadsheet-type table.Vista, however, has a great Computer Management Utility. Run the Windows Task Manager, go to the Performance tab and click the Resource Monitor button. This shows CPU, memory, disk and network use. The disk section tells you what's reading from and writing to the drive.Windows for netbooksAt some stage, usually later in a computer's life, there is no alternative to a complete OS reinstall. I can't see how this can be possibly be done for netbooks running Windows XP, even if rescue CDs were provided.H JohnsonJS:Do a web search and you will find that plenty of people have found ways to install Windows XP, Vista etc on netbooks without a CD drive, and there is an example atLiliputing. However, you can reinstall the operating system from an external hard drive used for backups, and many netbook buyers will already have one for their laptop or desktop PC. Some users have or will buy a USB CD-R drive to install software and do backups.Otherwise, times have changed since Windows 95/98/SE benefited from a reinstallation after 18-24 months. I have a 1983 laptop and a 1985 desktop running Windows XP Pro, and both are still fine.Backchat• Johan van Slooten wanted either a DAB or a Wi-Fi radio for full stereo, and I suggested Revo's iBlik RadioStation. Tom Wilson says that he avoided the cost by connecting his digital Freeview box to his hi-fi.Freeview has agood range of UK stations, but no internet radio stations.• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk.• This article was amended on Friday 29 January 2010, following this correction published on 17 January 2009. We said wrongly that the software created by behavioural advertising company Phorm "involves rerouting all traffic from the ISPs that adopt it, whether users opt out or not". In the implementation of the system being considered by UK ISPs, users will be able to choose not to participate. Phorm advises that if the system is adopted, some initial processing by the ISP on the ISP's servers will be required to establish that a user has opted out, but the traffic will not reach Phorm equipment. No unique ID for the user will be created and no information about their browsing will be analysed. This has been corrected.
