Former Xbox boss Peter Moore is moving to run EA Games (below), and as well as "giving up" the Seattle weather for sunny California, he's getting a $1.5 million signing on bonus -- plus stock options and up to $333,000 "to assist with relocation-related expenses," reportsGames.Industry.biz.This would be a good deal in many parts of the world, but is more likely a reflection of the price of houses in California.....
The rise of "free" broadband - connections that cost nothing, if you pay for a number of other services too - came last year when mobile phone companies got involved in buying ISPs. That's where you saw TalkTalk and Orange, for example, trying to make a splash in the online world.Now Orange is trying to tempt people to sign up for its broadband services by bringing in other freebies - including, thanks to a deal with PC World, free laptops.From the press release:Customers who sign up to a two-year broadband connection with Orange at PC World from this Thursday, will be given a new laptop worth over £300. Customers must sign up for the Orange broadband contract at one of over 150 PC World stores nationwide. Tens of thousands of laptops are being made available to support the promotion.The laptops in question will have a minimum spec: 15.4" widescreen, Celeron processor, 256MB of memory and a 40GB hard drive.This is taking a model similar to that used by the phone industry - sign up for a contract and we'll give you a free handset. They subsidise the cost of the equipment through the cost of the contract and use it to entice new customers with splashy offers on otherwise expensive gadgets.It's not clear whether customers will be offered a free laptop upgrade after two years, but would you be tempted by a deal like this?
Is this how international relations will play out in the future? Wired has anarticleon a new game designed by the hardline Union of Students Islamic Association in which players must rescue two Iranian nuclear experts kidnapped by the U.S. military. 'Rescue the Nuke Scientist' is apparently a response to Assault on Iran, one of the missions created by online news game developer,Kuma Games. From the story:"n "Rescue the Nuke Scientist," U.S. troops capture a husband-and-wife team of nuclear engineers during a pilgrimage to Karbala, a holy site for Shiite Muslims, in central Iraq. Game players take on the role of Iranian security forces carrying out a mission code-named "The Special Operation," which involves penetrating fortified locations to free the nuclear scientists, who are moved from Iraq to Israel.To complete the game successfully, players have to enter Israel to rescue the nuclear scientists, kill U.S. and Israeli troops and seize their laptops containing secret information.Mohammad Taqi Fakhrian, a leader of the student group, told reporters, "This is our defense against the enemy's cultural onslaught". Which, you have to admit, is more interesting than the usual 'our FPS employs the Unreal 3 engine and boasts cutting edge AI".This is not the first highly critical response to Kuma's Assault on Iran. Last year, another Iranian development team created a game named 'Counter Strike' in which you had to plant bombs on a tanker in the strait of Hormuz, thereby rendering the oil route impassable. Read morehere. This too was intended as a reposte to the Kuma mission.Thing is, the Kuma\War downloads are usually reasonably level-headed and objective - they've been designed to explore real-life conflicts and hotspots using available data as accurately as possible. They're news games, really, rather than jingositic crowd-pleasers. We're not talking America's Army here.Still, videogames are a great form of protest - easy to distribute, fun to interact with and they garner attention on both sides of the debate.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's generally accepted that Microsoft has done well out of software piracy: it helps products become widely used, and as the market matures, people start to pay for their software. And this has been a major factor in Windows beating Linux in China, as Bill Gates admits.Fortune magaziner's David Kirkpatrick went with Gates on a trip to China, andhis storyincludes the following paragraph:Today Gates openly concedes that tolerating piracy turned out to be Microsoft's best long-term strategy. That's why Windows is used on an estimated 90% of China's 120 million PCs. "It's easier for our software to compete with Linux when there's piracy than when there's not," Gates says. "Are you kidding? You can get the real thing, and you get the same price." Indeed, in China's back alleys, Linux often costs more than Windows because it requires more disks. And Microsoft's own prices have dropped so low it now sells a $3 package of Windows and Office to students.There is, of course, a cost: Microsoft only makes about $7 per PC in China, rather than $100, or whatever. But it's better than nothing, and will grow as more users get legal copies.Although this is a good argument for local rather than global pricing, there is another side to the coin. Following recent moves in the $/£ exchange rate, for example, UK users are probably paying at least 50% more than they should be, even by Microsoft's reckoning.But don't expect Microsoft UK to do anything about it. It has tried to keep prices reasonably consistent, in local currency terms. It could reduce them now, but there would be a horrible backlash when it increased them after the pound slumped or the dollar recovered.In any case, the current exchange rate means Microsoft UK is trousering vast amounts of free cash, in dollar terms, which makes it look good in Redmond.
iPhone: built to be perfect. Photograph: Michael Nagle/GettyI harbour a pet obsession with materials - more specifically the idea of using alternative materials for the manufacture of electronic devices like computers.We're so used to plastics and metals being used for our gadgets that we rarely think about other options. That's one reason that I like poring overcasemodsand looking at the way people use innovative designs, like Apple's sunflower iMac or Dell's oddXPS M2010.Over at his blog, NYTimes.com designer Khoi Vinh - who I met earlier this year in London - has a post about"designed deterioration", and how design-heavy tech companies don't think about the non-perfect scenario.I have a US$20 cast iron skillet that I bought several years ago from a restaurant supply shop in downtown Manhattan. I've cooked hundreds of meals with it, and over time it has developed a coating from oil and food -- the manufacturers call it 'seasoning.' It's a little unbecoming when you think about it... but it's also a beautiful piece of design.After cooking in it and cleaning it up, I've spent a lot of time just looking it over, marveling at how its very deterioration has been incorporated into the design of the object, at how it's gotten more attractive -- less ignorant -- the more I use it.One thing technology manufacturers don't do is design for deterioration. Of course, that's not the same as obsolescence; it's simply the concept that you canimprovean item through wear and tear. With clothes and many other objects, we appreciate the value of aging. Leather, for example, is one material that gains character as it gets older. Denim too: hence the prevalence of pre-faded jeans on the high street these days.Partly this must be because technology isincreasingly seen as disposable- but then so are clothes, or kitchen utensils. But given the high cost of many electronics, there must be an intrinsic value to a design which improves with age (even if it runs contrary to the "Newer! Bigger! Faster!" mantra of the industry) - especially when we're becoming hyper-aware of excess consumption.I'd love to see computers and gadgets being built out of materials that can age properly: woods, fabrics and such like. Once you're doing that, perhaps you could start messing with the form too. Why does my computer tower need to be a box? In fact, why does it need to be a tower at all? Couldn't it look like a piece of art, sculpture or perform another function? What are the possibilities?
There's nothing that's made me laugh as hard in games as the talk radio station in Grand Theft Auto. The soundtrack - even before the licensed tunes - has always been one of the most impressive implementations in a game. Now you can be part of it.Rockstar haveadvertiseda phone number for hopefuls to call, asking people to leave their names, numbers and short messages. They may later regret this. Then again, they don't have to pay anyone to write clever scripts.However, if you'd like to give the developers an earful and get your dulcet tones in silicon, give them a ring. The number is 212-360-2368. Tom on the digg says you can call from the UK fromhere.
Thenewsthat Peter Moore, corporate vice president of Microsoft's interactive entertainment business - aka Xbox 360 boss - has resigned can be taken in two ways. Yes it could be entirely down to personal reasons and his new role - heading up EA Sports - ishardly a step down. But the timing is suspiciously convenient too. Recent sales target failures plus the repair bill fiasco won't have gone unnoticed at the highest levels of Microsoft. Whatever the reason I'll be sad to see Moore go. I've spoken to him on a number of occasions and found him a refreshingly open exec without the myopic outlook often displayed by senior games industry figures. Just another suit moving on then or is Moore's departure the first sign of cracks in the 360 masterplan?
After getting E3 and a $1 billion charge out of the way, Xboss boss Peter Moore has quit.Microsoft's press releasesays he has "decided to move his family back to the Bay Area for personal reasons and has secured another opportunity in the video games industry."In fact, he's going to be president of EA Sports, and EA is by far the biggest company in the games industry.Oddly enough, Microsoft is replacing Moore with a former EA man, Don Mattrick. It says:Mattrick was the founder of Distinctive Software Inc., which operated as a private company from 1982 until its merger with EA in 1991. Mattrick held various senior positions within EA, most recently as president of Worldwide Studios, until his resignation in February 2006. In February 2007, Mattrick began working with the Entertainment and Devices Division at Microsoft as an external advisor.Moore looks like a good pick for a sports line. He was born in Liverpool and became a footballer and PE teacher [see Update], eventually getting a job at Reebok and taking them into the football boot business. Then Sega hired him for his marketing skills, and he launched the Dreamcast.One of the more delightful aspects of the job switch is that, after putting the metaphorical boot into Sony for the past couple of years, he will now be their biggest buddy, and vice versa. The combination of the EA Games sports franchises (Madden, FIFA etc) and the PlayStation 2 is probably the biggest gravy train in the games industry.The New York Times has covered the story and got a quote from EA's CEO, John Riccitiello:"Peter's somebody I've been trying to recruit for the better part of a decade," Mr. Riccitiello said in a telephone interview. "He's one of the true talents in the industry. He knows sports better than almost anyone I've ever met. He was the toughest competitor we ever had on the sports side when he was at Sega. He's done a great job at Microsoft and we're thrilled to have him."Update 1: There's a bigNewsweek interview with Peter Moore, originally published in four parts in May. He says: "I was a PE teacher in my first life, so I did a lot of work on the psychology of sport and the sociology of sport. In fact, my thesis was for my bachelor's degree -- this was in England, before I'd even been to America -- was the theory of centrality in American sports."Update 2: Major Nelson has a podcast,The one where Peter Moore says goodbye.
He's got it: have you? Photograph: Getty ImagesIn Discovery magazine, author, entrepreneur and sometime Guardian contributor Steven Johnson has an article called "Your Brain On Video Games", exploring the scientific discoveries being made about the effects of playing games.A lot of it is a reworking of his excellent bookEverything Bad Is Good For You, which takes a step-by-step journey through the arguments about games and other aspects of pop culture. But if you haven't read Everything Bad... you might enjoy dipping in.For example, he takes the sorts of skills you can master in simulated environments - reasoning, puzzle solving, forward thinking - and asks whether they can really translate into real life.The answer comes from a slew of recent studies, one of which began when then cognitive sciences research assistant and ardent gamer Shawn Green worked with University of Rochester cognitive sciences professor Daphne Bavelier on a project investigating visual perception in video game players.On standard tests that measure attention span and information-processing time, Green found that gamers consistently outperformed nongamers. When Green tweaked the tests to make them challenging enough so the gamers wouldn't have perfect scores, the nongamers sometimes performed so poorly that their answers might as well have been random guesses.The researchers addressed an admitted weakness of the study--that visually intelligent people were more likely to be attracted to video games in the first place--by immersing a group of nonplayers for a week in the World War II game Medal of Honor. They found that the group's skills on the standard visual tests improved as well.Given the increasing interest in virtual worlds and near-game environments, it's not hard to imagine that some people will adapt much more quickly to a futurenet based around 3D - the kind of thing imagined by William Gibson's Neuromancer or Neal Stephenson in Snow Crash.But given the research mentioned, will we end up with a divided society? Imagine a future internet where games players have a massive advantage over ordinary users. Will we see a divide between the visually literate and those who just don't (or can't) get it?
As part of my interview with Richard Bartle, I asked him who he thought were the five most important people in the development of virtual worlds and MMOs. He accompanied his list with the following proviso:"OK, so this is the hardest question you've asked me. There are so many more names I'd like to put on this list that I even want to argue with myself, so gawd knows what other people will think (especially those whose names really ought to be on it!). How can Philip Rosedale not be there? How can Rob Pardo not be there? Both have been listed among Time Magazine's 100 most influential people in the world! Why have I missed them off?Bah! Rather than list all the people who should have been on the list but aren't, I'm just going to go with it. Here, in alphabetical order, are my five..."So once you've taken a look, let us know whoyoureckon should be on there...Ted CastronovaTed is the only academic on this list. He wrote a paper in 2001 that calculated the per capita GDP of the inhabitants of Norrath (ie. EverQuest) to be somewhere between that of Bulgaria and Russia. As a result, there was paradigm shift in the way that the media viewed virtual worlds: as one, journalists suddenly realised they had to take these things seriously. Because of Ted's work, virtual worlds such as Second Life got a hearing they wouldn't have done otherwise.Raph KosterRaph is the best designer of virtual worlds we have. His designs are admired for their innovation, their imagination, their experimentation and the fact that they always place trust in the player. Raph lead the design team for Ultima Online, the breakthrough virtual world that finally made the computer games industry sit up and notice what was going on (he did Star Wars: Galaxies, too). He writes articulately and passionately about virtual worlds, with an unparalleled depth of understanding. Without him, we'd all still be playing DikuMUD clones.Jessica MulliganJess has worked in almost every aspect of virtual world design, development and operation in the past two decades, for pretty well every significant developer. She was a major force behind the acceptance of virtual worlds onto pre-Internet "information providers" such as GEnie and AOL, almost single-handedly ushering in the golden age of textual worlds that ultimately persuaded developers to chance adding graphics to the mix.This alone would qualify her for this list, however I don't regard it as her greatest achievement. Rather, it's the way she has consistently, over the years, championed the unfashionable but critical concept of customer service. Designing and developing virtual worlds is fun, but only when you launch them does the real work begin. Jess's efforts in getting developers to realise they are offering a service is why her name was always going to be on this list.Jake SongVirtual worlds are not merely a western thing. Indeed, the west lags seriously behind what is going on in the Far East, particularly South Korea. Virtual worlds are absolute mainstream there, and all because of two brilliantly conceived games that defined the market: Kingdom of the Winds and Lineage. Jake Song designed them both. It's hard to understand from a western perspective how he has reshaped modern Korean society, but he has. To give some sense of what he's achieved, some eight million people (as I write this) have tried Second Life at least once; for Lineage, the figure is over sixty million (and the population of South Korea is only about 49m). Now THAT'S impact.Roy TrubshawBecause if Roy hadn't figured out how to create a shareable, writeable high segment on a DECsystem-10 mainframe in 1978, we wouldn't be having this discussion.
A couple of weeks ago I promised an interview with Richard Bartle, co-creator of the original Multi-User Dungeon (or Domain if you prefer) set up back in 1978 at the University of Essex. I asked for your questions and received several suggestions which I put to Mr Bartle earlier this week, along with some of my own queries.Well, Richard has delivered in style. Here's the full interview, covering everything from the limits of online communication to the future of virtual worlds...Can interaction in a virtual setting via limited means (text only for example) be compared to real social interaction?It can be compared, yes. Whether it comes out of the comparison well depends on what you want from your social interaction. For some people (and I'm one of them), the telephone is bad for social interaction; for others, it's exactly what they want. So it is for virtual worlds.What virtual worlds give you is a more limited set of channels plus some editing capacity (ie. backspace keys). They also allow for a degree of deliberate body language (I can insert commands for my character to wag its finger, or scowl, or gape open-mouthed in horror). Now for some people, the limited set of channels means they can't convey all that they want to convey, so they aren't going to like interacting that way; for others, the lack of fidelity in the channels gives them freedoms to communicate that they don't have in real life. For example, if in real life you sound like Kermit the Frog when you speak, a virtual world is going to be a great release for you.Because the channels are limited, it means you can keep several of them open at once. You can communicate with lots of people simultaneously and independently. It's hard to do that in real life (unless you use some other real-time computerised communication system, for example Instant Messenger).Human beings are very adaptable. If a virtual world allows freeform communication, then its players will communicate. They will be able to express every emotion between love and hate based on the contents of that channel, even if it's only words. Anyone who is worried about the effects of virtual worlds on social interaction should direct their concern at television long, long before they look at virtual worlds.However, when all is said and done, reality is far more detailed than virtuality can ever be. There are some forms of social interaction you can't get any other way. Reality always wins in the end. A kiss in a virtual world or a kiss over the phone is never going to be the same as a kiss in real life.What did you learn from watching the way people online interacted together in the MUD days?Everyone is different.A Gamesblog reader said about MUD, "I remember it being exceptionally well-crafted because of the number of people who would altruistically act as quasi-NPCs, providing truly interactive keystones to quests and guilds etc. We see very little of this in the modern MMORPG, with computer-controlled NPCs being the quest norm". Why do you think this altruism is lacking in modern online games?I do still see altruism in them, but yes, you're right, it doesn't happen to the same degree as it used to in the olde days. I guess there are three main reasons for this:1. The virtual worlds are not as sophisticated. Yes, they have the 3D graphics, but what you can do in them as a player isn't as sophisticated as what you can do in a textual world. This means players don't have as many tools and abilities available to them within the world to enhance the experience of others.2. Today's virtual worlds have many more players. Acts of altruism that prosper on a growing relationship between players are rarer, because you don't see the same people often enough. Even if they're within the same guild, you have to find the right guild. Most random acts of altruism are lost, meaning that players can't easily form the trust relationship that underlies the kind of mutual understanding players need to have for the kind of directed behaviour you describe.3. Players are so used to being able to look up walkthrough solutions to problems on the Internet that, faced with some other player offering them a quest, they'd be nonplussed. They'd be more likely to think it was some kind of trick than an enhancement to play (and they'd probably be right!).Many users of virtual communities state that their interest goes through definite stages. For example, they start off intrigued, become passionate through discovery, often quickly ascend to a position of responsibility, and eventually 'burnout'.What you have just described is the "main sequence" of player development. We noticed this very early on in the life of MUD, and it took me over 25 years before I had an explanation for how and why it happens. Sadly, that explanation is a two-hour lecture...Can virtual communities really become important, even with the dawn of 3D 'second lives', when they only seem to be engaging for certain people for a limited time?Virtual worlds are places. If you go there because they're a place, for example, to do business, well you're not going to be turned off them any more than you'd be turned off going to any other place. Social life in London may be better than that in Leicester, but people still go to Leicester.However, virtual worlds are not ordinary places. Game worlds in particular are places of adventure and excitement, similar to the real world but apart from it. People go there as part of a hero's journey - a means of self-discovery (shh! don't let the players know - they think it's just "to have fun"). When they've grown as people and become the individuals they set out to become, they have no need to play any more.This "burnout" as you put it means they end up regarding the virtual world as a place no more special than the real world. Then, they can start doing things in it that they would in any ordinary place they found agreeable.It may be that "community" is the wrong word here, at least for the game players; perhaps "demographic" might be better in some cases? For example, we can talk about "teenagers" as an important group with related views, needs and behaviours, but would we call them a community? Just because a group isn't a community, that doesn't mean it isn't important.So yes, virtual communities can become important, because at heart they're real communities. That doesn't mean that every important collection of individuals online is a community, though.What do you find yourself using more - MMORPGs or virtual worlds like Second Life? Why? And which do you think feels more like the experience of using MUD at the beginning?I don't use either of them. I visit places like Second Life to give talks and attend functions, much as I might visit somewhere in the real world to do that. I don't spend leisure time there. I visit the game worlds (MMORPGs) to see how they're designed. I don't play them as a player - I'm a designer. I've never played them as a player, I can't: I see the design and the machinery too clearly.My interest is creating worlds, not living in worlds created by others. At one level, I envy those people who can play them for fun, because it must be amazing to have somewhere to go for three or four hours every night of every week of every month, where you KNOW you're going to have fun. At another level, though, I'm content, because I do get pleasure from virtual worlds - only I get it from the beauty of the design, not from the experience of playing.It doesn't take a lot of playing to get a handle on the design, either, so when I do play I don't generally do so for long. Indeed, most of my understanding of a design comes from watching other people play and from reading about it on the web.As for which feels more like the experience of using MUD at the beginning, hmm, well it depends on how far "at the beginning" you want to go. There were three versions of MUD written between 1978 and 1980: the first was a simple test of the technology; the second was a world with no game aspect to it; the third was built as a world. The second one had much in common with social worlds; the third one had much in common with game worlds. However, both had much in common with both. It wasn't really until about 1989 that we got the schism between game-like and social worlds that means Second Life and World of Warcraft have such different philosophies.What do you feel makers of modern virtual worlds and MMOs could learn from going back to look at MUD?MUD has little that today's virtual worlds don't, but it lacks something they do have which makes it worth looking at: baggage. In today's virtual worlds, there are many components that are only there because they were in the worlds that the designers played. These things work, but the designers don't know - or even consider - why they work. A designer will ask "what character classes are we going to have?" when they should first ask "are we going to have character classes?". Only when they have decided that yes, they are going to have them, will they know why they want them, and therefore why they are important.With MUD, we had no precedents. Therefore, a designer looking at MUD can do so in the knowledge that everything there is there for a reason, and then hypothesise what that reason might be (or, if they realise I'm not dead yet, ask me).A designer looking back at MUD won't learn anything new to put in their own virtual world, but, through reflecting on its design, they might learn more about themselves as a designer.So, the obligatory, 'What's going to happen next?' question. Any predictions?In the short term, we're going to see people create more and more virtual worlds for business or education reasons, most of which will be social in nature (and entirely unfun). On the games side, there will be more and more tools become available for people to create their own virtual worlds, and eventually anyone with a yen to construct a world will be able to do so. Most of these will be very similar and not especially interesting to designers, but they'll be very important to the people who play them. I know this will happen because it's what happened in the days of text.What happens after this, well, I'm a little pessimistic. So many people will encounter virtual worlds early (when they are children) and so many compromises will have to be made to attract a mainstream audience that I can easily see virtual worlds losing much of their soul, so that in 20 years from now people will wonder what it was about these things that people ever found so compelling.Will Web 3D take off? Or is the way we interface with the web perfectly fine at the moment?Text is very good at conveying information. You don't need a 3D environment to read text, and indeed it could get in the way. Would you want to read what I'm saying here if it were in a 3D setting? Would it help or hinder your ability to follow what was going on?Also, in an avatar-based virtual world, you're controlling a character. Sometimes, people don't want to control characters, they just want to be themselves. Do I gain anything from having to direct my character to read something I want to read? Or is it an unnecessary level of indirection?[Aside: how much faster will you be able to get through your email-reading chores at the start of the day when you have3D Mailbox? When I first saw the trailer, I thought it was a parody.]Do you think MMOs and virtual worlds are going to be consumed by the social networking revolution, so that they operate merely as extensions of Facebook, et al?That's my glum assessment of the future, yes. There WILL be the glorious virtual worlds we have today, only they'll be of minority interest. Most people will use the technology but not care about the worlds as worlds. If you want the intelligent stuff, you'll be able to find it; however, if you don't know it's there, you won't know to look.Then again, I see what's happening in Korea with virtual worlds, and I wonder if maybe, just maybe, they do have a mass market future beyond that of the banal?What are you up to at the moment? Do you have any more work on Virtual Worlds in the pipeline?At the moment, I'm splitting my time between consultancy work and teaching (game design, at Essex University). I don't have any more work creating virtual worlds for myself in the pipeline, as they cost too much to make and I'm hopeless at asking for money. I see my role as being a kind of guardian (er, not this newspaper) for virtual worlds, promoting them when I can and protecting them from ignorance.That said, if someone gave me $50m and a remit to design and develop a virtual world, all visions of being some kind of elder statesman would disappear in an instant. I'm still a designer, and always will be: I want to design worlds, because that's who I am.If you could take over control of one major MMORPG - which would you choose and what would you do with it?I'd take over World of Warcraft and I'd close it. I just want better virtual worlds. Sacrificing one of the best so its players have to seek out alternatives would be a sure-fire way to ensure that unknown gems got the chance they deserved, and that new games were developed to push back the boundaries.Er, I would get to do this anonymously, wouldn't I?
Back in the day, I played Frontier: Elite II on my Atari ST. As far as I can tell, Frontier isn't available for PCs, aside from a DOS version which I can't get to work even with an emulator. Do you know of any comparable games that might satisfy my nostalgia?Chris MorrisYou can download Frontier: Elite II and First Encounters from theElite Clubsite. These are shareware, so you can play them free for 30 days, after which registration costs £5. If it doesn't work, you're supposed to be able to run it withDosBox, which I assume is the one you tried.So, we're looking for an open-ended space flight game with trading, combat (Frontier has more of the trading) and perhaps role-playing elements.The ones most often mentioned in this context are Microsoft'sFreelancer(trial version available), Egosoft'sX3: ReunionandDarkStar One.What do you think?For completeness, I should also mention Elite 4, about which there is anofficial FAQ dated 2000,2001. Play.com reckons it's "Due for release on 28/11/2008". You might get a different answer fromNostradamus.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
I reckon InfoWorld's chief technologist Tom Yager could have attracted more traffic with hisiPhone delivers more misses than hitspost if he'd done a proper hit list and given it a title like mine.Still, you have to be impressed when someone can find more than 50 flaws in a product, and Yager could have got more if he'd been really trying.On the other hand, some flaws are more or less generic. For example, of the iPhone's camera, he says: "Quality of camera is comparatively poor; focus distance limited; no digital zoom; cannot capture video" and "No exposure control in camera, very slow shutter creates blurry images". Two flaws seems fair enough, but there must be dozens of devices where the built-in camera has exactly the same limitations. It's mainly the failure to capture video that's a drawback with the iPhone, and I'd guess not that many people care. (Most people take stills.)There can also be a fine line between a flaw and a feature. For example, Yager complains: "Safari doesn't try to reformat Web page for convenient viewing (like Windows Mobile IE's one-column view)". But the whole point of iPhone Web browsing is to show Web pages "as they really are" (as long as they don't include Flash, Java etc, which the iPhone can't handle). The IE approach makes the site more readable but you almost always have to scroll. With the iPhone, you view and zoom. Plenty of people might well prefer that approach.Also, some flaws are more important than others. The fact that the iPhone can't take an existing SIM card, can't do voice dialling, doesn't have any memory expansion and you can't replace the battery are deal-breakers for many users. "Extremely strong radio frequency interference" might turn out to be a significant problem, or it might not. "Fewer slideshow transition effects than video iPod" -- well, who cares?A more recent "flaw" may or may not be significant, which is the iPhoneflooding the Wi-Fi networkat Duke University. This could be an iPhone problem or a router problem or a Duke configuration problem or whatever. If it's really an iPhone problem, you expect it to appearall over the place, not just in Durham, NC.Update: The university has issued a statement that says: "Cisco has provided a fix that has been applied to Duke's network and the problem has not occurred since." For more details, see the eWeek report,Duke Resolves iPhone, Wi-Fi Outage Problems.
Rosieat Girl Geek Dinners Brightonis looking fora super-talented designer to come up with a logo and slogan for the networking group. Prizes are seriously-sought-after tickets to the forthcomingdConstructconference in September. OK, so neither of these things is specifically games-related, but at the Girl Geek Dinner I spoke at (about games) a couple of months ago, there were several games industry types in attendance.Briefly,Geek Dinnersare,...an opportunity to meet up and socialise with interesting people over dinner. Geek Dinners are organised all over the world and are great fun. Our local one is the Sussex Geek Dinner.Girl Geek Dinners are ones 'For the girls'. This doesn't mean that men can't attend, just that they need to come as the guest of a female.Thus:Coming soon is a central website for the girl geek dinners, in celebration we are launching a competition to hunt down a top logo design and slogan from a girl geek.Here are the rules: - you design and submit a logo and/or a slogan - the girl geek team organisers will select finalists - the public get to vote for their favourite design - the winner should not apply any restrictions of use on the logo.More informationhere.
Tour de France riders use the slipstream. Photograph: Frank Fife/AFPEvery day we see more headlines about energy efficiency, traffic reduction and green initiatives. But while the bods work on huge plans to save the planet, could something as simple as slipstreaming increase fuel efficiency?That's the suggestion being put forward by two researchers at Jadavpur University in India, who have studied the fuel savings when four tailgate each other.Debojyoti Mitra and Asis Mazumdar, in the University's Department of Mechanical Engineering, tested the benefits of "platooning" - and found it could have a significant impact. The detail is onScienceDaily:Cars moving in the same direction separated by a meter or so would reduce drag and so save fuel. Adding sensors and safety controls that allow vehicles to drive at such a small separation is possible. Now, Mitr and Mazumdar explain how car manufacturers and transport policy might work to allow such a platooning system to operate."The leading car in the platoon experiences the highest drag as you would expect but no more than if it were driving alone," explains Mitra, "The second car has a much lower drag coefficient than the first car in a two-car platoon. The middle car experiences the lowest drag in a three-car platoon and the third car in the platoon, starting from the front, experiences the least drag in a four-car platoon."It's a lovely image to think of during the Tour De France - imagining traffic as a series of peloton, with cars automatically following each other and taking over the lead in order to share energy savings.But the concept of the automated driving system is an odd beast - while it's undeniably sexy technology, it's also burdened with an inescapable sense of the grey-suited efficiency-obsessed town planner. Drivers are individualistic, idealistic and - by their very nature - hooked on independence; automated tailgating would, for all its benefits, take away some of those things.And to be most effective, it requires total buy-in... in terms of safety and security, these systems work best if everyone takes part.Do you ever see it happening?
Jane at theBBC's Inside Outprogramme is looking for gaming tykes between the ages of 10 and 12 to join the author of The Dangerous Book for Boys for one of their programmes. Her cryptic email suggests that they're hoping to find "kids who spends all spare time on the playstation" and with parents' permissions they'll take them away from the console for a once-in-a-lifetime adventure.There may be an ulterior motive here; while the Beeb has traditionally been well-balanced about the subject of gaming, this may be an excuse to problematise the pass time. Then again, this could be an opportunity to revolutionise attitudes from within!If you're interested in putting your Little Jimmy of John forward, contact Jane Goddard at jane.goddard+at+bbc.co.uk. Marthas, Marys and Nancies need not apply.
I was reading about Unreal Tournament 3 when it finally dawned on me - I really really don't care. Do we really need yet another sci-fi shooter with pumped up goons and oversized artillery? It's not a hatred of FPS or anything like that - Rainbow Six Vegas is a semi-permanent fixture in my 360 - but rather the tediously derivative setting and the assumption that sci-fi is all that matters to gamers. Halo 3 has a similar look but at least the developers Bungie seem to be offering more innovation, especially online, rather than just new ways to kill your opponents. But if there was a choice between Halo 3 and say the hugely promising Alan Wake dropping into my lap this morning there would be no competition - bring on the Wake.So other than Unreal what other big game brands leave me cold? Final Fantasy is a good one. Huge brand and everything but honestly, life is too short. And as for Need for bloody Speed? No thanks. GTA, perhaps the biggest gaming brand of the moment, is still exciting although San Andreas was clearly a bloated step in the wrong direction. I'm not talking genre - although obviously 99% of fighting games are tedious button mashers (1% of goodness shared between Powerstone and Way of the Exploding Fist) - but big brand games. Which triple AAA's could you easily live without?
Among the biggest (ahem) stories on the blogosphere today - Lucasarts was thought to have unveiled a new PS3 controller on itsStar Wars: Force Unleashed website. As spotted byKotakuand others, just go to the Unleashed site and look at the image of the PS3 pad beneath where it says videogame details. You've no doubt spotted that the D-Pad and left analogue controller have swapped places.Is this a glance at the new PS3 rumble controller? Or is it some kind of error?UPDATE:Yes, as reader Ronnelund has pointed out in the comments section, it's afake, probably used in error by a picture researcher with seemingly no access to official Sixaxis images. Of course, everyoneshouldhave spotted the lack of a PS button...The only other gossip today (and it's top ten on most of the aggregation sites) is a piece of personnal tittle-tattle concerning two reasonably well-known members of the industry who may or may not be seeing each other on a romantic basis. How weird to find this kind of Pop Bitch fluff worming its way into the videogame media. Does this mean we finally have videogame stars, or that videogame news sites are updating too regularly with too little to say ?
Here's one that's doing the rounds at the moment: an amazingly useful little gizmo called the"Hide-a-pod"- an iPod case that virtually guarantees that nobody's going to want to nick your slice of MP3 heaven.It's really very simple. Just tell us what iPod model you want to protect and we provide a gutted and hinged Zune with our custom molded iPod casing adapter.My girlfriend had her iPod nicked on the bus a while back. I'm sure it would have been theft proof if encased in such a way.(Yes, I know it's a joke).
Over the last couple of years - thanks to a bit of market pressure and greater consumer awareness - high speed internet access has become the norm around the UK. But we still argue about what constitutes "high speed". Get a bunch of geeks around the table in a pub and somebody is bound to mention how fast: it's the webby equivalent of "My Dad's bigger than your Dad".Whatever your download speed, though, it surely pales in comparison to that owned by Swedish pensioner Sigbritt Löthberg... who boasts a 40 gig internet connection.Yes, that's right - 40 Gigabits per second. According tothe Local:Sigbritt will now be able to enjoy 1,500 high definition HDTV channels simultaneously. Or, if there is nothing worth watching there, she will be able to download a full high definition DVD in just two seconds.The extraordinary speeds are no coincidence - Sigbritt's son is "Swedish internet legend"Peter Löthberg, who advises companies like Cisco on what they should be doing.Me? I'm still smarting as a result of downgrading from a 10+ Meg connection to a maximum of 2 Megs when I moved out of London. The idea of 40GB is enough to make me faint.
This week's episode ofScience Weekly, our regular science adn technology podcast, covers all the bases you could wish for. Not only do we hear from disaster expertBill McGuire- who explains why supervolcanoes, asteroids and earthquakes aren't necessarily going to kill us all - but we've also got an interview with the elusiveRobert Cailliau.Robert may not be as well known as the man he shared an office with in Switzerland, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, but he was a co-developer of the web and instrumental in its early days. Guardian science correspondentJames Randersongrabbed him for a chat.Elsewhere in this week's show we discuss cloned meat, Brian May and chase bats under the Houses of Parliament.Click hereto listen now, or subscribe to theweb feed.
I've only just found out that classic eighties proto-beat-'em-up Yie Ar Kung Fu is heading onto Xbox Live Arcade this wednesday, alongside Bomberman Live. Yie Ar Kung Fu is one of those games that gentlemen of a certain age fondly recall with an excited, 'that was amazing!' before going on to discuss the excellent soundtrack to Kung Fu Master and asking if anyone else remembers Karateka. None of these games holds up particularly well to modern scrutiny. Although the music in Kung Fu Masterwasgood. Wasn't it?Anyway, that probably won't stop me downloading Yie Ar Kung Fu. I played it a lot back in the day, before Way of the Exploding Fist and International Karate came along with lots of moves and actual depth. The Live release promises an original mode, plus an enhanced version featuring, "stunning hand painted models and backgrounds mimicking traditional Japanese art styles." I've seen the enhanced screenshots of Golden Axe - I'm certain someone has run the game through one of those Photoshop filters that make your photos look like they're a watercolour painting.What vintage (pre-Street Fighter II) fighting games wouldyoulike to see on Xbox?
The "death of Internet radio" on July 15 was narrowly averted, but it seems that "a compromise will likely mean mandatory DRM," [Digital Rights Management, aka copy protection] according toArs Technica. The story concludes:The music industry is very worried about users recording Internet radio for the purposes of "disaggregating" music, and the message seems to be that if webcasters will scratch the industry's back, then a better deal is possible. Too bad it's a deal that could kill another potential avenue of fair use (recording radio), and limit users' ability to enjoy radio by limiting playback to clients that support DRM.
Last month I interviewed Lyndsay Williams in the Technology section (Ex-Microsoft star whose paper trail was too short). One problem was providing a reference for more information about things like ThrillChip: Microsoft had just made her redundant and deleted her page at Microsoft Research.Now she has put up a Web site atwww.lyndsayw.com.The interesting PowerPoint deck about Lyndsay's sound developments is at the bottom of theDigital Audio page, along with the above picture of her 1977 sound synthesizer development, based on Practical Electronics' MiniSonic.
The Wikigamers have been busy this week, devising bizarre storylines which offer some indication of the mental stability of the most vocal members of the gamesblog community. It's nice to see we're all supremely unhinged.After the burst of creativity, a vote was called to determine which broad story would be developed into our interactive adventure. I must say, I am disappointed that no one wants to traverse the twisted yet talented mind of The Fall's Mark E Smith. However, the community's frontrunner decision - involving housemates, portals to another world and the labyrinth of the London Underground system - is truly wonderful as well.It's time to vote on your favourite!Head hereto read the proposals and thenadd your name to the list next to your chosen one here. Remember, even if your favourite doesn't make the cut this time, I'm sure they'll crop up in future games.Voting closes tomorrow night, 17 July.A personal favourite:Like all self-respecting single young women in contemporary urban settings, our heroine has spent a large amount of money on a brand new uber-phone/portable console. While playing a cheap Tetris knock-off during a long journey home from the office, something strange happens - a single L-shaped block refuses to drop into the line and obliterate three rows of its fallen kin. Our heroine closes the game and tries another one, but the L-shaped block appears in the new game and refuses to allow her to shoot the invading alien ships.The L-shaped block is The One. It has seen through the imposed code of it's universe, to the underlying truth. Now, it can change the code - and, if it takes control of the phone's wireless connection to the internet, the entire digital world will be ruled by it.Our heroine must enter the Gamesworld and wage a vicious war against The One, fighting through game after game, returning to the real world only for strategy guides and caffiene [sic]. Can she succeed?Without a doubt, salubriousone wins the award for the best integration of a bad joke in a story setting:You are Neil (called Neil so we can make a bad joke, something like - "in order to get onto this train you need to go in single file - who should go first?" Answer - "Neil before Zod")The Greatest Leap of Faith award goes to DennisChow for his brave attempt at integrating several completely un-related settings:I'm not an expert on [Mark E Smith] either though, although I do have a couple of The Fall cd's lying about for reference. The Fall do have a song called Spoilt Victorian Child which could make a very, very loose connection to one of the broad story ideas.Finally, the current frontrunner is cunningstunt's Moving House scenario:You've just moved house. Waking up after your first night in your new place you notice the house is suprisingly quiet. Looking around you cant find your housemates anyway. Then you notice the front door has dissapeared. Another quick search reveals all exits form the house are gone or blocked. Eventually managing to break though a wall in the cellar you find your self in an old abandoned part of the underground and you set off to find your friends and a way to the surface. Its almost like a completely different world down there. Inhabited with people, and things that you'd never have imagined(possible some pirates/ninjas etc). After getting onto a modern tube line you discover the trains abbandoned and stations without exit. At some point you discover that the answer lies at a certain station (not decided which one yet). As you find your lost housemates they help you overcome certain puzzles (one can read japanese so help you read a letter etc..). Getting to the target station you discover that there is a power in the underground that is slowly changing the world as it wants. Realising that your house was the first overland location to be affected you make your way back to the old tube line near your house. On you way back your friends start to dissapear again 1 by 1. Finally returning to your house you discover that it was actually one of your housemates causing everything but you dont know which one. After finally discovering which one you learn that they are in fact a fledgling god/demon (type thing)(there should be many references/encounters with a cult throughout the game) Once you defeat it (through some non violent act, possibly using logic ala man destroying god in hitchhikers guide) you can now leave the house again and the hole in you cellar is gone. Themes heavily ripped off Silent Hill 4 and Neverwhere throughoutThere are 12 others.Go! Now! Read! Vote!
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
The Wall Street Journal is,somewhat arbitrarily, celebrating10 years of bloggingwith a special feature that includes contributed sections from some of the movers and shakers in the world of blogging. These include Harold Evans, Former editor, the Times of London, Mia Farrow, actress, Brig. Gen. Kevin Bergner, Spokesman for Multi-National Force, in Iraq, and Newt Gingrich, Former House speaker.To be fair, the list also includes Jim Buckmaster, the CEO of Craigslist, Xiao Qiang of the China Digital Times, Elizabeth Spiers, Founding editor of Gawker, and so on, plus video clips from Cory Doctorow and David Pescovitz (Boing Boing), Dennis Yang (TechDirt) and others. There's a cross section of opinion, not just famous names.The WSJ is not exactly known for its blogging, but it does haveat least a dozen, with itsLaw blogperhaps leading the way.
Elk Cloner(1982) Created as a practical joke by a 15-year-old American, Rich Skrenta, and spread through infected floppy discsBrain(1986) The oldest-known PC virus. Created by the Alvi brothers in Lahore, Pakistan, to stop piracy of their programsCascade(1988) Common in the Nineties. Caused text to fall and form a heap at the bottom of the screenMichelangelo(1991) Designed to remain dormant until 6 March, Michelangelo's birthday, when it overwrote the hard driveMelissa(1999) The first to combine a macro virus with one that emailed itself to new victims. Disrupted business and government networksMyDoom(2004) The fastest spreading computer worm. Caused &pound;20bn in economic damageNymex(2007) Generated by MySpace hackers. Activated on the third of every month, destroying 70m MySpace users' files and software
Nissan Qashqai&pound;14,599Miles per gallon: 52.3Seats: 5Good for: Hard sellersBad for: Poor spellersIf your name is Niamh Featherstonehaugh (pronounced 'Neve Fanshaw') and you're from Hawick ('Hoik'), you'll know exactly the problems the Qashqai ('Cash-kai') is likely to encounter. It sounds like a cross between an exotic fruit and a suburb of Beijing, but it is in fact an all-new crossover car from Nissan. Sensing a gap in the market for a compact family car which blends the image of a coupe with the interior space of a hatchback and the strength of a 4x4, the Japanese marque has come up with a compact family car that, er, looks like a coupe crossed with a hatchback with the trappings of a 4x4 mixed in.Before we pull away from the kerb, let's consider that bizarre name for a moment. It hasn't been made up in an attempt to redress the iniquities of the alphabet by bumping up the lexicon's Q count (the Qvale Mangusta is the only other car that starts with a Q), but comes from an Iranian desert-dwelling nomadic tribe. But that's as exotic as it gets. It was designed in London, developed in Cranfield and built in Sunderland.The naming bug has clearly got under the skin of Nissan's bigwigs, as they have also used the Qashqai's arrival to introduce their new (baffling) badging system. Now, rather than having a simple grade S, SE or SX vehicle, you have a Visia, Acenta or Tekna. Got it? No? Well, don't worry, as these words won't actually appear on the car. Clear as mud...But at least the car itself makes sense. The first impression is that it's a small-boned SUV - now an acronym for Singularly Unpopular Vehicle. But the Qashqai isn't the usual in-your-face road hog. It's quite small, for a start, about the same size as a Ford Focus, and it is aimed at city families. The press release describes it as '100% urbanproof' - and after a week on the capital's mean streets it hadn't been clamped, keyed or even had gum wedged into its keyhole, so maybe it is.The car splits neatly into two parts. The lower half suggests strength and ability thanks to its large, pronounced wheel arches, purposeful stance and elevated ground clearance, while the top half and interior are light and open. The high roof gives you a very upright seating position, which makes you feel like a child feigning attention during double maths but also gives you a pleasantly commanding view of the potholes ahead. The car comes loaded with all the usual gizmos you'd expect, and for an extra &pound;700 you can treat yourself to a vast panoramic glass roof which offers the backseat passengers unrivalled views of railway bridges and trees. But as you'll probably be sitting in the front, where it makes no difference, I'd save the cash.Of the 130,000 Qashqais that'll be sold by the end of the year, a quarter will have a diesel engine - and the one I tested offered an astonishingly smooth and efficient ride. This is due, apparently, to the Piezoelectric Bosch technology which, to quote the manual, 'gives precise fuel-injection control allowing a five squirt cycle: two pre-squirts, one main squirt and two post-squirts'. Sounds as if the engineers have been watching too much Graham Norton.martin.love@observer.co.uk
TechCrunch has had a brief but useful look at six systems inLive P2P Television: Streaming Now. One of the things they have in common is that, so far, none of them runs on a Mac.I see TechCrunch is still referring to the UK-developed and run LiveStation as "Microsoft's LiveStation", when it isn't. It'sSkinkers' LiveStation. Slow learners over there?
There aren't many Silverlight pages on the Web yet, but I've juststumbledintohttp://www.microsoft.com/uk/studentswhich uses Silverlight to seduce students.Other amusing demosinclude thepage turner(below) andFox's movie taster, where the video quality is the most impressive part.I notice that Microsoft's Michael Scherotter is also implementingthe ribbon user interfacein Office 2007 for use on a Web site.IMicrosoft has been showing off a jigsaw demo, which is amazing. It's like an ordinary on-screen jigsaw except that instead of being a chopped up still picture, it's a movie. You can move the pieces around, and yes, there's part of the movie running on each individual piece.Someone who knowscould post a link to it in comments. And anybody who reckons they can do the same thing in a browser window using Flash, Java, Python, APL, BBC Basic or whatever is welcome to post a rival demo. I'll be even more impressed.
For the past week's posts on one page, clickhereHighlights include....Microsoft hasn't launched peer-to-peer TV and it isn't a Joost killerWrite articles, not blog postings, says Jakob NielsenPhone wars -- Sony Ericsson up, Motorola down
MondayGamesblog Wikigame update: Week 1PS3 price cut"We're boring people to death," admits EA bossTuesdayAnother non-orc MMO shutsCome out and play: Submit a gameGaming and British culture: the surveyDoes anyone care about E3?WednesdayQ: What will they think of next? A: Face TrainingMicrosoft conferenceE3 - more on MicrosoftE3 - Sims meets LostThursdayE3 - PSP re-designE3 - Sony announcementsPlaying AmazonWhat exactly is wrong with the Xbox360Wii FitFridayNo PS3 price cutFeel the forcePot-kettle-black statement from EA CEOMapleStory and microtransactions
The latest free-to-play MMORPG with microtransaction options has launched in Europe.MapleStoryis a 2D side-scrolling massively multiplayer adventure with cute handdrawn visuals and plenty of RPG-flavoured questing and inventory-filling. As the press release continues:"While the MapleStory software is completely free to download and play online, players can also customise and personalise their in-game characters through the purchase of costume accessories and player enhancements via a microtransaction system. This involves pre-purchasing 'NEXON cash' that can be exchanged for goods and services at a special cash shop within the game."This is, of course, a tried and tested business model in South Korea where the country's largest game,Kart Rideris a multi-million dollar institution. MapleStory - from the makers of Kart Rider, Nexon, has had comparable success - it apparently already boasts over 67 million registered users across Asia and North America.Nexon's European office is promising some exclusive local content: "NEXON Europe plans to fully support MapleStory Europe's strong and growing fan-base with weekly updates. New game modes, quests, player skills and in-game items are just some of the planned additions, as well as regular in-game events specifically designed to tie in with major European cultural events."It'll be interesting to see how the loss-leading microtransaction system works in Europe with a game of this scale. As we all know, console manufacturers are desperate to start foisting microtransations on us. Sony is giving it a bash with forthcoming MMOPRG, Free Realms, due on PC this Christmas and on PS3 next summer. Like MapleStory, it's free to acquire, but offers a subscription version with access to more advanced features. Plus, over in Japan, the company's free PlayStation Network title, Mainichi Issyo, features in-game access to the Store allowing you to seamlessly purchase new items.Meanwhile, Microsoft has justpaid 50 million dollarsfor exclusive rights to two GTA IV downloadable instalments. A lot of people with a lot of money think this is the future.
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room for in print; so here's the full text that last week's were chosen from. The police's lack of interest in online crime and the "cult of the amateur" seemed to pique peoples' interest.ONLINE CRIME SHAMBLESThe announcement in the Technology Guardian on 5th July ("The shambles over cyber crime") that the police will no longer be responsible for investigating e-crime, placing the onus on the banking industry instead, is a move away from the much needed co-operation to solve this type of crime. There must be a concerted effort between all key stakeholders - the banks and card issuers, the online retailers, and the law enforcement agencies too. Fighting fraud can, at times, feel like squeezing a balloon. When pressure is applied to one area, the fraud is simply displaced to another, but this is no reason to stop investigating and applying pressure. Like successful companies, fraudsters continually expand their tactics to reach their objectives. In the United Kingdom, a spike in card-not-present fraud, and online fraud in particular, emerged after the introduction of chip and PIN cards. This was to be expected because online protection is now less prevalent. A combined effort is needed to stay on top of evolving fraud tactics. Where banks do have a pivotal role to play is in the earlier identification of emerging fraud trends, and in the wide-scale provision of additional security measures such as one-time passcodes and digital certification in order to mitigate against loss exposure and thus assure consumer confidence. Early detection lies in the card issuer's ability to analyse the volumes of information gathered through daily client interactions and scour transaction and account application data for fraudulent activity. But once the trend has been identified, no one party can hope to redress the fraud problem on their own - and law enforcement investigation and prosecution is essential to prevent detected e-crime going unreported and unpunished. Brian Kinch, LondonThe article 'The shambles over cybercrime' quoted a police officer saying, in response to police now refusing to take reports of e-crime "You tell me of any other area of policing where the police would tell you to report a crime to a business". Sadly, there are several. One is theft of property by landlords, as I discovered recently while trying to help a Japanese friend report just that. The police response? "We don't get involved. It's an issue between landlord and tenant". Asked how a cash-strapped student who spoke limited English and would be leaving the country shortly was supposed to sue, the response was "dunno". After shopping round several police stations, a staffer who was clearly too helpful to have been in the job long eventually agreed to take enough of a report that the victim could, she said, get a claim number for her insurance (the victim had, as the police themselves advised, already given up on having the, extremely straightforward, crime solved). Unsurprisingly, when the victim called to get her claim number several times in the following days, no record of this 'report' existed, possibly, as was hinted, that since the police pick and choose what kind of theft they deal with, the report had been binned. The victim had to leave the country unable to claim the goods on insurance and with the dishonest landlord - who was also paying this unsuspecting student, working legally, a fraction of minimum wage in his cafe - untouched. Doubtless neither crime appeared in the official statistics, for which the police will presumably expect a pat on the back. Simeon Paterson, londonYou are wrong in the detail of your article. The NHTCU was an operating unit of the National Crime Squad which was ansorbed into the Serious Organised crime Agency. All too often the role of the NCS in this arena is ignored! Trevor Pearce (no post town given)Here in Brazil we have the same problem. I think the responsability on cybercrimes is shared with the companies (specially banks), software houses AND the cards users. Maybe the law is not so clear in this matter because cybercrime is an international issue. In the meantime we have to take care of our credit and bank cards as if they were the keys of our homes. Wandique Goncalves da Silva Junior, Curitiba, Brazil&gt;&gt; This is a clear warning to anyone using or involved in online commerce - in any shape or form - you may not be able to reply on the deterrent of the Police and other enforcement agencies any more,http://first2007.itproportal.com/?p=74&gt;&gt; While online fraud goes unpunished, the only hacker who has seen the sharp end of the law is Mr Gary McKinnon, guilty of hacking into NASA servers looking for aliens. You can get away with stealing credit card numbers, but Buddha forbid you are into aliens. Off to jail for 80 years you go.http://technollama.blogspot.com/2007/07/cybercrime-pays-in-uk.htmlFLOOD MAPSThe Environment Agency agrees with the article's main sentiment that the data should be "made available, as widely as possible, to the public." What we do not agree with is unlicensed profit-orientated companies using the data for their own commercial ends, while licensed companies, and possible competitors to ononemap, abide by the law. Our flood data is available free of charge to homebuyers, and the general public via the Environment Agency website (www.environment-agency.gov.uk). Public utilities such as the gas, electricity and water companies also have access to the whole flood map dataset for England and Wales free of charge, as do the emergency services. Local Planning Authorities also have free access so that we can ensure there is no inappropriate development in floodplains. The Environment Agency believes information on flood risk provided to the public should be the best data available, and should be accurate and up-to-date. The information on the www.ononemap.com has been extracted from our official website, and then adapted for use by the ononemap website, and so there is no guarantee that this important information is accurate or up to date. It is important homebuyers get the best information available. David King, Director of Water Management, Environment AgencyIPHONEY? (NAQ)So what's so revolutionary about the iPhone? As far as I can see, the Nokia Communicator outclasses it in every way as a phone and the new E90 will just blow it into the weeds. The list of features over and above the iPhone seems endless. The technical specs of the about-to-ship E90 are athttp://europe.nokia.com/A4346043- just compare them with the iPhone. All I can see are restrictions. Stuck not only with one network, but also with only one SIM card. Stuck with the onboard ringtones. Stuck with Apple's proprietary software to manage the thing, whereas the Communicator when attached is just another client on the network - copying files is drag'n'drop. Yes, I have WiFi, cable, Bluetooth - and I also have GPRS. I can change the battery and the SIM card at will. And I've got an MMC card slot. The Communicator's address book integration with messaging, phone and email functions is just superb. But I can't play music. That's what my iPod is for. There's one problem with the iPod, and I expect the iPhone will have the same - if you have it nicely tucked away when you're listening to it, there's no warning that the battery is fading. At a certain point it just dies and the iPod turns into ballast. So I wind the headset leads around it and put it in my bag until I get a chance to recharge it. But with the iPhone - my phone would be dead as well. Hello? Apple say it's not a business tool and they're damn right. All the time you're using it you have to micromanage the battery status so you don't wind up cut off from the world. Nokia states the standby battery life of the 9500 is 240 to 400 hours. I seem to be getting the upper end of that scale, recharging once a fortnight. Phil Payne, SheffieldYour comments on the iPhone are absurd to say the least. If you have read the reports regarding this phone you would realise what a complete piece of over-hype it is. As is their entire computer range. There is a real reason why they have such as tiny market share, work it out and get over the marketing. The n95 is no longer even being compard to the iPhone as people are saying it is like comparing a computer with a cb radio...no point. And write inane stuff like this. Sam Rolfe (no post town given)I agree with your analysis of what's wrong with mobile phones, but disagree with your conclusion that Apple get these things right. As far as I can see iPhone is positioned very wrong: It is primarily a phone. It doesn't let you sidestep airtime with instant messenger or VoIP applications. It's locked to a specific provider. All these are classic problems of the product "mobile phone". An example of a desirable product that isn't a mobile phone is a Pocket PC or Palm/Treo with integrated phone. These products try to be decent handheld PCs first, and pack an integrated phone for your convenience. I was expecting the iPhone to be a pocket Mac with an integrated phone, and got very disappointed. Oh, it's just a phone that's easy to use. Duh! Who cares. Pavlos Papageorgiou, EdinburghI spent nearly $400 to buy a hi-tech 3.x megapixel camera in my Verizon cell phone. Imagine my dismay when I found there is no way to link with your computer to download the pictures. Verizon has a site for downloading. Postage stamp-size pictures show up on the internet. Ridiculous. Tech help says to email the photos one by one to yourself. The email automatically cuts the pictures down by 50%. The phone manual says you can print them through the USB port but there is no USB port on the Verizon phones, so the whole 3.x megapixel camera is a complete con. Now with the iPhone I took my first picture, emailed it to my friend, connected to my Mac and it opened iPhoto and downloaded and erased itself. All without reading the manual or calling tech support. Motoraola is in big trouble. The best thing about this is that I was able to transfer from Verizon to ATT without having to contact either company. If Google and Apple could combine to but a cell network they would put all of these companies out of business in a couple of years. The user experience is that much better. Tim Perdian, Oakland, CaliforniaGood analysis of the iPhone and Apple's position in the phone market. Thanks for a clear-headed article. Ian Foster, CanadaMOO AND LULU&gt;&gt; At first glance it might indeed seem ironic that web 2.0 companies can be based on something so analogue and physical, but actually it doesn't surprise me at all. I don't think cyberspace has ever intended to replace physical space, rather to enhance it. Moo cards are a lovely little product - I've ordered several myself - but without the rise of what we might call web2.0 they simply couldn't exist - the effort involved would be too great... Of course, such businesses are not just tied to Flickr. Back in the mid nineties Bernard Cache created a series of what he called 'Objectiles'. These were beautifully carved wooden creations, fashioned with milling machines and some rather natty software which not only allowed them to be ordered and manufactured from any workshop in the world, but could guarantee that each creation would be unique.http://globalsuburb.wordpress.com/2007/07/05/meatspace-cyberspace-symbiosis/ON THE TRAINYour article on 5 July "National Rail chiefs could learn a lot by playing games", criticises TrainTracker for not being engaging enough and suggests that we should provide a service which is fun to use, as games are. Fun is not TrainTracker's raison d'etre - it is there to provide train times when our call centres are busy. The service's objective is to be as successful at providing times as it possibly can be within the limitations of current technologies. Engaging the caller is only part of that task and sometimes the service suffers, on a number of different levels, because of the need to be able to successfully answer the maximum number of train time questions as possible. Perhaps you should have mentioned the direct number - 0871 200 4950 - to allow your readers to make their own decision about whether it's a useful service or not? National Rail Enquiries provides a range of services for the travelling public - from online self-service journey planning, to travel information for radio stations. TrainTracker offers callers the choice of self-service by phone when all of our advisors are busy. A third of a million customers use it every month and over 80% of them do so successfully. Is it perfect? Of course not. Could it be improved? Watch this space! But is it a success? Undoubtedly. Duncan Henry Real Time Systems Programme Manager National Rail Enquiries&gt;&gt; [TrainTracker] is awful. I tend to use thetrainline.com. Which reminds me -- there was something I wanted to look up...http://feelinglistless.blogspot.com/2007/07/im-sorry-that-input-could-not-be.htmlLOST IRONY&gt;&gt; It's not by accident that Brown's paradigmatic example comes from the 18th century, and from none other than Samuel Johnson, in his wonderfully ironic impersonation of a lexicographer and figure of authority. And I would add that what makes his tacit analogy between 18th century and 21st century ironies work so well is their common origin in the destabilization of 'shared knowledges'. And writers, audiences, and media all seem to have converged in a singular way to arrive at what we might call–unironically, of course - an 'epochal' quality of irony.http://long18th.wordpress.com/2007/07/05/more-from-andrew-brown-technology-maven-of-the-guardian/AMATEURS AND THE WEB&gt;&gt; I can only tell you about what is happening in the world of information if someone else tells me first, likewise in careers work etc etc. If the news media cuts down on the number of journalists that it uses because citizens are now doing their own reporting then, I believe, the overall volume of news may increase but will be less informative and authoritative.http://adsetsinformationweblog.blogspot.com/2007/07/amateurs-can-be-good-and-bad-news.html&gt;&gt; Underground and independent musicians undoubtedly have their work cut out for them when it comes to gaining any kind of attention on the web. You could say this is putting musicians in worse situation than they were before. But the new social network sites, music filter platforms and MP3 blogs are undoubtedly empowering fans in a wholly positive way.http://www.songaday.co.uk/?p=51FUEL CELLSOne of the advantages of fuel cells is that they are nearly silent and the subsidiary pumps and pipes can be configured to fit into odd corners. They will certainly have a market in the marine leisure industry since the usual method of generating electrical power is the noisy generator. I understand that the waste gases from fuel cells are free from carbon monoxide thereby solving another problem. John Silvester, Ascot
On Monday, many sites were reporting a "price cut" on the PlayStation 3 and I commented (below): "We'll need to see the final packages to know if it's just clearing shelves of slow-selling stock or is serious about establishing a new price point."As I suspected, it turns out to be no price cut at all. In the American market, Sony knocked $100 off the 60GB model and cleared a bunch of stock that had been gathering dust. That model has now been discontinued.The new American 80GB model comes in at the old high price, but US users are not getting something for nothing. What they get is 20GB of drive space that costs very little. (The "difference in cost between a 60 and 80 is just Euro cents; it's nothing, because the cost of memory is so small," says Sony.) What they lose is 100% compatibility.UK users already have 88% compatibility machines so Sony doesn't feel the need to offer anything in compensation, even if it doesn't cost much. So for us, the old 60GB model continues at the old (£425) price, with a few extras.SCEE president David Reeves says:Probably we could have gone for 80GB, but does it really make any difference? We just know that we get a better supply on the 60GB than we will on the 80GB. So we chose to continue with the 60GB until we find that we can get something better, maybe lower cost. It just didn't seem necessary to us.Basically, it looks as though Sony is holding station until there are a few more decent games and the PS3's production cost comes down. But there could be a push around some of its "timed exclusives" (where it's paying to get games on PS3 before Xbox 360). Is that wise or not?The quotes are froman interview in Eurogamer with David Reeves. GamesIndustry.biz has the same interview:E3: David Reeves Talks PS3.
New York Times columnist David Pogue has nowexplained how he madehis funny video,iPhone: The Musical. He says:I think these spoofs are funniest when they closely match the original--for example, I did one to the tune of "Don't Cry For Me, Argentina" called "Don't Cry For Me, Cupertino." So I thought it'd be fun to turn "(I Did It) My Way" into "I Want an iPhone."
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
If there's one thing I'm a sucker for, it's a fresh browser. In the dozen years or so that browsers have been useful, I must have tried out many dozens of them, from the ultra-minimal (one which only downloaded and formatted the text, never the images, of web pages - a boon in slow dialup days) to the ultra-full-blown browsers that are appearing now. The latest to get disk space on my machine isFlock, which describes itself as a "social browser" and has just hit version 0.9.Flock uses the Firefox core but aims to make it easier to do all the other things you'll do online, such as wanting to blog while wandering the web, or upload a photo, or tag a photo, or read a newsfeed, or add something to your links, or send something to YouTube; basically, all the tasks that fill our lives when we're not actually doing something useful. (Though as a journalist, wandering the web and knocking on its doors is part of the job description.)Browsers have moved on rather like cars did. I recall Peter Cochrane, the former head of BT research, saying some time ago that he no longer chose a car on the basis of its road performance, since there was essentially no difference between makes and models."I choose it on the quality of the CD system," he remarked. Similarly, with browsers, there are a huge variety of colours, go-faster stripes and built-in extras that put air-conditioning and tinted windows to shame. But looking at the web itself? Pretty much sorted - even Internet Explorer 7 behaves like a vaguely good web citizen.Flock I've mentioned. There's also, of course, Firefox, for which almost everyone in the world seems to have written a script that will do something (usually, to reverse something that a web designer somewhere took hours doing), andSongbird, which really is the CD player in your machine, scarfing up all the music files it can find free on blogs and around the web.There'suBrowser, developed byLinden Labsto project browser pages onto shapes - which it needs to do in Second Life. There's Wyzo, whichpromises to integrate BitTorrent downloadsinto a Firefox-y interface.Mac users canchoose from a variety, whose differences are small but important.And of course on Windows, Apple's Safari has also joined the fun and got dinged forlooking out of place, being slow (maybe) orjust crashing. (Personally I don't use it because all that "brushed metal" just makes the screen look heavy; though I have to occasionally because my supermarket's online store won't work in my browser of choice,Camino.)It's remarkable how browsers have flowered since Tim Berners-Lee wrote the first in 1991 on a NeXT computer;this Wikipedia imagegives you some idea, though I suspect there are still a few browsers left off it.But in the shift from luxury to necessity, there is now one thing I do demand of any browser - and you should too, because as tabbed windows have become de rigeur, so we tend to have more and more things open at once. (Tabbed browsingis the only proper way to use a browser, until someone works out how to tile windows in a single space and make them automagically expand when you mouseover them.)What happens when you quit your browser, or it crashes, and you had lots of work on the go? That's when you need session restoring - which brings back the tabs and windows you had open, and reloads them.It's so necessary, and obvious, that the most remarkable thing about it is that neither Internet Explorer nor Safari, the two browsers from the companies that dominate desktop OSs, presently have it. Which leaves me mystified - don't their developers' browsers ever crash? Or maybe they think of them as cars, and drive them very, very carefully. Either way, they're getting left behind by the improvements being made by their rivals.Of course, if you've seen a really special browser - or general add-on - that you think we should know about, let me know.
No PS3 price cut for Europe then. Instead we'll be getting a "high value starter Pack" for the same price (425 UKP). The pack includes a PS3, two first party games (ie Motorstorm, Resistance etc) and two sixaxis controllers. Better value then but is this really going to get people excited? Perception is everything and 425 quid still looks very expensive even with the games and controller thrown in. Oh, and no 80gb model either. Not a good day for European PlayStation fans then.
EA's CEO John Riccitiello says sequels are making the games industry boring,reports MCV. That's right, the CEO from EA said this to the Wall Street Journal.As it's Friday, let's have one of those crazy posts where we dream up new things and no one gets any work done.So, if sequels are driving the industry into meltdown (according to the CEO of the company with the biggest sequel collection in its library) perhaps it's time to think up some new properties so we can allow the old, saturated ones a bit of down-time. I'll start with two:Hollywood ClassicsSummary: A series of adventure games based upon films from the 1930s and 1940sPros: *Most Hollywood classics are beyond copyright, so they'd be cheap properties to produce *There are hundreds in the vault at MGM that haven't yet been remade *Many play styles catered for: dancing, singing, action, dramaCons*There's a danger that Bogey's "Who loves ya, baby" won't translate well to the interactive sphereAirplane!SummaryA flight sim set in a spoof disaster moviePros*If the product is already based upon existing IP, most of the assets will already be in the development library *Few, if any, spoof games are already on the market *Spin-offs (not sequels) can be lined up, like Rollercoaster!, Earthquake! and Flood! Cons *Comedy is extremely difficult to do in games. Spoof is probably even more difficult.
I'm off to theStar Wars Celebration Europethis afternoon. And I'm scared. Don't get me wrong, I love the Wars as much as the next 30 something male - I still regret selling all my toys for a tenner back in '85, sob - but I'm guessing the hordes descending on London's Docklands this weekend may be taking things a little too seriously.The reason for the visit - other than to catch a glimpse of Mark "Skywalker" Hammill who, allegedly, will be flogging his autograph for 85 quid a pop - is to check out the first next-gen Star Wars game, Force Unleashed. Knights of the Old Republic and Lego Star Wars have helped banish the memories of the gaming travesties that have borne the Star Wars name in recent years. Force Unleashed at least talks a good talk - this is the first in-game collaboration between LucasArts and Industrial Light and Magic - but Star Wars gamers have been burnt too often for me to be overly confident. We'll see. Anyway, it's Friday so let's have it then. What are your top 3 Star Wars games? KOTOR, Super Empire Strikes Back and Tie Fighter for me.
Nintendo are on such a roll at the moment that they could release a wireless kettle peripheral - Wii Pour? - and it would probably sell. But Wii Fit? Despite some earlypositive reactionto Nintendo's new fitness workout peripheral I'm not so sure. Wii Sports - essentially the reason the Wii has done so well - was cleverly designed to negate the trepidation that non-gamers have of consoles. The fear of "not doing it right" was hard to sustain in the face of Wii Sports' simplicity. But Wii Fit rebuilds some of the barriers. Can you really see your relatives queuing up to try yoga and aerobics in the same way they did with tennis and bowling? Wii Fit looks a clever piece of kit but so wasEye Toy Kineticand who remembers that. Wii Fit then - a peripheral too far or another canny move by Nintendo?
Last week, Microsoft took some time out from repairing Xbox 360s to announce a joint initiative with the National Archives. There is concern that billions of public documents will soon be obsolete. Microsoft has stepped in to offer its "software virtualisation" solution, Virtual PC 2007, as well as a bunch of old operating systems.Isn't it about time we had a similar endeavour for videogames? They are, after all, catastrophically prone to obsolescence - most consoles are dead and buried within five years. All right, so PlayStation 1 and 2 are probably safe from extinction and few gamers will lob out their Xboxes because of the super-human strength required to lift one into a skip. But what of the Amiga CD32, Pioneer LaserActive or Bandai Playdia?Emulation is one solution - it's possible to download digital recreations of just about any videogame system you could think of. But emulated games are rarely perfect. Emulation is also useless when it comes to preserving physical media. Future generations need to understand that games were once delivered on cassettes, 5.25in floppy discs and bulky cartridges.Games packaging, too, has a fine aesthetic heritage. From the minimalist perfection of the early Atari 2600 boxes to today's lavish special editions, it has often been more fun to look at a game case than play what's inside. And what hope has an emulator of recreating, say, the scratch'n'sniff card that came with 1986 PC adventure title, Leather Goddesses of Phobos?There are also plenty of consoles that simply cannot be effectively emulated. GCE's 1982 machine, the Vectrex, employed sparse vector graphics, which are impossible to recreate on a standard PC screen, while Nintendo's Virtual Boy resembled a Fisher Price View-Master fastened to a camera tripod.There are one or two notable game archives. The University of Texas has just set one up, taking in donations of early titles from legends like Richard Garriott (Ultima) and Warren Spector (Deus Ex). Elsewhere, Berlin's Computerspiele Museum and California's Computer History Museum house excellent collections of vintage hardware.But there should be an industry initiative to rescue as many games and machines as possible. Movie directors consider it a tragedy when some old flick disintegrates, but game publishers don't seem to care about their heritage.Perhaps Microsoft should now turn its attention towards interactive entertainment. The Virtual PC thing is worthy, but are you really telling me that the preservation of obscure census data is more important than saving the software catalogue of the Sega Dreamcast?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There are seven stages of grief: shock, denial, anger, bargaining depression, testing and acceptance. But with the Xbox 360, which has been giving a significant number of its owners grief, Microsoft last week moved directly from the first stages to the last - from denying any problems with it to admitting a $1bn (&pound;500m) problem that potentially affects all 11.6m consoles sold so far.Three weeks ago Todd Holmdahl, vice-president of the gaming and Xbox products group, said repeated problems where people had to take back up to 11 consoles came from "a vocal minority" (blogs.mercurynews.com) and dismissed suggestion of endemic problems.Then last week Microsoft abruptly announced that it would set aside between $1.05bn and $1.15bn, charged against the just-finished 2007 fiscal year, to cover the costs of extending the warranty for every machine from one to three years, and to fix the many which show the "red ring of death" - three red lights on the front panel control ring, indicating a general hardware failure.'Different issues'How many? Unfortunately, Microsoft still isn't ready to deal with that issue. "When you look at the financial implication, obviously it's not a small number," said Robbie Bach, president of its entertainment and devices unit.Sony, which last week had denied it would cut the price of its struggling PlayStation 3, saw an opening and snipped $100 off the US retail price, prompting a surge in sales there. (An announcement on the PS3's UK price is expected today.)Microsoft repeatedly declined to talk to the Guardian about precisely what problems the failed consoles suffer from. However, Peter Moore, head of the Xbox division, told Gamesindustry.biz: "There are a lot of different issues that eventually could all combine to create the three flashing red rings that appear on the power button on the console; no [one] specific issue." He was repeatedly evasive in interviews, leaving the impression that the problems were either profound - or embarrassingly simple.The financial problems, though, are stark. The sum being set aside amounts to between $90 and $99 for every console sold - extra loss on machines that are already sold at a loss. On its launch, analysts reckoned that each Xbox contained $525 worth of components; but the machine sold for, at most, $499, and more price cuts are rumoured to be on the way to keep ahead of Sony. On average, Microsoft took a $126 loss on each console sold at its starting price - $1.4bn so far.The billion-dollar figure also indicates that Microsoft's repeated insistence that the failure rate was about average for such hardware - that is, between 3% and 5% - cannot have been true. The real failure rate is probably about five times greater than the company has admitted, which would put repair costs at between $330 and $660 per console. At that upper limit, it would be cheaper for Microsoft simply to send a cheque for a brand new console.So what are the causes? Owners and analysts have made their own investigations. The most obvious suggestion is that parts overheat; the Xbox 360 draws 160 watts, which has to be dissipated via two large heatsinks and two fans. One suggestion is that when the machine gets hot, the motherboard warps and pushes the graphics processing unit (GPU) off its board. Another is that some of the soldering is imperfect and so cracks at high temperature. A Microsoftsupport documentalso suggests, improbably, that surge protectors and extension strips contribute to the problem by preventing the current surge needed for the fans to turn on; this seems unlikely, since that surge would be too small to trip them.In desperation, some owners have turned to home-grown cures - including wrapping a towel around the machine, blocking the fan vents. This may - depending who you believe - either cause the solder to reflow or the GPU to reseat. (Microsoft has not commented.) The fixes sometimes work, at least temporarily.We can deduce some of the reasons from the fact that Microsoft is declaring that the problems are sorted out - just as it is moving from 90-nanometre to 65nm chips, which should reduce its power consumption significantly, and using a two-part heat sink in the new designs.The key question though is whether these flaws will put off future customers, and how badly they have annoyed existing ones. The principal problem for the latter is that any content bought online must be re-enabled for a replacement console.Does the admission mean that Microsoft's dream that the Xbox will form the centrepiece of a strategy to put Microsoft software and hardware into everyone's living room has been permanently sunk?A report from Jupiter Research, published this week, suggests that there is now everything to play for. "Jupiter Research anticipates the competitive field will be much closer than in the past; at the end of the current [console] cycle in 2012, the range in market shares is projected to just under 10% as compared to the 33% range in market shares at the end of the last cycle in 2005."Then, the PS2 dominated, and Nintendo was nowhere. Now, Nintendo's Wii is rocketing towards the Xbox 360 total; sales data suggests it is selling nearly three times faster than the Xbox 360 or PS3.Long gameThe optimistic forecast - written before the Xbox's problems were admitted - suggests that the Xbox will continue to sell. Moore repeated his insistence that the Xbox division will move into profit next year; having shovelled the billion-dollar faults back into 2007, it can look for profits from its online service, peripherals and games. The strategy remains untouched. All that has changed is the time it will take to pay back. But Microsoft is prepared to play the longest of games - even when it has no chance of winning.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Motorola has been having a tough time recently, andas GU reports, has just predicted a loss in the second quarter on lower than expected sales.It blamed a sharp drop in sales of mobile handsets across Asia and Europe. It only sold 36m phones, down from 45m in the first quarter.Sony Ericsson, however, has seen sales boom: it shipped 24.9 million handsets in the quarter, up 59% on last year. What used to be a tiny, failing London-based operation is now within striking distance of the once-mighty Moto.According to AP:The joint venture between Sweden's LM Ericsson and Japan's Sony Corp. said net profit rose 54% to 220 million euros ($303 million) from 143 million euros in the same period last year.Sony Ericsson seems to have done well with its Walkman-branded music and camera phones, where Motorola had a bad time with the ROKR, famously produced in association with Apple. Motorola has also been the leading proponent of Linux-based phones, but there's no indication whether this helped or hindered either sales or profits.Motorola is run by Ed Zander, who used to be at another failing company: Sun Microsystems. And as Graeme Wearden's GU story noted:Despite the profit warning, shares in Motorola rose nearly 2% yesterday amid speculation that Mr Zander's tenure could soon be over.
After a 21-day "hackathon," Novell's Mono group of open source developers managed to show Moonlight - an incomplete version of Microsoft's still-unfinished Silverlight - running on Linux at a conference in Paris last month. This feat earned them plaudits on Slashdot (tinyurl.com/2k3qwn). And while not every geek was delighted about a Microsoft technology appearing on Linux, many of them aren't too keen on the rival Adobe Flash system, either.The Linux demo also rebutted my recent suggestion (New ways of developing, June 14 2007) that Silverlight looked less cross-platform than AIR, the Adobe Integrated Runtime. Silverlight applications should run in Firefox on Windows, Mac and Linux, as well as in Internet Explorer and Apple's Safari.Although Silverlight is barely in beta, video streaming could be the key driver for the technology's adoption. Tom Honeybone, senior director of business development for Silverlight in Redmond, says: "The excitement about version 1 has been from the media companies." The attractions are that Silverlight can stream high-definition (720p) video to Windows PCs and Macs, and that the Mac version will support Microsoft's digital rights management. "DRM on OS X is part of our roadmap for the 1.1 version," says Honeybone.The cross-platform capabilities will also be extended to mobile phones. Honeybone says: "We've already implemented the video codec, Windows Media Audio and the DRM on Linux."Many media companies, including the BBC, have been using WMV (Windows Media Video) because Microsoft's DRM is openly licensed and lets them control how content is used. Videos can, for example, be time-limited. But they have also been attacked because the protected videos don't run on Macs or Linux boxes. Silverlight could be a solution.The BBC has already experimented with Silverlight and says it is looking for an "embedded media solution". However, Silverlight is just one of the technologies being considered, and the BBC says it has not made a decision.Another part of Silverlight's appeal is cost. It can be delivered from Linux servers running Apache, not just Windows servers, says Honeybone. Microsoft is offering everyone 4GB of free space on Windows Live (silverlight.live.com) to deploy their Silverlight applications, "which opens it up to the grassroots". This contrasts with Adobe's strategy of making money on the server side.So what's in it for Microsoft? Honeybone says: "This is our push into the wilds of the web." That should help spread the use of Microsoft's servers and programming tools, including the new Expression design tools aimed at a market dominated by Adobe.Much of today's web development is done without using any Microsoft tools or technologies. By making it easy to develop and deploy Silverlight applications, Microsoft hopes to change that - even if it also means enabling people to use open source languages to develop for open source browsers.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Linux not iPhoneOpenMoko is now offering its open source Neo 1973 "iPhone-like" touchscreen mobile online for $300 (&#163;150).&middot;OpenMoko.comAnti-grooming softwareLeeds-based Crisp Thinking reckons its beta Anti Grooming Engine can detect paedophile approaches to children by analysing instant messages.&middot;ProtectingEachOther.comLive Earth watchwordsMicrosoft MSN is claiming that Live Earth was the "most watched entertainment event in online history".&middot;Microsoft.com&middot;LiveEarth.msn.comDream RacersDream Technology has developed a system to let disabled users drive radio-controlled model cars using head or body movements instead of a joystick.&middot;Dream-racer.comHuman ZZorpia.com is sponsoring a competition for the biggest letter Z made of humans, with $3 a person going to charity.&middot;Zorpia.comHoles for saleWSLabi, a Swiss security company, has opened an online auction site where people can bid for details of new bugs and security flaws.&middot;WSLabi.comBarcelona comingAMD reckons it will finally ship quadcore Opteron processors, code-named Barcelona, next month.&middot;AMD.comEdinburgh gamesThe fifth annual Edinburgh Interactive Festival, celebrating "the best of video gaming", will be held on August 12-14.&middot;EdinburghInteractiveFestival.com
