With Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure, Activision has taken a bold and interesting step in video games by marrying its latest IP to a range of toys. When players boot up the game, they need to use a plastic figurine in conjunction with the game's "Portal Of Power" peripheral, to make a character appear on screen. The technology used to create this effect is impressive, but that's only half the battle. To keep players of all ages interested, the developer knew it would need a decent plot in place.To that end, Activision tapped up screenwriters, Alec Sokolow and Joel Cohen. Both profess that an interest in the medium drew them to the project, but it may have been their film credits that caused Activision to give them a call. After all, if you're making a game in which toys come to life, who better to have write it than the writers of the Pixar classic Toy Story?How did the pair of you join the project?Alec Sokolow:We were very fortunate. We got a phone call from our agent – and that's how a lot of things start in Hollywood – and we were invited in for a meeting in late September last year. We were very curious going in. We had no expectations and we didn't really know what was going to happen. We met with the guys from Toys For Bob and Activision and you could tell that everyone there was anxiously waiting for… (laughs) something to happen! The first thing we were told was they were developing this game that they felt could be a groundbreaking game in the medium. The analogy they used was very specific. They said: "We feel like we have 75 pages of a brilliant novel but the pages aren't consecutive and, in some cases, they don't even feel like they should be in the same book. But if you guys could figure out what the rest of the novel is supposed to look like and make it seamless, we'll all be very happy!" So that was the beginning.Joel Cohen:We hit it off with them and everything came about very quickly.AS:Once we were on board we had this massive battery of meetings and collaborations to get up to speed. There was so much information to have to try and process – some applicable some not – and the job we had was to make it all cohesive.JC:We also took their analogy literally. We said: "Well, as soon as we get those 75 pages it'll all make sense!" (laughs)How much can you tell us about the plot?AS:Well, in a kind of non-answer answer, I'd say don't look at the plot of the game as its plot. The plot of Skylanders is a more ambitious and a more multi-dimensional plot where you, the game player, are part of the storytelling. The Skylander figurines, which we as adults call toys, aren't really toys. They're actually exiled heroes from Skyland who have been frozen in time in our world and can only be brought back to life to save Skyland by the game player. That's the overall plot that hopefully enriches the overall experience and gives you some perspective and emotional subtext as you play the game. Once you're in the game, any of the characters or levels or chapters will seem more familiar to a video game player.So you're saying this is a character driven piece?AS:Absolutely.JC:Well, that's what we'd like to believe (laughs). You get tons of action. But our whole thing has always been character – you get them from Toy Story and Money Talks and even the Garfield movies. The developers basically had placeholders for 32 characters. We knew they'd have Spyro and Cinder and couple of other characters who predate the Skylanders game, but there was the opportunity to create 32 new characters here. That's something we love to do. It's fun for us. So we created 30 back-stories and biographies and histories for the characters.AS:Just to add to that without getting to esoteric; if you think about plot, it's a sequence of events that make up a story. When you think about it from the point of view of a character, plot is a series of challenges that force them to have growth opportunity. We've always tried to create plot off the needs of our characters. Now, in the case of Skylanders, it was more challenging and also more fun. We have 32 characters you can play with, but you could also get through the game with just one – everyone's going to play this game differently. That variety forced us to make the game player into a character in the plot framework – hopefully we did that successfully. We see Skyland as a real place and the Skylanders as real, living characters, just frozen in their figurine form.JC:You know, the directors of action movies – always in some sassy way – will say something like "action is character". Our thing is that we've always started with character and it's the emotional needs of the characters that push the story forward. Even in an action film, you'd never take a character that's a complete blank and put them in a scary fast-paced car chase, because by the end of it you'd still know nothing about them. You'd need to use the chase to show things; are they afraid of speed? What roads are they taking? How did they react? It's stuff like that that makes people interested and makes them want to know more. So if you were given 30 placeholders and you had to fill out the back-stories for them, does that mean you were in charge of giving them powers and, to some degree, deciding on their abilities within the game?AC:Well, the technological abilities were already there.So were you just deciding who they were and what they looked like?AC:Right, and we tried to make some connection that lined up with what the developers were telling us. For example, there are characters that work well with certain other characters. Our job is to create a fiction that explains that – were they cohorts in this realm?JC:Stump-Smash is a good example. At the beginning we were told he's this character made out of wood and logs.AC:Right, so we look at this guy and say, "why does he want to go around using his big club-like hands to smash things up?". So, we developed this back story for him where he was once this beautiful tree in a huge, lush forest and – once again, following a plot point we'd been given in Skylanders – some evil troll lumberjacks deforested his home and killed all of his friends and family. He was left alone and stripped of all his foliage – and so, he's pissed off! He wants revenge! Given the chance, he's going to crush anything standing between him and success. So, that's where we came in. We had to try and figure out a way to have some fun and give the player some information about the character's motivation at the same time.JC:It's the "Rose Bud" moment. Now the player knows why Stump-Smash is the person he is.AC:But again, not knowing any of that won't stop you from enjoying the action in the game, which I think was already there by the time we showed up.So how much was already in place by the time you both stepped in?AC:It's hard to give a percentage. I will say that Activision had been creating this technology… maybe some of it already existed, but it certainly hadn't been used in this manner. Bobby Kotick (Head Of Activision) had talked about being fascinated by the potential of this technology for about 25 years. So the gameplay and technology had been floating around, but Activision figured it out. When they were talking about the "75 pages", what they were talking about was all of the stuff they had in place. They knew the constraints of it, but they also knew all the possibilities. It was essential to have one big thought or idea to tie it all together – that's not what they were looking to us for, though.JC:They had disparate characters with different abilities and we had to live with that – and we were happy to live it. We had to figure out what tied them all together as Skylanders, and how they came to be figurines in your room. The functionality of the game was there, but the explanations as to who the protagonists were and why they were here in our world and who was the bad guy – Kaos – in the story.AC:Yeah, it's kind of a tongue-in-cheek way of saying the player has to defeat chaos in the game.In a way, it's like you're revisiting Toy Story, by writing another story about how toys come to life. Is that what attracted you both to the project?JC:You know, it's funny, when you're in the moment you're not thinking that. It's only afterwards when someone points it out to you – in our case it was six months into the project – when you go, "hey, I think we may have been here before!" The thing is, when we talk about these characters we do get pretty anthropomorphic. We don't sit there discussing them saying, "well, they're just a bunch of toys". To us they're real. We're adult in our conversations but we go back to what we thought was cool when we were kids.You also have a lot of experience writing material that boasts cross-generational appeal. Do you think that might have influenced Activision's decision to approach you for Skylanders?JC:Well, the short answer is yes, but you know, Toy Story was a very serendipitous thing. The measure of that is that they were willing to hire relatively inexperienced writers because Disney didn't really know what to make of this little outfit called Pixar that was based in San Francisco. They were using new technology for the first time, which, of course, turned out to be a game changer for the entire industry. Once again, we've found ourselves in the same position – potentially – here. Marrying toys and games is a first and hopefully that will turn out to be as much of a happy accident as was the case with Toy Story. The thing with Toy Story, is that in the four years it took them to make the movie, all the talk was about the technology. But when the movie came out all the talk became about the storytelling – and that's our bias anyway. We're kind of curious to see how it pans out with Skylanders in that regard.AC:What is fundamentally different is, I think every parent or adult – regardless of whether they saw Toy Story with a child or they saw it on their own – has a romantic and sentimental connection with the toys they grew up with. That's built into the film. In Skylanders, that may be different. In a way, what we hope to earn – rather than take as a given – is parents and adults being drawn to the game just because it's fun.The two of you write for film and television where the audience is a passive member of proceedings. In video games, the audience is an active participant. Was it a struggle to adjust to this change?AC:The way I'd put it – without wanting to sound too high-falutin' about it – is that movies are statements; characters have to change and the narrative has to have closure. TV shows are conversations; the characters don't change all that much from episode to episode, stories begin and end in an episode and maybe narrative arches carry through episodes. Video games are all about asking questions. As a writer you have to ask questions of your player and create a space where they want to ask questions and also explore more. It's an entirely different set of parameters to get to the same place where you're loving the experience. It can be frustrating if you are in the mind set where you're writing a story, but it can be very liberating if you look at what you're doing as a collaboration with the player. It's like having another co-writer on the project!
Has Android copied elements from Apple's iOS? It's not a matter that Google's senior managers for the Android operating system want to get involved in.Hugo Barra, product management director for Android at Google, insisted in London on Tuesday that he hadn't heard the revelations that emerged last Friday from the Steve Jobs biography: that the late Apple chief executive "swore to destroy Android", and was so furious at what he saw as copying implemented in Android 2.1 on HTC phones released in January 2010 that he summoned Eric Schmidt to a meeting in March and said he wanted it stopped."He said that?" said Barra, sounding astonished. He said that he had been travelling and had not heard the stories.When given detail about them – and asked whether he would say that any elements in the latest version of Android, such as the two-line preview of emails in the Gmail app (found in Apple's iPhone email program since 2007), or the "quick response" buttons at the bottom of the email app (almost identical in order and purpose to those in Apple's iPhone email program), or the provision of a shortcut to the camera from the phone's lock screen (first seen inWindows Phone 7 in October 2010iOS 5 previews in June), or the extra features added to the Notifications bar in Android – were copying iOS, he responded: "I'm not going to get into this."Barra declined to answer when asked Google had implemented a "feature freeze" on Ice Cream Sandwich, the new version of Android which will be implemented in phones due for delivery from next month. A "feature freeze" is the point at which no new features are added to code, so that it can be tested and refined: "That's an internal matter," he said.Barra joined Google's Android effort in December 2010, and was key in the development of Ice Cream Sandwich, which is version 4.0 of Android. He said that a key aim was to improve the user experience of Android, and that work on figuring out what to do and how, if at all, to change it had included wide-scale testing with both existing users of Android and non-users to find out what they found difficult or wanted to see."A lot of the coding [of Ice Cream Sandwich] was concurrent with that of Honeycomb [which was released to manufacturers in February 2011]", Barra said. The "gold master" version of Ice Cream Sandwich was produced in time for thelaunch of the Samsung Galaxy Nexuslast week in Hong Kong.Update: corrected first appearance of camera from lock screen. Thanks, James Tutt.
Chip designer ARM Holdings had a record quarter despite slowdowns in the rest of the industry.The Cambridge-based company reported revenues up 20% to $192.3m (£120.2m) and pre-tax profits up 44% to £55.8m. New licensees – including traditional PC companies looking forward to Microsoft's new version of Windows – helped boost sales. Earnings per share were 3.05p.ARM, whose low-power chip architecture is used by all smartphones and tabletmakers including Apple, Samsung and Nokia, and by a growing number of white goods products such as washing machines, said that the sale of 28 licences to make its chip designs helped it to beat analysts' forecasts, even though royalties from sales fell as the semiconductor market struggled.Of the licences, 14 are new to ARM, and its chief financial officer, Tim Score, said that they included companies previously thought of principally as PC makers which are now seeing opportunities in the smartphone and tablet markets. Sales of devices such as Apple's iPad, which uses ARM designs, are growing at about 100% annually while the PC market, which uses chips from Intel, is virtually flat. However, Microsoft has indicated that the next version of Windows, due in about 12 months' time, will run on ARM architectures – boosting the UK company's prospects further.The company continued its comparatively strong guidance for the quarter ahead. Score said that the company expects licensing to shore up revenue even if royalties from sales of electronic goods over the Christmas quarter disappoint.The figures beat analysts' expectations, of £116.5m in revenues and £51.1m profits.ARM makes money from licensing its chip designs, and also collects a royalty, one quarter in arrears, on each chip shipped. Some 1.9bn ARM-based chips were shipped in the three months to the end of September. As mobile users shift from "feature" phones to smartphones ARM also benefits because the newer versions use more of its chips, generating higher royalties.The semiconductor industry generally had a tough third quarter as high unemployment in the US and European economic turmoil hit consumer spending. ARM licensees Texas Instruments and STMicroelectronics have both warned of weak demand.Score said the industry's gloom meant ARM would not see the usual rise in royalty revenue of about $10m between the third and fourth quarters, although it would show some growth."The below-seasonal growth within the semiconductor industry in Q3 may have an impact on ARM's Q4 royalty revenues, but we have a high level of order backlog and a strong opportunity pipeline for licensing," he said. "Taking these together we expect the group dollar revenues for the full year will be in line with current market expectations of around $763m."Shares in ARM, which hit a 10-year high of 652p in February, dipped in early trading but recovered to rise by 0.7% to 579.50p by midday.Analysts at Espirito Santo Investment Bank noted that the third-quarter improvement came from licensing, and royalties were in fact slightly below consensus. Score put the figures at £8m above expectations for licences, and £2m-£3m below expectations for royalties.Analysts said that the weak semiconductor outlook and weakness in non-mobile end-markets made it hard to justify the company's 2012 price-earnings ratio of 41 times.Numis, however, which has a "buy" rating on the stock, took a more positive view."The market may be a bit disappointed that there are unlikely to be upgrades to 2011 EPS [estimates] today, however the 41% licensing growth is the most indicative of ARM's long-term prospects," its analysts said.Richard Windsor of Nomura Securities said "both the pipeline and the order backlog are at historically high levels, which is pointing to a good end to the year." But he noted that ARM had steered its guidance down from "at least as good" as market expectations to "in line" with them.The grouprecently unveiled its new Cortex-A7 processor, which it said will use one-fifth of the energy of today's top-end processors in smartphones from 2013, and keep it ahead of Intel in the mobile sector.
The awesome GameCity festival begins tomorrow, kicking off four days of video game-related discussions, talks, gigs and events. As ever, everything will be taking place in and around Nottingham town centre – you can finda full schedule here, but highlights include Naughty Dog's fascinating braniac Richard Lemarchanddiscussing his favourite bits from the Uncharted series; Ubisoft legend Eric Chahi running a game jam anddoing molecular gastronomy; and Robin Hunicke from thatgamecompanytalking us through Journey.Oh, yes, and every morning from 9.30am at the lovelyBroadway Cinema Cafe, I'll be running the Gamesblog Breakfast Club, a series of audience debates about the state of the industry, featuring celebrity guests and full English breakfasts! Please come and support me; I'll be doing my usual Hugh Grant 'stuttering Englishman' impression while coaxing controversial statements from gaming luminaries. It's simply not to be missed.See you from tomorrow morning!
A selection of eight apps for you today:The Adventures of TintinWith Tintin making a movie comeback, there's now an official game of the film for iOS. Published by Gameloft, it sees players sneaking, swordfighting, flying planes and solving puzzles. Besides playing Tintin, they get to control Snowy, Captain Haddock and even Sir Francis Haddock at different points in the game.iPhone / iPadTimmy Time HDAardman's Timmy Time has been a hit on children's channel CBeebies in the UK, with its tales of mischievous lamb Timmy and his schoolfriends. Now there's an app for that, courtesy of a partnership between Aardman, Egmont UK and Firsty Group. It's a book-app with two stories, creative activities and narration from Josie Lawrence.iPadDaily Mail NewspaperAnother UK newspaper launches on iPad using Apple's subscriptions system. The Mail's app – which doesn't include the Mail on Sunday – costs £2.99 a week, £9.99 a month, £54.99 for six months or £94.99 for an annual subscription. It joins the separate MailOnline for iPad on the App Store.iPadShelby.tvShelby.tv is the latest video discovery app for iOS, sucking down videos posted by friends on Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr to turn them into a "personally curated channel".iPhone / iPadPoseThere has been a burst of social fashion apps in recent months, including iPhone app Pose, which has now made the leap to Android. It wants fashionistas to "snap a picture of your style and share with the world", while following other trendsetters and getting feedback from the community.AndroidFlick Soccer!We're addicted to Full Fat Productions' Flick Soccer! on iPhone, but now Android-owning football fans can join the fun. Flick free kicks into moving goal-targets, applying after-touch.AndroidRoboFonicsRoboFonics is a clever idea: an iOS game that blends puzzles, robots and music rhythm elements. It's based on a PC mod first shown off at the SIGGRAPH conference in 2009.iPhone / iPadCube Dog 2Korean firm Podotree has released a sequel to its Cube Dog app, which gets people creating cartoon pooches out of cubes then playing with them.iPhone
Nokia's Stephen Elop loves a dramatic analogy. Having abandoned the "burning platform" of Symbian, Nokia's once unbeatable phone operating software, he talks these days of having jumped aboard a "moving bus".The bus is Microsoft's own operating system, Windows Phone, and like a corporate Keanu Reeves, Elop's job will be to ensure it doesn't drop below a certain speed. If the world's biggest seller of phones is to make a comeback from one of the steepest declines seen at a market-leading handset maker, it will need momentum.The action adventure starts tomorrow, when Nokia unveils its first Windows phones in London. Apple and Google's Android have raced ahead, and there is a lot of catching up to do. The Finnish giant's worldwide share of the smartphone market languishes at 16%, down from 39% at the beginning of last year.The impact on the bottom line has been swift and harsh. At the end of 2010, Nokia had phone revenues of €8.5bn, with operating profits of €1bn. By the third quarter of this year, revenues had slumped to €5.4bn, profits had passed into losses in the summer and then back – just – into the black at €132m in September.These are nail-biting numbers, but there are many reasons to be optimistic. Nokia still sells a lot of phones. Most of them are basic models, but the Finns have a growing fanbase in China and India where customers are increasingly willing to pay a bit more for something reliable.The last set of results, although not glowing, suggest there is plenty of fight left in Nokia. It shipped 90m basic phones, a 25% increase quarter on quarter, and an outperformance of the market which grew just 10% during that period, according to analysis by broker Liberum Capital.It is a strong base from which to launch its push for the real prize, the smartphone market. Nokia is currently shipping 17m of these a quarter. So is Apple, although iPhones cost much more, and many customers held out for this month's new model, the 4S, which sold 4m in its first three days. Android dwarfs them both, with 55m activations in the September quarter.But Android has problems. The apps don't work. At the last count, there were more than 100 different handsets by a wide range of manufacturers using six different versions of the software.The latest version, 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich, was released on 18 October and there are no meaningful numbers yet for how many people are using it. Gingerbread, released in January 2011, still has fewer users than the previous version, Frozen Yogurt, which is on 45% of phones. All told, 60% of Android phones are running on outdated software.Devices running Eclair – hungry yet? – remain on sale in the UK despite the fact it was released two years ago.Quite rightly, customers have no interest in operating systems. No interest, that is, until they try to install an app that won't work on their phone.Skype's video phone app can't access the front camera on anything not running Gingerbread, which means 60% of Android phones can't make face-to-face calls.Twitter's official app, released last spring, wouldn't work on earlier versions of Android. Handset manufacturers have not been very proactive in pushing out operating system updates, perhaps because once phones are upgraded they tend not to work as well as they did before.And what many customers find is that many apps installed on earlier versions of the software stop working after the upgrade. Imagine if you had to buy an entirely new set of clothes just because you wanted to change your wardrobe.The fragmentation of Android devices has left Nokia a window of opportunity. Microsoft tightly controls levels of customisation by handset makers. All models must have the same three buttons – back one page, home screen and search engine. All apps must be submitted for vetting.Windows Phone 7.5 Mango, on which tomorrow's new Nokia smartphones will be running, has been well received. Leaked images suggest the handsets themselves are sleek and colourful. And their launch will be backed with a well-funded marketing campaign, bankrolled to a large extent by Microsoft, which is expected to pay an unspecified amount in the billions of dollars to Nokia.Microsoft has already lost to Google on search. Sales of PCs are declining, in favour of smartphones and tablets. Neither Microsoft nor Nokia can afford to lose this race. This story has every chance of a happy ending, but Elop must keep his foot on the accelerator.• This article was amended on 25 October to correct the latest Android operating system from 3.0 Honeycomb to 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIt's crunch time for Nokia &gt;&gt; WSJIt certainly is ... and we'll bring you coverage from Wednesday's Nokia World in London. Stay tuned.How the iPod's creator is making home heating sexy &gt;&gt; WiredLong piece, worth reading. Wonder what iPhone hardware heads are up to nowadays.Apple TV effort said to be led by iTunes creator &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Jeff Robbin, who helped create the iPod in addition to the iTunes media store, is now guiding Apple's internal development of the new TV effort, said the people, who declined to be identified because his role isn't public."Android fragmentation opens door for Netflix-faking trojan &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Android fragmentation may be bad enough by itself, but what if it leads to stolen user information? "Symantec posted on its official blog today a report about Android.Fakeneflic, an information-snatching trojan operating under the guise of the Android Netflix app. "The app is fairly easy to understand. Believing it to be the official Netflix app, users are coaxed into providing it with their Netflix credentials. The result is a stolen password, and potentially a purloined credit card number. "Symantec says that the trojan's effectiveness comes from the vacuum left by the launch of the official Netflix app, which only supported a few devices upon its release. The popularity of Netlfix, coupled with the lack of universal support for the app created the ideal environment for trojans like Android.Fakeneflic."Android app research report &gt;&gt; brian s hall"For all you puzzled by why Google would have jumped wholesale into the app construct that Apple developed, rather than simply (Facebook-like) being the premiere app on every smartphone, I will remind you: "...it has nothing to do with open or closed -- apps sure as hell aint open -- nor with Eric Schmidt's duplicity, nor with possible IP violations... "The app, and I've said this from the beginning though others told you it was a fad -- even, God love 'em, Microsoft and Nokia -- the app is the *primary* interface with our smartphone and our smartphone is the *primary* interface to the web. "Or very soon will be. "Google very deliberately chose not to be an app, dependent upon others. Google wanted to own the app platform just as sure as they own the wireline Internet. Google's business/model is predicated upon there being only one gatekeeper between you and the world's data, between you and access to the web. And Google is the one."Mary Meeker's Internet Trends 2011 &gt;&gt; Kleiner Perkins Caufield ByersMary Meeker always produces a slideshow that makes you think a bit harder. Here's this year's.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Well, that's Monday over with, now let's bring some game chatter to Tuesday.
Thefloods in Thailand which have caused widespread chaos in the country, leading to the deaths of more than 350 people after months of unusually heavy rainfall, will also have effects further afield, in a sign of the connectedness of the world economy.One effect will be that the world output of magnetic hard drives could fall as much as 30% in the final three months of 2011 – and manufacturers who need them are now scrambling to snap up existing inventories, market research firm IHS iSuppli says.For Asia's PC makers, already grappling with the prospect of subdued year-end holiday season consumer demand, that could mean a further slowdown in the lunar new year sales season, and lead to weak sales in the first quarter of 2012, hurting the one regional growth area of an industry already facing a challenge from smartphones and tablets, and from slowing corporate spending on technology hardware. Alternatively, it might briefly push up prices on those which are available."From the Asia context, of course the impact will be on the Taiwanese PC manufacturers - companies like Acer and Asustek Computer," said Satish Lele, vice president, consulting, Asia Pacific at Frost &amp; Sullivan in Singapore.Thailand is the world's second largest maker of hard disk drives (HDD) after China, and makes about half of global output taking place there. The damage caused by flooding could keep factories closed or hobbled for months, analysts and executives reckon.Analysts have highlighted Japan's Nidec Corp, which controls about 80% of the world's output of a key HDD component - the motor - as the major potential bottleneck for supplies of drives, used to store data in computers.Nidec has closed some plants in Thailand, as has disk parts maker Minebea.The total demand for HDDs is presentlyaround660m units annually, with Western Digital and Seagate having just over 30% share. Hitachi makes about 16% of world supply, followed by Toshiba (11%) and Samsung (10%).Lele said PC makers will have four to six weeks on average of inventory, but will feel the effects after that is gone. "From that context, the issue will start hitting these companies sometimes towards end of November and December, which for them are also key months because of the holiday season."Acer declined to comment and Lenovo Group, the Chinese company that is the world's No.2 PC maker in the third quarter, had no immediate comment.Pegatron, the Taiwanese company that is the main contract manufacturer for Asustek Computer , doesn't see a problem for six to eight weeks as makers have inventory, but after that it would depend on how fast things return to normal in Thailand.Pegatron Chief Financial Officer Charles Lin said there was one big difference between the Thailand situation and the aftermath ofJapan's earthquake in March, which also disrupted supplies of components across a number of technology industries, including smartphones."The concentration of some component manufacturing [in Japan] was very high, but Thailand only makes up about a quarter of global hard disk production, so if plants elsewhere can ramp up, the effect this time may be less than that after the Japan quake," he said.Nick Wu, head of investor relations at Asustek, said the company's inventory and supply chain was enough to last until the end of the fourth quarter. But after that if the situation continued then there could be an impact.Asked about the effects on Apple, chief executive Tim Cooksaid in the company's recent earnings callthat "we source many components from Thailand, from many factories. The recovery timeline for these factories isn't known. The weather really hasn't allowed an assessment... It is something that I'm concerned about." He added that "our hearts go out to all the people in Thailand who have experienced these devastating losses of life and property as a result of the monsoons and the flooding." Apple sold its largest-ever number of PCs in the third quarter, but future sales could be affected by the slowdown in supplies.Western Digital and Seagate both have factories in Thailand. Western Digital's factories are closed, and Seagate warned it could face parts shortages even though its plants are running."With such a tight supply chain, it's very unlikely that people have a lot of stock to cover themselves," said Lillian Tay, analyst at Gartner in Singapore. "But from what we see, the major impact will come in Q1 because it's a 50-50 (situation). Some of them may not get what they want in Q4 [2011], but I think Q1 [of 2012] is really going to be the quarter that the most impact will be felt."Nanya Technology, Taiwan's second-biggest DRAM memory chip maker, expects some impact from a shortage of hard disks."Because notebooks all need hard disks, there will be an impact on the whole IT industry in November, December and into January, and this is a negative factor for DRAMs," Nanya Vice President Pei Lin Pai told reporters when the firm reported earnings last week.Taiwan's Quanta Computer Inc , the world's top contract laptop PC maker, and the next biggest, Compal Electronics, said hard disks are "confined components", meaning clients and not the contract makers procure them themselves.Both said they had not received any updates from clients.South Korea's Hynix Semiconductor Inc, the world's second largest computer memory chip maker, said the flood had not had a major impact on it, given the current inventory levels at HDD makers and PC vendors.Other products have already been affected by the flooding, with Sony delaying the launches of several new cameras, lens kits and headphones after production was halted.Frost &amp; Sullivan's Lele said PC makers will also take a hit as they will have to bear the costs of the shortage."It will be more for the PC makers to absorb the costs, because it is highly unlikely that they can pass it on to the customer. They will be under tremendous pressure to absorb the additional costs."
With 400 million downloads and counting, Rovio Mobile's Angry Birds games are a daunting target for even the largest games publishers to chase after, let alone a creative agency from London with a proudly self-proclaimed track record of failure on Apple's App Store.Yet ustwo co-founder Matt Mills says he is overjoyed at the opening weekend for his company's new game for iPhone and iPad,Whale Trail. Fuelled by a global Game Of The Week promotion from Apple, and strong social media buzz, the game sold 38,215 copies in its first four days on the App Store, starting on Thursday 20 November.Whale Trail is a good case study precisely because it's not the "x million downloads in two days" kind of numbers that the most successful freemium iOS games are generating. It also gives some idea of the value of an Apple Game Of The Week promotion: the game is currently the 27th top paid iPhone app in the US, and the 14th for the comparable iPad chart. In the UK, it sits in 17th and 32nd spots respectively."We're blown away, especially because we don't have a big network [of previous app downloads] behind us," says Mills. "What it tells me is there are some serious downloads ahead of us: people in the top 10 in the US and UK must be doing really well. But we've got 430 five-star reviews so far and our feedback email is getting hit every 15 minutes, which is what's going to be important in the long term."ustwo and Mills have become well-known in the UK app developers scene, through a succession of conference appearances, and candid announcements of its sales figures – in June 2011, Mills happilytold a publishing industry eventthat its lauded Nursery Rhymes With StoryTime had only made back £24,048 in revenues against a development cost of £60,000.So, Whale Trail. The £0.69 game involves guiding a flying whale through clouds while collecting bubbles, using one-tap controls. It sold around 6,500 copies on Thursday – its day of release, and before Apple's Game Of The Week promotion kicked in. It then sold approximately 9,500 downloads on Friday, 11,000 in Saturday and 11,500 on Sunday, although without the rounding, the total stands at 38,215 at the time of writing.That means the studio has so far made just under £18,500 of net revenues after Apple's 30% cut. "We need 300,000 downloads to break even, based on our £150k spend making the game," says Mills."But we're on our way: we couldn't be happier with the launch. We have a long way to go, but what we're overjoyed about is that people like it: the game was made with such passion and love, and people seem to be really buying into that, whether it's the art, the music or the tiny little gameplay details."ustwo did some interesting things in the run-up to Whale Trail's launch, too. The company put out an open invitation on Twitter for people to beta-test the game, signing up around 300 to provide their feedback in the last months of development.User testing isn't a new idea for game developers on any platform, but Whale Trail's was more public than most: beta testers certainly weren't discouraged from tweeting about the game in its final stages, helping to build buzz in the weeks before it went live on the App Store.The hashtag #whaletrail was trending on Twitter at one point, despite ustwo deliberately not including a Post-to-Twitter feature in the game itself, for fear of looking "spammy". The company wants to build on the word-of-mouth effect now, especially once Apple has a new Game Of The Week and sales from that source drop off."We're hoping that if somebody's downloading it, they'll be talking about it, and there are 2-3 big updates planned over the next 6-8 weeks," says Mills. "We need to get to the people in the pub. Game Of The Week is fantastic: it tells us we've made something special. But my wife, mum, dad or sisters don't really look at the App Store in that way. They find out about new apps when somebody tells them."Whale Trail also has a theme tune composed – and released as a digital single – by Gruff Rhys of the Super Furry Animals. The partnership came about because ustwo's Neil McFarland had previously worked with SFA on its Juxtaposed With You single, as well as the DVD albums for Rings Around The World and Phantom Power."Gruff was big enough to be respected, but not so big that he would overbear," says Mills. "We didn't want the game to look like it had been made to sell the track. But he fell in love with the game and wanted to create a song. It's a lovely soundtrack that will stay in your head."Rhys even made a video for the song:The decision to make Whale Trail a 69p game took some thought, apparently. Any higher, and ustwo worried that it would miss out on sales from people recommending it to friends: Mills thinks even £1.19 would have been too high a barrier for a lot of people. However, the studio was set against opting for a freemium pricing model."Everyone is jumping on freemium, but we wanted to spend our time creating a great experience. That was the end of our money conversation. For me, freemium is too much about psychology and thinking all the time about monetisation, and we're not into that yet. We wanted to have every chance of doing well without selling out: we didn't want to create a farm game or a zoo game."The company is very much hoping for a steady sales curve over the coming weeks and months, to avoid Whale Trail being a flash-in-the-pan success."I was talking to the developer of Pocket God, and it took them months and months," says Mills. "All the good games take months, even if people think it's got to be done in that first weekend. It's going to be a long road ahead, but we always knew that. This apps game is definitely getting harder, but we're in it for the long haul."
"Of course it's a compliment, but why is it that every nice, well-executed and simple design draws an immediate comparison with Apple?" says Fernd van Engelen.The frustration of Artefact's director of industrial design crackles over Skype only weeks after the launch of his "See What You Print" printer concept has seen his inbox fill up with fan mail showing that while print may be dead in the end, the printer isn't yet. The extreme minimalism of its design has earned column inches in a market characterised by the ugly grey box of the £49 printer."Originally printers offered great benefits that we didn't have before – speed of printing, multi-copies and ease of use – but somewhere along the way printer design stalled while the design of other technologies raced ahead," says van Engelen. "Many companies just kept adding more and more features and capabilities. Yet when you talk to users they never mention that there aren't enough features: it's the core functionality that is broken."SWYP then is an attempt to fix this "by rethinking what the printer is able to do" and the way it does it.See What You Print printerArtefact is a Seattle-based international technology design consultancy that is soon to open a studio down in California's Bay Area, thanks to a track record that includes winning awards for three years running from the Industrial Designers Society of America, as well as work on such projects as Pansonic's neXperience inflight entertainment system, the&nbsp;Blackberry PlayBook and the HTC Touch Diamond.The SWYP printer concept is part of a programme that, according to Artefact's principal and co-founder Gavin Kelly, is an attempt to "reimagine tired consumer products" that will "disrupt mature industries" and ultimately "improve people's lives". SWYP was designed as a concept and not as a product that Artefact will manufacture by itself."By not being a client project it is unconstrained by business considerations, so we can push boundaries and provoke a dialogue with the community," says Kelly.Artefact's first such project, the Wireless Viewfinder Interchangeable Lens, "generated an enormous amount of interest" by merging the capabilities of a smartphone platform with those of an SLR camera, and is well on its way to finding a home in some form with a major camera manufacturer.Now Artefact is hoping to repeat its success with the SWYP concept, believing that the market for this 25-year-old technology is ripe for radical innovation. There has been a year over year decline of 0.3% in the overall market, according to research by International Data Corporation (IDC). Brands such as HP, Canon, Epson, Samsung and Brother account for almost 90% of all printer sales.Artefact believes that its revolutionary innovation is to make simple what has become overly complicated, and this "radical simplicity" is expressed in the sleek, minimalist, no-button design of the inkjet printer. A 17-inch tablet-esque screen displays pictures or documents exactly how they will appear on the paper, even when printing directly from the web, and the touchscreen allows the image to be edited with a swipe of the finger. Wi-Fi increases the printer's functionality, allowing the user to say goodbye to cables and computers and hello to printing straight from Facebook and Flickr.For designer Jonas Buck the successful reception of the concept is simply explained."What we found is that for many users printing is a pain, as printers have become an unpredictable experience," he says. "Radical simplicity lets us focus on the printer's core features: first on printing a document and then on making it predictable by providing a full-screen print view. And then connecting it to what is really relevant through its Wi-Fi and not via a computer."See What You Print printerSuch principles were then applied to the outside of the printer as well."Our aim was to do the most with the least; and everything should have a reason," says Buck. "Printers are boxes and manufacturers add feature lines to try and make them look more exciting, but in the end it's not honest to the basic shape. If it is a box, let's make a box and be honest."Van Engelen admits, though, that "there was a constant battle to keep it very simple"."The folding paper tray is a good example as it folds flat to cover the display and then folds into a shallow 'V' to become a rigid paper tray. The on/off switch is built into the tray so that opening and closing it powers the printer on or off as well."Some of the initial sketches "were also for &nbsp;more detailed, more expressive designs – or ones that gave &nbsp;more visibility from the outside of what's going on underneath", adds Buck. "In both cases we felt that this distracted from the beauty of what's going on on the screen."Despite the hours put into the concept so far, Kelly admitsted that they are going to have to wait for market forces to bring the high cost of its large touchscreen display down to make SWYP really feasible, even if – thanks to Apple – people have got used to paying for&nbsp;good design. "The SWYP printer is not a low-cost project so it is never going to replace the £49 printer that you get bundled with a PC – although when you see Amazon shipping a tablet for $200 you can see how far we have come already."Analysts, however, are cautious about just how radical a design it is and whether there is even a market for such an Apple-style printer. After all – and Artefact would be the first to admit this – there is a big difference between people posting positive comments online and customers flashing their plastic.For Victor Seidel, lecturer in science entrepreneurship at Oxford University's Said Business School, who specialises in innovation in consumer electronics, "it's not surprising that this has not come from the HewlettPackards of this world but rather from an outsider, as the big players became big by being really efficient, which can then blind them to new opportunities."According to Seidel, the SWYP is "an interesting innovation rather than a revolutionary breakthrough, as it is brokering elements together in a new way – although it doesn't have to be radical to be useful."But it is not clear how far this experiment might go and whether there is a market for such a premium printer."Likewise, IDC analysts Keith Kimetz and Angele Boyd urge caution too, even if, as their research shows, printing and printers still have a strong future ahead of them thanks to the "market is way too big to be killed off any time soon" or our eagerness to keep clicking "print" even as more information is digitised. "The cloud offers just another avenue for print."For Kimetz, vice-president for hardcopy peripherals solutions and services, "looking only at the hardware growth is a limited view"."Success stories come from providing an integrated solution," he says. "It requires a set of hardware, software and services to achieve market success."So SWYP looks interesting and appears to offer a simple value proposition to consumers who want to print, but it may just fit a niche."IDC's group vice-president and general manager for imaging, printing and document solutions, Angele Boyd, believes that the barriers to entry for SWYP may be too high."While there has been innovation over the 25 years I've watched the market, the ones that succeed have to be priced right for the target customer and have to overcome the strong proclivity of consumers and businesses to buy from trusted brands, and trusted technologies," she says.Despite such dissenting voices, for designer Jonas Buck what is so "visionary" about SWYP remains the extreme simplicity of its design, which "allows for a natural and effortless experience when printing, and even if many of the technologies already exist, whether the touchscreen or wireless printing, it is bringing them altogether with a 1:1 preview that is revolutionary".And for van Engelen, "much of the innovation in a saturated, mature market, like printers, does not come from new technology and features, but rather the ability to create a more natural, elegant and radically simple solution that addresses the true needs of consumers."However, the need for a manufacturer means that in the end Artefact may have less control than it would like over how the concept ends up on the high street, if ever does."Kiosking – walking up and printing pictures – may be the perfect application for this technology, but it will depend on which company takes it up; as we saw with the camera project, a concept can change quite dramatically when you start looking at it through the lens of different brands."Gavin Kelly, nonetheless, believes that the project has struck a nerve. "The response has been really encouraging, as even though it is a concept we get flooded every day with people asking us whether they can buy it, or distribute it."Even though the death of paper has been predicted over and over again, people keep finding new excuses to print things off and new ways of doing so, whether from the cloud or on the move. The printer is dead; long live the printer.• Read more about the future of printing and how to save money in everyday life athttp://www.guardian.co.uk/live-life-for-less
Death, a Tarot card interpreter might say, isn't an end; it's just a transition. However, the physical fact is that this transition from being into not being is very much a meatspace phenomenon. Yet we the living dress it up in all kinds of ritual garb and mourn our losses as if they - the ones who've departed - are paying attention. A powerful psychological coping mechanism, this has naturally manifested in the digital space as well.The web has transformed the death experience. From live expiration to global dissemination to eternal memorialisation, we can now live on for as long as the technology that houses the bits and the bytes that we leave behind doesn't become obsolete.As we advance inevitably towards the biggest death day in the annual calendar,Untangling the Webpauses to reflect on how much has happened in the web's lifetime, and how our own corporeal moments on this mortal coil are really only just the beginning.If you have a digital death experience or would like to share your thoughts, send an email toaleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.ukor tweet me@alekskwith #uttw and #death.Follow the progress of this column on theUntangling the Web blog.
Netflix has announcedthat it's bringing its internet movie and TV business to the UK. Already available in 43 countries including the US and Canada, the service allows subscribers to stream unlimited television and film content across a broadband connection for a set monthly fee, currently $7.99 a month in the US.Netflix is available via a range of platforms, including PCs, Macs, mobile phones and set-top box solutions such as Apple TV. However, in North America, it's also been available for some time on Xbox 360, PS3 and Wii. The company won't currently provide any more information on the launch date, pricing or supported platforms, but it's safe to assume that negotiations have begun with Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony about providing access from those machines.So should console owners be excited by this news? Well, Netflix is a major player in the entertainment streaming space, with 25 million subscribers and a host of deals with movie and TV companies. Xbox and PS3 are also popular platforms for the service as they stream compatible content in HD 1080p resolution and with Dolby 5.1 sound – and, you know, also let you play games. The Xbox 360 also offers Kinect support for Netflix, meaning you can browse content with movements rather than a remote control.However, there's a lot more competition out there now than when Netflix first came to Xbox in the US in 2008.Earlier this month, Microsoft announced that it had signed deals with 40 content providers throughout Europe to bring new etnertainment streaming services to Xbox, including LoveFilm, 4OD, BBC and blinkbox. Furthermore, Sony has partnered with the likes of Lovefilm, the BBC and Mubi to create itsSony Entertainment Networksolution, which offers TV, movies, music and games for download from a range of devices, inlcuding PS3 and, surely, the forthcoming Vita handheld.Also, Netflix has had a wobbly few months. Attempts tosplit its internet streaming and postal DVD servicesinto two separate companies, together with a subscription price hike, in North America alienated both customers and shareholders, forcing ahasty re-think. The company has also had run-ins with motion picture studios, which – with a larger number of potential streaming partners to work with – are looking to negotiate better deals for their content. In September, the media holding giant Starzchose to end its dealwith Netflix, effectively removing Walt Disney Studios and Sony Pictures from the service. However, Netflix has secured deals with the likes of MGM, Paramount and Lionsgate, and is also looking into buying and distributing original content, purchasing the rights to broadcast David Fincher's mini-series, House of Cards, based on the BBC production.Netflix says it will have more information on the UK and Ireland launches in the new year.
Fighting games and beat-em-ups are like Marmite, inspiring either fanatical devotion or complete indifference. If your tastes tend towards the former, you will surely be aware of the Soul Calibur series of games. It first surfaced in the arcades in 1996 (then dubbed Soul Edge) and as one of the few games to add weapons to the Japanese beat-em-up blueprint, quickly established a faithful following. Now publisher Namco Bandai and developer Project Soul are applying the finishing touches to Soul Calibur V, which will arrive for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on 3 February 2012. A London event gave us the opportunity to get our hands on it and quiz its producer, Hisaharu Tago.Those with an encyclopaedic knowledge of the world of fighting games may find that slightly surprising – after Soul Calibur IV's 2008 release, the game team was supposedly disbanded, and it seemed that the franchise's days were done. But Tago explains what happened: "The thinking behind that was the team was going to create a new IP. There are a lot of very, very talented members of the Soul Calibur team, so at the end of Soul Calibur IV, we thought that maybe we could spread that talent out and use it in other places. But I became the producer for Soul Calibur V and reassembled everybody and, well, here we are."Soul Calibur V: HildeTago stresses that the community of Soul Calibur fans played a massive part in that U-turn: "At the end of Soul Calibur IV, we thought the community wasn't all that large. But we put out a notice for feedback, and we received an unbelievable volume – much more than we were expecting. That's when we became motivated to move forward."Hands-onUnsurprisingly, bearing that provenance in mind, gamers who have played a previous Soul Calibur game will feel perfectly at home with Soul Calibur V. Like its predecessors, it's a classic Japanese-style fighting game in which the characters take centre stage. They range from the tiny and agile to the giant and ponderous, each with an individual fighting style and selection of weapons, ranging from swords to guns. There's a typically baroque story mode. You can unleash special moves and, once you've filled its meter, a so-called Critical Edge attack which is spectacular in both appearance and effect on your opponent.Soul Calibur V: Voldo and IvyGuest characterThe Soul Calibur series has a great tradition of including guest characters from other game franchises – Link, Darth Vader and God of War's Kratos have featured in past versions. At the London event, Tago-san disclosed that Soul Calibur V's interloper will be none other than Ezio Auditore di Firenze, current star of the Assassin's Creed games. Tago discusses turning a Florentine assassin into a Soul Calibur V character: "He's an action game character, so when he comes into a fighting game, what kind of strategies will he be able to employ? It was a lot of fun making those kind of things. And of course, he's Ubisoft's character, and they really love him. I understand that, too, because I make characters and I really love them." Tago added that Ezio will be able to avail himself of six weapons – the most of any character in the game – including pistols and his concealed blades, and that he will be able to fight equally effectively at short and long ranges.StorylineTago, understandably, was reluctant to give away too much storyline detail: "The story in Soul Calibur V connects to the story of Siegried that ended in Soul Calibur IV. How Soul Calibur IV ends is with the death of Nightmare. But as we showed today, Nightmare is back – so how is he back? There will be a lot of story background relating to Nightmare and his relation to the Soul Edge." He did, though, disclose that Raphael, another character seemingly killed off in the last instalment, will also return, so we can expect some pretty tortuous plot-twists.Other charactersThe Soul Calibur community, according to Tago, had a big say in the reintroduction of another character, Dampierre – the flashy snake oil-salesman-type from the PSP game Soul Calibur: Broken Destiny. But if you want access to him, you'll have to pre-order Soul Calibur V. So, we asked Tago, who is his favourite character from the series? "I always say it's Siegfried. I was using Siegfried all the way back in Soul Edge. Now that 17 years have passed, Siegfried has become a 40-year-old man, and now I'm a 40-year-old man, so I feel a strong connection with him."As Tago pointed out, it looked for a while as though Soul Calibur V would never be programmed into existence, so for fans of fighting games, it will be something of a must-buy. Our experience of it suggests they are unlikely to be disappointed – it doesn't break the mould, but what fighting game or beat-em-up of the last decade has? There's no doubt that it's classily assembled and very impressive visually, and positively rammed with the attention to detail which generated that sizeable and committed community of Soul Caliburb followers in the first place. Its arrival in the fallow period following the Christmas rush could see it hogging the limelight for a period.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 21 October 2011PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (41)12 (2)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (41)Wii (5)PSP (3)43 (–)Football Manager 2012(3+)PC (100)14 (1)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)25 (3)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (93)Xbox 360 (7)26 (–)The Sims 3: Pets (12+)PC (84)Xbox 360 (9)PS3 (6)3DS (1)17 (5)Pro Evolution Soccer 2012(3+)PS3 (67)Xbox 360 (31)PC (2)28 (4)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (38)39 (8)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (89)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (1)3010 (6)Gears Of War 3(18+)Xbox 360 (100)511 (16)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure (7+)Xbox 360 (41)Wii (32)PS3 (21)3DS (5)212 (9)F1 2011(3+)PS3 (49)Xbox 360 (49)PC (2)513 (19)Mario Kart Wii(3+)Wii (100)11214 (13)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (26)DS (25)Xbox 360 (21)PS3 (17)2415 (11)Deus Ex: Human Revolution(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (41)PC (5)916 (15)Dead Island(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (33)PC (2)717 (18)Driver: San Francisco(12+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (40)Wii (4)818 (7)Dark Souls(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)319 (10)Jonah Lomu Rugby Challenge(3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)220 (14)Dead Rising 2: Off The Record(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (33)PC (3)2UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Over the weekend,Adron Halllet fly the following tweet:OH: "The only ppl that can't dev in a VM are ppl who have massive dependencies on old style . Most new devs, have no such weakness." &lt; Respond. And so I am - oh no, no … that's just not right! Anyone trying to develop proper software without a full-on, local integrated development environment (IDE) is committing professional suicide. Here's why.CADIf you were to walk into a R&amp;D lab at Boeing, what you would find is every member of their CAD engineering staff kitted out with the highest-quality equipment. I'd expect about £6,000 for each workstation in an operation like that. At that level of technical capability, you need the best equipment. Likewise, walk into Intel or AMD and look at their integrated circuit design workstations, and you'll see some serious money spent on their kit. (And none of this includes the cost of the software, which would be phenomenal at this level.)What you wouldn't see is engineers at terminals with vast screens peering into a web browser and operating their systems over something like HTML5 or even Citrix – because engineers need to be able to touch and feel their tools. This counts for an old-school, "fingers to the metal" engineer working in a machine shop – he or she isn't going to be operating a precision lathe through a series of levers and pulleys. That individual is going to be right in there interacting with the materials.While I think this point is obvious if you're considering an aeronautics engineer, or someone designing a processor, or an old-school "hands the metal" engineer, the point works for software engineers too.Imagine the time that you first started to drive a car. Nothing was natural or easy; everything you did required conscious thought. After a while, the skills become second nature and you stop having to think. At this point you have attained something calledunconscious competence- specifically, you are competent at the task but you no longer have to give it any conscious thought. It's this process whereby you find yourself slamming on the brakes because the car in front has stopped suddenly; you don't have to think about it. Your background "driving daemon" is actually driving the car. All you have to do is stay awake and keep your eyes providing a stream of input.When a software engineer is working in the IDE (integrated development environment), they'll rarely use the mouse. Most engineers fly around the controls on keyboard mode only. (This is why most developers hate it when you change their keyboard mappings. To everyone I've ever done that to, I apologise.) This is full-on unconscious competence mode, man or woman and machine in harmony operating at peak efficiency. The problem is that in the first instance you just can't do that using a web browser. It's too clunky and remote. The latency – although small – is too significant. Press Ctrl+S to save in Visual Studio and it's done before you've moved your finger away from "S". Do it in a web browser and you're half a second a away from satisfaction. It may not mean much, but it stops the unconscious flow of capability from you to the machine.In a conversation about Google Apps with another Twitter friend,Steven J Vaughn-Nichols, it was mooted that when we're looking at tools like Google Apps or Microsoft's Office 365"we're still in early – sayCP/M-80–days of getting the cloud right". I think this is spot on. It's lovely having nice modern pipe and the kinds ofrendering technology that we get in HTML5but, to continue Steven's vintage computing analogy, actually using a sophisticated tool in a browser is just like a 3270 terminal. More to the point, it offers the same utility when operating at peak efficiency, ie it's slow and painful when compared to a local device. This is why you're not going to get any CAD engineer happily surrendering his local AutoCAD workstations, and why we developers should all be vehemently opposed in giving up our local favourite tools.What is an IDE for?Adron's original tweet refers to a VM, ie a "virtual machine". I asked him to clarify the meaning of this and he came back that it referred to a "virtualised desktop". I took this mean to mean a "cloud-based IDE", but after tweeting this question around, a lot of people came back with references to text editing tools. In essence, a lot of you out there seem to be building apps using text editors, not IDEs.What the different is between a text editor and an IDE – to me at least – is that an IDE understands the language, whereas the text editor understands text. This is why we can find situations where some Microsoft developers working on the core of Windows will end up usingEmacsand shelling out to the compiler rather than using Visual Studio. The attraction of Emacs apparently comes from its "customisability". Some Microsofties were so keen on it, anEmacs.NET was mootedwith .NET replacing Lisp as the customisation language. (Shame it never materialised – writing this has got me keen on trying it.)Sometimes in the tech industry it gets hard to look at people doing things different and avoid a "well, they're just doing it wrong!" reaction. I'm afraid in the IDE v text editor camp I'm struggling with the idea that a developer using a text editor, and not using an IDE, is sensible.What an IDE does is bring forward an understanding of the underlying language and the structure of code, and puts it front-and-centre in your working environment. It's surprising to me that people don't universally love this. Apparently we live in a world whereSiriis hugely popular but doesn't do anything of actual use, yet all we software engineers have had this fantastic capability to really understand andfeelour code through the tools provided by the IDE. I never, ever want to have to type a full class name; and why should I if Inteli-Sense is giving me a drop down list to select from? Why should I have to manually rename a method if the IDE will do that for me? OK, so the text manipulation and/or customisation features in VS, Eclipse, Netbeans, et al may not be as hot as in text editing, but that's a lot that you're giving up.IDEs in the cloudText editors v IDEs aside, Adron's original question was actually about moving all of your tools from being local to being based on the network. Is that a good idea?I have this thing about not using SaaS source control management (SCM) services. Why I don't like about them is that if I'm advising a client to use one, what I'm actually saying is "put your source code out there somewhere in such a way that your private IP may end up being being very public". (And I won't name any in case my comments are seen as an anti-endorsement, which is not the case.) Of course, the corollary argument is that a quality provider of such a service is likely to do a better job of securing their environment that your in-house IT but, that's not the point. Whether you go in an advise a company or whether you work for them, regardless of the fact that we as a professional don't have a formal ethical framework, we all have a moral imperative over the protection of of intellectual property assets and control is better than no control in this instance.Admitted though, this is a thin argument because as I mentioned a quality SaaS SCM shop is likely to do a superb job of protecting their infrastructure. The more sinister side is that none of these solutions likely to be flexible enough.Just considering the text editor is the tip of the iceberg. All of use a honed and refined collection of tools. More to the point, we all build up our preferred toolset and organically move these tools out to the whole organisation. It only takes one developer to come in one day raving about something new and wacky likeNCrunch(worth a look, by the way) and before long the whole team is using it. And these tools will change and flex over time. A shop that usesTeam Foundation Serverhas the same core tool capability as a shop that uses Visual Studio,Vault,NUnitandTeamCity. Those toolsets could not look any different, but a developer could happily move from the TFS team to the home-selected team and vice versa without effort.By putting your toolset in the cloud you are effectively outsourcing it. Any provider of such a "cloud-based IDE" tool just by the expedient of having to manage the scale of their operation has to impose limits on tool selection. This will invariably limit the tools that a shop can select in a way that I would describe as damaging. Dev shops need to be able to innovate in their toolset in exactly the same way as their innovate in their code base. It's for this reason that we should be very clear on this – virtualising our development environments and farming them out to the cloud is a horrible, horrible idea.A word on toolsThe two IDEs that I use on a daily basis are Eclipse and Visual Studio. I use a Mac with a VM running Visual Studio for Microsoft-stack stuff and tools on OS X for everything else. I'm unusual, I think, in that I have nothing but good things to say about Eclipse. OK, so it's a little weird sometimes but the fact that the FOSS community managed to make a tool that mirrors so ably the capabilities of Visual Studio (and in many ways betters) is something to be applauded. (Plus, spending some of your week in VS and the rest in Eclipse is like going out for an evening at the opera and grabbing a kebab on the way home. Both have intrinsic value, but the juxtaposition allows you to appreciate both to the fullest.)The complete list of tools that I received back in response to my question was, in addition to Visual Studio andEclipse:on the IDE side:•Netbeans•IntelliJ IDEA•Apple's Xcode•WingIDE•MonoDevelop•Komodo Edit.On the text-editor side, we had•Notepad++•Emacs•Pythonwin•Sublime Text 2•vi/vim•TextMateand•E.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
With the Rugby World Cup now at an end, rugby fans and gamers alike (who aren't from New Zealand) may want to set the world to rights by playing a decent rugby sim. After all, one of the key attractions of video games as a medium is wish-fulfilment.For the length of the competition, gamers have only had Rugby World Cup 2011 to play, which, while boasting several official licenses for the tournament, isn't exactly a deep or engrossing experience. Unfortunately it's the only rugby sim that's been available – until now.Step forward Jonah Lomu Rugby Challenge, the creation of Wellington-based studio, Sidhe, which is the finest rugby video game currently available. While that may sound like we're damning it with faint praise – after all, there are only two recently released rugby sims on the market – Rugby Challenge towers over its competition in depth and gameplay.The control system shouldn't present too many surprises for rugby sim veterans; passing is mapped to the shoulder buttons, tackling and kicking to the face buttons and sprinting to the right trigger. However, the stark difference in quality between Rugby Challenge and RWC 2011 is evident right from the first kick-off. Unlike RWC 2011, Rugby Challenge has wisely chosen to set the in-game camera behind the player's team, rather than to the side of the pitch. This means players can better see the position of their teammates, and also, the shoulder buttons aren't reversed at half time.Furthermore, players have a greater degree of control over the movements of their team on the pitch. When the ball goes to ground, players can make their forwards form a fast or a heavy bind on the player with the ball. Not only does this make winning the ball less reliant on luck, it also allows players to have their forwards take advantage of an opposition whose players are out of position. Scrums are won or lost on the timed flick of both thumbsticks, but each team's pack power is factored in.Once the scrumhalf has the ball, players can flick it back to any player in the back line; holding down on a shoulder button causes face-button prompts to appear over each player and then it's simply a matter of sending the ball exactly where you want it to go. If players opt for a kick during dynamic play, the game slows down briefly, allowing them to better direct their efforts; the effect is similar to the bullet-time feature in Max Payne, complete with slow-motion players and muffled sound effects. This only works, however, if the player with the ball has space for a kick, as bullet-time ends the moment a tackle is imminent.Players can tweak the game's AI all the way from laughably easy to frighteningly realistic. At low levels, players will easily smash most opposing sides by simply running slightly to the outside of their back line, and then tossing the ball out to the massive overlap this usually results in. On harder levels, this isn't as easy, and players will need to rely on strategic kicking, as well as dummying, breaking tackles and handing off opponents – all of which are mapped to the left thumbstick. They also might want to take note that "hard" in this game actually means hard with play effected by everything from the ball-handling abilities of each individual player, to the fact that rainwater slicks up the match ball, making knock-ons more of an issue.It all adds up to a fantastic rugby video game, and if you're not already a fan, don't worry because Rugby Challenge is packed with a lengthy list of gaming tutorials and even a few videos explaining the rules and nuances of the sport. If you are a rugby fan, you may wish to play through the tutorials anyway, as doing so earns Rugby Dollars you can use to purchase unlockables.And here's where Rugby Challenge really leaves RWC 2011 in the dust; its depth of content is far more satisfying. The game holds the official licenses for the All Blacks, the Wallabies and, er, the USA, but it also boasts about 96 domestic league teams – if you want to play with the Harlequins, now's your chance.Where Rugby Challenge doesn't hold any official licenses, it has provided decent approximations. So while players might not be able to play with the Blue Bulls in the official South African league, they can play with The Blues in its unofficial stand-in. This creativity extends to all the competitions (both club and international) and the team uniforms – some of which, such as the England strip, are vast improvements on their real-world counterparts. Players also have exhibition matches, a career mode and a competition mode to choose from. There are some reasonably decent creative tools on offer, some customisation features and the game supports online co-op and competitive play. Beyond that, there's a load of unlockables, which includes a team made up entirely of Jonah Lomus.Rugby Challenge is by no means perfect. Its graphics could use a polish, there are occasional glitches in the on-pitch action, the customisation options are a little restrictive and the soundtrack is absolutely woeful. But at its core, Rugby Challenge is what rugby fans have been waiting for; this is a game made by rugby fans for rugby fans. RWC 2011 is a decent, knockaround sports game but genuine rugby fans will find Rugby Challenge a far more worthwhile investment. Oh, and they might want to get cracking and buy it now, because if history is anything to go by, this might be the last decent rugby game we get for the next four years …
Steve Jobs believed the "Antennagate" controversy around the launch of the iPhone 4 last year was part of a smear campaign by smartphone rivals Google and Motorola, according to an authorised biography of the Apple co-founder.Jobs first reaction to the issue, which saw a small number of iPhone 4 users lose signal if they held the phone in a certain way, was that Google and Motorola were trying to "shoot Apple down", according to the book, published on Monday.He was apparently only moved to tackle the problem after Tim Cook, who replaced Jobs as Apple chief executive five weeks before his death, quoted someone who warned that Apple was in danger of "becoming the new Microsoft, complacent and arrogant".Apple calledan emergency press conferenceto deal with the iPhone 4 antenna media frenzy after its launch in July last year. Jobs offered a free rubber "bumper" to iPhone 4 owners affected by the issue, which saw signal drop dramatically when the metal antenna on the bottom and left sides of the phone was gripped by users.According to the new biography by Walter Isaacson, Jobs was on holiday with his family in Hawaii when the media storm broke.Jobs's first reaction was "defensive", according to Isaacson, who said that the Apple co-founder became "emotionally anguished" at suggestions that the company he co-founded was arrogant in refusing to immediately address the problem.The book says that Jobs told Art Levinson, the chairman of Genentech and Apple board member, "Fuck this, it's not worth it," when he was told not to take the criticism personally."Finally, Tim Cook was able to shake him out of his lethargy," the biography adds. "He quoted someone as saying that Apple was becoming the new Microsoft, complacent and arrogant. The next day Jobs changed his attitude. 'Let's get to the bottom of this,' he [Jobs] said."Jobs then flew to the Apple's headquarters in Cupertino, California, to get internal data about the dropped calls and scrambled to organise an emergency press conference.After the press conference, Jobs told Isaacson that he sounded "too annoyed" when on-stage, but that the media frenzy was overblown. "This is blown so out of proportion that it's incredible," he told his official biographer.The return rate for the iPhone 4 turned out to be just 1.7% of customers, according to the book, which is less than a third of the return rate for the iPhone 3GS.
If you build it, will they come?In November 2010, the government announced an innovation cluster called "Tech City" based in London's East End. But what's actually behind the catchy title? Here's some background reading about tonight's Tech Weekly Tech City Talk.Eric Van Der Kleij: No 10's guru set to super charge UK's Tech City(The Independent)New 'enterprise zones' announced around England(BBC)Can enterprise zones work this time around?(BBC)Today programme on enterprise zones(andmore) (BBC)Google says it would pay more tax in the UK(The Telegraph)The politician's guide book to East London(Alex Deschamps-Sonsino)Tech City: One Year Later(Alex Deschamps-Sonsino)Silicon comes to Stratford(Wired)Well done Google, but Tech City needs to storm the Olympic Park next(Tech Crunch)How digital technology can revive public services(The Guardian)Silicon Roundabout comes to Buckingham Palace(Financial Times)Future Human's Liquid City event write-up(Squareglasses)Google leases London property for start-up launchpad(Information Age)If you have anything to say about the Tech City proposition, enterprise or innovation clusters, please add your comments below.The recommendedTwitterhashtag for this event is#TWTC2.Seeour Eventbrite pagefor more information on how to attend the debate on Monday 24 October, and how to sign up for the others talks in the series.
iOS apps have become a booming business for Apple – mainly for their status as a selling point for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices rather than their direct revenues. Apple's App Store is now past the 18 billion downloads mark, while $3bn has been paid out to developers.Even so, Walter Isaacson's authorised biography of former Apple CEO Steve Jobs – which is now on sale – explains that Jobs was initially unconvinced that apps would benefit Apple or its iOS platform."When it first came out in early 2007, there were no apps you could buy from outside developers, and Jobs initially resisted allowing them," writes Isaacson. "He didn't want outsiders to create applications for the iPhone that could mess it up, infect it with viruses, or pollute its integrity."Hence no external apps for the first iPhone. However, the book explains that behind the scenes, Apple board member Art Levinson and SVP of worldwide product marketing Phil Schiller were pressing Jobs to change his mind."I called him a half dozen times to lobby for the potential of the apps," says Levinson, while Schiller adds that "I couldn't imagine that we would create something as powerful as the iPhone and not empower developers to make lots of apps. I knew customers would love them."Though it is not mentioned in the book, there was pressure from outside too: sources from Apple have told the Guardian that the first request for access to the tools write a third-party app for the iPhone was filed with Apple before the end of Jobs's keynote introducing the iPhone in January 2007.The book claims that Jobs initially "quashed the discussion" to focus on the initial iPhone launch, with Schiller and Levinson both telling Isaacson that it was only once the device was available that Jobs relented."Every time the conversation happened, Steve seemed a little more open," says Levinson, who goes on to describe Apple's approvals policy on the App Store as "an absolutely magical solution that hit the sweet spot. It gave us the benefits of openness while retaining end-to-end control."There is some more background to this in arecent BusinessWeek profileof Apple executive Scott Forstall, which describes the decision Jobs made in 2005 to assign the job of creating the iPhone's software to a team led by Forstall trying to shrink Apple's OS X operating system for a phone, rather than a rival team led by Tony Fadell using the iPod software as its base.According to BusinessWeek, "Jobs preferred the former option [using OSX], since he would then have a mobile operating system he could customize for the many gizmos then on Apple's drawing board".Externally-developed apps may not have been on his agenda in 2005, or even in 2007 when the first iPhone launched, but that decision proved crucial, because apps could thus be written in Objective-C with Apple's existing developer tools.There is also some good stuff in the book on Jobs' negotiations with magazine and newspaper publishers to get them to offer their digital publications as iOS apps. It describes a conversation between Jobs and Isaacson in early 2010 about the New York Times: "One of my personal projects this year, I've decided, is to try and help – whether they want it or not – the Times. I think it's important to the country for them to figure it out," said Jobs.The book describes the arguments between Jobs and publishers as he refused to give them access to the email addresses and credit card information of iTunes customers who subscribed to their apps."I'm not the one who got you into this jam," Jobs told a NYT circulation executive. "You're the ones who've spent the past five years giving away your paper online and not collecting anyone's credit card information."There is also a passage on the back-and-forth with Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes on this issue, with Bewkes telling Jobs of his fears that if Apple builds a "monopoly", the company would come back and tell him that "my magazine shouldn't be $4 a copy but instead should be $1".Interestingly, News Corporation boss Rupert Murchoch – hardly a dove when it comes to business negotiations – appears to have been the most amenable publishing proprietor to Apple's line-in-the-sand negotiating stance."We would prefer to own the subscribers, and we pushed for that," he tells Isaacson. "But Steve wouldn't do a deal on those terms, so I said 'Okay, let's get on with it.' We didn't see any reason to mess around. He wasn't going to bend – and I wouldn't have bent if I were in his position – so I just said yes."Later in the book, Isaacson explains that Jobs was well aware of the controversies around certain apps being rejected from Apple's store, including thesatirical app by political cartoonist Mark Fiore, which was later resubmitted and approved in its original form.Isaacson claims that Jobs called New York Times columnist Tom Friedman to ask him to head an advisory group to draw up guidelines on censorship, but that Friedman's publisher decided this would be a conflict of interest.There is a good quote from board member Al Gore on how issues like app censorship were part of a bigger transition for Apple as its power mounted – a transition that Jobs occasionally struggled with."The context for Apple is changing dramatically," says Gore. "It's not hammer-thrower against Big Brother. Now Apple's big, and people see it as arrogant… He's still adjusting to it. He's better at being the underdog than being a humble giant."
A selection of nine new apps for you today:FanatixUK online ticketing company Tixdaq has a new idea for iPhone: a "fan discovery and group messaging network" called Fanatix. It gets people to check in to live sporting events and gigs – whether there in person or watching on TV – and then finds friends for them to chat with using the iOS iMessage service. Photos and videos can also be shared, with ticketing also (unsurprisingly) a feature.iPhoneTop ElevenMore sport comes with Top Eleven, which started life as a social game on Facebook that has accumulated 3m monthly active players. Now it's available on Android, which enables people to play from their smartphones too. The game itself, developed by Nordeus, is a football management game played over the course of 28-day seasons.AndroidShoutzThe easiest way to grasp new app Shoutz is as being like Twitter, but with video rather than text, complete with its own lingo. "Shoutz is truly the first mobile-to-mobile video network built around its own unique platform," reckons the app's listing. "Users can share, comment, rate and ReShout right from their smartphone."iPhone / AndroidPuzzle Pop – by Duck Duck MooseDeveloper Duck Duck Moose has a strong reputation among parents for its range of kid-apps, and Puzzle Pop looks to continue that trend. It offers a collection of animated puzzles, complete with jazzy covers of famous children's songs.iPhoneExplore VincentExplore Vincent is a new iPad app that wants to get children exploring the life and work of Vincent Van Gogh, with animation and educational games. Developed in the Netherlands, it's available in an English-language version.iPadGertrude McFuzz – Dr. SeussYou'd think Oceanhouse Media would be running out of Dr. Seuss books to turn into apps, but they keep unearthing new ones. Gertrude McFuzz is a short story with characteristic wordplay and illustrations.iPhone / Android3D Solar SystemReason Interactive's 3D Solar System iPhone app id designed to be used with Hasbro's my3D 3D viewing glasses accessory, giving it niche appeal. The idea: see the planets and moons of the Solar System looming out of your iPhone as you fly past in a virtual spaceship.iPhoneSingle Jingles AppFeeling your testicles? There's an app for that. Single Jingles wants to raise awareness of testicular cancer, and the need for young men to regularly self-check. It may be a few seconds not spent playing Angry Birds, but it could save their life.iPhoneSmirnoff CocktailsDiageo has launched an iPhone app for its Smirnoff vodka brand, promising a "hand-picked selection of cocktails" including its own Smirnoff Mule. Cocktails can be chosen by level of mixing expertise, too.iPhone
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft YouTube channel hacked &gt;&gt; GeekWire"Unless this is some elaborate publicity stunt, Microsoft's official YouTube channel appears to have been taken over by someone not affiliated with the company, who has removed all of the videos and posted solicitations for sponsorships, apparently anticipating an influx of traffic as the news spreads." Indeed, they had. But Microsoft got control back. Raises the question: how secure is your YouTube password?Meet ARM's Cortex A15: the future of the iPad, and possibly the Macbook Air &gt;&gt; Wired Cloudline blogReally detailed look at ARM's new Cortex-15 architecture, and also the Apple options relating to it.1 in 4 tablets from last quarter run on Android? Hmmm..... &gt;&gt; Gigaom"First is the definition of market share with respect to tablets sold vs tablets shipped. Apple's figures are tablets sold, which don't include tablets sitting on store shelves, tablets en route to stores or tablets sitting in a warehouse. By comparison, Android's figures are the shipped number of tablets, so any devices sitting on a store shelf actually count, and they shouldn't for market share purposes." And then it turns out that the figures include *shipments* of the Barnes &amp; Noble Nook Color, which most people would call an e-reader. Bear this in mind for a later link..Apple and Nokia Q3 results in the smartphone bloodbath &gt;&gt; Tomi Ahonen"Nokia's smartphone unit generated 130 million Euros of losses (a profit margin ie loss margin of -5.9%). This is clearly bad performance, you can't survive if you produce losses. Nokia was profitable in smartphones as recently as Q1. Elop could have focused on bringing Nokia smartphones back to profits, instead he slashed prices to try to hold onto market share. This is not long-term viable as we know, see Motorola, Palm, etc.. When SonyEricsson and LG went into generating losses, the management immediately acted to try to bring them back to profits. Elop went the other way - he cut his prices - which causes increased losses - in his attempt to hold onto market share. Isn't this exactly the same 'fault' that got the previous Nokia CEO Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo fired? For 'buying' market share? At least OPK was not foolish enough to do it by generating losses - at least during his reign the smartphone unit was safely profitable.."Why I don't use an iPhone &gt;&gt; gdgtPete Rojas makes a good, simple case. Read to the end for his thoughts on tablets too.Android Tablets Gained on IPad in Third Quarter &gt;&gt; BloombergRead carefully: "Sales of tablet computers running Google's Android software rose last quarter at the expense of Apple's iPad, after companies led by Samsung Electronics Co. introduced new models, according to a researcher. "Android-powered tablet computers accounted for 27% of global sales during the three-month period, jumping from 2.3% a year earlier, Strategy Analytics said in a statement today. The iPad's share fell to 67% from 96%." So sales of iPads fell? No, they grew. The market grew by 3.79 times in size from 4.4m to 16.7m, according to Strategy Analytics. In which case iPad sales "fell" from 4.2m to 11.2m - up 2.6 times. Android tablets grew from 100,000 to 5.5m. Basically, companies started selling Android tablets. The story is that the tablet market exploded, and Android tablets are now a part of it. But "at the expense" of Apple? 126% growth?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google is considering providing the finance for the acquisition of Yahoo by another company or group of companies – potentially putting it into direct opposition in a bidding war with search engine rival Microsoft.The shadow manoeuvring to bid for Yahoo, whichfired Carol Bartz, its chief executive of just 18 months, in September is beginning to heat up as Microsoft and a number of private equity companies begin formulating their propositions for the struggling media company.Google, with $42.6bn (£27.4bn) in cash, could afford to buy Yahoo, which has a market value presently of just over $20bn, but it unlikely to make a direct bid for it. There would be regulatory problems with the approach because if it were to take over Yahoo's search business then it would have a stranglehold on that sector in the US beyond its already dominant 65% share: Yahoo has about 15.5% of the sector in the US, with Microsoft's Bing (which powers Yahoo's search) at 14.7%.Bloomberg News reported on Monday that Google's chiefs are still trying to decide whether to aid on one of the bids being cooked up.A Google-backed takeover would ensure that Microsoft could not get control of the media company, which has been struggling with falling advertising revenue and share as rivals such as Facebook capture both attention and advertising. That, in turn, would mean that the Bing search engine which is presently a significant lossmaker for Microsoft would be unable to move into profit in the medium term, and could be shut out of a significant position in the desktop search market. Microsoft is trying to build Bing's share of the mobile search market through deals with Nokia and RIM, but with little impact so far.Microsoft hasrecently been mentioned as a potential backer for a bid for Yahoo, in which it would provide a large chunk of the cash required for the bid, together with a number of other private equity companies. Yahoo's management has instructed Goldman Sachs to investigate potential scenarios to enhance the company's value - which could include a sale or going private.Google is already under regulatory scrutiny from governments around the world. Greg Sterling, an analyst at Opus Research in San Francisco, told Bloomberg: "If competition dissipates or diminishes, then the hand of regulators is strengthened. If competition is diminished or marginalised, then all the arguments about Google being a monopoly ring more true."In June the US Federal Trade Commission began a review of Google's business practices, including search and advertising. The European Union and the state of Texas also have begun investigations of the company's leadership in search and advertising markets.Potential financing by Google for a bid for Yahoo has parallels with the $150m investment that Microsoft made in competitor Apple in 1997 to help preserve competition in the computer market, Sterling said.But a Google bid would trigger regulatory interest. The US government threatened to challenge an earlier proposal by Google to place ads on Yahoo's site, causing Google to abandon the effort in 2008. At the time Microsoft was making a $44.8bn bid for Yahoo which ultimately proved fruitless.Representatives of Yahoo and Google declined to comment.The chief executive of China's Alibaba Group, whose largest shareholder is Yahoo, has also said his business is "very interested" in the Web portal, an arrangement that would help the Chinese company buy back its 43% stake.KKR &amp; Co. and Blackstone Group are among firms weighing an offer for Yahoo, people familiar with the matter said earlier this month. Alibaba has discussed a plan with Silver Lake and Russia's Digital Sky Technologies to make a joint bid, people familiar with the matter have said. Another group interested in an offer includes Providence Equity Partners and former News Corp. executive Peter Chernin, people have said. Google advertising customers are able to buy space on Yahoo sites through Google's Invite Media service, according to the person familiar with Google's deliberations.
Yey, Monday again! What did you get up to this weekend, then?
Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword, the latest title in the legendary action RPG series, is heading to Wii next month. Early reviews suggest we're in for an absolute classic, with Edge awarding it 10/10 in this month's issue.And excitingly, we have interviews lined up TODAY with long-time Zelda producer Eiji Aonuma and esteemed composer Koji Kondo. We're talking to them at 11.30, so quickly – think of your questions and add them to the comments section below! We'll get as many of them as we can to the Nintendo duo.
This is a story about digital Darwinism. Once upon a time, the abiding nightmare of authors and students who used their PCs and laptops to compose books, dissertations and essays was that a random accident – theft of a laptop, perhaps, or a hard-disk crash – would be enough to vaporise years of irreplaceable work. So we all resorted to primitive schemes to protect against that terrible eventuality. In the early days, these took the form of piles of floppy disks stored at other locations; after that, we "burned" the precious files on to blank CDs; later still, we copied them on to USB sticks and flash drives that went in our pockets or on our keyrings; finally, we were even driven to emailing the damned things to ourselves.Then along came an idea that made all these stratagems look, well, clumsy. It was called Dropbox. You logged on to theDropbox site, registered (for free) and downloaded a small program (called a "client") on to your computer. Once installed, this program created a special folder – helpfully labelled "Dropbox" – which appeared on your desktop. From then on, you saved any file that you wanted to back up in your Dropbox folder.So far, so mundane. But even as you continued with your writing, the Dropbox client was busy in the background – uploading the file to your Dropbox in the cloud. This meant that the file was automatically backed up on a distant server, from which it could always be retrieved. So if your laptop was nicked or your hard-drive failed, at least your precious document was safe.There was another neat twist to the concept. If you used several different computers – say at home and at work – you could install Dropbox on them all. And the Dropbox folder on those machines would automatically sync with your folder in the cloud, so the latest versions of your precious files were always available to you. When smartphones and tablet computers arrived, the same facilities were extended to them, too.The best thing of all was that it was free! Well, up to a point: the first 2GB of cloud storage was free; after that, it was $10 a month for up to 50GB of space.You can guess what happened. Millions of users, including this columnist, fell upon Dropbox like ravening wolves. And, as night follows day, it followed that every document we worked on came eventually to be filed in our Dropbox folders, which meant that pretty soon we hit the 2GB barrier.But by then our workflows were so comprehensively constructed around Dropbox that $10 a month seemed a small price to pay for such an efficient, anxiety-reducing service. So we upgraded. As a result, the servicenow has 50 million users, with&nbsp;a&nbsp;new&nbsp;one&nbsp;joining every second.Dropbox is thus a pin-up for the new web-based businesses that emerged after the collapse of the first internet boom. Founded in 2007 by a smart MIT graduate, Drew Houston, with $15,000 in startup funding, it's based around clever, well-written software and a business model that intelligently exploits the"freemium" idea– providing limited but useful services for free while encouraging users to sign up for a premium, fee-paying service. So unlike many of the old dot-com startups, it was earning significant revenues pretty soon after its foundation. It's a real business, in other words.This fact did not escape the late Steve Jobs who, in 2009, summoned the young Mr Houston with a view to acquiring Dropbox. Houston declined the overture, saying that he hoped to build a big company rather than be swallowed up by an established behemoth. Whereupon Jobs smiled his sinister smile, opined that Dropbox was "a feature, not a product" and informed him that Apple would be going after Dropbox's market.What Jobs was getting at is that a feature is something that really belongs, or can easily be incorporated, in something else,rather than something that can stand on its own. On 12 October, Houston discovered what that something else might be. Apple launched itsiCloud servicewhich, the company burbles, "stores your music, photos, documents and more, and wirelessly pushes them to all your devices. Automatic, effortless and seamless – it just works". Just&nbsp;like&nbsp;Dropbox.So here's the story. One minute, you have a beautiful little business with great prospects. You are offered an opportunity to cash out – and incidentally make yourself rich – by selling your baby to a giant company. But you decline the offer and the next day you find that the giant has decided to crunch you underfoot. Suddenly, you're fighting for your life. Welcome to the digital jungle.
There's something faintly amusing about a title collecting retro table top games having an HD tag, butFlick Champions HD(App Store, iPhone/iPad, £1.99, Nawia Games) boasts just that. In crystal-clear high definition, it's a good value collection of eight finger-flicking sports – basketball, football, hockey, tennis, archery, baseball, bowling and American football. Only the first four are available from the off, with the others unlocked as you gain experience. It's simple fun, with static, block-headed players scoring goals with a swipe, or shooting hoops with carefully judged digit precision, but it's perfect for touchscreen devices. It's also a rare chance for some multiplayer fun while sitting at opposite ends of an iPad. A real opponent, actually in the room with you? It doesn't get more HD than that.
First things first: you can play as Captain Haddock. For fans, this already makesThe Adventures of Tintina game of the year contender. Happily, it's also a cut above the average movie tie-in. This isn't immediately apparent from the story mode, which intersperses platforming sequences with a range of variably successful mini-games – waggling a cutlass to repel pirates as an ancestral Haddock is a lark; the aquaplane sequences less so. The real mileage, however, is in Tintin and Haddock mode, which sees one or two players romping through the captain's addled subconscious, collecting costumes and characters. While it's obviously pitched at younger gamers, more able players will enjoy the secrets and surrealistic flourishes. Some bits, such as the confrontation with Bianca Castafiore's disembodied, manically warbling head, seem as much inspired by author Tom McCarthy's psychoanalytic take on Tintin as much as anything Hergé wrote. Unexpectedly good fun.
This autumn/winter developers seem intent on getting players on their feet. More than 10 dance games are due for release – all aiming for the Christmas No 1. WhetherCall of Duty 3can be beaten to the top of the charts is beside the point. For those whose idea of fun gaming involves flailing limbs and bumping into furniture, what matters is choosing the right title. TheJust Danceseries dominates the genre and the third iteration maintains the quality. The emphasis, in both the music selection and relatively simple choreography, is on accessibility. This is a game best enjoyed with friends and most suited to large spaces. The range of multiplayer options is a little measly and those looking for an intricate single-player game might find this title underwhelming. However, across the formats,Just Dance 3is responsive, well-made and perfectly suited to a winter's evening with friends or family.
Just as every England manager is appointed as a reaction to the previous one, so everyPESis a response to the last. Konami tried (and failed) to beat EA'sFifafranchise at its own high-accuracy game in 2010, so this year Konami has gone to the other extreme.PES 2012is deliriously attack-orientated, sacrificing niceties such as realism in favour of constant end-to-end thrills of the most inauthentic kind.That's not to sayPES 2012is without innovation. The intelligence of team-mates is improved, with the tendency for players to flock to the ball replaced by dynamic off-the-ball runs, overlapping full-backs and properly organised defensive units. More emphasis is placed on the right-sided control stick, enabling you to instigate runs and offer support to the player with the ball. ButPES 2012's major failing is a serious one: its physics engine. The movement of the football just doesn't convince – it's so random you expect every kick to be accompanied by the "pang!" noise that comes from whacking the sort of 99p footballs sold in newsagents.The ever-popular Master League and Become a Legend modes are retained, now under the banner of Football Life, and a Club Boss mode has been added, offering the stress of fiscal management without the excitement of&nbsp;playing.
Price £73,430MPG 26.4Top speed 155mphMy wife is at the wheel. I am tired and grumpy, apparently, and need to pull myself together by the time we arrive for dinner with our "unlucky" friends. But I love driving and slaloming BMW's superluxe 6-series through the early-evening traffic would have calmed my frayed nerves. The throb of the convertible's bi-turbocharged 4.4-litre V8 engine would have been pure motoring Mogadon. Pretending to relax is doing the opposite. Each time my wife swings the dream Beemer around a bend I&nbsp;flinch. "Don't flinch," she says. Each time she throws it down a street of tightly parked cars I clench (teeth and buttocks). "Don't clench," she says.  I force my eyes to close.When I next open them she has her make-up bag open in her lap and is adjusting the rearview mirror. I&nbsp;can hardly believe what I am seeing. That afternoon I'd been sent a report by Diamond, the women's car-insurance specialists, which said that a quarter of women apply make-up while driving, with one in 10 actually taking their hands "completely off the wheel" while they do it. And here is my wife risking the bodywork of this beautiful car for thicker lashes. I give in to a full flinching and clenching frenzy… I think I'll drive home, bad mood or not, I say.Since the mid-1970s, BMW has traded under the tagline "the ultimate driving machine". And this 6-series more than lives up to that billing. Touch the ignition button and the huge engine bursts into life with the sort of throaty rumble that has you leaving the door open to let the noise wash over you. The unit produces a colossal 407bhp which will cannonball you to 62mph in 5 seconds and then effortlessly on up to an electronically limited top speed of 155mph (a random-sounding number, but in Europe that's 250kmh). The eight-speed auto box means gear changes are imperceptible; the ride's as smooth as Demi Moore's forehead.As you'd expect from a high-end car by a premium builder at the top of its game, this 6-series is brimming with technical gewgaws, gizmos and gadgetry. A head-up driver display beams information on to the windscreen; there are three adaptive drive settings to dither over, and  F1-style paddle shifts so you can channel your inner Jenson&nbsp;Button. More useful are the parking cameras which create a&nbsp;bird's-eye overview on the foot-wide infotainment screen of you trying to squeeze the big beast into a tiny space – a sort of out-of-body parking experience. But who wants to watch parking when you  can watch TV on the same big screen? I&nbsp;had to pull over at one point to see the end of Wales's rugby world cup dreams, closing the roof to shade out the glare of the autumn sun.It's not all smarty-pants stuff. There's a "why has nobody thought of this" button on the inside of the boot that lets you lock the car before you slam the lid. Simple yet brilliant.You pay for muscle of this calibre. Squeeze the throttle and you feel as if you're torching £20 notes. But you could give your wallet the kiss of life by opting for the twin-turbo six-cylinder 640i which manages 10 miles a gallon more – and only takes 0.7 seconds longer to reach 62mph…And we're home. I wake my wife up. She's had no trouble sleeping.
The Legend Of Zelda, Nintendo's second-biggest videogame series behind that rather popular, plump plumber chap, celebrates its 25th anniversary this year. A multi-layered love letter to dungeon scouring, sword wielding and princess rescuing in an ever-widening land called Hyrule, it's an adventure of escapism, wish-fulfilment and a young boy in green garb coming of age.From the original Legend Of Zelda on the Famicom in 1986 to this year's Legend Of Zelda: Skyward Sword for the Wii, the adventures of Link and Zelda have been played out over 15 titles (and 18 spinoffs and remakes) of role-playing, puzzle-solving, action-packed fun, with 1998's epic Ocarina Of Time on the N64 still regularly holding its own in any "greatest game of all time" debates. The franchise has shifted 60m games and saved a couple of Nintendo's consoles along the way, with its high-water marks influencing not only the way we play games, but how we approach life. The Guide's spent the last two decades and more taking notes …1 Women Rule The WorldPrincess ZeldaLink may be the hero, but the game is named after Zelda. Our green-clad, near-mute elf must silently wonder how many feral scorpions he has to slaughter before he gets top-billing over the "legendary" but rarely seen princess. We bet her trailer is bigger, too.2 No Matter How Hard You Work, Life Remains A LotterySlaving away in the fields chopping grass may get you a few coins, and more skilled labour vanquishing an enchanted spider can earn you a nice blade, but you can never account for those times when you happen across an enormous rupee motherlode in the middle of bloody nowhere. Must fight the urge to blow it all on green hats we don't need and have 'Z E L D A' tattooed on our knuckles.3 There Was Life In The Name 'Zelda' After TerrahawksOnce the Thunderbirds-via-Dark Crystal TV oddity had kids crying into their Ready Brek the world over, it seemed the most heinous of baddie's monickers would be consigned to the scrap heap, alongside "Morag" after poisoning Home &amp; Away and "Adolf" after that incident in Poland. Yet Nintendo's magic has reinvented "Zelda" as angel child of the rich and famous. Well, Robin Williams named his daughter after her anyway.  No sign of any celeb kids called Link. Yet.4 They Really Had It Right In The Old DaysLink's horse EponaWhile Grand Theft Auto delivers an ultra-modern world full of cars, guns and eastern European stereotypes for us to call our own, Zelda's timelessly magical Hyrule is an agriculturalist's dream of galloping horses, bows and arrows, and mead-drinking, pox-free peasants. Evolution is over-rated.5 You Are What You WearBut if only we could breathe underwater just by putting on a blue shirt or make ourselves fireproof by rocking a red one. We're sure Mary Portas is on it.6 Clunk, Click, Every TripRemember to always lock your house when you leave, or some bloke you don't know may come in, rifle through your belongings, steal any cash you've left in a treasure chest and then break your vases. Thanks, Link.7 Shigeru Miyamoto Isn't A One-Trick WonderSuper Mario Bros on Nintendo's NES console rocked entertainment's foundation blocks with a well-aimed headbutt in 1985, but surely it would take a while to match its might? No, it turned out, as the very same developer delivered The Legend Of Zelda the very next year on the same format. A gaming god was born (again, Link, that's Miyamoto, not you).8 Consumerism Is GoodThe Zelda series' core principles are work hard, earn cash money and spend it on weapons and potions to better your chance of nabbing the princess. A western world manifesto reimagined in the east.9 Stealing Is BadThe Goron mask is a recurring feature in ZeldaSure, it was funny to confuse Mabe the Shopkeeper and pilfer his wares. But you weren't so smug when you returned to be zapped by his retail magic and the "Game Over" screen. A strong moral message and a neat trick for all WHSmiths cashiers to work on.10 Don't Mess With ChickensAs the recurring Cucco Revenge Squad confirm, it's just not a good idea on any level.11 Taking Time Out For Yourself Is Reward Within ItselfWell, we could spend days making our way through the perilous cavern dungeon levels to slay Lizalfos and King Dodongo in exchange for Goron's Ruby, but look – some fish! In a pond! Let's catch some! For no reason! For two hours!12 Handheld Consoles Were The FutureZelda was the last of Nintendo's Game &amp; Watch single-game portables to be launched before the firm realised it could refine the format for bigger things. The bigger thing? The Game Boy, which changed gaming and has seen Nintendo alone shift 300 million handhelds of various shapes and sizes since.13 Strong And Silent Types Win The DayIn a game like Fallout 3, if you try and speak to everyone in Megaton they'll look at you like you're some oddball who's been locked away for years in blue pyjamas. In Zelda, wander into town, say nothing, and everyone's tripping over themselves to give you free advice.14 Gambling Doesn't PayThe Legend Of Zelda's Money Making Game is a follow-the-lady-like lesson in futility, where your rupee stash can end in bankruptcy through no fault of your own. Kids: consider this a warning.15 Real Men Choose MonogamyA Link To The Past eraUsually thought of as a Nintendo-only franchise, Link and co actually popped up on the not-long-for-this-world Philips CD-i for three CD-Rom adventures. The Full Motion Video-focused, dialogue-heavy results had them sprinting back to Ninty's cartridges pleading forgiveness. As the old saying goes: if you've got a steak at home, why mess around with a ropey console with excessive loading times?16 If It Ain't Broke, That's The Best Time To Fix ItIn 2002 Zelda was one of the most loved franchises in gaming, with fans just wanting more of the same, only bigger. But instead of releasing a straight sequel to Ocarina Of Time, Nintendo went back to the drawing board, literally, for The Wind Waker, and redrew the polygon princess's next outing in a radical, cel-shaded cartoon style. Teeth were gnashed, fans on forums were furious – and bucketloads were sold.17 All A Small Boy Wants Is New Trainers… or Pegasus Boots, as the Nike Air Max of Hyrule are known. Their go-faster heels have been helping the land's kids escape quicksand and style-based playground bullying since 1991.18 Unless You Fly Business, Travelling Is A Royal Pain In The ArseUnlike some games where you can jump to your favourite levels from a handy home screen, there are no shortcuts in Hyrule, just the long, hard slog of the road, be it by foot or on horseback. You'll never sneer at Premium Economy again.19 Musicians Will Always Be CoolLink plays the Spirit Pipes in DS adventure Spirit TracksGive Link an ocarina to play and his street cred increases exponentially. Before you can say "difficult second album", sales of ocarinas (a small handheld flute-like instrument) in Japan have spiralled and Link is boots-deep in groupies on a 50-day world tour.20 Videogame Music Is A Serious BusinessWe weren't joking about the world tour. Chiptune may have had its day, but the games industry has bigger musical fish to fry. Orchestras are the new soundcards and, having opened Nintendo's keynote presentation at gaming expo E3, the guys behind Play! A Video Game Symphony are now bringing a Proms-like take on Zelda's sweeping scores to London's Hammersmith Apollo this month.21 Experience Is EverythingWant better health, faster  moves and stronger weapon attacks? Only after you've put in the hours, earned the right and levelled up, intoned Zelda II: Adventure Of Link. Words that have stuck with us through the next 20 years of playing RPGs and being stuck in depressing office jobs. Our time will come …22 Get MilkLink's dairy intake comes from Lon Lon Ranch, whose milk can improve health, just like the real thing – but also heal wounds. So either it's laced with something more medicinal, like Anthony Burgess's Moloko, or it's been passed by a lost herd of magical cows. In Hyrule, we wouldn't rule either out.23 Substance Abuse Can Be BeneficialSo many coloured potion vials to drink, so little time.24 The Wii Has Another Christmas Left In ItWith new console Wii U on the horizon, and Microsoft's Kinect stealing gaming's motion-sensing thunder, it's easy to forget there are still games being made for Nintendo's previously pioneering platform. That was, until they announced a new Zelda, Skyward Sword, out this November. Cue thousands of men "mis-placing" their partner's Wii Fit mat and re-learning how to use a Wiimote. (Wii can't wait.)25 Chivalry Is Not DeadWell, the entire series is an ode to a young boy rescuing a young girl, no matter what giant monsters and evil curses stand in his way, after all. The final scene of the last ever Zelda should just be Link holding a door open. To which Zelda turns and asks, "Who are you again?"•The Legend of Zelda 25th Anniversary Symphony Concert Tour is at HMV Hammersmith Apollo, W6, Tuesday,  seezelda-symphony.comfor detailsThe Legend Of Zelda: Skyward Sword is out on Wii on 18 November
Batman: Arkham City, PC, PS3 &amp; XboxBatman: Arkham Asylum was critically acclaimed, won a clutch of awards and sold by the lorryload, making it inevitable that we'd be seeing more of the Dark Knight.This time, the asylum's been extended into an entire walled city in the heart of Gotham, proffering soot-black skyscrapers from which you can swoop and glide. Because Batman is essentially a normal bloke in a suit, gadgets and cunning are at least as important as dexterity in battles against multiple henchmen. Fights are faster and Batman feels even more nimble and non-lethally violent. There's a bewildering array of familiar supervillains and splendid interludes played as Catwoman, along with collectibles, side missions and distractions in a game that oozes the very essence of Batman, from dialogue and character design to the gibbous moon permanently silhouetting its buildings.Warner Bros Interactive, £34.99-£69.99The Adventures Of Tintin, PC, PS3, Wii &amp; XboxThe Adventures Of TintinGames based on blockbuster films normally blow so much of their budget on the licensing agreement that the games themselves can feel like emasculated afterthoughts in an otherwise highly focused commercial process. By contrast, The Adventures Of Tintin: the game displays an unusual level of love for Belgium's most famous fictitious reporter. Tintin looks like a cross-dressing woman throughout, but other than this minor eyebrow-raiser, the game of the film of the books brings its characters to life in ways that are true to the spirit of Tintin (minus any hint of old world racism, naturally). That means fights are a whimsical world of urns on heads, fisticuffs and cuckoo clock sound effects, knocking out naughty miscreants rather than annihilating them with machine gun fire as is more traditional in games. Although not complex, its puzzles and mini games are satisfying and its lovably chunky looks complement a pleasing, family-friendly game that's enhanced rather than compromised by its trademarked source material.Ubisoft, £29.99-£39.99Games newsTeam Fortress 2One of the world's most enduring online shooters,Team Fortress 2has now earned players more than $2m through the creation and sale of equipment in the game's Mann Co shop …Sonyhas sheepishly admitted it's once again been targeted by hackers, who may have made off with 93,000 sets of usernames and passwords. Sony promises to let you know if yours were among them…Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary, the HD remake of the game that made Xbox great will have Kinect interactivity, letting players examine the environment by saying "scan", the results of which will be collated into a library navigable using Minority Report-style gesture control …Finally, in the US, it's been suggested that prospective republican presidential candidateHerman Cain's fiscal policy – blanket 9% taxes - may have been inspired by Sim City 4's default tax settings. He denies this.
It's my mum's birthday, and my role in the festivities&nbsp;is to be chauffeur for the day. I go to pick her up. "Oh, what is it?" she asks. It's the new Peugeot 508, I&nbsp;tell her."These are very big," she says, indicating the wing mirrors. "Like&nbsp;on an aeroplane."I don't think they are especially big. Nor do I think many aeroplanes have wing mirrors. She's talking nonsense. No, she's not senile or anything, she's just not very into cars (or aeroplanes). Her normal question, when I turn up in a new car, is "Does&nbsp;it have central locking?"So what does she make of it? "I&nbsp;don't have much to say about it, I'm afraid," she says. "It's very comfy, lots of legroom..."Poor Mum, she knows I want a&nbsp;passenger's comments, but she doesn't have any. We try the radio, Radio 3. "It sounds very nice, but not as good as theBentley," she says, referring to the last car I took her out in. "That was amazing, like you were in the middle of the orchestra. But don't put that, it's not fair to compare a poor Peugeot with a Bentley." She's right, but I don't think she needs to feel sorry for a major European automotive company.Now we have a new passenger, my brother. He's a bit sniffy about the outside. "It looks like a lot of other cars, doesn't it?" he says. "Could be a Vauxhall from the side." But he, too, says it's comfy and there's plenty of legroom in the back. I must apologise for my family. They're good at some things, but useless at this. Which leaves me, the expert. So here's a rather dull paragraph about what this car is actually like, my expert verdict.The 508 replaces both Peugeot's 407 and 607 ranges; it's more spacious than the former, wieldier than the latter. Mondeo-sized, then. Company car material, for a retail manager in Basingstoke. Will he (I think he is a&nbsp;he) want one, though? Well, he'll be impressed rather than excited by the ride quality and handling. If he's&nbsp;got one of the diesels, as I have (the 140 HP one), he'll be seriously impressed by how far he can go on a&nbsp;tank. He'll find the cabin quiet and smart, comfy with loads of legroom in the back, just like my mum and brother said. But on the downside he'll be slightly bitter and disappointed that it's not a BMW or an Audi. He'll look at it, and although he won't find it unpleasing to his eye, he will also say to himself, "It's&nbsp;a bit anonymous. Looks like so&nbsp;many other cars." Much as my brother did, in fact.Hey, maybe my family isn't so useless at this, after all. As for the stereo? Mum's right about that, too: good, though not as good as the one&nbsp;you get in a Bentley. Oh, and it&nbsp;comes with central locking as standard, Mum, across the range.Peugeot 508 Active 2.0 HDi 140Price£21,050Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption58.9mpgCO2emissions 125g/kmEco rating7In a wordAnonymous
Groupon has set a price for its long-awaited initial public offering, valuing itself at $11.4bn (£7.2bn), in what will be the largest social media float since professional networking siteLinkedIn's May debut.A prospectus filed with the securities and exchange commission  shows the Chicago company will offer 30m shares on Nasdaq, representing 4.7% of its total equity, at between $16 and $18. At the higher price, the float should raise $540m. Groupon will meet investors next week to gauge demand, and the offer price should be finalised on 3 November following a two-week roadshow. Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse are lead underwriters.The price has been revised down from the $750m Groupon said it hoped to raise in aJune prospectus. The company, which sends subscribers a daily email detailing discounted goods and services based on their location and personal preferences, postponed plans for a summer listing after the European debt crisis triggered stock market crashes.The company reported revenue of $430.2m in the three months to the end of September, according to information published on Friday, with quarter-on-quarter revenue growth slowing from 33% in June to 9.6% in the past three months.However operating losses have narrowed, from $101m in the three months to June, to $239,000 in the most recent quarter. The improvement was due to lower marketing expenses in North America, the company said. The last time Groupon reported a quarterly operating profit was in March 2010.The listing will be closely watched by Facebook and games network Zynga, which are considering when to tap the capital markets. Max Wolff at adviser Greencrest Capital said Groupon had become a "battleground" for social media fans and critics: "We still believe the decision to price the offering and start the roadshow will not do much to push back the voices saying they are running out of money."Professional networking site LinkedIn raised $353m when it became the first major social media company to list on Wall Street. The float of less than 10% of its total stock valued the company at $4.25bn. LinkedIn shares are currently trading at $86, well above their $45 offer price.
Portal 2, has taken home top honours at this year's GameMaster Golden Joystick Awards, winning the ultimate game of the year award. Valve's first-person-puzzler saw off some stiff competition for the award, voted for by the public, in the form of Blizzard's fantastic strategy game, Starcraft, and the biggest-selling game of last year, Call Of Duty: Black Ops.Now in its 29th year, the Golden Joysticks is the largest publicly-voted game awards in the world, with this year's awards attracted a whopping 2.06m votes.Other highlights at this year's ceremony included the award for outstanding conribution, which went to Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog franchise, and the one-to-watch award which was picked up by Bethesda's hotly anticipated fantasy epic, Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. Innovation of the year went to the Nintendo 3DS handheld console.The winners in fullMobile game of the year in association with MSNAngry Birds Rio (Chillingo)Roleplay game of the year in association with EdgeFallout New Vegas (Bethesda Softworks)Massively multiplayer online game of the year in association with PC GamerWorld of Warcraft (Blizzard Entertainment)Fighting game of the year in association with Official Nintendo MagazineMortal Kombat (Warner Bros Interactive)Racing game of the year in association with GamesRadar.comGran Turismo 5 (Sony Computer Entertainment)Sports game of the year in association with Zavvi.comFIFA 12 (EA Sports)Strategy game of the year in association with Official Xbox MagazineStarcraft II: Wings of Liberty (Blizzard Entertainment)Music game of the year in association with Habbo.comGuitar Hero: Warriors of Rock (Activision)Free-to-play game of the year in association with CVG.co.ukLeague of Legends (Riot Games)Downloadable game of the year in association with Virgin MediaMinecraft (Mojang)Shooter game of the year in association with Turtle BeachCall of Duty: Black Ops (Activision)One to watch award in association with ShortlistElder Scrolls V: Skyrim (Bethesda Softworks)Innovation of the yearNintendo 3DSOutstanding contributionSonic The Hedgehog (Sega)Ultimate game of the year in association with AlienwarePortal 2 (Valve Corporation)
In case you haven't already watched this a hundred times, here's the new trailer for Battlefield 3, calculated to get us excited about the single-player campaign as well as the multiplayer content. Lot's of intriguing stuff in here, so have a look and let us know what you think.
Growing up, we were all supposed to be in the Asterix or Tintin camp, although by the age of eight, thanks to the judicious influence of an older cousin, I was already engrossed in Daredevil and Strontium Dog. My first memories of the Belgian reporter are the animated cartoon series, with its ominous voice-over introduction. "Herge's adventures of Tin… Tin!" the narrator yelled. At which point I would invariably switchover.As an adult, I have come to appreciate Herge's deft artistry and the subtextual richness of his globetrotting tales – and although neither of these qualities are really evidenced here, this is an entertaining video game interpretation, with pacy action, detailed environments, and subtly caricatured baddies. Ubisoft Montpellier is after all the workplace of the publisher's legendary designer Michel Ancel, the creator of Rayman, and what he doesn't know about bringing life and style to a 2D platforming environment probably isn't worth remembering.As with the forthcoming film, Ubisoft's Adventures of Tintin, combines three of the original stories – The Crab with the Golden Claws, The Secret of the Unicorn and Red Rackham's Treasure – into one narrative. Tintin runs, leaps and puzzles his way through a series of well-drawn environments from mansions and Moroccan palaces to ships and hidden coastal caves.The lead character is slickly athletic able to swing along monkey bars, push and pull levers and reach higher levels by leaping between walls in narrow shafts. These moves are intuitive and easy to access, resulting in lusciously smooth movement that recalls the original Prince of Persia title. Enemies can be dealt with via a one-button melee system, or knocked over by throwing objects such as bouncing balls and tin pots. Amusingly, your victims are only ever stunned – they stagger about and collapse accompanied by cartoon-style bird tweets and cuckoo clock noises.The difficultly level – for a game aimed at children and possibly Herge fans who don't often play console titles – is perfectly judged. The environmental puzzles are well sign-posted and logical, checkpoints are tightly placed, and the occasional end-of-level boss baddies go out of their way to guide you through in one piece. There are little interface diversions such as underwater dives and flying sequences where you're lifted into the air by a friendly parrot, and they work well within the convincing 2D realms.The game is much less assured, however, in the sections where we breakout of the platform environments. There are 3D exploration sections where the camera is fixed Resident Evil-style and you're often forced into situations where you can barely navigate without guessing the designer's intent. And there are unsatisfying mini-games where you and Captain Haddock (a regular sidekick through the game) need to guide a plane through storm clouds or drive a motorbike and sidecar through the desert while shooting at enemies. Even worse are the short sequences where you flashback to Haddock's ancestor, the captain of the Unicorn ship, who indulges in annoyingly indefinite sword fights with pirates. The controls are awkward and the objectives unclear – it just feels like unnecessary padding.Beyond the main campaign, there some nice bonus features including a co-op mode in which players work together to beat a series of platform challenges, earning money to spend on new outfits and extras. Again, the difficult level is cleverly judged and the controls simple and approachable. There is also Kinect compatibility and stereoscopic 3D support, both of which function well for fans of these additions.Slight and stuttering at times, the Adventures of Tintin is by no means a classic platformer, but it is filled with evocative scenes and certainly communicates the mystery and worldly atmosphere Herge packed into his pages. In households with two or more generations of Tintin fanatics, this will be a lovely way to idle away a winter weekend together.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Nokia, the world's biggest phone manufacturer by volume, is getting ready to unveil three smartphone handsets at its annual trade show in London next week, according to leaked details.The Finnish group has seen worldwide smartphone sales collapse this year after ceding ground in the race to Apple and the Android community, and is pinning its hopes for a comeback on its decision announced in February toadopt Microsoft's Windows Phoneoperating system.Its first Windows handsets, believed to be called the Nokia 800, the Ace and the Sabre, will go on show next Wednesday and are likely to be available in the shops in mid-November, in time for the Christmas market.The Nokia 800, dubbed the SeaRay, will come in a pink, light blue or black casing according topress shotsleaked this week. It will have a curved glass 3.7in screen, and an eight-megapixel camera. Its body is based on the Nokia N9 smartphone, which wasreleased in a limited number of countries earlier this year, but not in the UK or United States.The Sabre looks more like the iPhone, with a 3.5in screen surrounded by a white frame and a five-megapixel camera. According to Pocketnow.com, which published the first photos of the handset, it will retail at between £260 and £300 without a SIM card and unlocked.The third handset, the Ace, appears to be designed for business users. It is the only new device with a keyboard, which is hidden behind a slide screen, and the casing is black with silver detailing. According toTechWith,it has an eight-megapixel camera.Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop said on Thursday as the company announced its quarterly results that he was encouraged by its progress with Windows Phone and confirmed that "we look forward to bringing the experience to consumers in select countries later this quarter". A wider release is planned for 2012.The current phones will use Mango, the codename for Windows Phone version 7.5, which Nokia was not able to influence. The manufacturer will have a say in the design of the next iteration, codenamed Apollo, which is expected to be released in 2012.Competition for the attention of Christmas shoppers will be fierce. This week Motorola unveiled its latest Android operated handset, theDroid Razr, andSamsung showed off its Galaxy Nexus, which also runs on Android. They both compete with Apple's iPhone 4S, which has been on sale since Friday last week andshifted 4m units in its first three days.
You may have noticed that Windows Mobile is a dead platform. Microsoft doesn't talk about it, and if you were to go to your IT department and ask them to source a Windows Mobile phone for you so that you could access your email and web stuff outside the office they'd probably look at you a bit funny, and then they might say slowly and with careful emphasis "Do you mean WindowsPhone?"No, you don't. You mean Windows Mobile. What do you mean, nobody sells it? Motorola hasthis one. OK, that's about it. The other few million Windows Mobile units out there are dead devices walking - truly, they're in zombie-land.And now here's the strange thing: Microsoft, the company which knows better than anyone how to support developers and platforms and apps, has created the perfect conditions in which anyone who would once have thought about developing something for Windows Mobile will now find themselves driven towards doing it on Android.How could this happen? Well, let's rewind a little bit.I'll get my coat …The problem with being in the IT industry is that it moves so fast that what seems like a really strong business proposition one year may not be so the next year. A good example is when the market changes underneath you and the world no longer needs your product (RIM, I'm looking at you). But there are some things that are reliable, and one of the things that you can rely on if you're a Microsoft shop is that Microsoft will look after you.It's well understood that Microsoft's power in the market comes from the availability of applications. The more apps a platform has, the easier it is to for the user to choose it over a competitor. (For a modern equivalent of this, consider devices that compete with iPad - try finding apps to do a specific business task for an Android-based tablet and see how far you get.) To get apps you need to be nice to developers, and Microsoft knows how to be nice to developers in a way that no other single vendor does. (For example, here'sdetails on the various programmes Microsoft do for developers.)The current world view of mobile is that it's all hip and groovy and is the place all the cool kids hang out. That ignores the fact that since 2003 it's been possible to build some pretty cool line-of-business (LOB) applications using what used to be called Windows Mobile.How do you build a solution for Windows Mobile?Windows Mobile development has been supported by the.NET Compact Frameworksince 2002. For the uninitiated, Windows Mobile is a cut-down version of Windows CE plus extra bits that make it possible to work as a smartphone. You can put the core Windows CE, theoretically, into anything, and it forms one of the strands ofWindows Embedded.So the general idea is that if you want to build a mobile solution you will either base it on Windows CE and get your own hardware from somewhere, or you'll base it on Windows Mobile and ask the customer to buy their own hardware, i.e. a smartphone. Remember, this is for LOB work, where you're producing specific software for the customer which they can't (yet?) find on the iOS App Store or Android Market.If you're going down the self-sourced hardware route, you'll either produce plans and ask a factory, typically in China, to custom build it for you. If you want to spend one-tenth of the cost, you'll ask the same factory to give you a batch of off-the-shelf units that they have designed. You can then install your own software and ship it. However, neither route is what you would call cheap. Although the units typically are very cheap (think a quarter of the cost of an iPad for a unit with a five-inch screen), the minimum order quantities, together with the lack of ability to run a just-in-time inventory, will tie up serious amounts of cash.To take the hardware issue out of the equation, many people building mobile solutions would then turn to building solutions on Windows Mobile and asking the customers to provide the hardware themselves, which would typically mean the customer going to Vodafone, O2, whoever and buying a bunch of Windows Mobile-based phones. You can then come along and deploy your application on it. Although no one has really everlovedthese phones it worked well enough for a decent sized market of line-of-business apps to grow up around Windows Mobile.All new, all improvedThe problem for Microsoft with Windows Mobile is that nowadays, trying to sell a consumer a Windows Mobile phone when they could have an iPhone or Android phone is like trying to sell a Fiesta to a man with seven Ferraris.The problem with Windows Mobile was that it's very "Microsoft thinking" - a common trap all software companies fall into, where they see everything as a nail that can be hit with their particular hammer. Windows Mobile was about shoehorning Windows UI metaphors into a small box that required the user to peck around at tiny buttons using a stylus. Apple's iPhone, on the other hand, was all about just making a really good phone and -ta-da!- was successful in a way that Windows Mobile could only dream of. (In similar vein, Android's developers were able to make it enough of a fast follower that they could abandon its  BlackBerry-style beginnings and turn it into an iPhone-clone as shown inthis forum post.)Microsoft decided a couple of years ago that Windows Mobile was essentially too old to be retooled into something that would behave like an iPhone. (I'm not sure this was entirely true: the HTC Sense UI layer features on their Android phones did get ported to Windows Mobile and worked pretty well.) The decision was made to bin Windows CE. At a stroke that killed off the market for people shipping Windows Mobile LOB apps.I'm not sure this would have happened on Bill Gates's watch. Being a programmer at heart, he understood the relationship with developers far better than Steve Ballmer, who's a sales guy, does; I suspect the decision to cancel Windows Mobile would have been vetoed from the top had he had the power. (Here's an All Thing D article from 2008 where Bill admits he can'tveto Steve's decisions.)Also, this shows some really flawed thinking in Redmond. With Windows Embedded, they kept the Windows CE track going and renamed it "Windows Compact". The current version - Windows Embedded Compact 7 - has asupport life of 10 years. This means that you can go to your factory in China and ask them to build bespoke Windows CE-based devices for you until 2021. That's lovely if you have a virtually unlimited budget - but most SME's building Windows Mobile apps do not. Only the very largest players can play this game. Microsoft just did not understand the impact cancelling Windows Mobile would have on developers.OK, so what about off-the-shelf Windows CE-based kit? Again, the factories in China chase money, and do so brilliantly. They know that people are buying Apple products like crazy. They can't build Apple products. But -lightbulb!-  they can build Android products. Android is free (assuming you can negotiate thepatent thicket, which we'll come to in a moment) so now the hundreds of factories that used to build myriad Windows CE product lines each are now building Android kit (with one or two building Windows CE kit).What to do?If the solution that you build requires a custom chassis, you're going to have to get your software running on Android, and you're going to have to go to China, which is probably where you're going to buy your kit from, because that's the only game in town.If your solution is more "take a mobile phone, run our stuff on it", you've got three options, if you ignore BlackBerry (and my recommendation is to ignore BlackBerry - unless you're building something for the "yoof", in which case move to BlackBerry and wait a year before you have to move it again).Doing LOB on iPhone is a pain because you can't control the release channel. Software has to go through vetting in their App Store, a process which takes multiple days. If you've managed to get a bug into the field that's stopping your customer's people from getting work done, that's brown trousers time. (Although apparently we do live in a world where you can take down a core service for three days andget away with bunging your users a bunch of apps.) iPhone is also unattractive if the ultimate end-user is a technician of some sort, as they're expensive and fragile.Windows Phone is also a pain because no one has them and no one (yet) wants to buy them. I believe this will improve when Windows 8 hits the market next year, but until then it's difficult to pitch to customers. Plus you would think migrating software and apps from Windows Mobile to Windows Phone would be easy. It's not, because of the radically different Silverlight-based user interface model. Windows Mobile is .NET-based and Java-esque.Which, strangely, brings us to Android. Oddly, because Android is a bit "happily slapped together by geeks" and based in Java it is actually quite similar in structure to how we built Windows Mobile apps! It turns out that moving from one to the other isn't actually that horrendous. So there you have it: if you were thinking about developing an LOB app for a custom Windows Mobile device using Microsoft's tools, it turns out that the correct answer today is to develop that same LOB app for Android, using Google's tools (of course).And it's free! Well, maybe not. Remember the patent thicket stuff above? Microsoft is getting a lot heavier with businesses which build Android kit. There's a list as long as your arm of companies which have wound up paying it a per-device patent licensing fee for using Android, and if you start shipping kit to a customer then it's quite possible that Microsoft will come after you for that fee.Nothing's ever easy, is it?Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer andauthorbased in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
Steve Jobs regretted his decision to delay having potentially life-saving surgery for his pancreatic cancer, his biographer has revealed.After being diagnosed with the cancer in 2004, Jobs embarked on a series of alternative therapies including spiritual healing, said Walter Isaacson, author of the upcoming biography Steve Jobs.Despite pleas from his family to have surgery, Jobs initially refused, Isaacson said, in an interview for CBS News 60 Minutes to be broadcast on Sunday.The co-founder of Apple, who died this month after a long battle with the disease, had been told he had a very slow growing type of pancreatic cancer, and that his was one of the 5% "that can actually be cured".Isaacson said that Jobs, after his diagnosis, "tries to treat it with diet, he goes to spiritualists, he goes through various ways of doing it macrobiotically – and he doesn't get an operation."Asked why not, Isaacson told CBS: "I've asked him that and he said: 'I didn't want my body to be opened, I didn't want to be violated in that way.' He's regretful about it."Interviewer Steve Kroft asked why "such a smart man could do such as stupid thing". Isaacson said: "I think he kind of felt: if you ignore something you don't want to exist, you can have magical thinking. It had worked for him in the past. He'd regret it."His wife, Laurene, and others around Jobs convinced him to "quit trying to treat it with all these roots and vegetables and things" and have the surgery nine months later.But when he finally had the operation it may have been too late, said Isaacson, as the cancer had already spread to the tissues surrounding the pancreas.After the surgery, Jobs told his employers but played down the seriousness of his condition.A piece on CBS News website said the interview covers "several of the best stories from the biography, including the fact that Jobs had actually met the man who turned out to be his biological father before he knew who he was."They also talk about Jobs' disdain for excess consumerism. In a taped conversation, he tells Isaacson how he saw Apple staffers turn into "bizarro people" by the riches the Apple stock offering created, it said.
My name is Jack and I'm an addict.It's taken a long time for me to be able to admit that to myself, let alone to anyone else, but it's the truth. Nine months I've been dry, but now I'm off the wagon again. Every time I stop I tell myself it'll be the last time – but it never is. I just have to accept it. Playing Football Manager will be something I do for as long as I live.The thing is, over the past few years I've had reasons to be optimistic about my recovery. The series, I felt, was losing it's addictive potency. Its simplistic, wish-fulfilling appeal. They kept watering down that pure hit of football management role-play with more and more unnecessary ingredients. Press conferences. Match preparation training. Agent conversations. They needed new hooks to keep people buying – I understood that – and, of course, we did, in our thousands. But if you got any group of CM veterans together it wouldn't more than take five minutes for them to start reminiscing about the good old days when you could skim through a season in an afternoon. Win the Champions League with Plymouth using a team of Swedish under-21s. Somewhere along the line, we felt, football management sims had lost their heart.But now along comes Football Manager 2012 and I'm in as deep as I ever was. I'm about to start my third season with Tonbridge Angels. Even now, as I write this, I can feel the itch. Just one more game – two, perhaps? Three, tops. Then I'll write another paragraph.The strangest thing of all is that this return to form, and I think I can safely call it that, comes from an iteration perhaps only 5% different from its predecessor. But a critical five.For starters, the dreaded "match preparation" screen, such an unwanted hassle from last year's edition, has now been smoothly integrated alongside your team's tactics and lineup selection. What was once a chore now makes sense and is much easier to manage. Your assistant will let you know if you're getting it right – and in general he'll be much more helpful then ever before regarding the game's more complex features. A comprehensive tutorial is also thrown in for the first time, for those brand new to the series.The blurb on the box speaks of an "adaptive layout system" – one of those snazzy marketing terms that sounds impressive but actually conveys very little. But it is this that's at the heart of what makes FM2012 great. There's more information on each screen, and all the different facets of running the club day-to-day – from training to transfers – are much better integrated. It might not sound thrilling, but, put simply, there's less clicking, less dipping in and out of different screens – a better flow, if you will, to your weekly activities. And it all makes for a more immersive experience than we've had for years.You can also now add another league to your save game at any point – a long-awaited improvement, especially with Conference South budgets to spend on RAM. There's something strangely appealing about upping sticks and heading to the Swiss league after losing in the League Two playoffs; a true Roy Hodgson career path is available to many for the first time. The 3D match engine is also improved but, let's face it, if you care much about that you're probably playing the wrong game.My favourite tweak however, and one I was pretty cynical about when I read previews of the game, is the improved team talks. You can now address your squad in different tones of voice, and the last thing I wanted, I thought, was more variables which would minutely affect the performance of my team. But the critical part of this new team talk system is the fact that you now get immediate feedback from your players – a simple red or green and a sentence to explain their negative or positive reaction.Picking the right words at the right time, and sending your lads out suitably motivated for a match quickly becomes one of the most enjoyable aspects of the game. Knowing when to throw tea cups and when to put the proverbial arm around the shoulder feels much more like football management than changing the amount of pressing your right-back is doing by 5%.Those tiny variables are still there, running beneath the surface. But they've been hidden an away to such an extent that you can trick yourself that things are as simple as they were ten years ago once again. Perhaps that's all I ever wanted. The press conferences are still an annoyance – just give moderate responses to every question or you'll nark off your squad – but this is one small niggle in a game and have, and will continue to, thoroughly enjoy.So what is there to get excited about, really? Slightly less clicking? A couple of new features? It doesn't seem like much. But somehow they've got the balance just right again. Essentially, you feel more like you're a manager than ever before.And that's the drug, isn't it? That's the fix. Some nights it's nice to be Batman. Others it's nice to be Andre Villas-Boas. A world I can control, one where a small Kentish team can win the Blue Square South and FA Trophy in their first season, is one I like to play in. Perhaps my recovery shouldn't involve weaning myself off the game. Perhaps my recovery should simply involve realising that everyone needs a little escapism now and then.
Yeah, that Björk app again. The Biophilia project has beencovered at lengthby The Guardian, but her app-album remains the subject of intense interest from musicians, record labels and app developers alike.That was certainly the case at the Amsterdam Dance Event conference, where Björk's collaborator on Biophilia, Scott Snibbe, gave a keynote speech setting it in the wider context of his two decades working on interactive music projects.That's an important thing about Biophilia: it builds on a lot of the work Snibbe was doing in the days when the things people do in apps now required $70,000-worth of specialist equipment to run.He's making the direct link between then and now, for example with plans to release an iOS app in November based on Motion Phone, a piece of software designed to let two people perform an electronic music duet that was shown at the SIGGRAPH conference in 1995.Snibbe's past projects also include customising console controllers to control generative music software,"The challenge was to find some way of distributing this," he said. "We made the prototypes, and tried talking to Sony to get a video-game distribution deal, but all that stuff fell through at the time. We were trying to find creative, open-ended ways to interact with music that weren't turning it into a game. Guitar Hero pigeonholed music into the same idiom as a normal game, trying to get a score. You don't get a score using Pro Tools, right?"Snibbe and his collaborator Lukas Girling were, as you might expect, pretty excited when Apple released its first iPad: a device capable not only of running this kind of software, but providing a built-in distribution channel to get it out to other people."We almost had a heart attack out of excitement that our lives hadn't been lived in vain!" he said. "There was suddenly a way to distribute this type of work."Cue the release of iOS apps like Oscilloscoop and Bubble Harp, which swiftly attracted attention from musicians looking for creative music apps on their iPads. Not that this was Snibbe's original intention."We were trying to reach a mainstream audience with these: people who have never had that experience of creating music on their own," he said. "It was a surprise that so many professional musicians wanted to use these apps, and what we've been working on in the last few months is making this a professional tool too."With the Biophilia app now complete, Snibbe has been focusing on adding professional features to his previous apps, although he said that he is intent on ensuring they continue to straddle that boundary between amateur musicmakers and professionals.In their existing form, they caught the attention of Björk in the early stages of recording Biophilia, at a time when she was already using touchscreen instruments to compose and record, as well as some custom-designed devices using gestures and even console controllers.No wonder she hit it off with Snibbe, once the decision had been made to make Biophilia an app, rather than Björk's original idea of making it a touring exhibition with a house where every room would contain a song. After that idea was shelved, there was talk of making it an iMax film with director Michel Gondry, but that too fell by the wayside."When the iPad came out, she saw myself and a couple of other interactive artists and developers creating these naturalistic music apps, and invited us to come and work with her on the project," said Snibbe. "Biophilia is the first app album that's ever been made. An individual app element corresponds to every song."From the tunnel racing of Crystalline to the cell tapping in Virus and lightning drawing of Thunderbolt, the app deserves its talked-about status: it's creative, fun and… educational? Snibbe admitted that he "hates that word – it usually means boring", but pointed to Virus as an example of a musical experience that subtly teaches people how viruses work."There's nothing more interesting than our universe and its structure in all forms, but our schools manage to make almost anything boring: even music or science," he said.Scott Snibbe gave his keynote speech at the Amsterdam Dance EventAfter showing Biophilia to the ADE audience, Snibbe talked engagingly about its relationship to the actual music, and the wider issues about the potential of apps for musicians."This isn't an add-on to the audio album. The album was conceived as this fully interactive project, and this is the strongest expression of it," he said, before drawing a direct link between the Biophilia app, and the days when most albums were listened to on vinyl, which necessitated listening to them in a fixed location on a turntable."You'd often sit on the carpet and let the whole thing wash over you while looking at the liner notes and artwork: it was a complete, immersive, sensory experience," he said. "That was the falling in love stage with the music, but I'm sad to say many of us may not have felt it in a really long time."Snibbe thinks that one of the downsides to the digitisation of music is that this falling in love stage has turned into a "casual relationship", where people skip around albums, or listen to songs while walking, travelling and doing other things."You miss that falling in love period, and go immediately to the 'brushing your teeth together in the bathroom phase'," he said. "But an app can demand all of your senses and attention at once. That's something exciting for musicians. A lot of them lament the demise of the album experience due to digital distribution. But one thing about the app-album is it reclaims people's attention for an entire album."Does music need to be interactive, though? One criticism of Biophilia has been the expectation that people will be interactive, rather than simply listening to the music itself.Snibbe's argument is that music being non-interactive was a phenomenon of the recorded music era. He pointed out that in the 19th century, sheet music was "the killer app" – people bought it, took it home and then played songs with whatever instruments they had to hand."If the era of pre-recorded media lasted from 1930 to 2010, we may be entering the interactive age of media now, the age of interactivity," said Snibbe. "We may look back at it as just a blip in history, when due to technology limitations, music, film and other entertainment experiences were only one-way."When fielding audience questions, Snibbe was asked about the future for music apps. He'd like Apple to put a proper 3D camera into the iPad to enable Kinect-like features for people to "use your whole body in space to interact with these pieces", but otherwise said that he feels more of a sense of freedom that there's finally a category of devices to distribute his ideas from the last 20-25 years of research projects.He also heaped praise on Björk as a collaborator, saying their initial meeting lasted for six hours as she explained every song on Biophilia and the story behind it, as well as her vision for how they might work on visual experiences."She had very specific ideas about the interactivity with the music," he said. "80% or 90% of this is Björk's vision, but she's so gentle in the way she communicates it. She's not at all a tyrant. It took me a while to realise that when she says 'Let me think about it', it means 'HELL no!'"Snibbe admitted that Biophilia would have been "very expensive" as a work-for-hire project. However, the decision to make it a joint venture between Björk, his company and label One Little Indian mitigated that. No sales figures have been announced for the app so far, although it is still early days, given that all the track-apps have only been available for a matter of weeks.Can something like Biophilia be suitable for more artists, given that expense? Snibbe said that he thinks creatively, it's well suited to musicians with an artistic background or a good visual sense - whether for videos or live sets. "Most musicians don't just want to create a one-dimensional stream of sound as their final artwork," he said."Maybe nine out of ten artists have an audiovisual vision for their work… But few artists are creating concept albums, and that's what it's best suited for: where the whole album has some coherent structure. Even for major artists, that might only be one or two albums in their career: the Dark Side Of The Moons or Sergeant Peppers – albums with strong visual and conceptual components."Snibbe added that despite the expense of creating Biophilia, "if it's financially successful, there'll be a huge rush towards it" from other artists.
A selection of 13 apps for you today:Absolute 80s RemixerAbsolute Radio wants to get its listeners remixing a bunch of classic 1980s songs with its new iPhone app. Produced with Bounce Mobile using the latter's Fireplayer platform, it includes tracks from ABC, Katrina &amp; The Waves, Dead Or Alive, Howard Jones and Wang Chung. Oh, and a specially re-recorded version of 19 by Paul Hardcastle. Controls enable people to monkey about with the songs as they play, then share the results on Facebook.iPhoneOpinionaidedQuestions and answers app Opinionaided has been ported from iPhone to Android, enabling people to ask for advice on the go. That's anything from posting a picture of clothes when trying them on to see if they fit well, through to romance advice, sporting debates and "Pink shirts for guys, in or out?".AndroidBatman Arkham City Official Map AppDorling Kindersley is capitalising on the release of the new Batman Arkham City console game with an officially-licensed map app for iOS. It claims to be "the perfect digital companion" for the game, with scrollable, zoomable maps and locations for all the collectible items.iPhone / iPadThe Pale: I Woke Up And I Was GoneIrish band The Pale have made an iPhone app that's much more interesting than the standard promotional apps that many artists have released. It's a "musical walking tour" of Dublin, linking the 12 songs on the band's new album with specific places around the city. "Every location features a unique live performance by the band in that location, as well as insights, interviews and reviews of the places they visit," explains its listing, promising around three hours of tour.iPhoneDK Pregnancy Day by Day AppAnother Dorling Kindersley app, this is aimed at pregnant women, showing them what's happening to their body and baby every day during their pregnancy. That includes photos, 3D scans and interactive illustrations: more than 1,000 pages of content and 750 images in all. Dads and birthing partner checklists are also included.iPhoneSkinvadersAugmented reality company Total Immersion is showing off its new AR platform with a game, Skinvaders. Point your camera at someone's face, then fend off a bunch of virtual aliens who appear to be lurking inside that person's brain.iPhone / iPadRaOneRaOne is a big deal in India and beyond: it's apparently one of the biggest Bollywood films of 2011. It also has an arcade game out on iOS, based on the movie's hero who can "solidify electricity and use it to bring down any form of enemy". Which is nice.iPhone / iPadAvoid EliteOriginally released in the Xbox Live Indie Games store, Avoid has made the leap to Android, in a version optimised for Sony Ericsson's Xperia Play. It sees you dodging blocks while collecting power-ups.AndroidBubble Bash 2Gameloft's fun Puzzle Bobble clone has been released as a free download on BlackBerry, as part of RIM's apology to people for its recent service outage.BlackBerryLiveshoutLiveshout is the latest app designed to help people record and share audio clips wherever they are. "The app is designed for locative media, sound and transmission art practitioners as well as amateur broadcasters," explains its App Store listing. "Stream live soundwalks with high quality audio, collect multiple audio live streams for concert presentation or recording, use it as a baby monitor and much more…"iPhoneBarcelona En GòticBarcelona Media has launched this polished iPad app offering a 3D tour around Barcelona's gothic and neo-gothic buildings. It's part of a wider initiative to use the technology of games to explore the city.iPadMobyAndroid app Moby is the latest app looking to help people share their location privately with friends and family. It includes controls to ensure locations are only shared with specific contacts, although for now it's only in the US and Canada. The app is already available on iPhone and BlackBerry.AndroidUFC Sports BarsThis app is only useful in the US and Canada, but it's an interesting move for brawling sports body Ultumate Fighting Championship. The app is all about finding sports bars showing UFC matches. You can imagine a similar idea working for Sky in the UK for football.iPhone
[This is the second part of our Modern Warfare 3 story. If you haven't read part one yet, it'shere]The narrative inconsistencies of Modern Warfare 2 have been tackled. That was a message Sledgehammer and Infinity Ward were keen to get across during our visit to their studios. MW3 spans the globe, but its character list has been reduced and a clearer throughline has emerged. Importantly, too, there will be conclusions to all the sub-plots and intrigues that have developed through the previous two titles.But what about some of the other criticisms of the CoD family? There have always been complaints about linearity, with the series typically bundled into the derisively named 'corridor shooter' genre. Bret Robbins, creative director at Sledgehammer counters this:"When I think about rules of the franchise from a design perspective, we always want to keep the player engaged, to give them moment to moment choices. We try to build our combat areas in a way that there are options. You can figure out the flanking routes, you can attempt a direct assault, you can hang back … the AI is very good at responding to those types of tactics. We describe it as 'wide linear' – you're always moving forward but the combat has to feel organic. If you die and start again, you have to feel like you have options."Sledgehammer co-founder Michael Condrey picks up on the theme. "When you play the Hamburg mission, you'll see it's on this vast wide open beach and you can work your way down different routes. Eventually we funnel you to a specific point to get the story going – it's not an MMO!" Rubin also talks about the Paris levels; there are routes along the streets or through blasted shop fronts; dozens of skirmish points can be avoided if the correct lines are taken.The Iron Lady level gives players the chance to provide cannon fire from an AC-130One element that isn't being contested is the familiar structure. Like its predecessors, MW3 is split between major battle set-pieces and quieter spec-ops missions. The former are mostly experienced through the eyes of US Delta Force operative Derek "Frost" Westbrook, while the latter are handled by Taskforce 141, led by John Price.There are also re-visits of familiar Modern Warfare themes. One mission, Iron Lady, is a destructive AC-130 attack on the centre of Paris, requiring the player to take out enemy troops and tanks from above using 105mm and 40mm guns. It is, of course, the spiritual successor to the Death From Above level from the original Modern Warfare. This time, however, the flight action is intercut more closely with a concurrent ground mission, the player swapping perspectives throughout. It ends in a huge gunfight amid the wrecked Corinthian pillars of the US embassy. Executive producer, Mark Rubin, hinted to me that there's also a fresh take on the classic Modern Warfare sniper mission, All Ghillied Up, but this one will take advantage of the more complex and crowded urban locations."The levels are bigger than anything we've tried before," says Rubin. "I mean we're barely,barelyfitting on the disc – we're within a few kilobytes. It's kind of scary. For a while we were way over, we thought we were never going to make it fit. Mostly it's been about cutting back on art assets. Let's say, at one stage we had 15 different types of potted plants in the game – well, now we have 12! One of the biggest things we did was roll our own compression algorithm. We saved 180MB just by taking the textures we had and compressing them through that. Finally it was enough to get us on the disc."The sense of constant budgeting permeates the project. Zach Volker, Infinity Ward's lead animator says the team rejected using a physics-based procedural animation system such as Euphoria, because it would be too computationally expensive. Instead they've increased the variety of animations crafted in the art package Maya."We compress our animations well and they take up very little space," says Volker. "Every new animation adds a couple of kilobytes.  However, if we wanted the coders to develop a new inverse kinematics system for us so the characters' feet always lined up to match the gradient of any slope they're on, we'd say, 'okay, it's going to take this much horsepower from the engine, do we all feel it's worth it?' Those types of decisions are based on the overall direction of the game. If the missions are going to feature lots more slopes, we'll take up that technology. Design drives everything."World at warWhat isn't constrained, of course, is the globetrotting expanse of the game. Modern Warfare 3 kicks off mere hours after the previous title, with Washington reclaimed, and a Delta Force attack on occupied New York in progress. From here, the focus of the game shifts to Europe, where Russian troops begin attacking key cities including Paris, London, Prague, Berlin and Hamburg.It's a huge shift from the largely rural locales of MW2 to recognisable urban streets, and the design teams have apparently used Google Street Map data, and their own video and photographic material, to capture the feel of famous locations. "Not only are the levels big in terms of footprint, but they also go vertical," says Glen Schofield, Sledgehammer's other co-founder. "The cities allow a whole different style of fighting. We also use the military forces of the different countries, the SAS, the GIGN in France, and a mechanised unit in Germany, so there's a variety of combat techniques."There is also, Rubin claims, more variety in enemy responses. AI soldiers have line of sight and can perceive all objects as potential cover; they'll also group together to form defensive lines, and if a member of that line is taken out, they'll dart to new cover to close the gap."The advancements are subtle, but then, there are so many AIs in each mission," he says. "In most games you fight a handful of enemies as you move through the level – but in New York, you have your Delta Force group with you, then there's a full US army fighting a full Russian army, and they'll fight regardless of what you do – that'll play out differently every time. The AI are only scripted at their start positions and first moves. Then they'll throw grenades or change cover points depending on how they feel. The game gives each cover node a value depending on where the player is, and the AI will try to maintain the best defensive parameter based on that."At Sledgehammer, Condrey plays through a level I haven't seen before named Scorched Earth, set in a devastated Berlin. "This is from much later in the game – a major turning point," says Schofield as Delta Force choppers swoop over the burning streets. "It's a major battle in another urban area and we're fighting alongside some of the German forces as well."Frost and the Delta Force have been downed in the city and are fighting their way through to a possible extraction point on a rooftop. There are tanks blasting buildings to chunks and soldiers swarming through the streets. Frost makes it on to a rooftop but there's too much enemy fire to set down an evac aircraft so he has to repel back down to the street again, just as tank fire takes out an allied squad. With bomb runs and helicopter attacks occasionally drowning out the constant gunfire, it is a symphony of obliteration.I also get to play one of the Berlin-based two-player spec-op missions. Entitled Little Bros, it sees the participants starting out in different areas of the city, and having to fight their way toward a rendezvous point at a stricken building. At this point, one player leaps into an MH-6 Little Bird and provides covering fire, as the other works his way through the rubble, then they swap roles, the first player clambering into another chopper as the first, heads over a rooftop, taking out ground forces, and moving toward a bomb that needs to be diffused.It's a neat mission, combining alternative gameplay styles, and providing something a little more genuinely co-operative than simply running through a  campaign map side-by-side. And like Scorched Earth, it is a sensory assault of falling masonry and  deafening gunfire.The sound of warThe warning outside Infinity Ward's sound recording booth. They're not kiddingNoise. Immense, horrifying noise. This is, we guess, where Sledgehammer came into their own. Most of the senior staff here, including Condrey, Schofield and creative director Bret Robbins came from the original Dead Space team – a title famed for its astonishingly atmospheric sound. Indeed, Dead Space's Bafta winning audio director, Don Veca, is also now here at Sledgehammer."I spend a lot of time in Audio," says Schofield. "I sit with Don, we listen to music, watch movies… That scene with the helicopters coming in at the start of the Berlin level; it's a homage to one of my favourite scenes from Black Hawk Down, when they're flying in to Mogadishu over the beaches. Ridley Scott just has two minutes of that helicopter sound – db, db, db – and we took that idea and put it in our audio. Don and I do a lot of that stuff; we'll sit and listen to The Doors because Jim Morrison was very experimental with sounds – it was primitive, but… like him, we like to mess with stuff a lot!"For Veca, Modern Warfare 3 has provided a fresh set of challenges. "Dead Space was about sounds you've never heard before – we were always looking for something new, something weird. And we could get away with a lot more – no one's going to say, 'hey that's not what a telekinesis gun sounds like!'  But in CoD it's much more about realism, if the guns don't sound right, people will know. We work with military advisors, but we still make it larger than life. 30 per cent of the effect is the sound itself, the rest comes from what youdowith those sounds, how you play them back, how seamless you make it. It's a very creative simulation."It's also something of an obsessive quest. "I spent a month and a half at the end doing nothing but mixing the sound levels," says lead sound designer, David Swenson. "There's a big difference between how you mix a movie and how you mix a game. A movie is a linear sequence – you sit down on the mixing stage and you mix it once. That gets recorded back, and it plays like that in every single movie theatre in the world. But in a game, there are millions of players exploring it differently – the game and the mix have to be ready for every playing style. So I helped tune our automated mixing systems to make sure they reacted properly – I'd play every level, every single way I could think of, just to make sure the mixing systems are adapting appropriately. Audio is part of the story, it's part of the gameplay."The Hunter Killer mission provided plenty of interesting challenges for the audio teamsExperimentation and improvisation are often key. "In the Berlin level, there's a section where you're walking through a ruined building and an office chair falls through a hole in the ceiling, hitting the ground in front of you," says Swenson. "To get that, I just grabbed my recorder, went out into the stair well and dropped my office chair down there." Elsewhere, for the Hunter Killer mission, when the massive submarine surfaces in the waters off Manhattan, Swenson ended up layering 60 different sound files to create the resonating hum of the emerging craft.The Infinity Ward sound dept has a similarly detailed approach. My whistlestop studio tour takes in a small audio booth where the team records foley work, bringing in blocks of cement to smash or bullet cases to chuck about. "The way these guys work is amazing," says Rubin. "With the train wreck in the London mission, if you see the list of individual sounds that go into that noise, some of them really don't seem like they belong there at all. There's actually a lion roar in there! You'd never hear it when you listen, though." Hands up who's going to be listening out for it anyway?Entente cordiale?It could be that, in the future, all triple A developments will work like this – groups of studios combining to create massively complex, hugely expensive projects. "Lately I've started thinking about us as one virtual studio," says Condrey. "It's two separate histories, cultures and methodologies, but they've come together into one really integrated development." Infinity Ward had most to lose in the endeavour, but the results look to have been worth it; the single-player campaign is expansive and comparatively ambitious ("it's a longer campaign than MW 2 or Black Ops," says Condrey), and the multiplayer boasts a whole new structure, fresh character progression and weapons upgrade systems, and 16 maps, which all feature in the revised Spec-Ops mode, as well.A good sign that MW3 is nearing completion: all the guns are in!Where next? That's the big question. There are hints that this partnership is a one game gig, and that Sledgehammer wants to work alone on its next title, which it surely envisages to be in the Call of Duty brand. But with the third-person action adventure seemingly dead, and Treyarch working on its own titles, does that mean we'll seeanotherCall of Duty FPS offshoot? Or it could be that Infinity Ward itself is preparing to move on, handing over Modern Warfare to Sledgehammer, and exploring a new facet of the CoD universe itself? At the XP event last month, Rubin hinted at the possibility of a futuristic Call of Duty – a post-Modern Warfare? Who knows.For now it seems Sledgehammer certainly understands the strengths of the Modern Warfare campaign missions. Sure, they are linear, they are wildly histrionic, but they're also built around iconic moments; the nuclear blast in MW1, the controversial No Russian, the death of Ghost – all of them compelling and memorable. There is a confidence at Infinity Ward, too, that despite the horrendous upheavals at the studio, they have created something special. Certainly, the multiplayer is balanced and exciting, and the campaign missions we've played have been typically bombastic. What we need to see are a few unexpected twists, something to take Modern Warfare in a new direction.Robbins, for one, appreciates this. He thinks he sees it in there. "I believe very strongly that every level should have a theme so that, at the end, the player remembers it for just one moment. There might be other things that happen during the level, but if you walk away with this one memory, I consider the job a success."And there are a few moments in the single-player campaign of this game that I just haven't seen anywhere else before. That's really exciting. To me, those things will be the memories…"Modern Warfare 3 is released on 8 November on PC, PS3, Xbox 360.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Later Today Guardian &gt;&gt; Guardian Hack Day appspotVery clever - takes the so-far published news list and shows it in an accessible and really striking form.DROID RAZR(TM) by Motorola Fact Sheet &gt;&gt; Motorola Mobility"Impossibly thin, DROID RAZR can get you out of the tightest of spots, thanks to its unstoppable dual-core 1.2 GHz processor and turbo-boosted 4G LTE speeds." We're wondering what sort of tight spots those would be where that's what you'd need. Bomb disposal? Anyhow, plenty of specifications.Threat Description: Trojan-Downloader:OSX/Flashback.C &gt;&gt; F-Secure"Trojan-Downloader:OSX/Flashback.C poses as a Flash Player installer and connects to a remote host to obtain further installation files and configurations. "To complete its installation/infection, Flashback.C requires the user to key in the administrator password. "On installation, the installer first checks if the following file is found in the system: /Library/Little Snitch/lsd "Little Snitch is a firewall program for Mac OS X. If the program is found, the installer will skip the rest of its routine and proceed to delete itself. "If the trojan is cleared to proceed, it connects to a remote host... "As of this writing, the remote host is up but it does not push anything." The Little Snitch detail is fascinating. This trojan deletes itself if it finds a firewall program? And: Mac malware is coming back, slowly. Beware Flash installs that don't come directly from Adobe.Google and Samsung: a look at what's new from Android &gt;&gt; Android YouTube channelThe presentation of the Galaxy Nexus, from Hong Kong. (Allow an hour.)With Windows 8, Microsoft can't forget past antitrust issues &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott: "don't forget Europe and Korea and other jurisdictions that continue to scrutinize Microsoft for any signs of anticompetitive behavior. The EU already fined Microsoft billions of dollars for antitrust violations. Nobody likes writing a check that large. "So, yes, Microsoft has the right to set conditions on how PCs are configured when Windows is preinstalled on those systems. They will insist that secure boot be enabled. They require certain minimum hardware requirements to be met, and they mandate that the system drive be formatted using the NTFS file system. "But there is a very good reason you will not see Microsoft making any statement of any kind on how PC manufacturers should or should not implement the secure boot feature in their BIOS. "Because anything they say can be used against them in a court of law. Literally." In other words, it's not saying whether or not OEMs can install secure boot. Only how they can do itwhen they choose to preinstall Windows.Google's new Android software needs an artistic media soul to succeed in tablets &gt;&gt; if connectedIan Fogg: "A new version of Android will be available in November, initially on the Samsung Galaxy Nexus smartphone. Much of the analysis of this Ice Cream Sandwich version of Android is focused on the implications of it running on both smartphones and tablets, where older versions of Android ran on one or the other (1), as well as shiny new gimmicks such as face recognition to unlock a handset. "This unification of smartphones and tablets is a red herring. Other things matter much more for Android. "Android tablets are failing in the market, while Google's smartphones sell in enormous numbers. This is a major issue for Google." Thoughtful.Observations on the iPhone 4S battery life &gt;&gt; KeruffSam Radford on the mysteriously shorter battery life of the iPhone 4S, and how to improve it: "one suggestion: a full restore of the iPhone. This meant plugging my phone into iTunes, choosing the 'Restore' option, waiting for the operating system to download afresh from Apple, installing that, and then restoring my iPhone from my backup. "And you know what? It did make a difference... But, to be clear, it was still not on a par with what I was getting with the iPhone 4. "I kept my eye on Twitter for any other suggestions being shared and one popped up which talked about 'calibrating' the battery. This basically means charging the battery to 100% and then letting it completely drain to nothing before charging it again. "I did this yesterday and this too has definitely led to another noticeable boost in battery life. And whilst my iPhone 4S is probably still not quite as good as the iPhone 4, I do think it is now pretty close." Is the A5 processor to blame?Data Visualisation in Web Apps &gt;&gt; The Intercom BlogFantastic slide deck pointing out when and when not to use certain types of visualisation for data. (Also uses a slide embed system called speakerdeck.com which is rather cool.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Holy release dates, Batman, Arkham City is out today! And so is Football Manager 2012! That's a heck of a lot of weekends ruined for anyone who lives with a Dark Knight or footie fan...
Google has honoured Mary Blair, an artist whose unusual style was immortalised in classic Walt Disney films of the 1940s and 50s, with its latest Google doodle.Blair, who was born in Oklahoma on 21 October 1911, was best known for the artwork she contributed to animations including Alice in Wonderland, Peter Pan and Cinderella. She also illustrated a number of children's books.Blair's colourful, childlike images – vaguely reminiscent of the cubist movement – are credited with bringing modern art into popular animation and influencing a generation of illustrators.Walt Disney was so taken with her designs that he recruited her to work on It's A Small World, an attraction that debuted at the 1964 New York World's Fair and has since been recreated in all of Disney's theme parks.Other commissions for Blair, who died in 1978, include giant murals at Disneyland and Disney World.Google's doodle features an image of the illustrator as she would have drawn herself, surrounded by the simplistic patterns and shapes that made up her familiar cartoon world.
Microsoft posted record revenues up 11% to $17.37bn in its first fiscal quarter, but operating profits rose by just 1% to $7.2bn as its Windows, Server and Entertainment &amp; Devices businesses showed slow growth. Those results were leavened by improvements in Microsoft's Office business.Net income for the quarter to the end of September rose 6% to $5.7bn, compared to $5.4bn the year before.Even though revenues at its Windows business rose to $4.87bn, up 1.7%, slightly below the 2% growth in shipments in the PC business excluding Apple, profits in the division fell by 1% to $3.25bn. The fall in profit reflects the problems the company faces with piracy in China and the Far East, which are the growth markets for PC sales - a point that chief executive Steve Ballmer has previously emphasised, saying that the company gets only 1/20 as much revenue from Windows PCs sold in China as it does in the US.But the Redmond-based software giant saw strong growth in sales and profits at its Office business, where the 2010 package drove revenues up 7.7% to $5.6bn and profits up 5.7% to $3.7bn.The overall results were in line with analysts' forecasts. Microsoft's shares, which have traded in the $20-$30 range for the last decade, fell 0.5% in after-hours trading, to $26.87. They closed at $27.04 on Nasdaq. "We still had Windows miss again, although not by nearly as much as it has the last couple quarters," said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities. "They were just in line on EPS [earnings per share], which typically Microsoft beats," said Barnicle. "[Fiscal] first quarter is seasonally not a big quarter for Microsoft, and this was no exception."The continuing weak point remains its Online Services division, which houses its Bing search engine. But that showed signs of improvement, with revenues up 18.6% to $625m - though still lower than in the previous three quarters - and the continuing losses significantly narrower, at $494m, compared to a $560m loss a year before. The Online Services division has not made a profit since the Christmas period of 2005, andMicrosoft's interest in buying Yahoois reckoned to stem from its desire to make its search alliance there pay. Even so, some analysts felt that it might have turned a corner, with the loss being its smallest for the past seven quarters.Bing's US market share grew by 3.5 percentage points to reach 14.7% year over year, but Yahoo's share of search - which is driven by Bing - fell so that the companies' combined share was just 27%.The Entertainment &amp; Devices division, which includes the Xbox gaming console and the Windows Phone smartphone products, saw revenues grow 9.4% to $1.96bn although profits fell 8.8% to $352m.Longer-term trendsThe fall in the Windows division's profits point to longer-term shifts in the computer business as markets in the west slow down and China and the Far East become the new growth markets. Microsoft has seen the revenues and profits that it gets per Windows PC sold drop steadily even over the past four years, from per-PC payments above $60 at the end of 2007 towards $56 in the latest quarter, using the published figures from Microsoft and the calculations of PCs shipped from the research companies Gartner and IDC.The profit per PC has also dropped substantially in the same period, from nearly $50 per PC to just just over $37 now, though in the previous quarter it was just over $32. The longer-term trend though means that Microsoft needs to find fresh ways to persuade people in the west to buy pricier PCs, or to encourage new growth trends.That is clearly part of the drive behind its newWindows 8 "Metro" design, unveiled in September, which will be available in about a year's time and is intended to run both on standard desktop computers and also on tablet devices - where so far Microsoft has fallen well behind Apple's iPad and the many vendors offering tablets running Google's Android software.Michael Yoshikami, chief executive of Ycmnet, said: "The numbers are not terribly unexpected. What is most critical is looking at the revenue transition from PC sales to alternatives. With the computer slowdown, the more the gaming becomes a bigger part of what they are doing, the more important it becomes to the business. I know they also swallowed Skype which impacted their financial results. I wouldn't call this quarter a disaster but it does underscore a company in transition. They realise they are in transition and they are trying their best to move into gaming and tablets and move into the cloud."Their old earnings line is going to get compressed. The Windows 8 announcement is interesting, but in a tough economy I'd be surprised if any companies step up to buy Windows 8, and it's in the upgrade where Microsoft makes money."Trip Chowdhry, analyst at Global Equities Research, said: "A big question mark for Microsoft is what is the next multibillion [customer] problem that Microsoft is going to solve?" He suggested the stock won't go up until Microsoft identifies this problem."Coming up with the next version of an existing product is not a strategy," Chowdhry said. "Somehow Microsoft has failed to identify new markets both from a product perspective and business perspective. I don't think its stock can go up with the current product line they have. I don't think Windows 8 will propel the stock above $30."
Facebook could face a fine of up to €100,000 (£87,000) after an Austrian law student discovered the social networking site held 1,200 pages of personal data about him, much of which he had deleted.Max Schrems, 24, decided to ask Facebook for a copy of his data in June after attending a lecture by a Facebook executive while on an exchange programme at Santa Clara University in California.Schrems was shocked when he eventually received a CD from California containing messages and information he says he had deleted from his profile in the three years since he joined the site.After receiving the data, Schrems decided to log a list of22 separate complaintswith the Irish data protection commissioner, which next week is to carry out its first audit of Facebook. He wrote to Ireland after discovering that European users are administered by the Irish Facebook subsidiary. A spokeswoman for the commissioner confirmed its officers would be investigating alleged breaches raised by Schrems as part of the audit. If the commissioner decides to prosecute and Facebook or any employees are found guilty of data protection breaches, the maximum penalty is a fine of €100,000.Among the 1,200 pages of data Schrems was sent were rejected friend requests, incidences where he "defriended" someone, as well as a log of all Facebook chats he had ever had. There was also a list of photos he had detagged of himself, the names of everyone he had ever "poked", which events he had attended, which he hadn't replied to, and much more besides.The information was broken down into 57 categories, including likes, log-ons (a list of when he logged on and which IP address he used) and emails, which included some email addresses Schrems had never personally uploaded to the site but which he assumes were discerned from another user's profile."I discovered Facebook had kept highly personal messages I had written and then deleted, which, were they to become public, could be highly damaging to my reputation," said Schrems in an interview between law lectures on Thursday."I'm not saying there was anything criminal or forbidden there, but let's just say that, as someone wanting to work in law, there was stuff which could make it pretty impossible for me to get a job." By holding on to data its users assumed was deleted, Facebook was acting like "the KGB or the CIA", said Schrems."Information is power, and information about people is power over people. It's frightening that all this data is being held by Facebook."Of course, they are not misusing it at the moment, but the biggest concern is what happens when there is a privacy breach, either from hackers or from someone inside the firm?"A spokesman for Facebook said in a statement: "Facebook provided Mr Schrems with all of the information required in response to his request."It included requests for information on a range of other things that are not personal information, including Facebook's proprietary fraud protection measures, and 'any other analytical procedure that Facebook runs'."This is clearly not personal data, and Irish data protection law rightly places some valuable and reasonable limits on the data that has to be provided."Facebook says any user can download their "personal archive".But Schrems, on the campaigningwebsitehe has set up  to encourage others to follow his lead, claims that: "This tool only offers access to a fraction of the data Facebook holds."It even falls short of providing the amount of data we already received from Facebook."Facebook later said: "As part of offering people messaging services, we enable people to delete messages they receive from their inbox and messages they send from their sent folder."However, people can't delete a message they send from the recipient's inbox or a message you receive from the sender's sent folder.  This is the way every message service ever invented works."We think it's also consistent with people's expectations. We look forward to making these and other clarifications to the Irish DPA."• This article was updated on Friday 21 October to take in the second response from Facebook
