A 58-year-old grandmother has become the first person in Scotland to be convicted of illegal music downloading.Anne Muir, a nurse from Ayr, was on Tuesday sentenced to three years' probation after she admitted downloading and sharing more than 30,000 music files – worth an estimated £54,000.Muir was caught downloading the tracks after an investigation by two music trade bodies, British Phonographic Industry (BPI) and the International Federation for the Phonographic Industry (IFPI).Strathclyde police searched Muir's Ayrshire home following a formal complaint from the two music bodies. Muir was arrested after the police found computer equipment that contained 7,493 digital music files and 24,243 karaoke files.Muir pleaded guilty to breaching the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1998 in a hearing at Ayr Sherriff Court earlier this month.However, lawyers acting for the grandmother of eight argued that she had not intended to download the music for financial gain, but to build up her self-esteem after suffering from depression. Muir will receive psychiatric counselling as part of her sentence.According toresearchby Harris Interactive, about 1.2bn music tracks were illegally downloaded in the UK last year. The BPI estimates that those would have cost £984m if bought via retail sources, though it did not put a figure on how many sales were actually lost – that is, how many people who downloaded the tracks would have bought them instead.The BPI and IFPI investigation into Muir began in 2008, when the music industry was pursuing an aggressive campaign to track down and punish alleged illegal downloaders.The music trade bodies have since largely abandoned pursuing individual filesharers, focusing instead on lobbying governments on the issue.A BPI spokesman said: "Today the court has recognised that illegal filesharing on a massive scale is a serious matter and has imposed a sentence aimed at preventing such behaviour in future. We would like to thank the Strathclyde police and the procurator fiscal service in Ayr for their diligent work on this investigation."However, Loz Kaye, the leader of the UK Pirate Party, said he was "hugely dismayed" by Muir's "disproportionate sentence". He added: "The evidence should have been properly tested in court. It seems now there is a pattern of rights holders targeting vulnerable people to score quick wins for publicity."
Mobile developers may wish to sit down and hold their jaw in place for this shock revelation: it's not easy making money from paid Android apps.It's a widely-held perception within the developer community - and that includes a lot of people who are excited about Android as a platform - that Google's Android Market store has been something of a graveyard for paid apps.Some blame the billing system, others blame the lack of discovery features, and some even suggest that Google has a deliberate strategy of marginalising paid apps in order to force developers to make their apps free and advertising-funded. You can guess who provides the ads in this theory.The truth is likely less fun for conspiracy theorists: Google has simply spent more time iterating the Android platform in the last two years than it has on improving the aspects of its store that would give a significant boost to paid app sales.New researchfrom analytics firm Distimo puts some numbers to this. The company claims that while 96 apps have been downloaded more than five million times on Android Market, only two paid apps have passed the 500,000 downloads milestone - with six iPhone apps generating that many downloads in the US alone in two months this year.Distimo also estimates that 80% of all paid Android apps have been downloaded less than 100 times each ever. It's worth noting that Google's laudable decision to publish download ranges for every app on its store is one of the key reasons why this kind of research is possible.Anyway, the temptation to use Distimo's stats as a reason for developers and publishers who want to charge for their content to steer clear of Android should be resisted. There are a number of factors that should improve the prospects for paid apps in the months ahead.Factor one: Google. In May this year, the company introduceda swathe of new featuresto the web version of Android Market, with plans to bring them to the on-handset version soon. They included new country-specific charts, Editor's Choice picks, a special icon for so-called Top Developers to help them stand out on the store, improved suggestions for related apps when someone is browsing the store, and a section to show currently trending apps. They're all welcome improvements.Factor two: Non-Google Android stores. Amazon's Appstore for Android made a big splash when it launched in March with an exclusive on the Android version of the Angry Birds Rio game. Admittedly, that game was free, but one of Amazon's core features is that when it drops a developer's game or app to free, they still get paid a proportion of its list price.Elsewhere, Amazon is promising to bring its famed recommendations engine to bear on Android apps, backed up by its position as one of the few companies whose credit card databases can be talked about in the same breath as Apple's. Meanwhile, mobile operators continue to talk up their prospects of launching curated versions of Android Market for their customers, with their trump card of carrier billing.The point is that Android by the end of 2011 will have the potential to be a much more lucrative platform for paid apps, alongside its undoubted strength for free apps, whether supported by advertising or not. Developers are understandably wary of a platform that has until now combined greater porting costs than iOS with lower payouts on content that's charged for.There is work to do on the fragmentation side of that equation, but the efforts of Google and others hint at genuine potential for paid apps in the months to come, and the promise of a return on brave investment made now.
Due to a regrettable human error, Chatterbox did not appear online this morning. It is available now and the agent responsible for this outrage has been eliminated. You may now discuss games.
Will I have to subscribe to Elite in order to play Call of Duty online?No. "It's worth repeating," said Berger during the reveal event, "Call of Duty does not and will not charge for multiplayer – that is our continued commitment to our players." Berger also reiterated the fact that some elements of Elite will be free to Modern Warfare 3 buyers, including the career stats and groups elements.How can Activision justify charging for a social networking service?Well, Elite will have already cost millions of dollars to set up. Activision has formed a new development studio, Beachhead, to create the system. Berger also stated that the publisher is employing "a standalone service team to provide worldwide 24/7 customer service for Elite members".  That all costs money.If map packs are included in the Elite subscription, does that mean I'll have to subscribe in order to get DLC from now on?No, you'll be able to buy Modern Warfare 3 map packs without subscribing.Will the service begin with MW3?Yes, but it's also backwards compatible, to some extent, with Black Ops and Modern Warfare 2. These titles will feature a more limited version of Elite.Is Elite multi-platform?Yes, the service will work with PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 versions of the Call of Duty titles.Will I be able to access my Elite account from different devices?Yes, according to Berger: "The Beachhead team has adopted a philosophy that we call 'the four screens'. The idea is, when we launch Elite, it will be customised for mobile applications, on the television itself and within the game interface." An iPhone app is apparently launching later in the year.If this is a success, will other publishers follow suit?If there's the possibility of a new revenue stream, other publishers are bound to develop similar models. Electronic Arts, for example, is already experimenting with monitised multiplayer gaming, via its Online Pass system, which charges a one-off fee to buyers of pre-owned games who want to play online. The thing is, Call of Duty is one of the biggest entertainment brands in the world, and it has a vast, loyal user-base. As Activision pointed out during its London preview event, all four of the Call of Duty titles released between 2007 and 2010 are in the top ten most played Xbox Live titles. It's doubtful whether there are many other franchises that have the brand loyalty and mass appeal to support a similar proposition. But this time next year, if Activision is raking in millions of extra dollars from its Elite community, don't rule out a surge of similar announcements…
Activision is set to launch a new social gaming platform for fans of its multi-million selling Call of Duty titles. The long-expected service, named Call of Duty Elite, will feature detailed multiplayer gaming statistics, community elements and user-generated content sharing.Downloadable map packs and other similar offerings for all subsequent Call of Duty game releases will be included in the monthly subscription fee. Some elements of Elite will be free to all Call of Duty gamers, but Activision is yet announce the specific details.A public beta will begin in the summer, with a launch following in autumn. The developer of Elite, Beachhead Studios, will manage the running of the service, and will apparently seek to evolve it on a continuing basis. Vitally, basic multiplayer gaming will remain free of charge, despite fears that Activision would seek to monetise online play.Introducing the service at a press conference in London, Mark Cox, European digital marketing director for Call of Duty, said: "Elite was built from the ground up to change the way our consumers experience multiplayer in all current and future Call of Duty games. We're bringing a new level of social and community interaction to the franchise."In the always on, always connected gaming world, the innovation in Elite is just as important as advancements in graphics and gameplay. It is one of our most ambitious and exciting undertakings."Elite is essentially a thorough online matchmaking service, combined with elements of FaceBook, YouTube and the "Autolog" in-game social networking concept developed by EA for its Need for Speed titles. Players will create a single Elite profile, which then unites their experiences in all CoD titles.The service will be fully integrated intoCall of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, where users will be able to access a dedicated Elite area, via their console, mobile or PC. There will be some limited integration with last year's hit, Call of Duty: Black Ops, possibly via a downloadable update, but details are yet to be confirmed.The service is split into four separate sections: Career, Connect, Compete and Improve. Career is essentially an extended version of Black Ops' Combat Record section, providing a wealth of statistics on the player's Call of Duty multiplayer career – including summaries of experience points (XP) and kill-to-death ratios, recent matches and personal bests, as well as a personal leaderboard tracker, weapons performance figures and a theatre section to store your in-game videos and screenshots (as well as watching the most highly-viewed and/or highly rated content from the rest of the CoD community). Naturally, users are able to compare their career stats with those of their friends, and to actively track and monitor the stats of key rivals.This section also contains intriguing "heatmaps" of recent online matches, which show the areas of the maps you visited most as well as the location of each death and kill. A timeline displaying when every deadly encounter took place during that match, and the weapons involved, runs beneath – perfect for those whoreallylove statistically analysing their performances."Connect" is an extension of the basic matchmaking services that allow players to get online and find other people to play against. Users will be able to build playlists of possible competitors as well as searching for and joining FaceBook-style groups of players with similar outside interests.During the Elite reveal event in London, Dan Bunting, the producer of Call of Duty: Black Ops, demonstrated the feature by inputting the word "photography" into the Connect search window: Elite then brought up a Photography group for him to join and play against.Apparently, if the interest you enter isn't catered for, Elite will establish a new group – and each group has its own leaderboards, stats and a dedicated comments section. In terms of competition, the implementation of Elite into Modern warfare 3 will provide "robust" support for private clans."In addition, we're going to be integrating your Elite group and clan identities, and your affiliations, in really powerful new ways – we'll show you more about that later in the year," said Jamie Berger, Activision's vice-president of digital.The third area of the service, "Compete", provides access to a programme of prize events open to all Elite users. There are various options aimed at differing levels of player expertise, from Deathmatch tournaments to newcomer options such as "Bring The Heat", in which participants compete to take the best in-game screenshots.Apparently, the event lists will be continually updated with new challenges, and prizes can range from in-game badges to iPads. Modern Warfare 3 is set to extend the programme with group vs group, clan vs clan and intra-clan competitions and leagues.Lastly, the "Improve" section provides a series of tips and guides to elements of each CoD title. There are top-down high-resolution plans of each multiplayer game map, showing objective locations, while weapon overviews provide tips, stats and video guides created by veteran players. Perks, kill streaks and secondary weapons are also included."When we launch MW3, Elite is going to connect into the collective intelligence and wisdom of our entire community to provide expert guidance across all aspects of the game," said Berger. "As an elite member you're going to be able to leverage all the community statistics as well as the individual wisdom of the best players from throughout the game on any game topic. Social and community innovation, continuously evolving – that is our service vision for Elite."The driving force behind Elite is clear – the desire to gain revenue from the vast numbers of gamers who regularly play Call of Duty titles online for free. According to Activision, 20 million people play Call of Duty online every month – more than seven million every day.This number represents a vast source of untapped income – and in an era of declining retail sales for games, identifying new streams of digital revenue is becoming vitally important. The problem is, attempting to install a subscription charge on online multiplayer activity would meet with massive resistance from gamers, who have always enjoyed free access to online functionality with shooter games. Activision's compromise has clearly been to add value to that core service.The key question is whether the publisher will be able to attract a broader audience to Elite than the hardcore online gaming minority, who will eat up the access to detailed stats. Many of those 20 million players will be satisfied with simply popping online for a few hours a week for some anonymous blasting.The tutorial elements have clearly been included to appeal to the mainstream user-base, but there are plenty of tips and tactics available for free at the many Call of Duty fansites. The community elements are interesting, and may well help interested newcomers form more of an attachment with the online experience. But again, we're used to getting our social connectivity features for free.Price, for many, will be the deciding factor. At the London press demo, Berger claimed that Elite would be less expensive than any other comparable service, but it's unclear which service he had in mind, as this is something of a unique proposition.Five dollars a month is a figure that journalists and pundits were batting around when the event finished; certainly anything more would be a considerable gamble. Now that Activision has drawn back from charging for online play, or even charging for a premium version of online play with less crowded servers, it must prove why we need topayto get to know our opponents, our game environments and our statistics.Certainly, DLC is an enticing part of the deal, but over the course of the year it may only cover a fraction of the subscription outlay. Call of Duty gamers are willing to invest many hours into their casual relationship with the series – but how many are ready to take that love affair to the next level?
Computer hackers on Monday broke into the website of the US public service broadcaster PBS and published a fake article claiming rapper Tupac Shakur was alive and living in New Zealand.A group namedthe Lulz Boatclaimed responsibility for the attack, claiming it was retribution following the network's recent documentary on Julian Assange and the whistleblowers' site WikiLeaks.PBS on Tuesday said three of its websites – NewsHour, Frontline and PBS – "remain under attack by hackers" and that it was attempting to restore normal service.The article about Tupac, who was murdered in Las Vegas in 1996, was removed from the broadcaster's website – but login information for two internal PBS sites was stolen and published online.David Fanning, the executive producer of the PBS Frontline programme, described the attack as "irresponsible and chilling".He added: "From our point of view, we just see it as a disappointing and irresponsible act, especially since we have been very open to publishing criticism of the film … and the film included other points of view."The PBS WikiLeaks documentary, called WikiSecrets, attracted criticism after it first aired last week from those sympathetic to the site's founder, Julian Assange.The pro-WikiLeaks group of hackers have previously claimed responsibility for attacks on Fox, Sony and the US X Factor website. A message – which has now been removed by PBS – posted by the group on the broadcaster's website during the hack attack read: "Greetings, Internets. We just finished watching WikiSecrets and were less than impressed."We decided to sail our Lulz Boat over to the PBS servers for further … perusing. As you should know by now, not even that fancy-ass fortress from the third … Pirates of the Caribbean movie (first one was better!) can withhold our barrage of chaos and lulz."Anyway, unnecessary sequels aside … wait, actually: second and third Matrix movies sucked too! Anyway, say hello to the insides of the PBS servers, folks. They best watch where they're sailing next time."The group also managed to createa new page on the PBS website, called "lulz", where it wrote "Free Bradley Manning fuck Frontline".•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 28 MayPositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)22 (–)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (37)13 (2)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Xbox 360 (31)Wii (26)PS3 (19)DS (16)34 (4)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (85)Xbox 360 (13)PS3 (2)95 (3)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (32)PC (7)36 (13)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)837 (8)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (23)PSP (5)DS (5)358 (10)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (23)PC (7)Wii (5)289 (6)Crysis 2(18+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (39)PC (12)1010 (–)Mario Kart Wii(3+)Wii (100)107UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Faced with one of the biggest challenges in its 43-year history, Intel is accelerating its efforts to produce chips for the mobile phones, tablets, netbooks and ultra-thin laptops.In an exclusive interview before his keynote speech at the Computex exhibition in Taiwan, Intel'sexecutive vice-president Sean Maloneyexplained how the company was changing to compete with mobile chips based on rival ARM designs.While Intel has dominated the market for the processors used in personal computers, ARM-based chips are used in almost all smartphones and most of today's tablets, including Apple's popular iPhone and iPad.ARM is now moving up to compete for Intel's customers, and during ARM's press conference at Computex, Tudor Brown, president of the UK-based company, said: "By 2015, we expect that to be over 50% of the mobile PC market." However, Intel is still trying to invade ARM's territory by producing faster chips that use less power, which are needed for smaller devices.In his keynote, Maloney touted an "emerging new breed" of ultra-thin portable PCs for which Intel has trademarked the term Ultrabook,with one of the first examples being the Asus UX21. So how will Ultrabooks differ from current models such as Apple's MacBook Air and Samsung Series 9?"We're lowering the price," Maloney says, "not so much immediately, but over time." Part of the Ultrabook concept is getting really thin, really responsive systems down into the mainstream, he says. When they cost $1,000 or more, they're relegated to 10% of the notebook market."If we do it right, the PC Ultrabook will be 40% of the notebook market in about 18 months," says Maloney. "We did this before in 2008 and we screwed it up: we didn't cut the price. Now, we'll cut the price, thanks to volume and scale."Maloney is referring an earlier effort based onbattery-friendly ultra low voltage chips, for which Intel has traditionally charged a premium. Making ULV chips in high volumes is a big change from the factory standpoint and from the design standpoint."Sandy Bridge [the codename for the Core iX design launched in January] is the first step in reinventing the PC," Maloney explains. "The second step is Ivy Bridge, which is built on our industry-leading 22-nanometer process. The third step is Haswell in 2013. We will double the battery life."All the major chip manufacturers invest heavily to produce chips with smaller transistors, measured in nanometers (nm). Ivy Bridge will also be the first high-volume processor to use "a revolutionary 3D transistor design called Tri-Gate", which Intel announced in May.Intel believes its global network of advanced chip factories, or fabs, gives it a significant advantage over ARM, which doesn't make chips, but supplies designs to licensees such as TI and Qualcomm. In fact, Intel also used to offer ARM-based processors with its StrongARM and XScale ranges, but it sold that business and developed its own Windows-compatible (or "Intel architecture") Atom range instead.The Atom was successful in powering the market for low-cost netbooks running Microsoft Windows XP. However, netbook sales have slumped about 40%, according to Microsoft, as tablets have become more fashionable.In response, Intel has come up with a new Atom platform code-named Cedar Trail, which will enable thinner, fanless netbooks, and Medfield, which Maloney describes as "Intel's first purpose-built 32nm platform for smartphones and tablets".Intel's previous "system on a chip" (SoC), Moorestown, wasn't used in any mobile phones, but Maloney is more optimistic about Medfield, which will appear in the first quarter of next year. "It's optimised for tablets and phones running Google's Android [operating system] initially, so we'll see."Medfield offers higher performance with lower power consumption, and Maloney says it will enable PC manufactures to build tablets that are less than 9mm thick and weigh less than 1.5 pounds.Medfield could also be used for tablets running the next version of Windows, which will also run on ARM chips. I ask Maloney about the prospects for Windows 8 tablets. "I think on Intel [architecture] they'll grow very quickly," he says. "Windows 8 is the next generation, and we'll be able to do Windows 7 and below on Windows 8. And that's good."Maloney says that Intel plans to advance Atom chip manufacturing twice as rapidly as expected, moving it from 32nm through 22nm to 14nm within three years. Each shrinkage enables the manufacturer to include more features while reducing power consumption and thus extending battery life.Because more chips can be made from each silicon wafer, it should also reduce the price per chip. For comparison, the A5 and A5 ARM-based processors used in the iPhone 4 and iPad 2 are still manufactured by Samsung using a 45nm process."ARM has almost 100% of the tablet market, but really that's one company: Apple. We're just moving into the tablet market. Medfield is cutting the power consumption dramatically, so we'll see what happens. The ARM ecosystem is very good, but it's a marathon, not a sprint."
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPentagon: Online Cyber Attacks Can Count as Acts of War &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"The Pentagon has concluded that computer sabotage coming from another country can constitute an act of war, a finding that for the first time opens the door for the U.S. to respond using traditional military force."Spring cleaning for some of our APIs &gt;&gt; The official Google Code blogGoogle kills off a number of its APIs - including Google Translate (which Eric Schmidt once said would help world peace. So what does killing it mean?)Commenter: "i have a question: why should any developer, any company which wants to build a valuable product for the long term use any of your APIs ever again? As you can argument that some of these API do not get used as much as they used to be and there are better alternatives, this is obviously not true for the translate API, where you even state the shutdown is due to 'extensive abuse'."Mac malware: same shizzle, different dizzle &gt;&gt; CounterMeasuresRik Ferguson lays it down: "For many years now Mac users have believed themselves to be invulnerable to malware, and have been encouraged in this belief by Apple themselves on more than one occasion, or "Safeguard your data by doing nothing". This complacency leaves many Mac users with the mistaken belief that either Macs are not vulnerable to malware, or that none exists for their platform or both, impacting their ability to make informed decisions when downloading or installing new software, opening attachments or visiting questionable sites."Good Job, RIM. You've Lost the Consumer Market &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Wunderlich Securities analyst Matthew Robison... handed RIM an ugly downgrade this week, slashing his target price on the company's shares to $46 from $76 and arguing that its long-in-the-tooth handset portfolio has cost it the consumer market."'We no longer anticipate Research in Motion recovering to participate in the mainstream of smartphone industry growth,' he said. 'Our long-term forecast anticipates a role supplying business-oriented devices, both mid-range and high end, as well as cloud-based services via the BlackBerry Network. We expect the consumer mix gained over the past two years to churn off, and that earnings will decline after 2013 and eventually grow again on demand that is largely associated with business users.'"Patent-holding firm Lodsys goes after Android developer for use of in-app payments &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebLinks to a Google group discussion of Android developers: one who has implemented in-app payment (which Lodsys claims a patent on) says he's been served.Why it's harder to make money on Android than on Apple's iOS &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"Apple's App Store is generating billions for developers, while hardly anybody is getting rich in the Android Market.In a new report issued Friday, Distimo looks at why that might be. One obvious factor -- not highlighted in April -- is that there are nearly three times as many paid apps on Apple's App Store (211,369, by Distimo's count) as on Google's (71,801)."What Distimo discovered this time is that, for a variety of reasons, Android generates far fewer runaway hits. The most successful app in the Android Market, with more than 50 million downloads, is a Google freebie: Google Maps. Nothing else comes close."Google knocks Yahoo! off display ad top spot &gt;&gt; StrategyEye"Google is now the largest online display advertiser in the US in terms of revenues, knocking Yahoo! off its perch, according to figures from IDC. The report shows Google overtaking Yahoo! with 14.7% of the market in Q1 2011, up from 13.3% in the same period last year. Overall, the display advertising market boomed in the first quarter, with ad revenues hitting $7.3bn - the highest Q1 revenue for the industry ever, according to figures from the IAB and PwC."Yahoo!'s market share is dropping almost as quickly as Google's is rising, dropping to 12.3%, down from 13.3% last year. This makes Google market leader in both display advertising and search, where it is the long-established number one. This shift comes as search ad revenues are squeezed by display, which now has a higher market worth."Tricky for Yahoo, which makes its money serving ads.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A burst of 21 apps for your considerationAdele Piano SongbookMusic publishers are getting interested in the apps bandwagon just as much as record labels are. Musicroom's new app focuses on Adele, who's currently riding high in charts around the world. The iPad app includes piano scores for 12 of her songs, with backing tracks to play along with.MagicbeansBlackBerry app Magicbeans is focused on one retail store only: Magic Beans in Boston. Why include it here? It's an interesting idea – "the first ever mobile self-checkout". It uses barcode scanning while the user is in the store, while also placing orders for delivery.OndroidOndroid styles itself as "the first and only Android App billboard chart". It's certainly not the only app discovery app for Google's smartphone OS, but it has promise, tapping into a mixture of chart rankings and social features to suggest possible downloads.Fuugo TV for DVB-TFuugo is a very innovative TV app for iPhone and iPad (with other platforms to come). It has a slick touchscreen user interface, and lets users personalise their EPG to get to favourite channels quickly. However, there's a but – it requires a separate terrestrial digital TV receiver to transmit the actual TV to your iOS device via Wi-Fi.Maps+Maps+ is like a supercharged version of the Google Maps native app for iPhone, with regular mapping and routefinding functions complemented by location-based alarms, GPS track recording, and Twitter integration.The National Mall by BluebrainIndie band Bluebrain have launched their new album as a location-based app. The downside is that you have to be in the National Mall in Washington, DC to make the most of it. The idea: the music varies according to your walking route through the mall.Great British PicnicsGrey Advertising has launched a free app offering a guide to British picnic venues – more than 700 in total. It includes reviews and photos, as well as an option for users of the app to share their own thoughts. The app will soon pull in reviews from the Guardian too. Grey's client for the app is butter brand Country Life.QuidcoQuidco is a social location app for shoppers that promises they'll get paid for checking in to retailers. What that means is discounts, in-store cashback offers and voucher codes. Based on the Quidco website, its partners include Debenhams, Halfords and Carphone Warehouse.InstamapInstamap is an iPad app for browsing pictures uploaded to the Instagram service. Photos can be viewed in a tile view or on a map, with users able to subscribe to specific feeds by location or tags. Commenting is also supported.The Age for iPadAustralian newspaper The Age has launched its official iPad app, published by Fairfax Digital. It complements the daily e-issue with video, photo galleries and interactive graphics. Video can be played on TVs via Apple's Airplay technology, stories can be cached for offline reading, and there's an interactive Sudoku.The Museum AppThis Android app brings together content from more than 190 museums globally, including audio and video tours, and also pulls in YouTube videos, Facebook updates, tweets and blog posts from its partner museums.Duke Nukem Forever Soundboard2K Games and Gearbox Software are drumming up interest in the upcoming new Duke Nukem game with this iPhone soundboard app, offering 20 one-liners from Duke's, er, not-quite-new-man exploits. "I had eggs for breakfast, your mom had sausage." Quite.New York Travel Guide – Time OutTime Out has released its latest iPhone city guide app, focusing on the Big Apple. Nightlife recommendations are offered alongside maps of the city – all stored offline to avoid roaming data charges.Rah Digga's Straight SpittinUS rapper Rah Digga has put her name to a new iPhone app that gets its users to verbally battle one another over the mobile network. "Battle rap any user in the world, or just rehearse your rhymes and hone your skills in private. Be a spectator and vote or just talk smack."Drome by Taste My CityDrome is a location-based city guide app for BlackBerry, which serves up data on restaurants, coffee shops, cinemas, theatres and other locations. It's initially available in Canada, but US and UK support is forthcoming.S.O.S. by American Red CrossThis Android app is the work of the American Red Cross charity, working with Dr Oz and Sharecare. It offers video how-tos and animations for a series of common emergency situations – seizures to broken bones – while in the US, it also has an automatic 911 call function.Gettysburg Battle AppHere's an interesting new app category: a battlefield touring partner. This app uses a mixture of GPS and historical data to help people visiting the site of the Gettysburg battle in 1863 find their way around. Maps, photos, timelines and audio bring the atmosphere.Talking Tom Cat 2We've written about US startup Outfit7 before – it's generated more than 100m downloads of its Talking apps. Talking Tom Cat was its first success, and now it has a sequel. Expect more talking, wriggling and joking, along with a very meta feature that sees Tom playing with a virtual Talking Tom iPhone app.Martin Rowson's The Waste Land 'Seen'In 1999, Martin Rowson reimagined TS Eliot's The Waste Land as a film-noir-style murder mystery in comic form. Now it's been turned into an iPad app, pulling in web resources for background, and allowing readers to discuss the work with one another and with the authors.GROUPThis isn't just an app, it's a "collective sound work". The idea: people start the audio app running on their iPhones on the morning of 21 June, and keep it going while making their way to the New York Stock Exchange. Then – in theory – it will become "a monumental sound as hundreds of participants come together with their sounding devices".The CrankamacallitiPad book-app The Crankamacallit describes itself as a "rhythmic 3D fantasy" blending animation, interactivity and music. It's aimed at children and is the work of developer Polymash.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Twitter is to launch its own photo-sharing service to compete with existing services such as Twitpic, Yfrog, Instagram and Flickr, according to multiple sources.The announcement is expected this week at the D9 conference in California, where the company's chief executive Dick Costolo will be speaking on Wednesday.The service may be provided via the website twimg.com, which Twitter has owned since July 2010, according to Techcrunch, whichfirst reported the plans.One possibility is that the photo service will be monetised by including advertisements as Twitter tries to move to a more commercial model.The move will be seen as further encroachment by Twitter on areas formerly seeded and exploited by third-party developers. Earlier this year, the company told developers to stop making their own desktop and mobile clients for displaying Twitter timelines – dismaying many who had created a competitive development environment while leveraging the Twitter API that hooked directly into its database.Last week it announced that it had bought the UK-based Twitter client Tweetdeck for a rumoured $40m (£24m), confirming its ambitions to control more of the client space. Tweetdeck is used by an estimated 13% of its users.The move into photo-sharing – a space made famous by Twitpic after thephotograph of a downed passenger plane on the Hudson rivertweeted by Janis Krums in January 2009 – will be unpopular among developers, who may begin to question what areas Twitter does not want to control.
Who's making money out of Android? Some carriers (because people are buying smartphones), perhaps some handset makers, one or two app developers, and possibly Google through ancillary services such as search and maps.Oh, and Microsoft. Very much Microsoft.That's right: according to a briefing note from Walter Pritchard, an analyst at Citi, Microsoft is getting $5 per Android handset sold by HTC following apatent settlement over intellectual property infringementin April 2010 relating to Android. And continuing lawsuits by Microsoft against other handset makers are reportedly seeking between $7.50 and $12.50 per device sold using Android as well.That could turn into a profitable sideline for Microsoft, sinceAndroid has the biggest share of the smartphone market. In factHorace Dediu of Asymco calculatedthat based on 30m HTC Android devices shipped, at $5 each to Microsoft, that's $150m for Microsoft. Compare that to 2m Windows Phone licences at an estimated $15 per phone, that's around $30m. (I think the figure is slightly higher now - 2.3m to the end of the first quarter - but it doesn't shift the figure much.)That's five times as much income from Android than from Windows Phone. If Microsoft can get the same sort of settlement from other Android handset makers, then the mobile phone business could turn into a good profit centre for it - because it gets this levy without having to do any work, not even software development. And that money is also available to be funnelled to Nokia, which is going to install Windows Phone. So HTC is helping out Nokia.Now, I think it's important when we see stories like this to check them with the sources. So I put in a call to HTC to ask whether it agreed with the $5 estimate put forward by Pritchard. First reaction: "oh, that sounds far too high. I don't think we'd be paying that."A few hours later, I got the official statement. Are you ready for it? Here it comes."Last year, HTC and Microsoft did announce a licensing agreement for Android handsets. Such agreements are not unusual in the wireless industry, and as is the case with all such agreements, HTC does not disclose financial terms."HTC is in all likelihood completely banned from discussing the amounts of the settlement, because to do so would affect Microsoft's potential to win higher amounts in any future patent licensing agreements it wins from other handset makers. It's tempting to think that HTC hasn't confirmed the $5 figure because it's correct - but it could still be two or three times too high.Yet even in that case, that still means that Microsoft has received far more money from Android licensing than from its own phones, so far.Update:Matt Brian ofTheNextWebpoints us to aninteresting report from Taiwanwhich suggests that the fee being paid is already around the $5 mark and that Microsoft wants to up it to that $7.50-$12.50 mark:HTC confirmed yesterday (May 29) the increase of the licensing fee but refused to specify the amount.And:Jung Chueh-sheng, chief financial officer of HTC, noted that it's common for hi-tech firms to pay licensing fees, adding the company's gross margin stayed at the satisfactory level of 29-30% in the recent four quarters. He discounted the influence of the increased licensing fee, which will be offset by continuing expansion of the company's sales.This merits a little bit of unpacking. Saying that the gross margin stayed at a particular level in the past doesn't mean anything, since this is talking about an increase in fees in the future. But he's clearly hopeful that lowered costs from selling more handsets will make up for the extra payments. If anyone knows quite how many more handsets you have to sell to offset that sort of extra cost, do pitch in.So Microsoft is definitely going to do better, for now, from Android than from Windows Phone. (HTC, it should be noted, also makes Windows Phone 7 devices. So Microsoft wins both ways from it.)Don't expect that to change much between now and October, when weexpect the first Nokia "Nokindows" phone. And with HTC's success continuing, it might even become a large enough number to show up in HTC's accounts. We'll keep a look out. And in the meantime we'll savour the irony.
Twitterhas been forced to hand over the personal details of a British user in a libel battle that could have huge implications for free speech on the web.The social network has passed the name, email address and telephone number of a south Tyneside councillor accused of libelling the local authority via a series of anonymous Twitter accounts. South Tyneside council took the legal fight to the superior court of California, which ordered Twitter, based in San Francisco, to hand over the user's private details.It is believed to be the first time Twitter has bowed to legal pressure to identify anonymous users and comes amid a huge row over privacy and free speech online.Ryan Giggs, the Manchester United footballernamed as being the plaintiff in a gagging orderpreventing reporting of an alleged affair with a reality TV model, is separately attempting to unmask Twitter users accused of revealing details of the privacy injunction.However, Giggs brought the lawsuit at the high court in London and the move to use California courts is likely to be seen as a landmark moment in the internet privacy battle.Ahmed Khan, the south Tyneside councillor accused of being the author of the pseudonymous Twitter accounts, described the council's move as "Orwellian". Khan received an email from Twitter earlier this month informing him that the site had handed over his personal information. He denies being the author of the allegedly defamatory material."It is like something out of 1984," Khan told the Guardian. "If a council can take this kind of action against one of its own councillors simply because they don't like what I say, what hope is there for freedom of speech or privacy?"Khan said the information Twitter handed over was "just a great long list of numbers". The subpoena ordered Twitter to hand over 30 pieces of information relating to several Twitter accounts, including@fatcouncillorand@ahmedkhan01."I don't fully understand it but it all relates to my Twitter account and it not only breaches my human rights, but it potentially breaches the human rights of anyone who has ever sent me a message on Twitter."A number of whistleblowers have sent me private messages, exposing any wrongdoing in the council, and the authority knows this."He added: "I was never even told they were taking this case to court in California. The first I heard was when Twitter contacted me. I had just 14 days to defend the case and I was expected to fly 6,000 miles and hire my own lawyer – all at my expense."Even if they unmask this blogger, what does the council hope to achieve? The person or persons concerned is simply likely to declare bankruptcy and the council won't recover any money it has spent."A spokesman for south Tyneside council said the legal action was brought by the authority's previous chief executive, but has "continued with the full support" of the current head.He added: "The council has a duty of care to protect its employees and as this blog contains damaging claims about council officers, legal action is being taken to identify those responsible."Twitter had not returned a request to comment at time of publication.
Almost as soon as Steve Ballmer took over as chief executive of Microsoft in January 2000, the stock crashed. It wasn't his fault; the dotcom crash pulled every tech stock down with it, including the Seattle software empire that, the previous year, had been the world's most valuable at $612bn.This is the sort of mistiming that has dogged Ballmer's tenure: always arriving a bit too late and overseeing a collapse of a promising lead. It happened with internet search, with tablets, with mobile phones, with music players.Ballmer last week faced calls for his removal from David Einhorn, a powerful Wall Street hedge fund manager famous for his early warnings about the weakness of doomed bank Lehman Brothers. Though sources on the company's board backed him, investors know that Ballmer does not have a free pass just because he joined in 1980 as employee number 30."Bill Gates is ruthless," said a fund manager at one of Microsoft's largest shareholders. "If he wanted to, he'd walk Ballmer to the [exit] door himself."A fresh indignity came last week when afterBallmer spoke in Tokyoabout the next version of Windows. He assured people that in 2012 "you ought to expect to hear a lot about Windows 8, Windows 8 slates, tablets, PCs, a variety of different form factors". But his own press office called his words "a misstatement", adding "We have yet to formally announce any timing or naming for the next version of Windows." When both the shareholders and the press office are against you, times are definitely hard.But Ballmer is a fighter, a dealmaker who likes the satisfaction of closing a sale. His challenge is to get the unwieldy behemoth that is Microsoft to align itself with the changes in computing. While Apple has run away with iPods, iPhones and iPads, and Google has revelled in internet search and the idea of "cloud computing", the Redmond-based business has been trying to run with the twin weights of its ageing monopolies – the Windows PC and Office businesses, which each generate about $3bn of profit every quarter – holding it back.The stock has badly underperformed the technology-dominated Nasdaq index since 2008, when Ballmer launched a failed $48bn bid for the website Yahoo, languishing while other technology companies are spoken of as being in a bubble.One ex-Microsoft executive described Ballmer's problem thus: "He's now got eight different product groups all reporting to him. Is he going to knit those together? I don't think so. And if he doesn't knit them together, how do you make sure the end price value of Microsoft is worth more than the constituent parts? Today the constituent parts are worth more separate than they are together."Former Microsoft managers say Ballmer's problem lies in his lack of an overarching vision for where the technology world is going; that contrasts with Gates, whose vision reaches a long way, even if Microsoft became too unwieldy even for him by the time he quit day-to-day duties to run his charitable foundation.But what about the nuclear option – that Ballmer is pushed or jumps? Scott Barnes, a former Microsoft product manager, is adamant it would have no effect: "Nothing, and I repeat nothing, would change," hesaid on his blog.The problem, he says is that Microsoft products are run "as clans within a larger empire" in which each clan leader is thirsty for power, and can be promoted to take over the others' turf."The culture in [Microsoft] allows bullying," says Barnes. "In fact it's veryLord of the Fliesat times when there is little or no direction, and worse when there is failure upon failure occurring."One deal that may work well, though, is the $8.5bn acquisition of internet phone call company Skype..  Though it is unlikely to earn back the price paid,  allied to a deal with handset maker Nokia, in which the new Windows Phone mobile OS will power Nokia smartphones from late autumn, it could be a remarkably strategic choice just as the internet and internet-enabled phones become pervasive.One former Microsoft executive remarked recently that "when you look back with hindsight and see a completely static enterprise value for the last 12 years, you'd say [the antitrust breakup proposed by the US courts in 2000] could have been the best thing that could have happened from a shareholder perspective." Only now, he argued, are there enough interconnected pieces – Xbox, Windows Phone, Bing, and soon Skype – for there to be synergistic value. But, he added: "There's always that challenge that the break-up value is greater than the sum of its parts."The bigger question for Ballmer is whether he can keep that challenge at arm's-length for long enough for his gambles to pay off.
Dirt 3is the latest iteration in the Colin McRae Rally series and, although the late, great driver's name has now been removed from its title, it feels like he's still behind the wheel. UnlikeColin McRae: Dirt 2, there is less focus on customisation and, instead, a return to its roots as a no-nonsense, rally-racing sim. All that matters is shaving seconds off your time and reaching the finish line in one piece or, in the case of the new "gymkhana mode", racking up trick points and wowing the crowds. The result is a blisteringly fast, ultra-responsive and consistently challenging racer, undoubtedly, the finest game of its genre.The career mode is spread over four seasons with dozens of unlockable race events made available by earning reputation points, whether through race position or by completing in-race bonus challenges – hitting target top speeds or finishing the course with the car intact. Following their successful application inDirt&nbsp;2, "rewinds" thankfully also make another appearance, offering the ability to freeze and reverse time should you mistime a corner and become wrapped around a tree or take off over a precipice. Unused rewinds also earn reputation points, although hurtling round the unpredictable courses will have novices and veterans alike using their full allocation most of the time.Added to the title's already vast array of tracks is the aforementioned gymkhana-style showpiece driving events, in which the challenge is to negotiate tricky courses while displaying specific driving techniques, such as controlled drift slides in confined spaces, jumps and 360-degree spins, all within a fixed time limit or against other drivers. The challenges provide a welcome change of pace from the frantic and exhilarating time trials, buggy races and rally cross events; however, they are also helpful for honing skills to control the car when racing at full tilt.Ultimately, however,Dirt 3, like all driving titles, lives and dies by the standard of its core racing and developer Codemasters has perfected the art of creating a heart-stopping sense of speed, which is brought to life by a stunning level of detail, whether showing your windscreen wipers battling against snow and rain or with the beautifully serene backdrop of a sunset in Kenya. As an added incentive, once you've worked your way through the career mode, it also comes with a redeemable VIP code for online multiplayer, which makes for a flat-out bargain.Reviewed using the Racer Pro Driving Simulator Seat (available fromwww.libertygames.co.uk) and the Logitech G27 Racing wheel (details atwww.logitech.com).
At the point when the Wii's spiralling pop-culture status hit a peak as a household name there was, inevitably, a backlash, with popularity as ever enjoying a cosy relationship with contempt among many gamers.It was at least justifiable in part because the console had become flooded with substandard copycat family games. To which Nintendo has&nbsp;reacted with its Selects range – an&nbsp;attempt to remind gamers just how&nbsp;wonderful an experience playing&nbsp;with a Wii can be by rereleasing some&nbsp;classic titles at a&nbsp;budget price (£19.99).The games launching the range areWii Sports,WarioWare: Smooth Moves,Mario Strikers: Charged FootballandAnimal Crossing: Let's Go to the City. The highlight of the four isWarioWare, which not only introduced a new generation to Mario's&nbsp;charismatic nemesis but also offered hundreds of surreal "micro-games", all a few seconds long and delivered back to back in a constant barrage that is as hilarious to watch as it is to play.CompilationWii Sports, if you somehow missed it, remains one of the best-known games of the current generation,Mario Strikers: Charged Footballoffers an engaging, if somewhat frenzied, take on fictionalised soccer, whileAnimal Crossing, conversely, provides a strangely relaxing social simulation that engages players with the minutiae of a sedate virtual rural community.
The weather may be variable, but that doesn't mean summer isn't coming – the final May bank holiday offering an excellent reminder that it's time to start frolicking in the great outdoors.Which is not to forget, of course, that nature is a dangerous thing. No one should be caught mixing with greenery and beasties without a smartphone at hand. Not only does it allow you to call for reinforcements should a showdown with a squirrel go the wrong way, but there's also many a useful app to help smooth the way.Al fresco munchers will enjoyFungi(Apple App Store, £1.19, De Bernard) for example. Everyone knows how dangerous a mushroom can be – you don't want to go snuffling for truffles only to end up grating something rather more magical upon your tagliatelle – so this smart little app has nearly 500 species of fungus stored on an iPhone, all searchable by types of cap, stem etc and with nice, crystal-clear, high-definition photos.It does, however, come with a warning not to eat anything picked – the developer doesn't want any uncomfortable lawsuits – so for safer summer eating try Weber'sOn the Grill(£2.99, Weber-Stephens).  Perfect barbecue fodder, this grilling "companion" has hundreds of recipes and mixes for rubs and marinades. Pick a meat, a recipe, then enter the dimensions of the ingredients and it will even offer exact temperatures and cooking times for a succulent open-air feast.Which should see off that other staple of the British summer: the half-cooked sausage.
Oscar Wilde described foxhunting as "the unspeakable in full pursuit of the uneatable". If Wilde had been able to see the diminutive tyrant who is currently president of France going on last week about bringing the internet to heel, he might have updated his hunting metaphor to "the clueless in pursuit of the unattainable" perhaps.Sarkozy was speaking at the eG8, a gathering of those whom the French government thinks are the important players in the online world. But in a way, he was just acting as a mouthpiece for the political, judicial, commercial and security establishments which are becoming increasingly hysterical about the way the internet is upending their respective applecarts. In that sense, Sarky was echoing the fulminations of England's lord chief justice that "technology is out of control", by which he meant, asPeter Prestonhas pointed out, is beyondhiscontrol.Establishment panic about the net's disruptiveness is matched by renewed outbreaks of an age-old neurosis – moral panic about the impact of new communications technology on young people. This was fuelled last week by areportthat Facebook was going to allow children under the age of 13 to become members. US law currently insists that websites that collect information about users (as Facebook does) aren't allowed to sign on anyone under the age of 13.But Mark Zuckerberg is, apparently, determined to change this. Learning is a social process, he argues, and social networking has great educational potential. This is true, but what Zuck omitted to mention is that kids also represent a great, er, marketing opportunity.I'll be amazed if US lawmakers let Zuckerberg have his way, so this may turn out to be a damp squib. A more enduring problem is the fixed conviction of the adult world that young people are being seduced, hoodwinked, fixated, dumbed down (insert favourite downside here) by Facebook and Twitter.The story of the young graduate applying for a job and being confronted at the interview with daft or embarrassing photographs from his or her Facebooked past has become a tiresome cliche. What it overlooks is the fact that in five years' time, the interviewers will themselves have embarrassing photographs on Facebook. The caravan moves on.Much of the moral panic about social networking is a projection of adult fears. A neurosis, as Ken Tynan wisely observed, is a secret that you don't know you're keeping. Many teenagers do silly things online; what their parents forget is that they also did silly things intheiryouth.So the more obstreperous aspects of Facebooking are neither here nor there. What's much more interesting is that anthropological research into teenagers' use of social networking sites is unearthing evidence of complex and sophisticated behaviour.One sees this, for example, in the ways Facebook users handle the difficult business of relationship break-ups. In thinking about this, I was struck by a story from the field studies conducted byDanah Boydof Microsoft Research, who is probably the world's leading expert on this stuff."Case #1: Carmen, a 17-year-old Latina girl living in Boston, was having a bad day. She and her boyfriend broke up and she wanted her friends to know that she was feeling sad. Her first instinct was to post a sappy song lyric to her Facebook, but she decided against doing so out of fear that her mother would take it seriously and think she was suicidal. Instead, she chose song lyrics from 'Always Look on the Bright Side of Life', knowing that her mother wouldn't recognise the song or the reference while her friends would immediately recognise that this song was sung inLife of Brianwhen the main character was about to be executed."This probably won't make much sense to the French president or our lord chief justice, but to anyone who is really interested in understanding what's going on, it's intriguing. "Carmen," says Boyd, "is not trying to restrict access to content, but trying to limit access to interpretation. This can best be understood as a 'social steganography' technique; Carmen is hiding in plain sight, assuming that anyone can access what she is saying but that only some people understand the meaning. She relies on the fact that her mother doesn't recognise song lyrics, let alone bother to look them up: she takes text at face value. Meanwhile,&nbsp;Carmen also assumes that anyone who knows the Monty Python movie but doesn't know her won't understand why she's posting the lyrics in the first place. In controlling the meaning, Carmen asserts agency over the social situation."Deep waters, eh? What Boyd's research suggests to me is that before presidents, judges and politicians pontificate about social networking, they might first consider reading Wittgenstein. "Whereof one cannot speak," he wrote in theTractatus, "thereof one must be silent."
The success stories of the app store –Angry Birds, Cut the Rope, Doodle Jump– are widely publicised, but as game-makers flock to the service hoping their creations will become the next million seller, it's easy for even established developers to get lost in the&nbsp;melee.WINtAsees Masaya Matsuura return to the genre he popularised with PlayStation classicPaRappa the Rapper, but so far his latest rhythm game has struggled for&nbsp;attention.That's perhaps more of an indictment of its "freemium" pricing model than its quality; just two songs are initially available, while others cost 59p each to download – though all proceeds go to charity.WINtA's concept is as simple as they come – tap the screen to match the song's rhythm – but its accessibility is artful, and it takes real skill to master some of the complex melodies of the eclectic tracklist. Each tune has its own signature visual style, and from the jerky indie-rock of Vampire Weekend to the synthesised funk of Matsuura's own (free) compositions, they're a treat to play along to, even as your mistakes cause the songs to hiccup and stutter as if streamed through a dodgy broadband connection. Challenging, fun and impossibly hip,WINtAis simply too good to be ignored.
It's the Sabbath, and I do hope you're reading the dead tree version of this column. After all, it's a long weekend, and isn't it time you had a holiday from the web? Even the ultimate how-to guides to life, the doctrines of the major world religions, recommend at least one day off a week. And by off, they mean nothing, nada, zilch. Not a peep. Not even a tweet. And don't even think about touching your BlackBerry.Yet so many of us – myself included – have an incredibly hard time letting go of our devices. What is it that compels us to maintain our vice-like grips on our digital realities?The web has made it feel impossible not to be connected all the time simply because it connects us. As social creatures, we are keen to belong, and we perform our belonging – online and offline – by reaching out and touching someone. One of the important ways we demonstrate connection is by sharing information with one another, deepening our relationships and making them more enduring. The web has been described by anthropologists as the modern water cooler, and it is increasingly where we hang out. So we head to our technologies in order to be part of the party.There's also a sense that the online world moves at speed, constantly transforming and redefining itself. Its very size and malleability reinforces the compulsion to participate, lest we miss out on something that we want – and are compelled – to be part of. Even more so, as our online lives increasingly integrate with our offline lives due in part to networks such as Facebook, our social and professional reputations become tied in to our web connections. We have to feed and water these online relationships by responding to emails and tweets, by staying on top of the seemingly endless information at our fingertips, and producing worthwhile online material. There's only so much time in a day, so the only way we can do all of this is to pay attention to there as much as here.But that's all academic. Really, it's a nice ego rub to feel like there are plans forming around us. The compulsive beck and call of the rumble of a phone, a text message or an invite to an event makes us feel like we're part of something. Unfortunately, these rewards are as difficult to predict as the weather, and it's this that keeps us obsessively checking in. (Psychologist BF Skinner described this "variable-interval schedule" in his 1950s behavioural model of classical conditioning.) The random reinforcement you get from an email landing in your inbox – enhanced by the expectation that it will if you check it immediately after you wake up or come back into signal range – means that the outcome becomes more important than the process. Susan Maushart, author ofThe Winter of Our Disconnect, says, "We like to think that they are tools and we are the masters. If only life were that simple!"In a move that's becoming increasingly popular among the hyper-connected middle classes, who are often most concerned with the cognitive effects of long-term partial attention,Maushart decided that she and her family needed a digital detox. She took herself and her family offline for six months. They had no access to the web or to their mobile phones. Of course, her greatest fear was losing social ties.This isn't surprising; a large part of taking a break means letting go of the connections that are mediated by technologies. A week or even a few days away from it all creates an information gap replete with reference points that we don't understand, and risks cutting off an important interpersonal channel of communication. Turning it back on again demands that we be active to sift through a flood of input cached when we were away in order to figure out what will be important in the future. But because we're doing it with an archive rather than while it's happening, we don't have the emotional context and we may not be able to distinguish what's important between an email, a status update or a photo of a cat.Maushart's fears were unfounded. "My colleagues initially panicked, assuming that I was having a midlife crisis or maybe a good old-fashioned breakdown," she says. "But relationships remained intact – and most of the important ones not only did not deteriorate, they deepened." She attributes this to the tenor of her new communication platforms: "When all you can do is communicate by letter, or face to face, or via landline, you cease to connect in soundbytes. You can't any more. It's rude. So the slowing down entails a drilling down."Since her experiment ended, Maushart has returned to her devices, but not in the same way as before. "Having been through such a lengthy period of 'detox', there is no way you can ever go back to using media uncritically again," she says. "The biggest change for all of us is the recognition that one needs to use media – and live life – deliberately." Indeed, the reality is that becoming a digital hermit isn't a viable option for most of us. This is perhaps why the relapse rate for so-called internet addicts is incredibly high.We do get some kind of psychological reward from connecting with one another online. But we must be mindful that we are in the driver's seat, and that everything needs to shut down every once in a while. Have a break. Turn off your BlackBerry and enjoy the sunshine. The web will be there when you get back, but your life may be passing you by.
With the amazing legacy we have given the world in computing, mathematics, design and web technologies – viz Charles Babbage, Alan Turing, Jonathan Ive and Tim Berners-Lee – we cannot allow America or France to dominate the debates at the G8 about whether or not some regulation is needed for the internet.Some regulation is needed and Martin Kettle (To want controls on the web may not be cool, but it's right, 27 May) was right to highlight the need to protect children from online pornography. Extraordinarily, this gets short shrift in the US because they hide behind the first amendment of their constitution concerning free speech. Secondly, America loathes signing international agreements or belonging to international organisations which it cannot dominate.Of course, Google is too close to both the Obama and Cameron administrations and this is not good, much as it wasn't so good a decade ago when Microsoft was in a similar position. Their speakers speak for Google, not for the rights of citizens using their services. Currently, the internet is the responsibility of a worn-out organisation known as the WTO. We need to give it a new home. Given our legacy and the soft power we wield around the world with our Open University, the British Council and the BBC World Service, it is time we came together to create a similar body for the internet. The world will thank us for it.Derek WyattFounder, Internet Policy Institute• Your article on use of Facebook by under-13s (Should kids be allowed on Facebook?, G2, 26 May) makes interesting reading. Here in the north-east, we have the absurd situation where Northumberland county council has banned the use of Facebook and all blogs, including your own Comment is Free site. I believe it is only one of a handful of local councils to do so. I have been in a situation where I cannot access work-related material as it is on a blog and is filtered out. While I would not want my seven-year-old accessing Facebook, it is absurd that just down the road in Gateshead, Facebook, WordPress, etc, are freely available to adult users.Rob TurnbullHaltwhistle, Northumberland• Google is offering an electronic payment system for smartphones (Google unveils digital 'wallet' for Android phone users, 27 May). Every payment, the location, time, amount, retailer and possibly other information will be tracked and held by the company. While loyalty card schemes are not dissimilar, the breadth of information Google gathers will increase the surveillance of our everyday lives. No doubt Google profits from this/our information. To quote one supermarket: "Every little helps." We might well retort: "Helps who?"Andrew WoodOxford
The fear of getting stuck out in the big bad world without the ability to escape into a handheld fantasy land is driving more people to carry an iPod or iPhone. If you're one of them, these highlights will save you pounds and hours you would otherwise spend dredging the App Store.Army Of Darkness Defence, iPad, iPhone, iPod TouchStop the Deadites getting their rotting claws on the Book Of The Dead, using assorted medieval soldiery and a shotgun-equipped cartoon Bruce Campbell. All your favourite quotes from the film, a cornucopia of upgrades, and 50 levels of addictive castle defence.Backflip Studios, 59p, £1.79 for iPadPaper Glider Bomber, iPhone, iPod TouchGlide back and forth in your biodegradable bomber over cityscapes where target buildings are interspersed with fragile, score-destroying hospitals, as you effortlessly eat two-minute gaps in your day.Neon Play Ltd, freePerfect Cell, iPad, iPhone, iPod TouchIn the scantest of set-ups, you discover that this time you are the alien lifeform imprisoned in an underground laboratory. Your escape unfolds in a series of switch and door puzzles, stealthy evasion of humans, and occasional hidden areas. It's a subtle, elegant and tactile game.Mobigame, £1.79Max And The Magic Marker, iPad, iPhone, iPod TouchMax And The Magic MarkerHelp Max get to the exit gate via various perils and goodies by drawing helpful objects for him to climb and ride. Drop hasty scrawls to squash monsters and create shelter from deadly rain. The drawing works nicely even if controlling Max can engender actual rage.Electronic Arts Netherlands, iPhone &amp; iPod Touch 59p, iPad £1.79Tactical Soldier: Undead Rising, iPad, iPhone, iPod TouchUsing the time-honoured combat mechanics of the classic X-COM series, although without those games' fastidious research and resource management mechanics, this pits mercenaries against an army of zombies in a succession of cheerful, turn-based encounters.Full Control ApS, £2.99Hunters: Episode One HD, iPadAnother X-COM homage, this time zombie-free but taking a similarly thoughtful, turn-based approach to shooting things to pieces. Scouting rooms for enemies is the order of the day and once again the process of upgrading your troops is a joyous game in itself.Rodeo Games, free (£4.99 for full game)Galaxy On Fire 2: Valkyrie, iPad, iPhone, iPod TouchGalaxy On Fire 2The mac daddy of mobile space operas is Galaxy On Fire 2, a game of intrigue, war and free-market economics among the stars. The recently arrived Valkyrie add-on furthers the plot and gives access to a new black market, fresh spacecraft and artillery.FISHLABS, £5.99; Valkyrie purchased in-game for £2.99City Of Secrets, iPhone, iPod TouchCharming dialogue and lovingly rendered characters, in a yarn featuring Mr Moles and Rex The Dog, bring to mind adventure games of yesteryear, but also imports their tendency towards trial-and-error puzzle solving.Aidem Media, £2.99Superbrothers: Sword &amp; Sworcery EP, iPad, iPhone, iPod TouchThis deliciously stylised 2D adventure is enhanced by a deep soundtrack, for which the game suggests using headphones. Any of its text can be Tweeted, keeping interactions short, sweet and so archly self-referential you can pretty much picture the hipsters who wrote it.Capybara Games Inc, £2.99
In order to break up the tedium of a recent long walk with my girlfriend, I&nbsp;invented a game. It's&nbsp;called Cars Named After Music Genres; you simply have to name as many as possible. So I began."Ford Fusion.""Volks Wagner.""Clever, but disallowed on two counts. A, there isn't a car called a&nbsp;Volks Wagner; and B, Wagner isn't a music genre. Plus you miss a turn, my go, Honda Jazz.""Oi, you never told me about that rule, this is a stupid game, I'm not playing any more." So that was the end of it, a 2-0 victory for me, and we walked on (and on) in silence.Jazz seems a strange music genre for Honda to have named their supermini after. To me it says old blokes with beards. Or porn. Neither of which is good. It comes as no surprise to learn that the average age of a Jazz driver is 65. A Honda Hip-Hop would surely appeal to a wider market. Or a Honda Dubstep, if it's the youth they're targeting, but that's probably going too far in the other directionIt doesn't deserve its fuddy-duddy moniker, though. The Jazz is an attractive car, bright and sunny both in temperament and – with the panoramic sun roof I've got on this one – literally. Ride quality and handling aren't brilliant, but load space and versatility are. We drove to the garden centre (because we're 65 in spirit) and, by folding the back seats, we managed to get some quite big plants in, upright. It's now a greenhouse on wheels. Perfect for tomatoes if you're towards the Jazz end of the scale, or industrial-strength skunk if you see the car as more of a Honda Dub Reggae.That's it, it's brilliant, because by carrying around a car load of plants – which if I remember from biology produce oxygen and use up CO2 – then you can possibly bring down the emissions by 5g to get it under the 100g/km free road tax threshold. (I'm not sure how well the conversation at the post office would go, though.) 104g/km isn't bad – but it's not fantastic for a&nbsp;hybrid. Likewise fuel consumption of 62.8mpg. Compare that with a&nbsp;Toyota Auris Hybrid which goes 12 miles farther on a gallon. Plus there are plenty of non-hybrid eco diesels that produce less than 100g/km of carbon dioxide. Cheaper non-hybrid eco diesels. And that's still the problem with hybrids – they're too expensive. This one may be the cheapest hybrid family hatchback, but it's still around £1,500 more than&nbsp;a standard non-hybrid Jazz. It&nbsp;makes sense for the planet, but not for the pocket; 1,500 quid is a lot to pay for a slightly easier conscience, and some leaves that glow on the dashboard when you drive economically. Leaves that, I'm afraid, my girlfriend has just noticed. "Honda Greensleeves," she blurts. No, on counts A and B, plus several more. She just doesn't get it.Honda Jazz i-VTEC HybridPriceFrom £15,995Top speed109mphAcceleration0-62mph in 12.3 secondsAverage consumption62.8 mpg combinedCO2 emissions104g/kmGreen rating7/10In a wordGreen-ish
It was once famed for its art scene and residents with daft haircuts. But the area around Old Street, on the fringes of the City of London, has emerged as a magnet for internet startups to rival those in the US, earning it the nickname Silicon Roundabout after its famously unlovely traffic system.Iain Dodsworth, a 36-year-old Sheffield-educated computer programmer, this week became the poster boy for the area when hesold his three-year-old firm, TweetDeck, to social network company Twitter in a deal thought to be worth about $40m (£25m) – making the once-unemployed developer an overnight millionaire.The big-money deal is the clearest sign yet that the firms clustered in the area are capable of attracting talent that could match those of California's Silicon Valley, the heartland of technology firms such as Facebook and Google."It feels like a really big win for London," says Dodsworth. "It feels like there's something meaningful there. It's quite a big deal that we were even bought in the first place. We are now Twitter, and we happen to be in London – it's significant that Twitter understands the benefit of having something outside of San Francisco."The term Silicon Roundabout was – in typically British self-deprecating style – coined two years ago as a riposte to accusations that London could never foster an environment to rival San Francisco. While the Old Street landmark does not host offices for Apple or Yahoo – and its gritty urban surrounds compare unfavourably with the rolling Californian landscape – Silicon Valley tech titans are increasingly looking to Shoreditch for their next acquisition."We weren't bought for £2.50 – we have shown that it's not just a little acquisition and I think that's quite meaningful," Dodsworth says, the confetti still fresh around his desk from Wednesday's announcement. "[The deal shows that] if a company is looking at acquiring smaller companies, they don't just have to look at the US. Perhaps if we were just around the corner in Silicon Valley they'd have just snapped up the team, moved them in and that's it."Like many of east London's digital firms, Dodsworth shares a large open-plan office with about a dozen other small internet companies, includingSoundCloudandMobileRoadie. The office erupted with champagne and confetti when the deal was announced, and newspaper clippings – "Twitter buys TweetDeck", "TweetDeck tycoon: I'll stay at Silicon Roundabout" – are proudly displayed across their shiny Apple computers.The effect of "seeing this success rather than reading about it on [technology news site] TechCrunch" is something not to be underestimated – and is an integral part of Silicon Valley's history of achievement, says Dodsworth. Richard Moross, founder of digital printing businessMoo.com, moved his company to Shoreditch five years ago – long before what he calls its "ridiculous" new name was coined. The office space he leases to TweetDeck and others has a waiting list of more than 20 companies."The reason why the Silicon Valley success story rolls on is because the people in those companies have success, share success, other people see it, they start new companies and the thing snowballs," he says. "By having people in the same area – the same physical location – that is like an amplifying device. It's a successful formula, and that's why people want to move here."Similar clusters of technology firms have sprung up outside London. Cambridge has Silicon Fen, home to a number of hi-tech outfits including chipmaker Arm Holdings and semiconductor manufacturer Cambridge Silicon Radio (CSR). The predictably named Silicon Glen is the triangle stretching from Glasgow to Edinburgh and Dundee that includes multinationals such as IBM, Semtech and National Semiconductor.However, web-based startups and aspirant social networks have tended to gravitate towards east London. The capital, and its resurgent tech scene, has a natural allure for twentysomething founders touting unproven business models – no doubt bolstered by the sky-high valuations being attached to US rivals such asLinkedInandZynga. And just as California's techies shifted from military technology to transistors, computers and eventually the internet, so too is Shoreditch, still a heartland for traditional printing, changing its spots.To work in the same vicinity as TweetDeck inspires Nick Casey, the founder of the yet-to-launch sports social networkSquadify. "Two desks over there's a serial entrepreneur who has had multiple startups and gone through the whole funding process. To chat with these people over a cup of tea or a beer is gold dust – you can't find that stuff on the internet."Casey and fellow co-founder Andy Davey occupy a £275-a-month desk at TechHub, an expansive workspace-cum-common room just yards from Old Street roundabout. Only 11 months old, TechHub has already won sponsorship from Google. Instead of renting garage space from a friend of a friend – as Sergey Brin and Larry Page did 13 years ago when setting up Google – fledgling companies can get space at cheap rates and on flexible contracts. Just don't ask TechHub co-founder Elizabeth Varley whether she's attempting to recreate the famous San Francisco scene."The holy grail of Silicon Valley – that it's more a state of mind than a place – is true. It's about the way you work and the approach you take," she says. "What we did was to look at some of the success factors over there and see what we could do better – connecting people, connecting VCs [venture capitalists] with startups, large tech companies with startups – that's something [the UK] hasn't been particularly good at. While we're a workspace, that's just a basic need – the most important thing is the community of different elements of the startup ecosystem that help those young companies flourish."Like the offices run by Moross, TechHub is full to bursting with fresh-faced entrepreneurs "sick of doing the Starbucks shuffle", as Varley puts it. A new "entrepreneur visa" for foreign businesspeople who want to invest in the UK, unveiled as part of the government's plans to create an "East London Tech City" in November, means the roundabout's summer party – which has grown from 200 revellers to 1,000 in three years – could soon be overrun by digital aspirants.But for now the UK's leading entrepreneurs are staying sober. Varley says: "Silicon Valley has had 60 years of investment in silicon and chips … It has two amazing universities, and it's had a lot going on in the past, which means it has been able to spawn this internet boom over there – it hasn't happened overnight."Sometimes it takes a little more,  but we're on the way."UK's network success stories• TweetDeckBuilt by Iain Dodsworth while he was unemployed and looking for a way to organise his Twitter feeds, TweetDeck has been downloaded by more than 20&nbsp;million people. It is the second most popular way to tweet, after Twitter.com, so it is no surprise that Twitter bought it for a reported £25m last week.• Mind CandyThe company behind the social networking website for children, Moshi Monsters. Later this year it will launch a free iPlayer-style catchup service for its 38 million registered users, mostly aged between six and 11. The profitable Moshi Monsters series competes with Disney's Club Penguin in the UK, with merchandise sales forecast to reach $100m (£61m) this year.• Last.fmUK-founded online music service bought by CBS for $280m in May 2007. It moved closer to profit in its most recent full-year financials, for 2009, posting a pre-tax loss of £2.8m – compared with the £17m loss in 2008. The site remains hugely popular, competing with Spotify and other big-name music streaming services.• GroupSpacesSocial network to help real-world groups manage themselves online. Founded in 2007, it won the social networking category in the UK Startups 100 awards in April. It raised $1.3m in its latest investment round, last June.• SongkickThis four-year-old company, headed by Ian Hogarth, aims to become "the home of live music on the web" by inviting users to track gigs from their favourite artists. Hired Apple's former senior engineering manager, Dan Crow, in January as it looks to compete with the formidable Ticketmaster.
BT and TalkTalk, Britain's largest internet service providers, have launched a second attempt to overturn government plans to curb illicit filesharing.The two ISPs are taking their long-running battle against the Digital Economy Act to the court of appeal, afterlosing a high court judicial reviewof the legislation last month.BT and TalkTalk believe that the act infringes internet users' "basic rights and freedoms", and did not receive sufficient parliamentary scrutiny when it was "rushed through" in the dying days of the last government in April 2010.Government plans to send thousands of warning letters to alleged illegal downloaders – a measure introduced by the act – are set to begin in the first half of next year."Both companies believe the High Court's conclusions on many of the other important and complex issues put before it were not robust enough to provide the certainty and clarity which the companies sought. This is why they are seeking leave to take the matter before the court of appeal," the companies said in a joint statement on Friday.BT and TalkTalk are appealing against four of the five grounds of the judicial review, arguing that the act is broadly "inconsistent with European law". The ISPs have raised concerns about how the legislation works alongside European Union directives on technical standards, authorisation, e-commerce, as well as privacy and electronic communications.Both companies said the plans are a "disproportionate interference with the rights of internet service providers, subscribers and internet users and with the concept of freedom of expression."However, the telecoms firms said they will not challenge the act on this basis because there is an "exceptionally high threshold" of proving that it is a disproportionate answer to illicit filesharing.Mr Justice Parker, the high court judge who threw out BT and TalkTalk's judicial review of the Act last month, rejected the companies' initial appeal against the ruling earlier this month.
In 1961 Jacques Grosjean, who has died aged 86, joined what was then the Bristol College of Science and Technology as head of the applied mechanics group. This recently designated College of Advanced Technology (CAT) was expanding fast, and Jacques was one of eight academics who joined at the same time. I was another.In the mid-60s the CATs became universities, the Bristol college eventually metamorphosing into the University of Bath. Meanwhile, a&nbsp;couple of miles up the A38, Concorde and its engines were being designed, and a need was arising for engineers who could converse with their French colleagues. Jacques, in collaboration with Jim Coveney, who headed modern languages, responded by devising the engineering with French degree course. As well as French language and culture, students were taught one engineering discipline in French, in each year. The courses were taught initially by Jacques, but later a French engineer was employed for this duty. The students spent the industrial elements of the sandwich course in France.The course was successful (one of the early students became a vice-president at Airbus) and was soon followed by a similar arrangement with&nbsp;Germany. Jacques' work led to close contact with the French technological universities, in particular the Ecole Centrale in Paris and ENSEM in Nancy. He was visiting lecturer at both. He was appointed Chevalier de l'Ordre National du Mérite by France in 1977. However, 40 or so years after their introduction, applications for the engineering-with-a-modern-language degrees tailed off, and recruitment was&nbsp;suspended last year.Jacques was very concerned that engineering students should understand the mathematical background to their studies, and he published textbooks on this subject, among others. After retiring in the late 1980s, he continued writing, co-operating with Alex Moulton and Geraint Owen on The Moulton Formulae and Methods: Directly Usable for Calculation in Mechanical Engineering (2005), an aide-memoire loose-leaf book.Jacques was born in Paris and came to Britain at the age of 15 to join the Free French forces under Charles de Gaulle. During the second world war he served in the Special Operations Executive. After the war he studied at Battersea Polytechnic, now Surrey University, for a degree in mechanical engineering. He joined the Bristol Aeroplane Company (now BAE Systems) at Filton, near Bristol, working on guided weapons, and then moved to Norris Consultants, also in&nbsp;Bristol, where he was chief designer.Jacques is survived by his children, Peter and Caroline, and four grandchildren.
With thousands of new mobile and tablet apps released every week, we're trying to find the best ones. Here's this week's selection.The HeistiPhone, £0.59Indie puzzler The Heist is currently bossing the Top Paid and Top Grossing charts on Apple's UK App Store, having been released earlier this week. The adulatory reviews on the store are right, too: the 60 puzzles are varied in content and difficulty, with plenty of depth as you work through them. The game also features fake phone calls from a character called Sophia, which mimic actual calls on your iPhone – an imaginative touch.Glastonbury 2011iPhone, Android, freeEvery big music festival has its own app nowadays, with the core features seemingly set in stone: a map of the venue, stage listings and a personal schedule planner to ensure you don't miss out on a favourite band. Orange's official Glastonbury app does all of this very well, pulling in news about the festival too. A version for Nokia handsets will be out too, before the festival kicks off.BBC NewsAndroid, freeIt took a while, but the BBC News app has finally made it to Android smartphones. The app offers a slick touchscreen interface to content from its website, including video reports. Swiping between stories makes it a quick way to catch up on the day's news, while an Edit menu lets you add or remove certain categories from the homescreen. If you're running the Android 2.2 OS or above, you can also live-stream the BBC News TV channel.NapsteriPhone, Android, £10 a monthIs Napster's new smartphone app good enough to snaffle some of Spotify's buzz? One of its biggest selling points is the size of its catalogue, with more than 15m songs to stream. The offline caching features are also welcome, including the fact that your last 100 played tracks are automatically stored on your device. The app is slightly clunkier than Spotify, but still works well. You'll pay £10 a month for web and mobile access.TastecardBlackBerry, freeThe number of apps being released for BlackBerry pales in comparison to iOS and Android, but that means when a good one turns up, it spreads quickly through word of mouth. We can see Tastecard appealing to BlackBerry's business customers here in the UK: it collects discount offers for more than 5,000 restaurants, showing those nearest to your current location.Swing PongiPhone, £0.59Swing Pong is very silly, but in the best possible way. The iPhone game claims to be "Ping Pong for your ears" – an audio-only table-tennis simulation where you're relying on the sound of the ball bouncing on your side of a virtual table to judge when to swing at it. And by swing, we mean really swing – you play by waving your iPhone like a table tennis bat. Fairly fun alone, but marvelous in two-player mode.Deadmau5 RemixiPhone, iPad, £1.79Dance artist Deadmau5 has been involved in a series of apps, culminating in this latest remix application. It lets fans mess about with beats, melodies and effects from Deadmau5's music, mashing them up by dragging coloured circles into on-screen slots and tapping them to play. The resulting mixes can be shared on Facebook, and there's a competition to enter too. Naturally, this will mainly appeal to fans, although we're hardly au fait with Deadmau5's catalogue, but still enjoyed it.You Don't Know JackiPhone, iPad, $2.99Remember the snarky, smartarse computer game that launched way back in 1995? Yep, You Don't Know Jack is back – this time for mobile platforms – and it's just as snarky and smartarse … and host Cookie is still as smarmy as ever, too. It's a fast-paced, multiple-choice TV-style trivia quiz game. Each question (there are 20 rounds of 10 questions each) has four answers to choose from, and a 15-second time limit. It's fun, and funny – but the questions tend to be just a tad US-centric. So if you know all the middle initials of former US presidents, are up-to-date on American brand names and know the second most-common surname in America, then this game's for you.Stuart O'Connor
It's hard to know which is more surprising: that the UK's first online conferencing system,CIX (Compulink Information eXchange)has been bought, or that it's still in existence. But communities die hard, and CIX's new owner, the 10-year-old internet service provider ICUKNet, says that the site, which includes a range of internet services as well as the conferencing system, has some 7,000 users and is profitable."It's not just a conferencing site," says Leslie Costar, a general director of ICUKNet and a long-time CIX user who worked there from 1999 to 2001. "Half the business is internet service provision." Moving CIX's current array of rack servers to ICUKNet's infrastructure, he says, will reduce the costs of running the conferencing system, and the company can also offer CIX as part of its bundle of services to its 20,000 customers. The company also wants to update CIX's 20-year-old infrastructure and make it accessible on mobile devices.In addition, he says, "We want to integrate external feeds into it. And we have to try to open it up so that people on the internet can search things and if they're being talked about on CIX it will show in the search listing."His fellow director Paul Barnett says in his evaluation as a non-CIX user, "I saw a lot of potential." Unlike Twitter or Facebook, where conversations are short snippets, he says, "CIX takes it to an intellectual level. You can have more detailed discussions with more intelligent people, not just 'friends'." Of course, he is right: and yet, like every online service CIX is as much known for its silly, long-running persistent feuds and flame wars as anything else. (Go on there and mention coffee makers, I dare you.)The history of CIX is a lesson in changing times. Founded by Frank and Sylvia Thornley, CIX began life in 1983 as a bulletin board system. After a few years, the Thornleys discovered the conferencing system software CoSy that had been developed at Canada's University of Guelph. They bought a licence to use and modify the software, and relaunched it in 1987 in more or less its present form."To this day the Telnet interface and core database run on the same code," says Geoff Campbell, a freelance IT consultant and long-time CIX user who worked there briefly in 1996. "I think that continuity of usage of a software package is probably some form of record." Meantime, the hardware needed to run that software has dropped in price by at least a factor of 50.Like San Francisco'sThe Well (Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link), CIX was an important staging post in the developing online world: it was where the local online pioneers gathered. Demon Internet, the first ISP aimed at consumers, was founded on CIX when Cliff Stanford set up a conference called tenner.a.month to recruit enough people to start the service. The LibDems, sensing the opportunities of new technology, set up a series of conferences for both internal and external communications that are still active; I remember setting up an interview with Paddy Ashdown by emailing him direct on the service in about 1995. And when the internet became mainstream news, the late journalist John Diamond used CIX to collect comments for his columns.Part of the appeal lay, of course, in the fact that it was the only British service of its kind. But part lay also in the sheer efficiency of its interface which, to save users telephone costs, was automated by offline reader software. To anyone who cut their online teeth on this kind of text-based asynchronous messaging, today's web boards and blogs are frustratingly clunky and slow.And then came the internet. CIX adapted to some extent by creating a dial-up internet service, running games servers, and eventually offering broadband. In the meantime, it went through a series of owners: Legal &amp; General, Telenor, Pipex and Parkglobe. Many of these owners seemed to have little understanding of the conferencing system or what to do with it, and progressively the user base shrunk as the world changed and people followed their friends onto the web and then social networks like Facebook."We've got mountains to climb," says Barnett. "As a new user, I thought parts were horrific and stuck 20 years ago and hadn't moved on since dial-up." ICUKNet, he says, has developed and engineered its own platforms in-house with the goal of making everything as simple as possible for users. "We want to bring those same principles and forward thinking to CIX."
A burst of 13 apps for your considerationNHS DirectNHS Direct has worked with developer Mobikats to make an official Android app, which helps people look up their symptoms and decide whether they can treat themselves, or need to see a doctor. It includes all 37 of NHS Direct's online symptom checkers, and can generate a call-back from an NHS Direct nurse advisor. An iPhone version is coming in June.RankyIf you're developing iOS apps, you need Ranky. It costs 59p and is the work of StudioDalton. It gives developers real-time stats on how their apps are doing on App Stores in 60 countries, for both the overall and category-specific charts. It also works for the Mac App Store.HoundSoundHound made its name with Shazam-style music identification apps, but its new spin-off is slightly different. Hound uses voice search, getting users to speak an artist name to bring up a page of information, song previews and lyrics. It's available for iOS and Android, and while music-focused for now, is part of SoundHound's move into more general voice search for other forms of entertainment.JBL LiveIt's only available in the US at the time of writing, but JBL Live is an interesting dive into social location by audio hardware firm JBL. The app aims to provide local recommendations of bands and venues based on a user's music tastes, while encouraging them to upload photos and videos from gigs that they attend.Daily Express PuzzlesThe Daily Express has gone to Android with its official Puzzles app, developed by Wired Productions working with the newspaper's publisher. The app includes more than 1,200 crosswords, word searches, sudoku and other puzzles.FriendFinderOnline dating service FriendFinder has launched its official Android app, aimed at helping its 50 million members (well, the ones with Google-powered handsets anyway) access the service on the move.Christie's Venice Biennale Guide 2011iPhone owners heading to the Venice Biennale art event will find Christie's' new app an essential download. It includes directions to the key venues, a calendar of events, tips from art experts and info on the city's nightlife.The Jungle Book: The Story of Mowgli and Shere KhanDeveloper Electric Type has released its first book-app for iPad – an animated retelling of The Jungle Book. Divided into seven chapters, it includes full-screen illustrations, voice narration and an original soundtrack.ooVoo MobileiPhone and Android app ooVoo Mobile is a free social app that offers video chat for up to six people at once, along with instant messaging and VoIP.TomTom Break FreeSatellite navigation firm TomTom has launched a spinoff app that ties into a contest to win a car by singing. The idea: people download the new Break Free app, which helps them record and upload a video of themselves singing Queen's I Want To Break Free while stuck in traffic.Paint My WingsiOS app Paint My Wings from Toca Boca is a lovely piece of work: kids can paint virtual butterflies on-screen, with the butterflies reading out the different colours as they go. The finger-painting is also symmetrical – when one side of the butterfly is coloured, the other side is too.ZonaZona is the work of freelance photographer Carl De Keyzer, and is an iPad app based on his 2003 book of the same name. His photographs, taken between 2000 and 2002, document life in modern Siberian prison camps.NoispotAndroid app Noispot is a client app for the service of the same name, which focuses on "interactive background music". That means walking into cafes, bars and restaurants whose music is powered by Noispot, and being able to vote on the songs that are playing. It's in beta.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRumor: Lion near to going live &gt;&gt; The Unofficial Apple Weblog"Trusted sources tell TUAW that OS X 10.7 Lion has gone live for internal Apple testing as recently as last week. An internal testing release generally indicates that Lion is near to a real world debut."That makes quite rapid progress from the first developer preview, only issued a few months ago.This is a first-launch experience of a popular highly-rated camera app &gt;&gt; TwitpicA 52-word three-sentence "tip" where if everything's going well, you answer "No".Vivek Kundra on pushing the US federal government cloudward &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"The one thing that pretty much anyone-whether they're a politician, a member of the Washington bureaucracy, or a humble taxpayer-can agree on is that when a dollar is spent, it should be done effectively and productively. Kundra's job is to whip government agencies into shape around IT spending, and make them think more like private companies in planning that spending."A keystone of his plan is to push federal agencies to embrace, where possible and appropriate, the cost-savings and efficiency that come from cloud computing."See the invisible web of cookies and trackers &gt;&gt; GhosteryNeat browser plugin for IE, Firefox, Chrome, Safari that shows you what web beacons etc there are on a page.Rumor: Apple courting Samsung to build AMOLED displays for iPad 3? &gt;&gt; 9 to 5 Mac"File this one under the highly improbable drawer because there's little chance Samsung will let Apple get their hands on its active-matrix organic LED technology, better known as AMOLED, which is an important differentiating hardware feature of their Galaxy S smartphone series...especially now that Apple has sued them."The last bit is unimportant; business is business. Whether it's important for the smartphone series is a different question. This rumour hangs on a thread (Cook met Samsung!). Pinch of salt.Remembrance of Links Past &gt;&gt; Pinboard BlogOr: how linkrot is going to get you or your links one day. The proportion of dead links is likely higher than this check found because of parked domains, which superficlally look OK to a crawler.Yahoo stock price data downloads in CSV &gt;&gt; YahoofinancedataNifty tool.A new mobile phone market index &gt;&gt; Asymco"So performance in a market can only be measured if you know to what end is that measure applied. Are you trying to determine current performance or are you assuming that the future will be different and trying to figure out what that future will look like?"There is no good answer. It depends. But at least we can combine more than one share value into a summary. Mark Hernandez suggested that I put forward a 'composite index' to measure vendor performance. I am willing to give it a try."The result when he does is Interesting.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google's first payments from itsnew "electronic wallet" systemmay be to the online transaction company PayPal, which claims that the company and two of its executives stole trade secrets for the project.Unveiled on Thursday, the Google Wallet project uses a technology called Near Field Communications (NFC) to allow contactless transactions between consumers' phones and merchants' terminals.But PayPal has filed suit in California following the launch in New York, alleging that Google lured away PayPal executive Osama Bedier earlier this year to obtain trade secrets that are now being used in Google's service. The suit also names Stephanie Tilenius.Both Bedier, now Google's vice president of payments, and Tilenius were among those showing off the technology in New York.The wallet app itself will require a PIN, as will each transaction. The payment credentials will be encrypted and stored on a chip, called the secure element, inside the phone. The app itself will be free to users.Google emphasised that the wallet service would be open to all businesses and invited other banks, credit card issuers, payment networks, mobile carriers and merchants to work with it. If the phone was stolen, the credit cards inside could be remotely disabled. Consumers would have the same "zero liability" for unauthorised transactions made with their phone as they would with their plastic cards.The suit also alleges Bedier was interviewing for a job at Google while he was also negotiating for PayPal to handle sales in Google's application market for phones running on its Android software.The suit said Bedier worked for nine years at PayPal, most recently serving as vice president of platform, mobile and new ventures. He joined Google on 24 January 2011. Tilenius was at eBay from 2001 to October 2009, and served as a consultant to the company until March 2010.The suit says Tilenius joined Google in February 2010 as vice president of e-commerce. Bedier is accused in the suit of having "misappropriated PayPal trade secrets by disclosing them within Google and to major retailers".The suit accuses Tilenius of recruiting Bedier, thereby breaking a contractual agreement with eBay. It also claims Bedier attempted to recruit former colleagues still at PayPal.The suit claims that PayPal and Google had worked closely together for three years until this year on developing a commercial deal where PayPal would serve as a payment option for mobile app purchases on Google's Android phones.It said Bedier was the senior PayPal executive leading negotiations with Google on Android during this period."At the very point when the companies were negotiating and finalising the Android-PayPal deal, Bedier was interviewing for a job at Google – without informing PayPal of this conflicting position," the suit claims.The suit was filed at Superior Court of the State of California. Google had no comment, saying it had not seen a copy of the lawsuit.
Friday! Start planning that weekend of games!
Around 7% of UK households, or 1.5m of the total 21.3m, use mobile devices exclusively to connect to the internet, and a total of 3.6m, or 17%, used mobile broadband for internet access, according to new research by communications regulator Ofcom.Thestudy, carried out between September and December 2010 with broadband monitoring specialists Epitiro, found that the number of homes using mobile devices for exclusive access had doubled from 3% in 2009.The average mobile broadband speed was 1.5 megabits per second (Mbps), which meant that basic web pages took an average of 8.5 seconds to download. The Digital Britain report, which has been taken up by the coalition government, aims for a minimum 2Mbps connection for every home via mobile or fixed broadband.By contrast fixed broadband over telephone lines offers an average 6.2Mbps in a study done in November and December 2010; with that, the same pages loaded in less than 0.5s.The research involved over 4.2m tests and measured average speeds as well as the performance of the five mobile operators in areas of good 3G network coverage. However, it did not include smartphones, looking only at 3G dongles and datacards.Other findings fromthe Ofcom reportinclude:• Average speeds rose in areas with good 3G coverage, to 2.1Mbps• during the "congested" peak evening period of 8pm-10pm, average speeds fell to 1.7MbpsDifferent mobile broadband providers performed differently.• O2, Vodafone and 3 offered faster average download speeds than T-Mobile and Orange, the networks operated by Everything Everywhere• O2 on average had faster connections than other operators, and more responsive connections when users made web requestsDifferent locations had different responses, with urban locations offering faster connections than rural ones. But performance was extremely variable.Ofcom chief executive Ed Richards said: "This research gives consumers a clearer picture of the performance of mobile broadband dongle and datacards as consumers use these services to complement fixed-line services, or sometimes as their principal means of accessing online services."The research is another important step in Ofcom's efforts to ensure that consumers have the information they need to exercise their choice effectively and to make the most of competition in the market."Adam Scorer, director of external affairs at Consumer Focus, said: "Ofcom's research shows that the small number of consumers relying on mobile broadband to get access to the internet is increasing."Coverage for mobile and fixed broadband is still patchy, leaving a lottery for consumers who want to get online, especially in rural and remote areas. The internet is increasingly important for consumers to access public services and get the best online deals. It is essential for consumers that the Government and telecoms industry work together to make sure reliable broadband is available to everyone regardless of location. In the meantime, we would urge consumers to check coverage in their area before signing up to any deal."Derek McManus, chief operating officer for the mobile carrier and fixed broadband provider O2, said: "Our customers are seeing the benefit from the huge investment we've made in our network. We always aim to deliver the best network experience for our customers and these results are another indicator that we're doing just that."• Ofcom haspublished a guide for consumers with adviceon what to think about when choosing a mobile broadband service.
Google has joined the race to offer consumers the chance to leave their wallet at home and instead use their mobile phone to make payments.At a joint press conference at its New York offices, Google, Citibank and Mastercard on Thursday unveiled plans to turn the company's Android mobile handset phone into Google Wallet, complete with an app that lets users make "wave and pay" purchases in stores.Instead of swiping a card, customers will be able to wave their phone in front of a reader to make the payment. Initially, only high-end Citibank customers will be able to use the adapted phones, which will be linked directly to their credit or debit cards.Trials start immediately and Google predicts the service will officially launch this summer in San Francisco and New York City, followed by a roll-out nationwide.Google said its open platform will enable it to be used on any device or card, and hopes to get more partners on board.Stephanie Tilenius, Google's vice-president of commerce, said: "We're about to embark on a new era of commerce where we bring online and offline together. We believe the shopping experience has not yet been transformed by technology or by magical experiences. Now, your phone can be your wallet."Google's move is relatively late. Rival telecoms companies have been trialling mobile payment technology in Europe for some time. The industry hopes mobile payments will revolutionise the high street in the next three years.Last week in the UK, Orange announced it was offering its mobile customers the chance to make contactless payments from a pre-loaded Barclaycard embedded in a special Samsung handset.O2 is expected to launch a more sophisticated mobile payments service in the UK in the second half of the year "well in time for Christmas". The firm is expected to offer a genuine digital wallet, allowing users to embed credit and debit cards in their handset, and allow payments between phone users.Yesterday the Payments Council, which represents the UK's banks and card providers, announced it was undertaking a major new project into how to make paying by mobile "as easy, efficient and secure as any other way to pay".Predicting that the mobile phone would soon replace the wallet for many mobile users, it said the project would focus on the ability of mobile users to transferring money to businesses or other mobile users via an app or attached to a text.Gary Hocking, the Payments Council's acting chief executive, said: "The introduction of mobile payments will offer more choice to customers, simplifying how we can make a financial transaction and increasing flexibility in our everyday lives."
Leading internet figures have warned world political leaders against trying to regulate the web, telling them to leave alone a process that has flourished without government interference.Facebook's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, wearing a rare suit and tie, told leaders at the G8 that excessive regulation would not work, and called for more investment in high-speed technology.G8 leaders agreed a communique in which they welcomed the role of the net in providing economic growth and personal freedom, but also warned of its threat to privacy and intellectual property.The wording reflects tensions within the G8 over the determination of President Nicolas Sarkozy to push regulation of the net up the political agenda, including protection of intellectual property.He staged a two-day conference on the issue in Paris before the summit, and five of the leading participants, including Zuckerberg, reported on their deliberations."This has been almost unanimous that we should provide free, open access to the internet to everyone on earth," said Maurice Lévy of the Publicis advertising group, who hosted the e-G8 meeting in Paris."Yes, we should protect intellectual property; no, we shouldn't create a situation by which the internet cannot grow and cannot develop," Lévy said, warning that failure to provide high-speed internet could "create a collapse of the system"."There is a serious need to invest heavily in high-speed ADSL and other high-speed systems," Lévy said, adding that the summit of internet leaders would become an annual event.David Cameron's aides are privately sceptical that the Sarkozy initiative will lead anywhere.Eric Schmidt, the executive director of Google, said: "The internet is the greatest force for good in the world. We should not have premature regulation ahead of innovation. There are technical solutions to these problems. Sarkozy sent a strong message he'd like to work with us on these issues."Schmidt said governments shouldn't charge telecommunication companies excessively high prices for bandwidth, saying the higher costs would be passed on to customers, holding back economic growth.He also slammed regimes such as in Iran and Syria for cutting internet access in the face of pro-democracy protests, describing it as a "terrible mistake".Zuckerberg said: "I'm happy to play any role they ask me to play… the internet is really a powerful force for giving people a voice." Zuckerberg has been challenging Sarkozy all week, and said: "People tell me: 'It's great you played such a big role in the Arab spring, but it's also kind of scary because you enable all this sharing and collect information on people.'"But it's hard to have one without the other. You can't isolate some things you like about the internet, and control other things you don't."Schmidt said that Iranian and Syrian measures to cut off internet access were "desperate moves"."It is a terrible mistake for them to do so. Among other things, it completely screws up the economy, communications, the exchange of goods, the electronic commerce, the flow of information into these countries… it's not a good idea to shut down the internet in your country," he said.Many internet bosses believe governments are going to be unable technically let alone legally to control the internet as technology develops.
The justice secretary, Kenneth Clarke, has defended a joint American-European agreement to store the personal data, including credit card details, of millions of transatlantic air passengers for 15 years.Clarke said that despite strong concerns about civil liberties, the agreement to share passenger name records with the US department of homeland security was crucial to improving US and EU security.His data protection speech in Brussels on Thursday followedthe Guardian's disclosure of the text of the draft US-EU agreementon sharing passenger name records in the wake of negotiations concluded last Friday. But the disclosure also revealed increasing opposition in the European parliament to the deal, with a warning from Claude Moraes, the socialists and democrats group civil liberties spokesman, that the data would not be used just to combat terrorism and serious crime.Clarke called for a "flexible approach" to data protection in Europe. He also backed the campaign by the home secretary, Theresa May, to ensure that passenger data on flights within Europe were also collected and stored for up to five years."The UK agrees with the large majority of other member states who think that it makes no sense to collect passenger name records information on flights to and from third countries without also collecting the same information on flights between EU members states," Clarke told the British Chamber of Commerce in Brussels."We cannot provide the protection we all wish to see without working with our non-EU partners, given the threats we face are global in nature. We should continue to engage closely with the United States on passenger name records and data protection – it is crucial to improving US and EU security."But Moraes, Labour MEP for London, said socialist MEPs were "absolutely appalled" by the text of the US-EU passenger name record agreement."There is no justification for a 15-year retention period of people's personal details," Moraes said, adding that it compared with 5½ years for a similar agreement with Australia, and five years for the EU's own airline data collection plans.The agreement left the "door wide open" for the use of the personal data – which includes bank card details, home addresses and mobile phone numbers – for "mission creep" purposes way beyond combating terrorism and serious crimes."It is also wrong that we should adopt the position that because it is for anti-terrorist purposes, we can't question whether it is a proportionate response," Moraes said.The German and French governments have already expressed concerns about the length of the retention period with Australia. That agreement and the US deal need to pass the scrutiny of the European parliament before they can come into effect.ends
As opening gambits at a mobile payments conference go, "we don't really have any clear answers or positions in this market" is one of the more unorthodox. Especially when it comes from Facebook, with developers and brands alike eager to hear about the social network's plans for advertising and/or Facebook Credits payments within its hugely popular mobile apps.That's how EMEA head of mobile partnerships Fergal Walker began his speech at Wednesday night's Monetising Mobile conference in London, though, after which he poured cold water on some of those expectations.Mobile ads in the Facebook app? "We are not focused on advertising on mobile at all." Virtual currency and payments? "We're not really focused on world domination or something regarding currency. It's not in our minds. Our minds are very focused on the social web, building basic social experiences on the web with partners."His words were clearly well chosen – Facebook may not be focused on these things now, but that doesn't mean they will not become important and lucrative revenue streams for the company in the future.The thrust of Walker's speech, though, was explaining that Facebook's current focus on basic social features in its mobile site and apps – along with initiatives like Facebook Pages, Places and Deals – will lay the groundwork upon which brands and businesses will be able to sell products, content and services."We're very very focused on getting people onto the first step of using the mobile internet," said Walker, pointing out that 70% of Facebook's UK users are accessing the social network from their phones as well as online, and that Facebook accounts for 50% of all mobile internet minutes in the UK.However, much of this activity is clustered around the basic features: status updates, photo uploads and browsing the news feed. Walker's argument was that Facebook is still treading carefully by making all this as accessible and comfortable as possible, rather than rushing to add too many complex features or advertising.Brands can't buy ads in the Facebook mobile apps or site, but their existing Facebook Pages can be found by people, though. "You can have interaction with mobile users on Facebook today. It's limited, it's primarily one-way, but equally at the same time I can Like, I can comment – all the usual stuff that you would expect," he said."If this starts helping to develop loyalty on the go, and interaction with your brand via mobile will hopefully lead to another behaviour: if you offer that consumer the opportunity and ease of purchasing on mobile, maybe that will happen too."Some companies are already trying this. Walker showed an example of a campaign run by fashion retailer Asos on Facebook, which included a link which when clicked takes users through to a shopping site to buy the product. The same company – Usablenet – runs Asos' web and mobile web stores, meaning that Facebook mobile users tapping on the link could also buy the clothing that was being promoted.Walker also talked about the potential for NFC technology in the realm of mobile social networking, and said that Nokia has pitched Facebook a campaign that would involve people with NFC-enabled handsets being able to Like brands or products from a physical location."The idea was why not have a small NFC merchandising in the store, and you swipe your Nokia NFC handset over it and Like the particular brand or store. It's so small you could put it in a beer-mat," he explained. "The opportunity in linking the virtual world and virtual services to the real world is going to be quite interesting."
I have downloaded the dreaded malware on my Mac. Now how do I get rid of the porn files and other hidden links that are disrupting my service? What virus scanner should I use to find and delete the unwanted files?WayneYour "dreaded malware" is presumably the fake anti-virus software variously known as MacDefender, MacProtector and MacSecurity. It uses an approach that has been very successful on Windows machines for several years: it pretends to find viruses on your hard drive then asks you to pay for the program to pretend to remove them.Although you could install a proper anti-virus program, Apple has published a support document,How to avoid or remove Mac Defender malware, which "provides step-by-step instructions on how to avoid or manually remove this malware". It's not complicated. First, you run the Activity Monitor to find and close the program (All Processes, Process Name). Then you open the Applications folder, find the rogue app, drag it to the Trash then empty the Trash. That's it. A third step for completeness is to go to System Preferences, select Accounts, then Login Items, and remove the entry for the rogue application.Bleeping Computer has much better instructions for manually removingMacDefender,MacProtectororMacGuardbecause its guides use lots of screen shots.Apple's support document says that: "In the coming days, Apple will deliver a Mac OS X software update that will automatically find and remove Mac Defender malware and its known variants. The update will also help protect users by providing an explicit warning if they download this malware."However, by the time this appears, or soon afterwards, there could be many different versions of the MacDefender malware that take different approaches. A new version calledMacGuard was reported by Intego on 25 May. This one is more dangerous, because it does not require a password for installation.When you follow a Google link to a "poisoned" website, the installation package, avSetup.pkg, is downloaded automatically to your Mac and runs Apple's software installer. If you install MacGuard, a small application called avRunner then downloads the rogue anti-virus software. For this reason, you should uncheck the Safari option that says "Open 'safe' files after downloading", which you can do by choosing Preferences and clicking the General tab. Since version 10.4 (Tiger), Mac OS X has "automatically [checked] your downloads for malicious software and content" but it remains a dangerous default. It just means the bad guys write code that evades the checking system, and few Macs have any other defences.Traditionally, home Mac users have not really needed to install anti-virus programs, partly because OS X has never come under any sort of sustained attack. The malware industry is run as a commercial business and the small number of relatively secure Macs has never been an attractive target compared to the easy money to be made from the insecure and widely pirated Microsoft Windows XP. That may change now that there are more Macs around, and Windows 7 (particularly the 64-bit version) is a tougher target. It remains to be seen whether MacDefender and MacGuard are a temporary blip or the start of a flood of malware, but if they make enough money, you can expect more of the same.If you think it's a good time to install anti-virus software on your Mac, thenSophos Anti-Virus for Mac Home Editionis a good free option. It will detect and remove MacDefender for you. Most of the leading anti-virus companies have paid-for programs, and it might be worth considering Intego'sVirus Barrier X6because of the sterling work the company has done on MacDefender and MacGuard. There's a free 30-day trial version.
Sony has reported double-digit percentage falls in revenue across its film, music and PlayStation divisions in the three months to the end of March.Sony Music reported a 12.9% fall in revenue to ¥109bn (£817m) in the three months to 31 March, with operating income rising to ¥3.8bn. For the full 12 months to the end of March, sales fell 9.9% to ¥470bn while operating income rose 6.6% to ¥38.9bn.The company said that the music sales fall was due to currency effects of the yen versus the US dollar, the "especially strong performance of Michael Jackson product in the previous fiscal year", and the "continued contraction of the physical music market".Best sellers included Pink's Greatest Hits, Susan Boyle's The Gift and music from the cast of the Glee TV show.Film studio Sony Pictures reported an 11% year-on-year fall in revenues in the three months to the end of March to ¥174m, with operating income for the period up 8% to ¥35.9bn. For the full year sales were down 14.9% year-on-year to ¥600bn with operating income down almost 10% to ¥38.7bn.The company said that while films such as Angelina Jolie's Salt and the remake of The Karate Kid did will in 2010, international movie and home entertainment revenues "declined significantly" because the previous year did so well from the release of disaster flick 2012 and Michael Jackson's This Is It.Sony's networked products and services division, which includes its PC and PlayStation business, reported a 14% year-on-year fall in revenue to ¥317bn in the three months to the end of March. Operating losses widened to ¥13.3bn.Across the year the division sales improved slightly by 0.4% to ¥1,58 trillion. The company turned round an ¥83bn operating loss in the previous year into a profit of ¥35.6bn.However, the division's revenue will be significantly hit in Sony's next financial results for the year from 1 April 2011 due to the impact of a worldwide hacking breach of the PlayStation online network.The company said that unfavourable exchange rates offset a boost in sales "mainly in PCs", which did well in all world regions. The company reckons it will sell about 15m PlayStation 3 consoles in the year to the end of March 2012.Sony said that overall it expects an ¥80bn net profit for the year starting 1 April, although a number of analysts think that this may be too ambitious.
Earlier this week, at a studio complex somewhere in Kentish Town, Activision previewed what will certainly be one of the biggest entertainment events of the year. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, the latest in the long-running series of first-person shooters, is likely to make more money than any blockbuster movie release, and through subsequent downloadable content, it will continue to generate millions of dollars throughout 2012.Last year, the Cold War-based Call of Duty: Black Ops shifted something in the region of 18m copies and became America's biggest-selling game ever. But fans consider the spin-off Modern Warfare titles – developed by the original Call of Duty studio, Infinity Ward – to be the standard bearers for the series.Of course, Modern Warfare 3 was always an inevitability, but nothing about its development has been predictable. Last year, several months after the release of the smash hit Modern Warfare 2, Activision sacked Infinity Ward co-founders Jason West and Vince Zampella for, "breaches of contract and insubordination".The duo sued Activision, Activision counter-sued and in the meantime dozens more Infinity Ward staff left, many joining their previous bosses at new development start-up, Respawn Entertainment, now working on an undisclosed project for EA. Very quickly, Activision revealed that it had also formed a new studio, Sledgehammer Games, with Glen Schofield and Michael Condrey previously of EA's Visceral Games at its head, and a remit to work on the Call of Duty brand.Indeed, the team was already being paired up with a restructured Infinity Ward to start work on Modern Warfare 3. The two companies have shared development duties – an increasingly common set-up in the modern industry, where projects can require teams of up to 200 people."We're taking it to an entirely new level," says Infinity Ward creative strategist Robert Bowling, displaying the customary games industry hyperbole. "We're taking players into the heart of major cities all around the world, delivering urban combat in places like Manhattan and London. We're also going throughout Europe, to Russia, parts of Africa, and the Himalayas – you will travel the world." Yes you will, and judging by the two missions Activision revealed to us at the press event, you will blow most of it up in the process.The story, apparently, picks up immediately after the close of Modern Warfare 2, in which Russia launched an invasion of the US, while the elite counter-terrorist squad Task Force 141, attempted to gather evidence against Russian ultranationalist leader Vladimir Makarov. "Washington DC is burning, " explains Schofield. "Task Force 141 is either dead or on the run and battles rage along the eastern seaboard of the United States. You must now join with your delta team in Manhattan to help turn the tide against the Russians who have occupied New York City…"Titled Black Tuesday, the first mission we're shown picks up at the opening of the New York campaign. The player starts aboard a Black Hawk helicopter that's just crash-landed in the city's financial district. The objective is to get to the stock exchange, but there is a full-scale battle raging. Missiles cut through the sky, taking out vast chunks of Manhattan real estate. A front line of obliterated roads, burned-out police cars and crawling APCs is populated by groups of soldiers cowering behind great chunks of fallen masonry. It is, in short, what we expect from a Call of Duty set-piece – a cacophonous opera of destruction and gunfire, through which the player is closely guided by a computer-controlled superior (in this case, someone called Sandman).From here, we burst into an office block riddled with bullet holes. An enemy chopper hovers outside, spraying everything with machine-gun fire. Then we're out into an alley between tenements and fire escapes, before bursting into a jewellery store and engaging in another gun fight amid dozens of glass display cases exploding into shards.The key moment is when we finally reach the stock exchange and indulge in a lengthy shoot-out on the trading floor, which has been intricately replicated – and then destroyed. Then we're up a series of scaffolding platforms onto the roof where a thermite charge takes out a satellite dish, blocking enemy communications. From here, we get the grandstanding conclusion.A comms link is established with a drone craft, and as in Modern Warfare 2, the player is able to remote-guide Reaper missiles at enemy positions, finally taking out a Hind and watching it spin to fiery oblivion in the streets below. But this isn't quite the end. There's still time to leap into a Black Hawk, laying down mini-gun fire, and duelling with another Hind between the skyscrapers – the final audacious moments see the two craft firing at each other through the superstructure of an unfinished building. It is every Michael Bay movie condensed into one roaring aerial showdown."The campaign is all about that cinematic intensity," says Bowling, somewhat needlessly after what we've just experienced. "We are locked into delivering 60 frames per second; that's what allows us to combine the high-speed gameplay and tight gun control. But the single player is just one aspect of a much, much larger experience." Along with the main campaign, we're promised the now customary Spec-Ops missions, and a two-player co-op option that will be apparently be massively built upon since its Modern Warfare 2 introduction. As for online multiplayer – well, something big is planned and an announcement is due next week.To close the event, Bowling and Schofield show us another level, this time following the Bravo Six team on a covert mission in London's docklands. An enemy weapons shipment is being unloaded, and we're here to gather valuable intel (guided from the air by a voice actor who sounds uncannily like series regular, Craig Fairbrass).There's no indication of how this all links in with the Russian invasion of the US, but the air support is picking up heat signatures in a nearby warehouse and our job is, naturally, to take out the bad guys. The player is in control of a character named Burns who's using a silenced P90 to pick off soldiers. Then we're out into the dock and a full-on assault, with car alarms going off everywhere and Canary Wharf towering in the background, just visible through the night-time drizzle.Whatever was offloaded from the ship has now seemingly been spirited off, and we're giving chase in a truck, which thunders onto railway tracks and down into the tube system, where enemies fire from a hurtling train. We zig-zag between oncoming trains, taking constant fire. At one point, the whole cavalcade whips through a packed station, and we see commuters running in panic. We're told to watch our fire – and for a second it looks like the infamous No Russian scene from Modern Warfare 2, where the player has to take part in a terrorist raid on a Russian airport filled with civilians. Eventually, the tube train jumps the track and spins through the tunnel in a fury of debris. And we're out.It is, as Call of Duty has always been, breathless stuff – a total sensory assault, this time lent an extra dramatic charge by those intricately detailed representations of familiar cityscapes. I wonder if the developers have considered how the use of such imagery will remind some of real-life atrocities in New York and London – and indeed, the trailer has already evoked the hysterical wrath of the Daily Mail, which has claimed that the tube train sections essentially simulate the July 7 bombings. It is an attention-grabbing connection, but it is also spurious; players will understand that the use of recognisable landmarks ramps up both the intensity and the stakes, and these hugely familiar cities have been destroyed countless times over the years in monster and sci-fi flicks.With the tumultuous demo over, plenty of intriguing questions remain. We're not sure if any favourite characters from previous Modern Warfare titles are returning, and there's much to discover about the reworked multiplayer. In gameplay terms, amid the state-of-the art special effects and sheer graphical detail, the corridor-like structure is hugely familiar, a single route plotted through the chaos.A question mark looms over whether the Modern Warfare 3 single-player mode can innovate beyond the restrictive formula of its predecessors. But then, do its millions of fans want it to?This is a series based on bombast and bullets, and while last year's Black Ops made a few interesting narrative sojourns into the territory of the 1970s conspiracy thriller, it looks like Modern Warfare 3 will be pure 21st century action cinema – a gigantic paean to the art of computer-generated destruction.•Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 will be released on 8 November for Xbox 360, PS3 and PC
On Monday, Steve Ballmer - Microsoft's chief executive - spoke in Tokyo about what the company has for people (both users and investors) to look forward to. In the speech, for whichthe transcript is (for now, still) available on Microsoft's website, he looked forward to new forms of interaction with systems ("Today on a PC, it's file open, blah, blah, blah, respond, reply, forward. I can't just say to my device, 'get me ready for my trip to Tokyo'"), and then noted how quickly the ARM architecture had shifted into the mainstream ("Just think back three or four years ago and how quickly performance and size, and miniaturization and the move to ARM processors has happened").And then he looked forward a little bit:We're obviously hard at work on the next version of Windows. Windows 7 PCs will sell over 350 million units this year. We've done a lot in Windows 7 to improve customer satisfaction. We have a brand new user interface. We've added touch, and ink, and speech. And yet, as we look forward to the next generation of Windows systems, which will come out next year, there's a whole lot more coming. As we progress through the year, you ought to expect to hear a lot about Windows 8. Windows 8 slates, tablets, PCs, a variety of different form factors.Wow! So that's Windows 8, announced by the chief executive as coming out next year - just what all the rumour sites have been saying for an age, and whatMicrosoft and Ballmer themselves hinted at during CES in January.Except... on Wednesday, in a move that fits the literal description of "extraordinary", Microsoft's PR put out a statement saying that the chief executive made a "misstatement".As theLA Times reports, an email from a Microsoft spokeswoman said:It appears there was a misstatement. We are eagerly awaiting the next generation of Windows 7 hardware that will be available in the coming fiscal year. To date, we have yet to formally announce any timing or naming for the next version of Windows.To which the blogosphere's reaction was:what??Is it really possible that Microsoft's PR would slap down its chief executive?Well, if you take it on face value, yes. But that's not what this is about. Instead, it's all about what spin doctors call "deniability". In other words: have some way to say that a leak isn't true.What matters at the moment to Microsoft is driving adoption of Windows 7. The figures show that the ten-year-old Windows XP is still widely used, even despite the comparatively quick takeup of Windows 7 (which is certainly faster than with Vista, as we've shown).But if corporate buyers know that Windows 8 is just around the corner, they will hold off on purchasing systems, because they'll want to see what the requirements of Windows 8 are, and how they should be planning their future upgrades.And right now the last thing that Microsoft wants is for people to hold off buying PCs. It's business buyers who are keeping the PC market anything like afloat; as Microsoft's Bill Koefoed, its general manager for investor relations, saiddiscussing its last quarterly results:Now let me turn to the PC market. There are 3 trends we are observing. First, business PC growth was 9% this quarter. The business PC refresh cycle continues and is still in the early stages. Second, emerging markets continues to play a larger role in total PC shipment volume and now represent nearly half of all worldwide PC shipments.Finally, the consumer PC market declined 8% as there are several dynamics at work, including a 40% decline in netbooks, broader consumer macroeconomics, increased competition for consumer spending and the strength of Windows 7 consumer PCs in the prior year. In total, we estimate the PC market declined 1% to 3% in the third quarter.If Ballmer's words in Tokyo make even a few businesses put off buying PCs because they're interested to see what Windows 8 is like, things could turn ugly. (A reminder: Windows licensing generates slightly more than half of Microsoft's profits.) Depressing business sales is not what chief executives are meant to do.(It's with "misstatements" like this in mind that the owner of one US hedge fund, Daivd Einhorn,called for Ballmer's head, saying the company had "floundered" under his 11-year leadership. So far though there's no sign of a shareholder or board revolt.)So what's with the PR slapping down the chief executive? It's simple: it's a billboard so that Microsoft's sales teams can point to it and say, with a straight face, "Next version? No, we haven't announced any timing or naming for the next version of Windows. Look, it says so here. Anyway, about this Windows 7 upgrade contract..."But the message you should take away? Windows 8 (or whatever it will be called) is coming next year. Steve Ballmer's the chief executive. And he knows what's going on.
A burst of 10 apps for your considerationLady Gaga – Monster In YouThe second official Lady Gaga iPhone app in a week comes from Universal Music Group, and focuses on social photo sharing features rather than just promotion. The idea: Gaga fans take photos of themselves, and then turn them into "Little Monster" versions – which as far as we can make out, means virtual face implants. The pics can then be shared via Facebook, Twitter, email and MMS. Disappointingly for Gaga's UK fans, the app is only available in the US App Store at launch.Glastonbury 2011Operator Orange is releasing the official Glastonbury festival app for 2011 today on iPhone and Android, with a Nokia version coming in the next week. The app includes a My Planner schedule that ties into the Guardian Guide, as well as an interactive map, news feeds from the festival (again, including the Guardian), and Facebook sharing features. The iPhone and Android versions will be live for download from midday.Touchgrind BMXThe original Touchgrind skateboarding game was one of the first big indie hits on iPhone's App Store. Now developer Illusion Labs has followed it up with a BMX-themed sequel, where the virtual bikes are controlled by multi-touch gestures. The ability to generate video replays to export to YouTube is a very neat feature as well.The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr Morris LessmoreIf you buy one interactive book-app for iPad today, make it this one. Based on a short film, this blends animation, music and mini-games into a narrative inspired by Hurricane Katrina. It's the work of Louisiana developer Moonbot Studios, and could become the next breakout book-app hit for Apple's tablet.MusicMagpieMusicMagpie is the official app for the website of the same name, which specialises in getting people to sell their unwanted CDs, DVDs and games. The app uses barcode scanning technology to help users gauge how much their discarded entertainment is worth, while also monitoring their payments.AR-Play GirlAR-Play Girl may look slightly seedy on the surface, given that it features a virtual woman in her underwear. However, the reason the app may be interesting for developers is that it's a showcase for the AR-Play engine of startup Toyfrog, showing how its technology works.Sonisphere Knebworth 2011The upcoming Sonisphere music festival promises to be a feast for fans of the heaviest metal, with Metallica, Slayer, Megadeth and Anthrax all playing on the same day. Its official iPhone app is out in advance, with a live news feed, regularly updated running order and stage times, a festival site map, and virtual vouchers for cheap deals during the event.MusicRoomMusicRoom is a new app for BlackBerry which aims to help people stream their music collections from their PC to their smartphones - albeit only within their own house over the Wi-Fi network. In other words, it's not a fully fledged cloud music service, but a home streaming app.Tower Defense: Lost EarthThere are hundreds of tower defence games available for iPhone and iPad, but publisher com2uS says that its new Lost Earth title is the definitive version. Of course, it would say that...Martha Stewart CocktailsUS lifestyle guru Martha Stewart has already released an iPad app about cookies, but now she's turned her attention to cocktails, working with developer Callaway Digital Arts. Included are recipes, how-to videos and photos, a virtual bar and social features.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
If first-rate family entertainment could be reduced to a scientific formula, you can bet that one of the first companies to crack it was Disney. From its earliest classic cartoons right up to the present where its intellectual property splinters into myriad formats, the house of Mickey Mouse has few equals when it comes to captivating the family unit.Disney Universe is indicative of this. Disney Interactive's forthcoming title is designed to make an entire afternoon in front of the console a family event. It's aimed squarely at the type of gamer who sees their console as a family hub, and to whom the Lego titles are the nectar of the gods.Disney Universe actually bears some passing resemblance to Travellers Tales' world-beating franchise. Like the Lego games it's wrapped in a cute, appealing and completely non-threatening veneer and it's incredibly easy to play. The controls are just three buttons and a stick and players can drop in and out of the action. The gameplay involves trundling around colourful environments, picking up shiny objects, solving puzzles and engaging in the odd punch-up. The two levels I was shown were split between brawling and platforming.However, while it takes a couple of cues from the Lego games, Disney Universe obviously contains quite a few aspects which set it apart. First the game has a difficulty-level sweet-spot which intuitively adjusts based on how well the player is doing. The second major difference is its visuals; instead of having to settle for toy building-blocks, the developers have had Disney's formidable back-catalogue at their disposal.At the preview I attended, I was informed that Disney Universe was intended to be "a unique look at the different worlds of Disney" and what this seems to mean is a fair bit of mixing and matching. Players control a blue, grinning humanoid avatar which they can dress up in outfits themed around Disney films such as Monsters Inc., Lilo and Stitch, Tron: Legacy and Tim Burton's Alice In Wonderland.The demo I was shown included areas which were based on the first and last of those films. The Alice in Wonderland level involved brawling with puzzle-solving in which players used the Mad Hatter's hat as a trampoline and the giant spoon to fire massive sugar lumps into oversized tea cups. The Monsters Inc. area mixed up fighting with platforming in the transport hub from the film, with doors on conveyer belts flying back and forth.What became clear during the demo is that Disney Universe has the potential to be a source of conflict among players. The reason for this is that, while there are sections of the game that will require them to work together, for the most part players are in competition with each other. They also have the ability to latch onto one another's avatars, swing them in a whirling arch and toss them over the side of any platforms.Add both of these factors together and you would accurately surmise I and the other people at the demo spent a fair bit of time dispatching each other so we could hoover up any shiny trinkets scattered around the screen. Still, there's a lot of rambunctious charm about the game and I can report that the gleeful way in which one can hurl both friend and foe to their doom is capable of reducing grown adults to giggling adolescents in no time. If you don't fancy playing with friends, the game supports single player mode with the co-op challenges removed.Disney Universe looks set to contain a fair bit of content. Aside from the lengthy list of unlockables, the game, we were told, will contain six different worlds (all themed on various Disney films); each world contains three levels and each level contains three areas. It's unclear whether Disney Universe boasts the depth of content that the Lego games have (and even if you hate Travellers Tales' games, you have to admit they are the bane of achievement hounds everywhere) so whether it'll appeal to anyone outside its obvious target market remains to be seen.But in the small glimpse I was allowed to have, I can confirm that Disney Universe looks like a serious contender for the hearts and minds of anyone looking for decent family fare on a console. On the evidence so far, it's so sweet that even your nan would like it.•Disney Universe will be released in autumn 2011 for PC/Mac, PS3 and Xbox 360
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNorth Korea making its own PCs &gt;&gt; PCWorld"North Korea might be an unlikely place to find a PC factory, but the country has started manufacturing three models of computers, according to a recent state TV report."The report, on the country's main 8pm evening news, took viewers inside the factory that's making the computers. The factory and the computers are far removed from the advanced and automated production lines that churn out thousands of laptops each day in neighbouring China."They run Linux, in case you're wondering.Google exec says it's a good idea: open the index and speed up the internet &gt;&gt; Silicon Valley Watcher"What if there was a single [internet and website] index that anyone could access?"You would get an immediate speed increase in the Internet for no additional investment in infrastructure."Google and others, could perform their own analysis of the index using their secret algorithms. After all, the value is not in the index it is in the analysis of that index."Lionhead: Pre-owned worse than PC piracy &gt;&gt;Eurogamer.net"Most of today's key video game outlets - Game, HMV, Amazon - and even some supermarkets (Tesco) buy and then resell used games from customers. Game publishers have developed a number of initiatives to counter-attack this, the most popular being EA's Online Pass, which bundles a free code with new games that can be redeemed to enable multiplayer or receive downloadable content. Whoever buys the game second hand won't get a free code, which means they'll have to buy a replica online for around $10."Why do game publishers and developers not like second-hand game sales? Because they don't get any money for the transaction - the shop reaps all the rewards."Yes, but customers like the price.Steven Ballmer must go, David Einhorn says &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"[Hedge fund chief David] Einhorn reviewed comments from Mr. Ballmer in the media that suggested he did not see Apple's iPhone or iPod devices as a threat. He also told an interviewer that his children were not allowed to use Google or iPods, which Mr. Einhorn suggested meant he was out of touch and 'stuck in the past.' Mr. Einhorn also attacked the Microsoft's efforts to create a search engine as a 'sinkhole.'"It's a point of view.Tablets will not kill desktops and laptops: Google's Sundar Pichai &gt;&gt; The Economic Times"Even as hardware majors like Dell , Acer and HP are laying big bets on the tablet and mobility devices, Google wants to sell Chromebook in many markets -- European and Emerging markets included. 'Our goal is to redesign end-to-end desktop computing. We are excited about Chromebooks. It is a new way of web based computing with under three minutes of boot,' says Pichai."Could be quite interesting.What should I do about FunnyJunk.com? &gt;&gt; The OatmealThe Oatmeal has discovered pretty much all his content copied to Funnyjunk.com."And it's not just FunnyJunk.com, there's a small army of sites out there like this whose business model runs this way. Another one is DamnLOL.com, who managed to rack up 670,000 likes on Facebook by hosting stolen content and covering their website with 'like this on Facebook' buttons. It seems like this 'Host-stolen-content-until-someone-complains-meanwhile-earning-ad-revenue' business model is booming right now. It's basically the new Ebaumsworld."In the US, tablets are TV buddies while eReaders make great bedfellows &gt;&gt; Nielsen Wire"70% of tablet owners and 68% of smartphone owners said they use their devices while watching television, compared to only 35% of eReader owners."o 61% of eReader owners use their device in bed, compared to 57% of tablet owners and 51% of smartphone owners."Also includes info about use in the bathroom. TMI.Google CorrelateDraw a curve using your mouse, and Google will tell you the search terms that best fit it. Like Google Trends in reverse. Possibly you get bonus points if one of the matched searches is for pr0n.iPads Dominate Global Mobile Workforce &gt;&gt; Marketingcharts.com"A combined 75% of global mobile workers who own a tablet own an iPad or iPad2, according to an April 2011 report from iPass. Data from the "iPass Global Mobile Workforce Report" indicates that about 63% of those workers own an original iPad."In a further sign of the stranglehold the iPad has on the global mobile workforce, the next-most-popular tablet brand for mobile workers is "other" (8.7%). The Blackberry Playbook follows with 6.4% penetration."Something about this doesn't add up. Apple sold around 14m iPad 1s. For the PlayBook to have 6.4% penetration, it would have to have sold 1.5m devices. This is almost certainly not the case. So you have your rebuttal, just in case someone else mentions this today.Google Maps crosses 200 million installs &gt;&gt; The Droid Guy"Marissa Mayer VP of Maps and Local for Google disclosed that Google Maps for mobile has now reached 200 million intalls and active users. Mayer went on to tell Arrington that currently Google Maps is seeing 40% mobile use and 60% desktop use.To that, Google Maps for Mobile naturally sees more use on the weekend."Mayer said that in June Google Maps will cross over, with more users for mobile rather than desktop."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Hey, what happened to Wednesday?
Harry Potter publisher Bloomsbury has joined forces with the literary and talent agency owned by PR guru Matthew Freud to set up a new ebook publishing venture, providing digital versions of out-of-print titles by authors ranging from the late political diarist Alan Clark to the novelist Monica Dickens.From September, 500 out-of-print titles from authors such as Clark, the outspoken Conservative minister, the Labour politician and biographer Roy Jenkins, Booker prizewinnerBernice Rubensand poet and critic Edith Sitwell will be available globally via a new online service to be called Bloomsbury&nbsp;Reader.Consumers will be able to download the titles as ebooks on to handheld devices such as Amazon's Kindle, or place an order for a copy to be printed and sent to them.With digital publishing on the rise, the founders hope to "bring back to life" books that are out of print and make money from them.Other authors whose titles will be on the initial launch list include Monica Dickens, who wrote the Follyfoot children's series, and the prolific short-story writer and essayistVS Pritchett.The Bloomsbury Reader website will be launched in September, in good time for the Christmas market.Unlike in traditional publishing where the busiest time is the run-up to Christmas, the busiest time for the ebook market is from Christmas Day onwards, when people who have been given Kindles and other e-reader devices as presents begin downloading books.Bloomsbury Reader is a collaboration between Bloomsbury and the Rights House, the company owned by Freud and talent agent Michael Foster, whichlast year took over Peters Fraser &amp; Dunlop, one of the oldest literary agencies in the country.Open platformHowever, Bloomsbury's digital media director, Stephanie Duncan, and the Rights House's joint chief executives, Foster and Caroline Michel, want the new online service to be open to other literary agencies. They believe it could be a useful tool for other companies to make money from dormant literary assets by bringing the content back to the market in a cost-effective way.Duncan, who is also Bloomsbury Reader's publisher, said: "What we're discovering with the rise in digital is that people want to rediscover authors that are out of print. Or they read a book and then want to read everything by that author."The fact is, digital gives you a way to bring books back to life …  which, for whatever reason, are out of print. We'll be bringing everything to the process, down to the jacket cover and sales and distribution."Duncan pointed out that only books where the rights have reverted back to the author will be used. "It is not our intention to conflict with what publishers are already doing," she said.Bloomsbury Reader titles will also be available through a number of online retailers. Pricing has yet to be revealed, but will be what Duncan described as "affordable". She added: "We see a great opportunity in ensuring the books get the widest possible distribution."She declined to reveal the "business arrangements" between Bloomsbury and the Rights House but said the venture was a "joint idea". The Rights House looks after the estates of a number of deceased authors, including Clark and Sitwell.Bloomsbury Reader's backers are looking to tap into a fast-growing market: digital publishing is growing at an impressive rate. The increasing popularity of Kindles and ebook titles by authors such as Stephen Fry helped boost UK sales of digital book products by 20% to £180m last year, according to the Publishers Association.Rising revenuesIn its full-year 2010 figures, book publisher Penguin, which released new work from chef Jamie Oliver, singer Barbra Streisand, thriller writer Tom Clancy and comedian Michael McIntyre in the run-up to Christmas, said that ebook revenues rose 182% to account for 6% – about £63m – of the global total.Amazon refuses to reveal how many Kindle devices it has sold. However, it recently admitted that customers are choosing Kindle digital versions of titles over traditional book formats at a rate of more than two to one, even as hardcover sales continue to grow.Since the beginning of April, for every 100 hardcover books amazon.co.uk is selling, it is shifting 242 Kindle book downloads.
YesJoanna MoorheadSo, 11- and 12-year-olds across Britain and the US are standing by in the hope that Mark Zuckerberg's plea for under-13s to be allowed to use Facebook is heard by their countries' decision-makers. Only, of course, they aren't . . . because they are already on it, tapping away furiously like all their mates, finding out what shopping centre to meet in after school tomorrow and what park to hang out in on Saturday afternoon. Under-13s might be banned from having Facebook accounts, both here and in the US, but that hasn't stopped hundreds of thousands of them from using false dates of birth to rule-dodge.Yes, of course parents like me worry that means our kids are at risk of both being bullied and of bullying others . . . but the important thing to realise here is that Facebook is only an arena for bullying, like the school lunch hall or the playground. No one is trying to ban under-13s from those places.Some fear that their children are prey for paedophiles, advertisers and other baddies on Facebook: again, does your kid travel alone, or go to a shopping centre without you? Most children do, from the time they go to secondary school. And just as you teach them the rules for staying safe when they're out and about alone, so you teach them the rules for staying safe online.Facebook is about what life is about, which is connecting with others. When children are young, we supervise them: as they get older, we trust them to connect without us around all the time. And what Facebook does is teach our kids a language that will undoubtedly be crucial to their future: because today's children are going to be interacting online with friends and, in the future, business colleagues and customers, for the rest of their lives. Why, when we're trying to educate them in useful skills on other fronts, hold them back on this one?NoJenni RussellI hope Zuckerberg is stopped. Allowing the official Facebook user age to drop below 13 will expose children to emotional pressures and public scrutiny they can't yet handle. Users love the site because they can run their social lives through it, and because they can present themselves to the world in the way they wish to be seen. Those huge attractions have their dark sides. While a user can say anything they like about themselves, others can say anything they like about them. Cyberbullying is a problem no one knows how to fix. Children have always dealt with feuds and social isolation, but now those can happen publicly and indelibly. It's hard enough for teens to deal with this; it's too cruel to expose younger ones too.Bullying only affects a minority, but everyone is affected by Facebook's essential elements; the need to manage one's image, and the underlying sense of social competition the site creates. Last week I sat next to a thirtysomething woman on the tube who spent 20 minutes complaining to her sister about how inadequate her friends' boastful updates and online conversations made her feel. People don't confess sadness and loneliness on these platforms, as they do to real friends, and that makes all of us unhappier as we assume that other people's lives are more successful than our own.Image construction is something that even adults are only starting to grasp – and it's not just tomorrow's impact that matters. What goes on Facebook can be there forever. Pictures or statements that look cool to your peer group today could be horribly compromising in the future. It's ridiculous to expect young children to be making sophisticated judgments about the effects of what they release online. And that's even before we get to the paedophile issue. Children might want this, but they're not ready for it.  They need protection.
Tens of millions of people spend hours and pay big money for virtual gains on the most popular multiplayer online games, including World of Warcraft, Eve Online and EverQuest.Behind these games are "gold farmers", who spend hours within the games each day, gathering virtual credits and selling them to gamers for real world cash.The most recent estimates, from 2009, suggest that 400,000 people are employed as gold farmers across the world, with 85% of those in China and Vietnam, according to Professor Richard Heeks of the University of Manchester.These gold farmers are almost entirely males between 18 and 25, and most are either cash-strapped college students or unemployed rural migrants. They sell in-game advantages – an increased skill level, or a virtual ore – to players eager to boost their online reputation.The multiplayer online games industry has boomed in recent years thanks to increased internet access and the rise of social networks. World of Warcraft, easily the most popular of its kind, had 12 million subscribers last year.According toa reportpublished by the World Bank last month, gold farming was worth about $3bn (£1.85bn) in 2009 – most of which was kept by developing countries.
Listening to Microsoft's people explain the new features in "Mango" - the forthcoming (late September? October?) update to its Windows Phone platform, I had something of an epiphany, and realised a couple of things.First: Windows Phone is going to be very successful.Within a few years it is going to be one of the three major smartphone platforms, rivalling Google's Android and Apple's iOS and ahead of RIM's BlackBerry.Second: killing the Kin was a brilliant move.Although people are repeatedly rude about Steve Ballmer, he is actually a very smart dealmaker who does have a clear idea of where Microsoft needs to go, and how to get there. And realising that, I understood that one of the cleverest things he has done in the past year was to kill off the Kin phone.Neither of these things, let me emphasise, was said to - or even urged on - me by anyone from Microsoft. They aren't giving any forecasts about where they expect Windows Phone to be in one year, two year, five years. They won't comment on the killing of the Kin; it was simply something that was done, and that's it. So this is my analysis, based on lots of research into the smartphone market, and Microsoft (because - can I bore you? - I'm writing a book on Microsoft, Apple and Google and their many business battles. Out next year.)So why do I think that Windows Phone is going to be a significant player? One element was hearing the announcement on Tuesday that it's now challenging RIM for the number of apps in its store - something around 15,000. Having come from a standing start in October, that's really very impressive; RIM, which has around 55m users worldwide, has been running an app store since mid-2009. Its lack of traction is telling. What's more, at some point it is likely to have to make a smartphone OS transition that will involve QNX, the OS underlying its PlayBook tablet.Clearly, Windows Phone has significant developer momentum. That's important.But the real reason why the lightbulb went on is much simpler: Nokia.This may disappoint the Windows Phone people slightly, but while I think that the interface shows a lot of promise (read myreview from October) and that Mango is an improvement (listen to thediscussion on the latest Tech Weekly podcast), it's not actually that important.Nope, the thing about Nokia is that it is a steamroller. People who have been counting it out because Stephen Elop hasdecided to abandon Symbian, which has of course hit employee morale.Well, these things do hurt. But Nokia is a resilient company, and its expertise is in manufacturing (if you've compared a Symbian smartphone to an Android, iPhone or... Windows Phone device lately you'll know it isn't in software).Nokia sells around 110m handsets per quarter of which more than 20m are smartphones; and almost exactly 50% of its mobile phone revenue comes from those smartphones. Nokia is a fantastically well-oiled machine for selling phones, and has been doing it for years; it sells more phones than any other manufacturer. And it sells more smartphones per quarter than any other manufacturer.Nokia has enormous geographical reach, and it's virtually synonymous with "mobile phone" in a number of countries. Sure, the US and Europe have been going off it. But it's strong in other regions. It has good relationships with carriers. It can shift phones when it wants to.So if Nokia turns up in 2012 with smartphones running Windows Phone, carriers aren't going to turn it away. They're going to be delighted. Especially if Nokia can use its legendary supply chain strengths (a hardware element) to push prices down. Once Nokia starts shipping Windows Phone products in any numbers, it's going to sell them as fast as it can make them. What's not to like? It's a friendly interface. It connects. It's notmaddeningly confusing.Look at it the other way around: how, exactly, could Nokia screw this up? Only if it can't get Windows Phone to run on its phones. Likelihood? Tiny - HTC, Samsung, ZTE (new partner), LG have all managed it.Or, alternatively, if it prices them too high. But Nokia can make in greater volume than those others.Or if it pushes the Symbian handsets too hard. But again, that's easy enough - price Symbian to sell, price Windows Phone to profit.Conclusion: by the end of 2012, Windows Phone sales are going to explode. Its user interface really won't matter. It's not Mango that will make it sell. It's Nokia. Quite what its market share will be in the US and Europe - and whether it will be as large as in other regions - is less sure, but (reality check) those regions aren't the world.A prediction? Windows Phone should easily get 20% of the smartphone market by the end of 2012. It could conceivably do better.Now to the second point:killing the Kin. What, that move that everyone said indicated that Microsoft's mobile division was in a complete state of meltdown? Yup, that decision.In case you need reminding, the Kin was the result ofMicrosoft's 2008 acquisition of Danger, which had built the Hiptop, for a price rumoured at $500m. (One of the original founders of Danger was Andy Rubin, who later started a company called Android, which was acquired by Google in 2005.)Then at a cost of around $1bn, the Kin phone was produced under the codename of "Project Pink", led by J Allard, who had previously pointed out the importance of the internet to Bill Gates in the 1990s, drove the idea of building a games console, and drove the idea of Microsoft building its own Zune music player. (Well, two out of three ain't bad.) The project then came under the control of Andy Lees, head of the Windows mobile division.The phones were imagined as "social" devices, and were going to be based around Windows Phone 7, which was then under development; but delays there meant it had to run on Windows CE instead. Around $1bn was spent on development.The Kin went on sale on Verizon in the US on the first fortnight of May 2010; it wasKin killed on 30 June 2010, after just 48 days on the market.The thing about the Kin was that it was, basically, a feature phone - limited contacts, no instant messaging, no apps, no calendar syncing. Not a smartphone by a mile.I think that Steve Ballmer could see that there was absolutely no future in the Kin. The arc of the entire mobile market is towards smartphones; in five years' time, you'll struggle to find a phone on sale thatisn'twhat we'd now call a smartphone. Possibly that will be true even in two years' time, because that segment of the market is growing so quickly. Supporting the Kin was simply a waste of time and money, because it was already the past. Trying to support two phone operating systems at once would be a recipe for conflict and confusion within the company; outside, with carriers, it would be even worse. (That's why Windows Mobile is being slowly, and silently, wound down.)Ballmer, I think, could see that - just as he can see (and, as Microsofties and ex-Microsofties have been telling me) that the company needs to align its focus on consumers, because there are always going to be more consumers than businesses. He has in fact been driving a relentless consumer agenda very subtly inside the company for years now, but it's in mobile that we see it come through. And he's well-advised on the direction of travel for phones generally.Even so, Ballmer must bless the day that Elop got the gig at Nokia. It was probably inevitable that Elop would reach the conclusion he did about Symbian's essential worthlessness - the Nokia board certainly had - and look for alternatives. Then it was only a question of Ballmer closing the deal. Elop did well there: Microsoft is paying billions for the privilege of getting on Nokia's smartphones.Which brings us to money. Having Windows Phone on lots of handsets isn't going to be the same as having it on lots of PCs. There isn't the same amount of money in a phone licence. The ancillary services (search, Skype?, others) that Microsoft is going to push won't generate as much as the PC market has. With that stagnating, it might be that Ballmer is going to have to adjust his company to a smaller future. But at least it has a future.If that's so, though, he's positioned the company well for it. A serious contender in the smartphone business which has a clear focus.The next couple of years are going to be very interesting.
The communications minister Ed Vaizey and the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) have come to an uneasy truce over a new European directive affecting web browsers which comes into force at midnight on Thursday.The directive covers "cookies" – small text files that are saved on the user's computer when they visit almost any website – and could, if interpreted strictly, require online businesses to continually seek surfers' permission to update their data.Online retailers fear it would make the experience of shopping online so unpleasant and intrusive that people will abandon UK and European sites, perhaps in favour of US sites which do not have to comply with the EU legislation.Presently, cookies are updated silently on the user's computer as the site takes note of where people have visited to retain useful data for their next visit. They are unique to the browser, but generally do not contain personally identifying information.The ICO, which enforces data privacy legislation in the UK, had previously suggested thedirectiveneeded to be interpreted strictly, and is understood to have wanted to take more rapid action. But the government was concerned at the possible effect on online retailers and pressured it to hold off.After months wrestling with the implications of the directive, Vaizey on Wednesday told web businesses that "there will be no immediate changes to how UK websites operate as a result of new EU rules". Instead, he says he will work with organisations to "come up with workable technical solutions" before any enforcement.The ICO on Wednesday suggested the present delay in changes is only temporary and that website operators have up to one year to "get their house in order" and that "this does not let everyone off the hook".Its own attitude was made plain when it pointedly chose not to follow the government's advice on a phased approach, Instead from Thursday, its own website will feature a header bar giving users information about the cookies it uses and offering choices about how to manage them. "In short, we are following our own advice ... Our priority has been complying with the law from 26 May," it says.But retailers, publishers and other online businesses breathed a sigh of relief at Vaizey's statement. Lawrence Merritt, who runs Photobox, a personal publishing platform, said Google – which provides his adverts – had told him to "do nothing".The law firm Charles Russell said it was "virtually impossible" to set out compliance advice on the new law. "The advice really comes down to the cliche answer of 'it depends'," commented Andrew Sharpe, who notes that under the directive as it stands, "no cookies can now be used lawfully unless the user has given his or her consent to their use".Websites had worried that they might have to secure that consent with popups or terms and conditions pages. But the Guardian has learned that some may simply include text somewhere on their website saying that use of it implies consent.One problem sites are wrestling with if the ICO insists on enforcement is a catch-22 where if people choose not to accept cookies, then sites will have to keep asking them if they want to accept cookies – because they will not be able to set a cookie indicating their preference. That could make online shopping and moving between sites which can read each others' cookies – because they belong to the same advertising network, such as Google's DoubleClick – a "nightmare scenario" where the user is plagued with endless popup windows asking for their permission to use cookies.Jonathan Todd, a spokesman for the European commission, insisted the need for consent was real and would have to be enforced: "We don't want to interfere too much with the way the internet works, but data is being collected without the knowledge of the user and being used in a way that they might not agree with, then they need to know," he said."If a cookie is installed on a user's machine that isn't directly linked to the service that they're currently accessing, [users] have to give their consent."Vaizey has previously indicated his discomfort with the rules. In a recent speech, he called it "a good example of a well-meaning regulation that will be very difficult to make work in practice".Excluded from the new rules are cookies that are "strictly necessary" for a service requested by the user. The ICO says this exception is a narrow one, but one example might be a cookie that is used to ensure that when a shopper clicks on "add to basket" or "proceed to checkout", the site "remembers" what they chose on a previous page.
