A British technology company that started life in a converted turkey shed 20 years ago is now challenging the might of California's Silicon Valley.Few people outside the industry will have heard of Arm Holdings, but the microchip designer – which today employs more than 1,700 people – has seen its share price rocket by more than 170% on the London stockmarket over the last year.Its products are used in more than 95% of mobile phones and its chips are also increasingly found in everyday consumer devices ranging from washing machines to toys.Arm is the talk of the town in Las Vegas this week, where the industry is gathered for the annual Consumer Electronics show and where the British firm is in line for lucrative new contracts.Microsoft was first out of the blocks. Arm's chip designs will feature in a new version of its Windows operating system, meaning Arm will collects tens of millions in royalty and licensing fees.Next came news that the graphics specialist Nvidia would be using Arm-based chips for its desktop computers and servers. "Arm been phenomenally successful, but must be one of the country's best-kept secrets," said Janardan Menon, a technology expert at Liberum Capital.Arm's rise to power had been poorly understood in the City. Until recently, investors had given it a wide berth, a legacy of the dotcom crash when shareholders in technology firms lost millions.But Arm has come into focus amid the smartphone and tablet computer revolution, which has created new markets for its cutting-edge technologies."Our story shows British hi-tech companies with sufficient entrepreneurial nous and market clout can more than hold their own with their counterparts in the US," said the Arm chief executive, Warren East. "Every device that is connected to the internet or needs two-way communication is driven, in part, by an Arm-designed chip. Whichever way you look at it, the world is moving our way and our products are at the heart of developments, from the US to Asia."The firm, which was tonight worth more than £5bn, doesn't makes the chips itself: Arm's reputation is built on designing processors, "the brains behind the chips" embedded in phones, computers, televisions, set-top boxes and other digital devices.Arm makes money by licensing its design technology to customers such as Nokia, Texas Instruments, Apple, Samsung and Nvidia. It receives royalties every time devices with its chips are made by its clients.The company's chips feature in the iPhone and iPad, and could be part of new tablets that are being rushed out by Apple's competitors such as Motorola, Dell, Toshiba and Hewlett-Packard.But East's excitement is about more than tablets and phones, even though they generate 60% of Arm's royalty payments. Today its chips are found in other areas of consumer electronics – in white goods such as "digital" washing machines that switch on at times of the day when electricity prices are low;  and in eco-friendly heating systems that are activated by new, smart technology. Arm's chips are found in toy helicopters operated from mobile phones and Lego sets that change shape at the press of a button.East says: "We like to call what is happening today 'the internet of things'. For Arm, that means understanding that any device which needs to be connected to the internet can be operated via an Arm-based chip."Originally called Advanced Risc Machines, Arm was founded as a joint venture between Apple and Britain's Acorn Computers 20 years ago in Cambridge's "silicon fen".Menon says in the beginning the company got lucky, not least in the early 1990s when Nokia chose Arm as its major supplier, a move that helped the firm become a standard-setter.He adds: "But Arm is an exceptionally well-managed company, it executes well and it brings products on to the market at the right time. And it's independent – it isn't part of a massive, faceless multinational."It hasn't always been plain sailing. Arm was floated on the stockmarket in 1998 at 575p a share. During the tech boom, its market value doubled to over £10bn, making it bigger than British Airways, though it produced only a fraction of BA's profits.When the crash came, Arm's stock price plunged as low as 38p and the company was in the doghouse with investors for years. In the world of technology, nothing can be taken for granted as changes can happen quickly and dramatically, leaving a trail of corporate carnage. But Arm is hoping it will be different this time.
Apple today launched its long-awaited applications store for Macintosh computers, bringing the iPhone and iPad software phenomenon to desktops and laptops.The technology giant hopes to "revolutionise" the way people use software and applications on a desktop computer, in the same way the company's iPhone app store set the standard for smartphones.More than 1,000 apps, in categories such as education, games, design and lifestyle, are now available on Mac computers in 90 countries. The iPhone app store, which launched in 2008 with 800 applications, today boasts more than 300,000.Apple hopes its Mac app store will simplify the process of installing software, such as computer games and word processing tools, and trigger a move away from downloads and physical CDs.Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, announced the scheme at its Back to the Mac event in October last year. In a veiled encroachment on Microsoft's territory Jobs said: "The App Store revolutionised mobile apps. We hope to do the same for PC apps with the Mac App Store by making finding and buying PC apps easy and fun."The company also hopes its Mac app store will be seen as a lucrative market by software developers, who retain a 70% slice of sales made through Apple. But the company will also sell its own software in the store, including the iLife and Aperture programmes.Phil Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of marketing, predicted that the company's latest invention will eventually be replicated by fellow computer manufacturers, including Microsoft. Rival technology companies, such as Google and Nokia, have opened mobile app stores akin to Apple's.Schiller said the success of the iPhone app store "absolutely exceeded our expectations", but declined to make any predictions for the Mac store.Applesold 3.89m Mac computers in the final quarter of 2010, a record number and one that broke the record set in the previous quarter. The company's profits for the quarter leapt by 70% to $4.31bn and its revenues by 66% to $20.34bn.Users have to download the Mac OS X v10.6.6 software update to get the Mac app store.
Facebook has too many friends. After a week of frenzied speculation, the company has disclosed it may have to go public as the number of its shareholders threatens to rise above 500, the limit for a privately held US company.It made the disclosure in a 100-page private-placement memo now being distributed to potential investors. This week it announced it had received a new round of investment worth $500m (£322m), at a price that values the company at $50bn.The news comes as the social networking company LinkedIn also considers an initial public offering (IPO) amid investor clamour for the new generation of internet firms. LinkedIn connects 85 million professionals and was one of the first social-media sites to claim profitability. It is not commenting on the speculation but is reportedly considering a formal announcement.Facebook's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, recently said he was against an IPO. But he may be pushed into going public by an investigation being mounted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is reviewing trading in Facebook and other hot social media companies including Zynga, maker of the popular social media games Farmville and Cityville.Under US law, a private firm with more than 500 investors is obliged to start publishing detailed financial statements like a public company. The 500-shareholder rule in part pushed both Google and Microsoft to go public.Goldman Sachs and Russian investor Digital Sky Technologies are pumping $500m into Facebook. Since the announcement, Goldman's clients have inundated the bank with requests for Facebook shares.The bank is planning to use a so-called special purchase vehicle to invest in Facebook – a move meant to circumnavigate the 500 shareholder rule.Digital Sky Technologies has also worked hard with Facebook to keep the numbers below the 500 limit, buying out shareholders to reduce their number. But the memo suggests Zuckerberg believes the size of the firm and the demand for shares threatens Facebook's privacy.Facebook refused to comment on the issue. Likewise, a LinkedIn spokesman said: "We don't comment on speculation. An IPO is one of many tactics that we could choose to pursue. We are focused on building our business and doing what is in the best long-term interest of LinkedIn members and shareholders."Facebook and LinkedIn's moves come amid a feeding frenzy for social media firms. Groupon, a social media firm that offers local business discounts, is raising $1bn in new funds, and recently rejected a $6bn takeover offer from Google. Zynga is also believed to be considering an IPO.
The latest attempt to try and scope out the credibility of Twitter's users comes fromPeer Index, which has ranked what it says are themost authoritative journalistson the service.I have to put modesty aside and say that at the Guardian, we've really done rather well.My esteemed colleagueCharles Arthur, currently slaving away in the labyrynthine, sweaty, migraine-inducing techno-gadget-hell that is CES, has pippedmeto the post with a 'Peerindex' of 81. I scored 79. What does that mean? What is this 'peer index' of which you speak?Ben Goldacre's profile on PeerIndexThe scores were calculated using PeerIndex.net, which says it analyses how much each user engages with their audience, assesses what the predominant subject is and creates a 'topic thumbprint' that describes the audience for the messages they send. Follower counts aren't so important; scores are relative."We build our model of&nbsp; authority by looking at&nbsp; topics which people resonate in," wrote founderAzeem Azhar(formerly of this parish, and many others) on the PeerIndex blog. Helaunchedthe service last July and says it now indexes 6.6m profiles - and not just Twitter - Facebook, LinkedIn and blogs too."By and large [journalists] are using it extremely well in professional (and other) contexts.  Some journalists have turned twitter into a key channel  for getting readers and information, others are getting started.  Our top 100 lists shows those who are increasingly moving Twitter into their pattern of  work."Given that PeerIndex can't give away their secret sauce for actually working this stuff out, it seems like somethingBen Goldacremight pore over for long enough to conclude that it is some kind of cod-science status ranking. So he'll be delighted to know he ranked 6, with a PeerIndex rating of 72.There is some serious weight behind PeerIndex, though. Former Economist editor-in-chiefBill Emmottis chairman, and angel investors include former Last.fmerStefan Glaenzer, and Zoopla'sSherry CoutuandSean Park. The money shot for PeerIndex is "working with brands to help them understand who is authoritiative or influential in their markets," says Azhar.Guardian editor-in-chiefAlan Rusbridgerranks joint 4th with Telegraph fashion ediorHilary Alexander, whileJack SchofieldandKevin Anderson, both former Guardian journalists, rank 8th and 3rd respectively.Here's the top ten. Browse the full list on thePeerIndex blog. And nose around your own PeerIndex rating atpeerindex.net/your-twitter-name.1Charles Arthur   812Jemima Kiss   793Kevin Anderson   754Alan Rusbridger   734Hilary Alexander   736Ben Goldacre   727Krishnan Guru-Murthy   718Jack Schofield   709Emma Barnett   689Paul Bradshaw   689Roger Highfield   689Sunny Hundal   68
Microsoft must have thought it had finally banished the infamous "red ring of death" from its PR schedule. But the hardware failure,estimated to have affected almost 30% of Xbox consolesbefore successive redesigns, is back on the news agenda.Yesterday, BBC Radio 4's consumer affairs programmeYou and Yoursdealt with a number of calls from listeners claiming that plugging in the new Kinect motion controller had caused their Xbox console to suffer the dreaded hardware failure.Ten-year old Adam Winnifrith told the programme: "We plugged [Kinect] in the day we got it but only played it a few times before we got the red lights. The next day when we tried it again we still had the red rings of death and haven't been able to use it since." Other listeners also emailed in with similar experiences.Microsoft has denied any link between Kinect use and system failure. A statement to the BBC read: "There is no correlation between the three flashing red lights error and Kinect. Any new instances of the three flashing red lights error are merely coincidental."So what should we make of this?First up, it seems from the references to "red rings" that most callers own the older machines which are more susceptible to the system'sallegedover-heating problems (there has never been a single, official explanation for the console's hardware failures – indeed multiple components have been implicated ove the years). The new slimline Xbox 360 consoles only show a red failure dot in the centre of the power button. That's not so much an excuse, as a reason for owners of the slim Xbox to breathe a sigh of relief.But assuming itismore aged units, can there be a correlation? I've spoken to several developers this morning – none of whom were able to go on the record – who all suggested that the problem was a coincidence, possibly linked to owners significantly increasing their use of the machine after buying the Kinect.One source told me that although there is a signal and power running between Kinect and the console, it's not a significant amount and would not affect the area of the machines that has allegedly been most prone to overheating problems: the graphics processing unit (there's more speculation about RROD causeshere.)But what do you think? Have you experienced any problems since buying Kinect? Let us know in the comments section below.
I've had the same laptop for six years or so, and after four system restores, three new battery packs and two new keyboards, I believe it is on its last legs. I primarily use it for watching videos (4OD, BBC iPlayer etc) as well as general internet browsing. I'm told that I'll probably need a decent graphics card if I want to watch a lot of videos. I've got a budget of about £800. Any recommendations/guidance would be much appreciated!Gordon CarverLaptops come in a lot of different varieties with ultra-light portables at one end of the scale and high-powered gaming rigs at the other end. I think you're looking for a "mainstream multimedia" machine, where the target price would usually be around £500. Spending a bit more will get you into the "entertainment laptop" category, giving you options such as a larger screen (17.3in instead of 15.6in), high-definition graphics, better stereo speakers, and possibly a built-in Blu-ray player. A few laptops also offer 3D graphics, though I think it's a bit too early to commit to 3D.The trickiest decision is whether or not you need a laptop with a specialised graphics processor. If you're just watching ordinary streaming videos (such as iPlayer) or movies on DVD, then you don't. Any laptop that has been competently put together can do these things easily, using current Intel Integrated Graphics chips. A better graphics card isn't really necessary unless you want to play mid-level to high-end games. However, your budget means you can afford a laptop with dedicated graphics, if you want one. This could also turn out to speed up web browsing as new browsers such as Internet Explorer 9 exploit graphics chips.The base specification for a mainstream multimedia laptop nowadays usually includes an Intel processor, 4GB of memory, a 350GB or 500GB hard drive, and 64-bit Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium. For cheaper laptops, the processor will be a Celeron- or Pentium-branded Core 2 Duo or possibly an AMD chip. However, the Intel Core iX range (codenamed Arrandale) has been mainstream for a year now, and Intel introduced even more powerful second-generation versions (codenamed Sandy Bridge) at CES 2011 this week. You might want to look at new laptops using Sandy Bridge chips, but you don't actually need the extra power.Instead, look for a good value system with a Core i5 (Arrandale) processor. This offers better performance than a Core 2 Duo, has TurboBoost (which you don't get with a Core i3) and is more affordable than a Core i7. However, there is no practical difference in performance between a Core i3-370M, a Core i5-430M and a Core i7-640LM. Just make sure to get an M version such as a Core i5-460M (35 watts) and not a slower, power-saving UM version (18 watts).All the Core iX chips include Intel HD graphics, which provides enough power for movie playing and even some gaming. If you buy a Core i5 laptop with separate graphics, it may still use the HD graphics for most purposes.As mentioned, mainstream multimedia laptops usually have a 15.6in widescreen and the graphics resolution is commonly 1366 x 768 pixels (WXGA). Given your budget, you could go for a larger screen, and a better HD graphics resolution, such as 1600 x 900 pixels. This could add about £100 to the price. If possible, visit a computer superstore or department store so that you can compare 1366 x 768 and 1600 x 900 screens side by side.Even though you should now be able to limit your search for a new laptop, there are still dozens if not hundreds of models that will fit the bill. Obviously, I haven't seen most of them, so you will have to read some reviews and, ideally, get a hands-on before making a final choice. However, for your purposes, it's worth looking at models from Asus, HP, Samsung, Sony and Toshiba, among others. Here are a few examples for comparison purposes.Asus offers theAsus K52JC-EX352Vwhich ticks all the right boxes for £664. It has a 2.53GHz Core i5-460M processor with 4GB, Nvidia GeForce 310M graphics, 15.6in 1366 x 768 screen, a 500GB hard drive and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium. The step up from that would be something like theAsus K72JK-TY053Vwith a 17.3in 1600 x 900 HD screen, ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5145 graphics and 640GB of storage (actually, two 320GB drives) for £755. There are cheaper models with Intel GMA HD graphics from £540.Samsung's range includes the R590 and R780 in numerous configurations. The R590-JS02UK has a 2.4GHz Core i5-450M with 4GB, Nvidia GeForce GT 330M graphics, a 15.6in 1366 x 768 screen, 500GB hard drive and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium for about £750. A Samsung R780 with a 2.4GHz Core i3-370M, 17.3in 1600 x 900 screen, ATI Mobility Radeon HD 545V graphics and 640GB hard drive costs about £690 (£670 to £740, depending on source).There are several varieties of the HP Pavilion range with Core i5 processors at similar prices. An HP Pavilion dv6-3125sa with 2.53GHz Core i5-460M and 4GB, ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5470 graphics, 15.6in 1366 x 768 screen and a 500GB hard drive costs around £640. A similar dv7 with 17.3inh 1600 x 900 screen and Radeon HD 5650 graphics costs about £770.Any of these laptops should be more than enough for your purposes and, if you shop around, come within your budget.
Google broke South Korean privacy law when its Street View cars collected emails and other personal information from the country's homes and businesses, the country's police authority said today.Police official Jung Suk-hwa said the technology giant breached South Korean telecommunication laws with its illegal data capture, which the company admitted to in May 2010.South Korea becomes the latest country to find Google in breach of its privacy laws, others include the UK, Canada, Australia and Spain. It was not immediately clear whether Seoul would choose to prosecute Google, with the police authority saying only that the investigation would be concluded by the end of January.Google is facing investigations inmore than 20 countriesaround the world after admitting to mistakenly collecting sensitive information from unsecured Wi-Fi networks with its Street View mapping cars.A string of code in the production systems of Street View cars allowed Google to retrieve and store information about the networks' location, names and Media Access Control (MAC) addresses on wireless networks that were not password protected.The Korean National Police Agency (KNPA) analysed data on computer hard drives seized inan August raidon Google's South Korean headquarters in Seoul.Google said it was "profoundly sorry" for mistakenly collecting the so-called "payload" data and vowed to continue to cooperate with South Korean authorities."As soon as we realised what had happened, we stopped collecting all Wi-Fi data from our Street View cars and immediately informed the authorities," Google's Korean arm said."We have been cooperating with the Korean communications commission and the police, and will continue to do so. Our ultimate objective remains to delete the data consistent with our legal obligations and in consultation with the appropriate authorities."Googlecompleted its deletionof the sensitive data collected from UK Wi-Fi networks last month, after being foundin breach of the Data Protection Actby the Information Commissioner's Office.
Yesterday, we scorched through 10 hotly-tipped titles due out in the coming months. Now here's the conluding selection, running from mythical air combat through to amorphous alien invasion.Kid Icarus Uprising(Nintendo, 3DS)Alongside Resident Evil Revelations and Metal Gear Solid 3D, this beautiful-looking third-person shooter, based on an old Nintendo Entertainment System platformer, is set to be a key title in the launch of the Nintendo 3DS this spring. Created by Masahiro Sakurai, the man behind Kirby and Super Smash Bros, the game revolves around monster-slaying and aerial dragon combat, with young warrior Pit going up against the forces of the snake-haired mad woman, Medusa. Okay, so the flight shooter is not exactly the world's favourite genre, but Kid Icarus is cute, it's accessible and it's all in glasses-free stereoscopic 3D.Release:springLegend of Zelda: Skyward Sword(Nintendo, Wii)Nintendo's much-loved action RPG series returns, this time utilising the Wii MotionPlus technology to give players intuitive control over Link's sword. Yes, you'll be able to swirl and slash your way through various monsters as the young hero battles his way out of a newly discovered kingdom lying far below his floating home world. This prequel to the great Ocarina of Time also boasts a few interesting gameplay objects like a mechanical beetle that retrieves distant objects, and a whip, and the dappled, impressionistic environments look lovely. There areworriesit won't arrive this year, but as its already missed a release slot (Christmas 2010), we'll remain optimistic…Release:Q4Mario Sports Mix(Nintendo, Wii)No one does multi-event sports games like Nintendo and this bulging package (steady on, this is a family game) looks to be a vintage offering. There are four activities to choose from – hockey, basketball, volleyball and dodgeball – and all star Mario and his Mushroom Kingdom pals. Naturally, power-ups like banana skins and shells are present to upset the balance, and each character has their own special move to call upon. Apparently, it'll also be possible for players to take part as their own Mii avatars – the closest any of us are likely to get to laying up a slamdunk for Luigi. Expect weeks of intuitive family fun.Release:February 4Marvel Vs Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds(Capcom, PS3, Xbox 360)It's been a decade since these titans of fictional fisticuffs last stared each other down, and Marvel vs Capcom3 looks set to deliver exactly what we expect when two such tribes go to war: ridiculously histrionic hyper combos, hallucinatory signature moves and backdrops more lusciously colourful than Chun-Li's underwear collection. Capcom is bringing the likes of Wesker, Dante and Chris Redfield, while Marvel has called up Thor, Iron Man, Hulk and Captain America. There's three-on-three tag fighting and a simplified button-mapping option so newcomers can load each button with tasty combinations. It's going to be big, noisy and awesome.Release:springMass Effect 3(EA, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)"If Shepard doesn't bring help soon, there won't be an Earth to save," says some cockney hardnut as giant alien robots stomp all over London. And this moment from the Mass Effect 3 announcement trailer is pretty much all we have to go on about the next instalment in BioWare's unmissable sci-fi RPG series. The only other thing we know is that this is likely to be the final adventure in the series, unless there are any Ashley Williams or Kaidan Alenko spin-offs planned...Release:Q4Modern Warfare 3(Activision, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Well, Activision hasn't officially announced it of course and there's always a chance it'll slip to 2012, but we all know it's coming. The "next" instalment in the Call of Duty machine will come from a re-constituted Infinity Ward, stripped of its upper echelon staff. Little else is known, though there are freshrumoursthat it'll be a prequel to Modern Warfare, following the character Ghost through his initiation into Task Force 141. Hmm, it sounds vaguely plausible, but I'm not convinced. Less enticing is the possibility that, if Activisionisgoing to introduce a two-tier online multiplayer system with a subscription-based premium option, this could be where it kicks off.Release:TBCOkamiden(Capcom, DS)Okami was one of the overlooked wonders of the PlayStation 2 era, a beautiful action adventure, with visuals designed to resemble a Japanese ink illustration. The sequel brings back the visual style, and the ability to solve puzzles by drawing certain objects on screen, but this time it puts players in control of Chibiterasu, the son of Amaterasu, the goddess from the original game. Arriving on Earth as a wolf cub, he must battle evil forces with less developed powers than his mother, making for a subtly different experience. Quaint, artful and sure to offer genuine narrative depth.Release:March 18Project Draco (working title)(Microsoft, Xbox 360)Few veteran gamers who managed to get their hands on a Sega Saturn console back in the mid-nineties will forget Panzer Dragoon, the fantasy on-rails shooter that did just as much to showcase the wonders of polygonal visuals as anything on the PlayStation launch line-up. One of the original creators of the series, Yukio Futatsugi, is now working on this title, another dragon-riding shooter with luscious visuals. Project Draco is set to be Kinect compatible and, like Kinectimals, will use the camera to create a tactile relationship between the player and his beast – only this time, it's so you can train your pet to be more vicious and deadly in battle. Along with Grasshopper Manufacture's forthcoming horror romp, Codename D, this should be of slightly more interest to veteran gamers than the current Kinect fare.Release:TBCShadows of the Damned(EA, PS3, Xbox 360)A leather-clad demon hunter must rescue his girlfriend from the darkest reaches of hell. Yep, it sounds like typical hack-'n-slash horror fare, but this highly stylised gore-'em-up comes fromSuda51, the eccentric designer behind No More Heroes, and Shinji Mikami, the creator of Resident Evil. We can at least then, expect extravagantly stylised visuals, lashings of black humour and a knowing, tongue-in-cheek exploration of very, very familiar material. A thumping score fromAkira Yamaoka, the music director for the Silent Hill series should accentuate the Grand Guignol madness.Release:TBCXCOM(2K Games, PC, Xbox 360)Fans of the original turn-based strategy games were not exactly ecstatic when 2K Games announced that it would be re-booting the XCOM "franchise" – as a first-person shooter. However, an enthusiastic series of demos at last year's E3 showed that the development team,2K Marin, is keen on maintaining the classic structure, with players watching a global map to view alien invasion hotspots before sending in groups of FBI agents to battle the extraterrestrial menace and gather evidence. Meanwhile, science and engineering teams research and develop new weapons, using alien technology against the invaders. The fifties styling is an interesting move, aligning the game with the pulp sci-fi movies of that era, but will the amorphous black blobs that attack Earth in this game be as compelling as the various tribes of space maniacs from the first titles? We'll need a close encounter of the review code kind to find out.
What better way to relax after a hard day's Dance Central than a bit of chatting on Kinect? No me neither, but Microsoft hopes its newAvatar Kinectwill appeal to those Xbox owners who fancy a natter with their friends.Finally unveiled byMicrosoft boss Steve Ballmer during his keynote address at CES 2011 in Las Vegas, the much-rumoured service will allow Xbox Live users – those who pay, of course – to drop their avatars into a number of themed enviroments and chat away with up to six other users.Your avatar will move as you move and allow you to gesticulate passionately about the football/X-Factor/Black Ops. In a neat twist the camera will recognise your facial expressions too, so if you smile your avatar smiles too. Are you smiling at this news?Ballmer also announced that Microsoft has shipped 50m Xbox 360 consoles worldwide, with 30 million users signed up to Xbox Live. He said that Kinect has sold 8m units.Avatar Kinect will launch in the spring, but what do you think? Can you see yourself using it more than once? Is it the future of chat? Or are you reminiscing about the old days when games consoles simply played games?
The minister for civil society, Nick Hurd, has stepped in to the escalating row between charities and Apple over the technology giant's refusal to allow donations to be made from iPhone and iPad apps.Hurd accused Apple of "dragging its heels" over its refusal to allow users to make in-app donations to charities and non-profit organisations.The minister said he will formally write to Apple and ask for an explanation of its ban, which the company has faced growing pressure to repeal in recent months.Apple has never officially explained the reasons behind its controversial policy, other than saying that apps "can accept charitable donations via their websites". But it is thought that the legal responsibility of verifying payments and charities is the company's chief hesitation."I will write to Apple in the next couple of weeks to get clarity on its position and encourage the company to be more positive and constructive," Hurdtold the social enterprise news site Third Sector."I'd like to understand it from Apple's point of view. It seems it could be a leader with this, and I don't understand why it is dragging its heels."Hurd's interjection is the first time a politician has stepped into the row, which recently attractedmore than 10,000 signatories in an online petition.Charities and other non-profit organisations argue that Apple's policy dissuades people from donating because leaving the app is too cumbersome a process. Many point out that Google, eBay and PayPal have all implemented charity-vetting programmes to ensure that donations are reaching their intended recipient.Nick Aldridge, chief executive ofMissionFish, a registered charity whose purpose is to help charities raise money, said "huge fundraising potential" was being blocked by Apple. Aldridge estimates that the total monetary loss to charities will run into "many millions" over the coming years, as smartphone uptake continues to rise."Apple platforms would provide a huge opportunity for charities if they could engage Apple users in a compelling and convenient way," Aldridge told the Guardian. "Unfortunately, simple and convenient donations remain impossible on Apple platforms, as potential donors must leave apps to donate."Instead, they have to send text messages or launch browser windows in order to send funds. Text donations are clunky, limited, and rarely tax-effective, while few users can be bothered to log-in and enter lengthy payment details on their phone browsers. Apps that enable users to donate to charities with a couple of clicks would overcome these barriers and generate many extra donations."
Sony Electronics has an HD film camera - no, wait, it's a3DHD film camera, called the Bloggie. You can view 3D video on it without using glasses, it includes zoom, and offers HDMI out.Or you can put on your glasses to view the 3D content (yes, he did just say you don't need them).In the video above, Luke Graham of Sony Electronics demonstrates the company's new 3D Bloggie pocket camcorder and the HDR-TD10 "double full HD" camcorder which has a 3D display built in.
So we're here in the Hilton Convention Centre for Steve Ballmer's keynote speech and I have to tell you, I'm not going to be satisfied unless it's a combination of theBlue Man GroupandElvis. Come on, Mr Ballmer, it's time to step up to the plate and hit this one out of the park. Even if your thunder has been stolen slightly by Steve Sinofskytelling us about how you're going to announce Windows on ARM.Be that as it may, here we are in Las Vegas, the city that exists only to take money from tourists' pockets – it's got no other purpose, it's not a port or anything else (and as was pointed out to me by Dan Gillmor, if you do too well at the blackjack tables then they throw you out – you're not allowed to win even when you're just good at it). Construct your own metaphors from that.18:34Startup is imminent. It's got plenty of buzz. The seats aren't raked, so sitting at the back would be a frustrating experience were it not for the gigantic screens. (I'm about halfway back.) The screens have the bigMicrosoftlogo. Staring at them idly I wonder what Don Draper of Mad Men fame would make of them, with their slightly italicised block font. Does it indicate a solid, go-ahead company?18:38OK, we've started. Video by the Consumer Electronics Association, showing that lots of people come to CES. Don't worry, we've figured that out already. And now here's.... GARY! Shapiro. Chief exec of the CEA. It's his favourite week of the year. CES is larger than last year due to "innovation and a much better economy". Much better? Best tell the Tea Party – they may not have got the memo.It's a big, big stage. There are English villages with smaller cricket fields.New zones this year includes robotics. I'm fascinated already. OK, time to introduce Microsoft. "It has revolutionised the way we use technology... Steve Ballmer... Named CEO in 2000... his passion has become a hallmark of the company... its goal is to provide an integrated platform to offer a seamless experience across a wide range of computing devices." Apparently worked on a newspaper – the Harvard Crimson. That must be why he's so sympathetic to journalists.18:46Ah, Mr Ballmer, we've been expecting you. But first we must play some Daft Punk very loud. Big round of applause as he comes onto the football/cricket field.18:47"2010 was a very very exciting year for our customers... we launched Windows Phone 7, Office 2010, and Kinect... Amazing success of Windows 7... it's been a year like no other..."The products resulted from big technology bets that we made... want to share the impact of some of those technology bets through the three important consumer devices – the Xbox, the TV and the mobile phone."18:48Xbox. "Smart device... transported, literally transported tens of thousands of people... Xbox Live transformed those experiences with the cloud, put Xbox front and centre in the social gaming revolution." Kinect... "you are the controller... there's nothing else like it in the world." Video of Kinect.18:52Ron Forbes from interactive entertainment business comes on for a demo. Didn't know that Microsoft had an interactive entertainment business, though you'd suppose it would make sense to create one. Shows off how the Zune system connected to Kinect and its voice recognition means you can do stuff without a physical controller. Yup, it is good – I recall seeing Bill Gates trying to show off voice recognition on a Windows PC in Seattle at the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1998 or so and it failing, awfully. Now it's being used in a big auditorium and it's working perfectly.Hulu subscription service also coming to Xbox Kinect. Nice. Intriguing: Ron Forbes only left Virginia Tech three years ago, and he's big in the interactive entertainment business? Microsoft is getting some young blood.Showing off the social system where fans and friends can try to predict which team is going to win in the college football playoffs. Microsoft definitely has the "social" side working a lot better than Apple (cf: Ping.)19:00Ballmer is back, but as a Kinect avatar. Who is a lot thinner. Showing off "Avatar Kinect" where you can chat as your avatar. Oooh, it's Second Life but a lot more realistic for those times when you can't get together with your friends. Psychologists will have a field day: "Why did you sit alone and pretend to be in a room with your friends?" Bit perplexed about why you'd do that rather than videoconference. Lower bandwidth?The real Ballmer is back. "Body recognition, face recognition... this spring Avatar Kinect will be available free to all Xbox Live Gold members." OK."Today got to 30m Xbox Live members. New member joins every two seconds. Kinect and Xbox Live have driven demand for the Xbox itself. Xbox has been the best-selling console for the past 6 months in the US... sales over 50m worldwide."19:04"We predicted we would sell about 5m Kinect sensors – we sold 8m. This has been the biggest holiday [season] and the biggest year ever for Xbox."On to the phone screen. "People are taking advantage of Xbox Live on Windows Phone 7... it's Xbox Live on the go." Fable game coming to WP7. Video rolls with games that are coming to it. Thought that occurs to me: is Xbox Live on WP7 really a sufficient reason to buy it? Or is it more like a "nice to have, but not essential"?19:08"Windows Phone is very different from other phoens... could we help simplify the tasks that people do the most... and could we still make them easy to use... the result in my view is something importantly different... a phone to delight modern smartphone customers... we made it easier and faster for people to get things done.""The reaction to the product has been great... we launched nine phones in 30 countries." Who's had the great reaction? Not the operators I've spoken to, nor so far the developers. And notice how he gave us the numbers for the Kinects sold, which are unbelievably good, but not those for WP7 handsets, which are... rather less good, by all accounts  "More than half our customers download a new application every day." How many customers, Steve? Hmm. Over 20,000 developers registered."9/10 Windows Phone customers tell us they recommend the phone to others... we're going to continue to invest in it aggressively... we will release updates in the next several months... the most noticeable will be copy and paste and significant performance updates when switching between applications."19:12Phone demo. Hello, Liz Sloan from the Windows Phone team. Liz looks a bit enthusiastic. "How often does it happen that you see something and you reach for your phone to take a picture and by the time you unlock it the moment is gone." She takes a photo of herself looking enthusiastic, but with the camera locked! (Just don't think about how that getting-round-the-locked-screen could be abused. No, don't.) Her start screen includes a picture of her looking enthusiastic. Her calendar shows: "Team dinner. Liz to plan."Now showing off voice search. On stage. Brave, but we're noticing that voice is doing the job. She asks for "In and Out Burger" and it gets it. Nifty. "And it shows what's nearby if we want to swing by a Starbucks and get a coffee..." I fear that if she partakes of caffeine and gets any more hyped up it could be dangerous.Hmm, she's got a version of WP7 which allows copy/paste. Doesn't mention the fact that that's not what you'll get if you buy it today.I'm still not convinced by the giant tiles on the start screen (eight per screen): they're a good idea in themselves, but they're too large. "If you can't tell, I'm excited about this phone." Yup, we guessed, Liz.19:21Ballmer back. "When I get a chance to show people a Windows Phone, the feedback is very gratifying." Given that he's the size of Tony Soprano but without the sociopathic element, I'm not surprised. I'd hold off telling him about its faults.19:22"Now, the PC... before we wrap up." Wait a minute, aren't we going to have any flying cars? Visions of the future? Spot watches? One or two more thing(s)? Things that aren't just stuff Microsoft didlast year? Can't we have a vision of the future, a roadmap for where we're going, for where all this consumer technology – including robots – is taking us? Please?It seems not. Some numbers for us: Windows 7... 20 million people using the IE9 beta... Windows Live used by 500 million users... (don't mention the lost emails).Ooh, people are leaving at the side in a steady stream. Trying to get to the In And Our Burger before Liz? Wow, the audience in this place is dribbling away.19:24Hello, Mike Angiolu from the Windows team. Who we journos saw earlier today at the Sinofsky demo of ARM running Windows.Man beside me (who's not a journalist, so no excuse) is so engaged in the keynote he's making a phone call. Perhaps to Starbucks, to tell them Liz must have only decaff, no matter what she actually asks for.Angiolu shows off an Acer with the two 14in screens where one of them can become a virtual keyboard. Audience actually gets a bit revved up. Finally, some new tech that's a bit exciting! (All the journos affect boredom because they've seen it already earlier today.)19:30Now showing off the Surface 2.0 – the table thing. "Announced today." Got a price on that? No. Samsung makes it. Sensors inside – rather than first generation which had cameras inside, this uses infrared sensors across the screen, so that every pixel acts as a camera.  It's sort of like Jeff Han's demo from TED. It looks cool. It looks Minority Report-y. OK, but how much does it cost? And one still wonders a bit what it's for.Shows off Royal Bank of Canada app. Royal Bank of Canada has a use for it? Here we go: customers are sent a mailshot, come to the bank and show the  mailshot to the screen and it recognises it and enters you in a sweepstake, and then you can use a touch-based application to "learn more about the products and service that the bank offers".I do hope I'm not alone in believing thatnobodyis going to go to a bank because it has a big touchscreen where they can be sold insurance they don't need.19:34Ballmer is back. "These PCs are on the leading edge of PCs which do it all without compromise." Thatwithout compromisebit is key – it's Microsoft saying that it's not going to make any concessions in the tablet market to the need for an interface truly designed for a tablet.More people leaving. Keep going, Steve. Soldier on.Earlier today Sinofsky showed off nVidia Tegra 2 running Windows (on ARM). Quick flashback: "The nVidia Tegra 2, this is the platform you're going to see running Windows," Sinofsky said.The suggestion there is that it's going to be a tablet format. Okay... but the problem with Windows on a tablet is twofold: first, Windows licences make it expensive compared to Android; second, it's just not the right sort of OS for a tablet. Believe me: you have to have tried an Android tablet, an iPad and a Windows 7 tablet to understand how Android and iOS really are nearly optimal for tablets, but Windows truly isn't.19:37"Windows has the breadth and depthandthe flexibility to give this to our customers and partners." Yup, again, indicating that anyone who was pressing for Windows Phone 7 to be made available on tablets has been overruled; the Windows client reigns supreme. Microsoft is betting the future on smartphones being one market, and tablets not overlapping them. Given that Windows client makes up slightly more than half Microsoft's profits (as does Office; together they make about 104% of profits, and then the Xbox and online divisions pour money down the drain or break even) you can see the logic. The question is whether it's reliable for the long term.This stage may, in future, be seen as a turning point – the road to disaster, or one which saved Microsoft's revenues, because WP7 licences would be a lot cheaper than Windows one. The bet that Microsoft is making is that it won't lose out too badly in the tablet market through insisting on Windows rather than a smartphone interface; that any share it might lose from smaller tablet sales (though of course it would tell you that it's going to havemassivesales) will be more than overcome by the income from licensing Windows to those same tablets and notebooks.19:42Showing off Powerpoint and Internet Explorer with the graphic acceleration of the Tegra chip. Wonder how much time they had to put in to rewriting the code to run natively on ARM. This is not mentioned. If it were easy, one suspects they might have said "you know what? It only took us an afternoon/week/month to get Windows to recompile on this!" That's bad news for anyone whose program might have to run on ARM – basically, anyone target future laptops that might run Windows '8' on ARM.19:43Still not getting an idea of Microsoft doing any sort of relaunch of anything. Ballmer is wrapping up, I think. "Software has the power to make things really possible. Now and in the future, Windows will be there. We've covered a lot of ground tonight." The people leaving are covering plenty of ground too, toward the exits. "Xbox has transformed from a gaming device to the favour thing for your TV shows, playlists and social games shows." The dribble is becoming a stream of people, some of them from the centre aisles in front of Ballmer. This is quite weird. OK, they're not inspired, but a wholesale walkout?"Today's Windows 7 PCs can be found in so many wonderful form factors... Windows PCs will continue to adapt and evolve. Support for system-on-a-chip means Windows will everywhere on every kind of device without compromise… low-power long-lasting devices. You'll be able to use Windows wherever you go..." This is a manifesto: Full Windows Steam Ahead.19:45And that's a wrap. The applause lasts almost three seconds. And people arestormingthe doors. That's a keynote? I have to say I've seen it done better elsewhere.Conclusion:while underwhelming in its presentation, this was a Ballmer keynote that told a great deal about the struggles within the company. Kinect and Xbox are a success; Windows Phone 7 is being pushed to be a success; but most of all, Windowsmust endure.If I were to sum up the keynote (and especially its concluding coda) in four words, it would be:Tomorrow Belongs To Windows. There was no relaunch of the tablet, that form factor that so embarrassed Ballmer last year by signally failing to actually go anywhere. Instead, he never held a tablet; that was left to his sidekick, who praised Windows 7's ability to ignore the input from his palm when it's resting beside his stylus-holding hand.The message then is that tablets might be relevant, but only if they're running Windows. Not a whisper about the numbers – about how the iPad and other tablets are eating the netbook (read: Windows XP/low-end Windows 7) market. You can bet that if Windows tablets had taken off in anything like the numbers that the Kinect (which is undoubtedly a praiseworthy piece of technology) has, then Ballmer would have been all over it. The fact that he didn't, and that companies like Motorola and Asus have been preening their tablets, tells you what you need to know: Microsoft is going to ignore the tablet market or hope that Windows will do well enough to avoid complete humiliation. After all, if it can sell 200m Windows licences per year, does it care about a few tens of millions of tablets sold in the west? Should it?And elsewhere? The message is that Windows will dominate. I'd been hearing from sources inside Microsoft that this would be the year of the cloud. In the US, Microsoft is running adverts on prime-time TV showing people accessing their home PC via the cloud from remote locations such as the airport.But the cloud made barely any showing here, which tells you too what Microsoft's current thinking is: the money is in the Windows licences. Damn the tablet and cloud torpedoes, the future is in Windows, and the lovely revenue and profit it brings from its licensing, especially because that brings concomitant revenue and profits from sales of Office. And there's no obvious sign right now of anything derailing that gravy train.In fact, if you want to paraphrase someone else, if you want a picture of the future, at least in Microsoft's eyes, then think of a button prodding on a Windows "Start" button – forever.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Motorola: they're having a press conference! With earbleedingly loud music. Really, it is damn loud. Packed room. You can't get in unless you've preregistered. Perhaps they're worried the bazillions of press and bloggers will descend like locusts. Which would be a legitimate concern, from what I've seen the past couple of days.16:21It's Bill Ogle, the chief marketing officer of Motorola Mobility. Hurrah. They rang the bell at the NYSE to celebrate being an independent company. He's here to talk about the products to be announced today. "They are the first step in a long line of innovation from Motorola over the last 80 years." That's not a sentence that makes a lot of sense. Sure to improve from here, then.Going to walk us through details of new products that have been leaking all over the net for the past few weeks. And now what's going to differentiate Moto (which don't forget has seen its share of the handset market plummet in the past year, losing out to Far Eastern companies)?"We think we can make consumers' lives simpler easier and more powerful for you." Or, to use the tagline, "Life MPowered." See what they did there? No? Big M for Motorola? Oh, suit yourselves.And now chief exec officer Sanjay Jha, who having leapt into Android's arms saw Google dump him in favour of Samsung and be left behind. So has Google come good for Moto?16:24Going to "leverage the ability of these businesses to deliver converged opportunities". That's good, we never like converged opportunities to go undelivered.16:25"First a smartphone that I think will change forever how we stay connected." Tagged as "the world's most powerful smartphone. Atrix 4G. Dual-core processor, 1GHz each, 1930maH battery, 1GB RAM, "qHD display", fingerprint reader. "But even with these it still doesn't meet all the needs I have when I come to a business trip. Business people can get through 80% of the day using their smartphone but there are still tasks that need a larger screen and a keyboard and mouse, such as documents, watching HD video" - huh? You need a keyboard to watch HD video? Oh, needs a larger screen. So that's an essential part of the business person's work? Watching HD video? If you say so.16:28Seang Chau, chief software engineer at Motorola, is up. Three different people in seven minutes. Motorola Webtap application is a browser-based desktop, "it's like nothing you've ever seen before.... unprecedented integration between smartphone and computer environment."He's got the phone sideways in an HD dock. 3 USB ports, HFMI out. OK, it's an entertainment centre. This is the missing 20% that business people don't get done? I didn't know that. You can output your phone's content to a computer screen or a big screen. Hmm.Runs Android. Has Firefox 3.6.13 running on the phone - it's a full desktop browser, not a mobile browser. I'm thinking: insane. I'm also thinking: it's quite a thing to have got a real Firefox running on Android. And: it's a computer that you use to make phone calls? Um, OK. So as long as the business person checks into a hotel that offers spare screens and keyboards, they're fine. Or if they carry the screen and keyboard in their suitcase.. OK.16:32Goes to a web page; phone numbers are highlighted and become hotlinks that you can call. Intriguing - wonder if that's something Motorola has tweaked in its Android for that. Could be problems ahead if it has, because that would mean that upgrades to Android might break it."We sat down with some CIOs and they said this was a very good solution because they only have to manage and upgrade a single device." Also has a laptop dock, essentially a shell of a laptop that you plug the phone as a processor into. Now,thatI can see the business people wanting for their 20%.This is the sort of thing that would be giving Microsoft the heebie-jeebies. It's a sort of tablet that's a laptop that's a phone. What need then for a Windows laptop?Jha is claiming 8 hours battery life. But can it edit Office documents? Or would you have to go via Google Docs? Remains to be seen, possibly after the presentation - Motorola says it's going to be offering hands-on.16:35Jeff Bradly, svp devices for AT&amp;T  mobility and consumer markets. This is going to be exclusive to AT&amp;T (for now?). Will have more than 20 4G devices by the end of the year. "I've seen a lot of smartphones in my career" - in Cupertino they're saying "watch what you next say next" - "and I have to say this is awesome." That was clever, not saying it was the best or anything."Preparing our stores and our enterprise channels to sell these smartphones and innovative docking solutions." No prices yet "but they will be competitive". How surprising if you thought he was going to say prices will be "ridiculous" or "gouge the hell out of you".Ah, Orange is also going to be selling it in the UK. Phil Robertson of Orange gets to say something. "To have a device that can both operate in the home enviroment and the out-of-home environment is very powerful."Now on to the second of the four devices for today. November 2009 had the Cliq with T-Mobile, "learnt a lot". (Usually business speak for "it went really badly", but he doesn't elucidate.)Now: Cliq 2. 4G, 1GHz, slide-out keyboard on the side, customizable profiles (er, so?), 3.7" screen. Adobe Flash 10.1 player. 4MP camera. "Print to retail", no clue what that may be. Hotspot capability, Wi-Fi calling. On T-Mobile. No details on what OS it is - Moto's own? Advert seems to suggest it's Android too.16:43Third product. "Speed is critical to consumers.. no waiting for pages to refresh. 4G technology makes that possible. Introducing the Droid Bionic."It's a Google-y phone, looks very like the Nexus S (from Samsung). Except that the buttons for controlling it are in a different order along the bottom - one thing that Google hasn't got right but which Windows Phone 7 (which dictates the order of the buttons at the base of the handset) has.Comes with video calling, encryption, Quick Office, video conferencing. Intriguing that Quick Office wasn't mentioned on the Atrix.Time for the fourth gadget.16:46It's a tablet - "I'm pleased to announce the Motorola Xoom, the world's first Honeycomb tablet, which will be available in stores in the first quarter."Hang on, I thought that Asus saidithad a Honeycomb device at its launch yesterday. That's going to be interesting. Who will be first into the stores?5MP camera. 3F upgradeable to 4G. Dual core processor. , 12:10 display. , looks like a 10-inch screen. Adobe Flash Player 10.1." First Android tablet with software designed for a tablet, 2x 1GHz processors. All 3G devices can be upgraded to 4G. Accelerometer, gyroscope, front and back cameras, Honeycomb demo - "the software's not completely done, so we can't let you play with it today."Honeycomb: not much special to report. Mail client looks very like the one in the iPad. Basically, it uses the ideas from having a large screen and implements them; looks good. "Designed ground up for a tablet.... builds upon Android technology already available.. widgets... because of the larger screen area there's more functionality..."Shows off the Maps app. It's... well, OK, it's like when you show off Google Maps on a large screen. (Distinct lack of "ooh" from the crowd.)So: 3G version in the first quarter, 4G version in the second quarter.And that's a wrap. So: Motorola's trying to get ahead of the rest by• offering a really powerful phone in the Atrix: could be good, though it does need all the extras to be really usefui. Are business people, and businesses, going to abandon all their investments in laptops to go for an Atrix instead? Especially as we haven't seen whether it can edit Office files. It's a terrific idea, but something inside is nagging away and thinking it will hit a lot of inertia.• Cliq 2. Low-end phone, not really a premier product, filling in to capture the low end.• Droid Bionic. For the people who can't bear to abandon their laptops for the Atrix but do want something that will do pretty much all the same stuff, and act as a Wi-Fi hotspot (which Android does). Suspect this is actually going to be the better seller compared to the Atrix, wonderful though the latter's concept might be.• a 10.1-inch tablet with Honeycomb (Android 3.0) scheduled to reach stores some time in the next three months. It looks really nice; the key will be in the pricing. Can Motorola order in sufficient volumes to push the price below the iPad 2 (as it will be competing with then)? And will the Android Marketplace be a sufficiently compelling alternative in terms of apps? It's got Angry Birds, so that might swing it.. but price will be the key here. There are going to be plenty of Honeycomb tablets within a few months of Motorola's hitting the shops, so it's going to have to rely on price or timing to get a lead.Overall? 7/10 - interesting ideas, and now the challenge lies in the execution.
The mother of a woman who told 1,048 Facebook friends that she had taken a fatal overdose has questioned why none of them sought help until it was too late.Simone Back, 42, posted a message on the social networking site after 10pm on Christmas Day saying: "Took all my pills, be dead soon, bye bye everyone."Instead of trying to save her or get help, some of her online contacts left messages taunting her and arguing among themselves. One called her a liar, another said she "does it all the time, takes all her pills", while another said it was "her choice".Her mother, Jennifer Langridge, 60, who called police after receiving a text message about her daughter's online note, said: "Nobody told me anything about it until the following day when I was sent a text saying 'get help'."The alarm was then raised with police, who rushed to Back's flat. They took her to the Royal Sussex county hospital, but she died at 5.05pm on Boxing Day.Langridge, who also lives in Brighton, said: "I am disabled so can't get up the stairs to Simone's flat. I called the police straight away. It is upsetting to think nobody did anything for my daughter."She posted a note on her daughter's page, saying: "My daughter Simone passed away today so please leave her alone now."It is not yet known whether Back saw any of the 150 online responses. Some Facebook contacts begged for her address and phone number, but it appears no one who lived nearby contacted police or sought her out in time to save her.Back's friend Samantha Pia Owen said: "Everyone just carried on arguing with each other on Facebook … Some of those people lived within walking distance of Simone. If one person just left their computer and went to her house, her life could have been saved. These so-called friends are a waste of air. If someone has got problems you don't go around adding to them, you don't start attacking people who are already vulnerable … Facebook should put up a flag or button so that a post can be flagged up as a suicide threat, and Facebook should be able to contact the police."Graham Bell, from the Brighton and Hove Depression Alliance, said: "This is a very sad reflection on our community. People need to be friends in the real world as well as in the online world."A spokeswoman from the charity Mind said: "Loved ones can find it very difficult to know how to support someone who is experiencing mental distress, whether this is being communicated face to face or online. It is a myth that people who talk about suicide don't go through with it."Back, a charity shop worker who described herself as seeking friendship, had previously spoken to online friends about her thoughts of killing herself. But some of the messages on her site show she was not taken seriously and her cries for help were mocked:Sussex police are not treating her death as suspicious. An inquest has been opened and adjourned.A Facebook spokesman said users' safety was of "paramount importance". It added in a statement: "We have a close working relationship with the Samaritans and have a process in place whereby friends and family who are concerned about someone can report it to us through the help centre."  "A team of trained professionals are then able to review the case and the Samaritans will make contact with the person at risk. The safety of people who use Facebook is of paramount importance to us and this system is just one of a number of tools we have in place to help them stay safe."
HP has put off its launch of a tablet device until Wednesday 9 February, surprising people who had expected that it would show it off at CES. Instead, the company - which bought Palm for around $1bn last year in a tussle with a number of other unnamed bidders - is sending out invitations asking people to "Think big. Think small. Think beyond."What it's also got people doing, though, is thinking: delayed. And asking why, given that webOS, which Palm used on its attractive range of phones such as the Pre last year, should be expandable to a tablet.I've heard from a source who gets early versions of tablets from all sorts of places for testing (because of the industry he's in) and who has laid hands on one of them that the delay (for it is seen as that) could be down to HP adding more features - but adds that the HP Slate is indeed a "very nice" device to use. That would make sense, given that the Palm Pre smartphone had (still has, if you can find one) aninterface that rivalled the iPhone'sfor quality. Here's a reminder from Rick Wray's review:"switch on the Wi-Fi and suddenly one of the Pre's big selling points - multi-tasking - leaps into life. Applications, from browser pages and downloadable apps such as Twitter client Tweed to email and the camera, appear as individual "cards" on the phone's screen that you can scroll through. It means you no longer have to stare at a blank screen while waiting for your email to update or a web page to load, you can go and do something else."So, hopes still high for the HP webOS slate.Meanwhile BlackBerry maker RIM has large adverts teasing about its much-promised PlayBook tablet - although whether that will surface, or whether a date will be provided for its release (and whether it will answer questions about battery life and so on) is quite a different matter. The actual show floor isn't open yet so we can't go and prod the PlayBook. On this, our source hasn't, intriguingly, laid hands on or even seen one, which is odd for a product that has been described as due to launch this quarter (well, last October the suggestion from RIM's co-CEO was it would come out "early in 2011") and whichRIM insists is leading to companies delaying iPad purchases.Given that Apple is also expected to announce its revision to the iPad line some time late in January to February, RIM is going to be in an uncomfortable place, having lost its lead in the US smartphone market to the iPhone, and now trying to bolster its position in the tablet market, where it doesn't have a position - only adverts. (The ones outside the CES Hall suggest it's going to be a "business" tablet. Well, nothing says business quite likeactually releasing the thing.) HP has released a Windows tablet, but there's no clear signs of its getting any traction in the market. Await the slate, and we'll prod the PlayBook as soon as we can.
Steven Sinofsky announces at CES 2011 that the next version of Windows will run on ARM chips. Photo byMicrosoft Swedenon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe next version of Windows, unofficially dubbed Windows 8, will be able to run on ARM chips, not just the Intel ones that have been the backbone of PC sales for the past 25 years - but existing application from third parties will have to be rewritten to work on them, Microsoft said on Wednesday.Rewriting Windows to run on ARM chips potentially means that it could be used on an entirely new generation of devices which will have longer battery lives and use less power than Intel ones. But the effort for Microsoft is substantial because ARM and Intel chips have different "architectures" - in effect, speak different languages.It also suggests that Microsoft is concerned that in future Windows could lose ground in laptops and tablets to rival operating systems such as Google's Android and Chrome, and Apple's iOS, used on the iPhone and iPad, if it does not produce a version that can run on ARM chips.However for third party developers and users of older programs it could pose a problem. Applications will have to be recompiled or rewritten for the ARM architecture, and the software drivers used to run printers and other peripherals may have to be rewritten. That could create a hiatus for users worse than that suffered when Microsoft introduced its previous version of Windows, Vista, which required many drivers and applications to be rewritten.In an announcement ahead of the keynote opening speech by Steve Ballmer at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, the head of the Windows and Windows Live division Steve Sinofsky showed off the next version of Windows and a rewritten version of Microsoft Word running on ARM chips from Qualcomm, nVidia and Texas Instruments.Sinofsky declined to give a timescale for when the next release of Windows will be available, but said that "24-36 months between releases seems about right." Windows 7 was released in October 2009, suggesting that the release will come between October 2011 and 2012.But he admitted that the thousands of apps presently written for Windows on Intel's x86 architecture will not run directly on the ARM hardware. That would only be possible using a technology called "virtualisation", in which the processor interprets Intel instructions and renders them into their ARM equivalents. That, however, imposes substantial overheads on the processor, effectively slowing it down. "x86 programs don't run on the ARM architecture, and it's not likely that virtualisation would run on [ARM chips]," Sinofsky said.He also declined to say what the next version will be called. "I'm not saying it's called Windows 8," he said.Intel has struggled to compete with increasingly powerful ARM processors, notably the Tegra range from nVidia, which offer a powerful combination of computing performance, especially on graphics, with low power demands. Scores of tablet computers are now being built which use ARM designs, including Apple's iPad which uses one of its own design, and many more from other manufacturers running Google's Android operating system. Intel's attempts to compete with ARM designs with its Atom chips have seen few companies adopting it because its power consumption is about four times higher, limiting battery life.The move by Microsoft suggests that it thinks that future notebook and tablet designs will be ruled by ARM rather than Intel, and that if the next release of Windows was not available on ARM then it would lose market share to rivals.Sinofsky implied that Microsoft's mobile phone operating system Windows Phone 7 - which already runs on ARM processors - would not be allowed to run on tablet-sized computers. "Our whole industry has to think about the boundaries of where you have one operating system or another," he said. "We're clear that for us the small screen is for Windows Phone, and these screens" - indicating the tablet-sized systems to PCs - "are [for] Windows 7."But since the launch of the iPad last April, followed by scores of Android tablets in the autumn, the market share of Windows in the tablet market has dropped substantially - even though overall sales, which were always tiny at an estimated 1m annually, have not been noticeably affected. Microsoft's problem now is to capture part of the growing market.Observers are not confident that it can, because Windows is not optimised for the touch-screen tablet format, unlike Android and iOS. At a panel earlier in the day before the announcement, a group of experts suggested that Windows will be a distant third place behind Android and iOS in the tablet market for the foreseeable future."We've reached a point in technology where everyone really does want everything from their computing experience - the power and breadth of software for today's laptop, the long battery life and always-on promise of a mobile phone, and the possibilities from a new generation of tablets," said Sinofsky. "We are making this announcement now to allow greater collaboration across our expanded partner ecosystem so we can bring to market the widest possible set of PCs and devices, from tablets on up, with the next generation of Windows."
You might not think that gaming – mostly both sedentary and fun – has much in common with the traditional grim January resolutions of exercise and abstinence.But games do know something about teaching new behaviour. They frequently start with a "tutorial level", practising the skills you'll need to play the game – but unlike new year's resolutions, tutorials are often fun.Pacing is all important: too slow and you get bored; too fast and you end up randomly mashing buttons trying to get out of"crouch". The parallel with resolutions is obvious: keep it interesting for yourself, but no trying to run before you can walk. Or stop crouching. A good tutorial also teaches one thing at a time. As Guardian columnistOliver Burkemansuggests, the key to following through on resolutions could be to pick just one thing and stick with it till you've mastered it.The exception isMinecraft – an indie game that has sold almost a million copies. Minecraft has no tutorial level. You arrive in the pixellated world holding a stick. There's no indication of what you can do, or what your goals are. It's only when night comes – and with it the walking dead – that you realise you have to build a shelter, but you still don't know how to do that. I've only got anywhere with Minecraft by getting my friends to explain it.Which is perhaps the final lesson games can teach us about new year's resolutions: the best tutorial, and the best support, are other people who have done it themselves.
Keith has covered some of the big games for 2011 already, but there is one he missed that I'm personally looking forward to. Beyond Good and Evil HD is an enhanced version of the 2003 original and adds buffed up visuals and achievements/trophies to the classic action.The teaser trailerhas just been releasedand looks as good as I had hoped for.Theoriginalwas overlooked on release in 2003, probably because GTA: Vice City and Fifa 2004 were more appealing to the average gamer than a title starring a talking pig. Those who did play generally adored the Zelda-like/puzzley/stealthy action.Whether the HD remake will help the game succeed second time round remains to be seen. After all, you could argue that the games market is even more polarised than back in 2003. Will a Black Ops fan be interested in something like this? Unlikely, but you can see the story and general nostalgia helping BG&amp;E appeal to older gamers at least. Anyway, take a look at the trailer — what do you think?
"What is Quora?" It's the sort of question that looks quite legitimate – and it's the sort of question you might find on one of the hottest sites on the internet right now,quora.com.Quora is a simple question-and-answer site. Whatever your question, type it in the search box and, if there isn't already an answer there, users will pile in and attempt to answer it. Information is organised more like Wikipedia than Google, with answers prioritised by how useful they are, but the site uses Twitter-style following to track the best contributors.Founded in 2009 by Charlie Cheever and Adam D'Angelo, Quora now has a large number of registered users: it might be 500,000, though the number has begun to explode since Christmas. In fact, the topic of how many users the site has is one of the questions the users are debating. (They'repretty confident, as of this week, that it's gone past 500,000. Quora itself is not saying, and didn't respond to an email asking that and other questions.)Why is it suddenly so popular? Because people have noticed that it has a strong preponderance of Silicon Valley's finest among its users, and that influential people are also using it: Steve Case, the co-founder and former chief executive of AOL, isamong those asking and answering questions– any question you like – on the site.Cheever says that the site was built from his own need to have answers to questions: in anarticle published this weekin Silicon Valley's Fast Company, he says: "I'd catch myself at every point in the day when I wanted to know something, and I tried to imagine what life would be like if that information was available."One point that marks Quora out from most other question-and-answer sites, such as the longstanding Yahoo Answers, or WikiAnswers, is that users are expected to use their real names – often derived from Facebook or Twitter. The challenge, Cheever says, is to keep the quality high while growing the site into the mainstream. "Right now, most of the content on Quora is very good," Cheever told the San Jose Mercury News: "It's very thoughtful and well written. So as we keep growing, how do we maintain that quality? There's no one answer."Cheever and D'Angelo are former Facebook staffers, which may have led to the intense technology emphasis of many of the early questions, which came from technology startups in their area. But their eminence also led to experts such as the Google Images product manager explaining how colour image searches work, or Twitter's staffers explaining the idea of "cost per follow", Case telling how much it cost AOL to blanket-mail CDs to sign people up in the 1990s, and the Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitzgiving his view of The Social Network– the film based on the founding of, yes, Facebook.There are wrinkles to be ironed out: Quora has not yet fallen victim to spammers, though as soon as it gains size and reputation they will certainly test it, which will either destroy it or make it much, much stronger. It has also had some notable downtime as it has struggled with its sudden surge in popularity.Robert Scoble, a tech blogger, can share the blame for some of that. In late December, he asked if Quora was "the biggest blogging innovation in 10 years", comprehensively praising it for everything from live updating to search engine optimisation.Even Google's head designer, Irene Au, waded in, saying how much she admired the site's design. "That's been a very successful design, not only visually, but also for interaction," she told the audience at aZurbdesign and interaction talk on 27 December. "For a Q&amp;A site, it didn't turn into a Yahoo Answers with spammy answers. There's a lot of really rich, high-quality content there. It's one of my favourite sites to visit on a daily basis now."Despite the near-hysteria of the tech community, Quora's traffic is still too low to be picked up by the measurement firm comScore, which said Yahoo Answers remained the market-leading Q&amp;A site, with 204 million unique visitors worldwide in November 2010.Ehow recorded 90m users and WikiAnswers 81m. The well-publicised, editorial-style Q&amp;A site Mahalo recorded only 8m, according to comScore, and the teen favourite Formspring 958,000.So far Quora, with a staff of just 12 people, has received $11m in financing, and was valued at $100m in its first round of funding.Quora is also benefiting from the fact that its rivals have largely abandoned people-based question-and-answer systems: Yahoo Answers is nobody's first sensible port of call for getting a question answered, and others, such as Formspring, Mahalo and Ask.com don't have its Twitter-like 'follower' mechanism – which is undoubtedly part of what gives Quora its attraction: the idea that you might be electronically rubbing shoulders with someone who co-founded Facebook is irresistible to some parts of the technology business, including the press. Silicon Valley blog TechCrunch was criticised by a reader for making stories by "rehashing Quora posts".Certainly there is some of the feel of the early Twitter about Quora: its simplicity and follower/following model is very reminiscent of Twitter, as is its attraction for technology buffs on the west coast. The problem now will be to build in size while keeping the spammers out – and the answers useful.How to use Quora• Register. You can do this using your Facebook profile or Twitter profile.• Start asking a question by typing in the search box at the top right. You'll start seeing suggestions for questions that have already been asked (and possibly answered) begin to grow and change as your query continues. Want to know how making red wine differs from the process for white?Here you go.• If you can add your own answer to an unanswered question, or improve on an already-answered one, do so by adding your own response.• If you think an answer has been too highly or too lowly ranked, click it up or down. The best answers should therefore rise to the top.• Start finding people to 'follow' by using Facebook and Twitter connections.Or, more simply,read the guide that Quora's staff have put up.
You may well have spotted ourgallery of 2011's most anticipated titleslast week. We had to leave plenty of hugely promising and much-anticipated titles off the list, so over the next two days, we've got another 20 games for your delectation – all due out over the next 12 months.I've stuck with mainstream console and PC releases; we'll cover mobile and indie titles in separate posts. For now, get your calendars ready and prepare to book several weeks off work ...Brink(Bethesda, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)The latest shooter fromSplash Damage, the independent UK developer behind Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory, is set on a huge manmade island – the Ark – constructed after an ecological disaster and now descending into civil war. Players can to choose to join either the resistance or the Ark security, and all their missions are dynamically generated based on decisions within the game. The developers have also added a SMART button, which apparently evaluates where you're trying to get to, "and makes it happen" – so if you're confronted by a huge chasm, instead of having to make a pixel-perfect leap, the SMART system guess what you need to do and works out the details. We're also promised an integrated experience that merges multiplayer and single-player components, allowing gamers to developer their characters across both modes. This would appear to be a growing trend in game design, with Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit, Test Drive Unlimited 2 and Square Enix's Mindjack all offering similarly seamless off- and online functionality. Whatever, let's hope the game can survive the inevitable comparisons with Kevin Costner's damp sci-fi flop, Waterworld.Release:springDead Space 2(EA, PS3, Xbox 360)The sequel to EA's sci-fi survival horror shooter is already pulling in ecstatic reviews and looks set to top the modest success of its acclaimed predecessor. Once again you're in the heavy boots of psychologically damaged space engineer Isaac Clarke as he finds himself in The Sprawl, a vast space station where idiotic scientists have unleashed a new Necromorph infestation. Along with the familiar mix of shocks, gore and dark passages, there are new monsters, new weapons and new upgrade systems. If you've ever fantasised about impaling a slavering space monster on its own javelin like limb, this'll be your chance…Release:January 28Deux Ex: Human Revolution(Square Enix, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)It's been almost eight years since the last instalment in the Deus Ex story, but soon we'll be back in the conspiracy-drenched cyberpunk universe originally created by the team behind cult classic, System Shock. This intriguing prequel takes place many years before the original title; mankind is only just starting to play with body augmentation, using biomechanical upgrades to enhance human abilities. You take control of Adam Jensen, a security guard at a leading biotechnology firm, who's badly injured in an attack on the company HQ and awaked to find himself heavily augmented and at the centre of a vast plot to guide civilisation toward a mechanised future. The developer, Eidos Montreal, reckons it's a comment on transhuman technologies and their implications. We just hope it has the same mix of FPS thrills and RPG depth as the first title.Release:TBCElder Scrolls V: Skyrim(Bethesda, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Bethesda's series of vast, open-ended RPG adventures returns this autumn, with a fifth instalment, seeking to build on the massive commercial and critical success of Oblivion, to which it is reportedly a direct sequel. Game director Todd Howard says the title has been in development since the team completed the last iteration three years ago and will be using a brand new in-house 3D engine. American magazine Game Informer has an exclusive on the first set of gameplay details – it's out later this month.Release:November 11FEAR 3(Warner Bros, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)The supernatural shooter leaps out at us again this year, now with added co-operative play. Now, spec-ops spook soldier Point Man must team up with his dead brother Paxton Fettel to prevent their evil mum Alma from birthing a world-ending evil. Nowthatis a family with issues. John Carpenter and horror writer Steve Niles have been brought aboard to up the horror factor, and the E3 demo showed plenty of the gore, hallucinatory sequences and ectoplasmic monster encounters we've come to know and love.Release:TBCGhost Recon: Future Soldier(UbiSoft, PS3, Xbox 360)Three years after the excellent Advanced Warfighter titles, we're finally set for a return to Tom Clancy's squad-based tactical shooter series. This time, your outfit of highly trained specialists is up against a group of "ultra-nationalist" Russians looking to invade neighbouring states (yes, it's those Russians again). As usual, your men will be packing plenty of prototype military hardware including exo-skeletons, heavily armed tank robots and optical camouflage that renders you partially invisible. Expect a slightly more brain-teasing challenge than the gung-ho Call of Duty series, though we're not sure this will be a full return to the strategy-heavy squad management of olde.Release:springGhost Trick: Phantom Detective(Capcom, DS)The latest offbeat adventure puzzler from Shu Takumi, the creator of the Ace Attorney series, sees a murder victim named Sissel return to Earth as a spirit to solve the mystery of his own slaying. As a ghost, Sissel is able to possess objects, operating them in order to affect the fate of other characters; he's also able to rewind time by four-minutes allowing him to prevent the murders of others. It's another intriguing and offbeat selection of logic problems, with lots of narrative twists and lateral leaps, all brought to live via some beautifully idiosyncratic anime visuals. The first DS must-have of the year?Release:January 14God Eater Burst(Namco Bandai, PSP)Released almost a year ago in Japan, this fantasy action adventure from Namco Bandai drew excellent reviews and became something of a sleeper hit. Now, the development team has created an updated version for the European market, complete with various tweaks and entirely new gameplay features. The action is set on a post-apocalyptic Earth, over-run by mutant beasts who can only be combated with powerful "God Arc" weapons. Players need to battle these monsters either alone or in groups of up to four participants, picking up weapon refinements and customisation items as they go. Yep, it sounds a lot like Monster Hunter, except the single-player campaign is apparently much more robust, with a proper story and lots of NPCs to interact with. Alongside the likes of Valkyria Chronicles 3 and Patapon 3, it's set to be a key PSP release of the year.Release:TBCinFAMOUS 2(Sony, PS3)Electrified super hero Cole MacGrath is back in another sprawling open-world adventure, this time tackling an evil entity known as The Beast, which has destroyed Empire City and is now working its way down the coast, voraciously munching through urban areas. Developer Sucker Punch is pushing its "complete overhaul" of the super power system, as well as improved melee combat and even more vibrant environments, including the city of New Marais, "featuring over 100 simultaneous characters on screen, new gangs, destructible buildings and collapsible environments". The original looked lovely and was great fun – we're expecting more of the same here.Release:TBCJourney(Sony, PS3)Here's the latest avant garde adventure from thatgamecompany, the creators of PSN oddities flOw and Flower. It's another spare, seamless experience, based around intuitive controls and the ability to genuinely explore and interactive with the natural environment. This time, however, we're being led to expect a darker experience as the player explores an eerie, unknown world, investigating an ancient civilisation. Intriguingly, there's an online component, with participants able to meet another player en route – but there are no lobbies and no gamer tags, so this one-on-one relationship remains ephemeral and anonymous. Journey also looks beautiful of course, complete with "fully simulated sand dunes" that ripple as you walk.Release:TBC
Night has finallyfallenon the visionary and quietly influential five-year project that wasBBC Backstage, a collaboration of ideas, experiments and talent that informed and defined some of the corporation's best technology work.Now set to be replaced by a cross-industry developer network – a repository for data from many media organisations and tech companies, and events – this special corner of the BBC devoted to developers has been wound down. Backstage was little known outside the developer community, so what was so special about it?How Backstage was bornBackstage began, as many of the best technology experiments do, a loose and ambitious idea energetically pushed ahead by a small team. Originally conceived as a way of "getting the BBC's data out", it was based around the Backstage website which offered a range of APIs for BBC services and content, documentation about experimental projects and later organised large-scale hack events, where external developers and designers would intensively code and compete to build yet more experimental tools.The influence of Backstage. From the BBC Backstage ebook designed byNicola RowlandsMatt Locke, then head of innovation at the BBC, andTom Loosemore, then BBC project director for Web 2.0, first envisioned Backstage as a way of engaging the developer community as one quarter of a plan for the BBC's technological future.James Boardwellin the innovation team began managing the project, andBen Metcalfejoined – formalising many of his extra curricular experiments with data feeds from the BBC News site.Backstage documented byRain Ashford, 2006-2010.Some rights reservedHaving scraped the approval of BBC lawyers, Backstage officially launched with co-sponsorship of theOpen Tech 2005conference at Imperial College on 23 July 2005. The beta version had already generated 50 prototypes by offering feeds of news, travel, sport and podcast data.Leo LapworthandLeon Brocardfinallywonthe Open Tech hack withMighTyVa prescient prototype for navigating and filtering online TV content.Open Tech was the first of a string of events. By June 2007Backstagehad seriously scaled up, partnering with Yahoo and the head of its developer network Chad Dickerson to host a hack event for several hundred developers at Alexandra Palace – during which lightning struck the iconic building twice and developers huddled over their laptops under umbrellas indoors.Christian Heilmann, then at Yahoo, compiled a comprehensive list of the hacks built at the event, which was followed by a tech spinoff of theMediaGuardian Edinburgh TV Festival, the 48-hour mobile hackOver The AirandMashed, a second, lightning-free hack at Alexandra Palace in June 2008.Lightning strikes twice - at Hack Day 2007. From the BBC Backstage ebook designed byNicola RowlandsAll these events, and the people who contributed to them, are lovingly documented in a well-craftedebookcompiled by many of the people who helped create Backstage. That kind of send-off is testament to the significance and the affection of Backstage, which is widely credited as the first developer network created by a media organisation.Why close Backstage?But if Backstage is so influential, why has it been closed? There's a consensus,  among the developer community and those that run it in the BBC, that Backstage has had its day."Backstage is about early adopters, about doing new things and we can't stand still," said Adrian Woolard, project lead for the BBC's R&amp;D North Lab. "We took a view that for people to associate us with hack days it starts to feel not like a stale idea exactly, but like something you used to do."Sunday Grid at BarCamp Brighton, supported by Backstage. Photo byRain Rabbiton Flickr.Some rights reservedWoolard talks of Backstage in three phases: creating a space to make this kind of experimentation and open innovation possible; engaging the developer community; and a third stage that takes these findings and this attitude of openness further across the BBC and its output. He points to last year's BBC2 series Virtual Revolution, which explored the impact of the web, and was heavily influenced by the R&amp;D TV project led byRain Ashford, which also filmed wide-ranging interviews with high-profile technologists and allowed viewers to cut and shape footage for their own use.Now, says Woolard, it is normal to talk about openness, innovation and working with external developers – and he claims the BBC is "fully technology conversant" in what it needs to do.Backstage victoriesAmong the discreet Backstage victories were gaining approval for a "wild west" server that internal developers could use to host experimental prototypes, without fear of bringing the entire BBC web network crashing down. That was one of the easier sells.Backstage - in numbers160 + prototypes by over 110 people listed on the Backstage blog567 blog posts with 585 comments140 videos online8 podcast episodes26 cities visited4,000 Flickr pictures from the community5 years, 500 threads and 5,000 emails to the external Backstage mailing list10+ meet-ups around the countryBackstage also claimed the first BBC blog built on an official blog platform, surfaced internal as well as external talent, and built an impressive community of knowledgeable and enthusiastic developers through its mailing lists. It also had a role in educating and interpreting important issues for non-technical staff inside the BBC.Backstage leaves a legacy of around 160 ambitious and imaginative prototypes in various stages of development. Some ideas were thrashed around at hack events and then abandoned, while others, such astrafficeye, became commercially successful. BBC developerJonathan Tweedbuilt a prototype app ofiPlayer for Facebook at one hack day – a project that would have taken months for the BBC to commission and produce internally. Another early hack includedBBC Touch, which compared the news stories the BBC had highlighted with those most popular with readers. "The BBC is 26% in touch with its readers", it would conclude, which didn't win many fans in the news department.Ian Forrester and Rain Ashford. Photo byRain Rabbiton Flickr.Some rights reservedIan Forrester, formerly a software engineer at the World Service, took over from Ben Metcalfe when he left the BBC in 2006 and has become the public face of Backstage, along withAshfordandMattCashmore, who left in 2008 for Lonely Planet.Forresterdescribes being "told off" for many of the early experiments and prototypes that could be loosely attributed to Backstage: posting photos on Flickr rather than the BBC website, using off-site storage or guerrilla-producing a Backstage podcast when it wasn't part of the approved podcast trial."That experimental attitude has slowly influenced the rest of the BBC," he said. "I see it all the time now ... things that don't quite fit with business rules - informing by doing."The end of a golden era?Backstage was financially very modest. With a budget that covered two to three members of staff and hosting events that were also supported by companies including Yahoo, Google, Microsoft and BT – and with many staff and external developers producing hacks in their spare time – it was a drop in the ocean of BBC future media and technology's budget which reached £199.3m for 2010.Woolard carefully explains that the next incarnation of whatever Backstage becomes "wouldn't consider permanent staff as part of that ... It's a more flexible model". That means a tiny saving for the BBC by cutting staffing on an already financially modest initiative that punched well above its weight. Instead, staff with ideas outside their day job will be "motivated and engaged to take on that philosphy of reimagining what the next generation of BBC services might be like".Hack Day 2007. Photo byLeekyon Flickr.All rights reservedForrester is staying on with the R&amp;D team, though Ashford has left. The Backstage website has been closed, though mostfeedswill remain live for the foreseeable future. And this next phase involves creating a public repository, still being planned, of data for developers that publishers, broadcasters and tech firms are working on together."That model we experimented with has become the norm," said Woolard, who denied that Backstage represents something of a golden age for the BBC's web ambitions, and for its talent. "How radical the BBC is now, I don't know. But in R&amp;D we're thinking way beyond what is probably mainstream, and challenging a lot of ideas that BBC is struggling with. I do think the BBC has woken up to the genuine scalability and impact of what it does online, particularly through the growth of iPlayer."Forrester seems sanguine about the future, though admits a tinge of sadness about the end of the Backstage era. "It was about always trying and pushing, having people prepared to take more risks," says Forrester. "And I think some of that is still there."Full HackDay photoset onFlickr, tagged posts onDelicious, list ofMashed hacksPhoto byRain Rabbiton Flickr.Some rights reserved
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 1 January 2011PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (2)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (32)DS (8)Wii (8)142 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (35)Wii (8)PC (2)83 (3)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (41)Wii (4)PC (1)74 (4)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)125 (5)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)76 (8)Kinect Sports(12+)Xbox 360 (100)87 (6)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)68 (7)The Sims 3(12+)Xbox 360 (29)PC (19)DS (19)PS3 (19)239 (11)Fallout: New Vegas(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (32)PC (7)1110 (19)Dance Central(12+)Xbox 360 (100)3UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Motion Computing was one of the first companies to really try to make tablets running Windows into a profitable niche. It's here again at CES and it's showing off its range of tablets for this year.The obvious question: how good is it when you're trying to control it (rather than just watching video, which is a waste of a big operating system) and input content? We got Motion Computing's people to show it off - though the results were, to be honest, mixed. See for yourself how they got on in this demo which involves annotating a PDF, and watch carefully for how well things go when he's using his fingers and when he's using the stylus.Camera: Dan Chung
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Gaming golf fans will be used to picking up their annual copy of the new Tiger Woods game - except last year where sales were down over 60% - but they will notice something a little different this year. Yes, the next edition of the series will not feature Tiger on the cover. Tiger Woods PGA Tour 12: The Masters will instead focus on the Masters series rather than the troubled golfer. Strangely the PS3 Collectors edition will still feature Tiger on the cover - are PS3 owners more understanding of affairs? - but the standard boxes for all three versions will be Tiger-free. So can we assume the omission is due to Tiger's much publicised personal issues? EA Sports boss Peter Moore - whenquestioned by Eurogamer- said it was unrelated.If the insinuation is it's a reflection of EA Sports backing away from its relationship that goes back literally 13 years with Tiger, that's not the case whatsoever. This is obviously a very important day in our history and an important day in the world of golf videogames, and focusing on the Masters is the right thing to do.Moore continued:This is something that's very special, very different. You shouldn't read anything into the fact that Tiger's not featured on the box art of that particular edition.Moore also confirmed Tiger's appearance on the PS3 collectors edition.Last year's Tiger Woods 11 fared badly - sales were down over 68% on the previous edition - but was that really down to the publicity surrounding Woods? Surely the fact the game itself only marginally improved on the previous title was the real reason?Moore thinks the emphasis on the Masters will reignite the series:We're obviously very optimistic that because this is so new and something the golf videogame community has been literally begging for for close to a decade, it will drive considerable sales.Anyway, what do you think? Surprised not to see Tiger on the cover of his own game? Also what about golf games generally? Is motion control - PlayStation Move mainly - the way to go?
There are a lot of hackneyed game concepts that we just sort of perenially accept without questioning. Ah yes, this is a sci-fi shooter soof coursethat sinister multinational corporation was breeding an army of zombified super soldiers; oh, I'm playing an RPG sonaturally, I'm up against an evil overlord who has turned the world to shadow. Except... these well-worn cliches are not inevitable aspects of interactive narrative design, they are not part of the grammar of game structure, they're just habitual start-points, cheap-n'-easy off-the-shelf scenarios, selected to keep the design team and the gaming masses on the same page. And I think we've all had enough.So here are six extremely familiar video game scenarios in dire need of renovation. Is there anything we can do to at least tidy them up?A crack spec-ops squad operates across the world to defeat terrorists.It's obvious why the last five years has seen global terrorism become a key narrative focus in the first-person combat genre – just open a newspaper. But now Medal of Honor has dealt with the Taliban, while Modern Warfare, Call of Duty Black Ops and Ghost Recon: Future Soldier have all bludgeoned the concept of crazed Eastern European ultra-nationalists to death. So it is perhaps time for developers of military shooters to look elsewhere for enemies.It's not as if the globe is short on juicy conflicts: Far Cry 2 took an interesting look at civil war in Africa, and there's plenty of that going on right now. There are also various border tensions and insurgencies, there's a massive drugs war in Mexico, there are pirates, anarchist protest groups and hacker collectives… Plus, this whole idea that shooters have to span the globe to be interesting is a fallacy – it may allow scenic diversity, but that's usually at the expense of any sort of narrative cogency. In any case, a well-designed shooter doesn't have to frantically tick off jungle, snow and desert levels like a busy shopper at Tesco. With a talented art department, a single city can easily provide enough variety for a major campaign – as Crytek is hoping to prove with the New York-based, Crysis 2.Mankind makes a final stand against invading aliens.Half-Life 2, Gears of War, Halo, Resistance: Fall of Man, Killzone – the concept of man's peril at the hands of alien invaders has now been beamed aboard the spacecraft of game design cliche and probed to within a millimetre of its life. I, for one, will welcome our extraterrestrial overlords if it means I'll never again have to join another group of oversized military bullies blasting their gigantic phallic symbols at monsters seemingly nicked directly from HR Giger's waste paper basket. Of course, humanity being threatened by unknown beings is a corner stone of science fiction and a useful allegorical pretense and shouldn't be completely abandoned. But can we come up with an SF shooter that doesn't effectively revolve around armies of space Nazis?I'd love to see a game that takes John Wyndham as its cue, with the structure of everyday society being placed in gradual peril by insidious forces. Or a shooter based around the concepts of alienation and paranoia brilliantly exemplified in The Invasion of the Body Snatchers or The Thing, where the aliens hide within us. This is an idea marginally explored in Half-Life and Resistance, in which the aliens also infect and control human hosts, but games could go a lot further. It would possibly takes us into the realm of survival horror and away from the slaughterfests listed above, but that's not necessarily a bad thing.A stranger arrives in an eerie village. Spooky things happen.This is essentially the default survival horror scenario and via Alan Wake, it has now escaped into the psychological thriller genre. The setting works in games, as it does in movies like Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Cabin Fever and Deliverance, because it plays on our fears of the unknown, of the dark, and of intimidating rural expanses. The remoteness of, say, Racoon City and Bright Falls also provides a convenient psycho-geographic holding cell, allowing the implementation of (super)natural laws and systems that would make no sense in our 'real' worlds. But frankly, I've now wandered into enough uncanny villages to know that the best course of action is to just turn around and walk straight out again, no matter which loved-one has disappeared there. When you're bored of stumbling shop window dummies, undead nurses and mad-eyed villagers with axes, it's time to be terrified somewhere else.Glance over at cinema again, and we quickly see that Nicolas Roeg turned the whole of Venice into a nightmarish folkloric hell in Don't Look Now, while Polanski transformed Manhattan's Upper West Side into a satanic coven in Rosemary's Baby. Admittedly, some of the least successful horror games – I'm thinking Hellgate London and the Alone In The Dark reboot set in New York – have featured urban settings, but that shouldn't put anyone off. Plus, with the prospect of deadly viral outbreaks and dirty bomb attacks, the city is very much the new countryside as far as terror is concerned.A pervasive evil threatens the inhabitants of a fantasy kingdom. Only the discovery and re-unification of four magical crystals can save the world.And that's almost every RPG since 1986 effectively summarised in 108 characters. Okay, okay, there are exceptions, but variations on this theme dominate the genre, most of them either consciously or unconsciously harking back to Lord of the Rings. Is there an alternative? Well, in fantasy literature, Jim Butcher has brought many of the key genre tropes into a modern-day setting via his Dresden Files series, while Scott Lynch substituted the usual assortment of hubristic heroes for a bunch of thieves in his Gentleman Bastard books. And of course Terry Pratchett has revelled in the absurdity of the genre, something we haven't seen a lot of in fantasy games since old skool adventures like Heavy on the Magick and Simon the Sorcerer. I mean, Final Fantasy crossed with GTA? Or Castle Crashers? Could that work?In a post-apocalyptic landscape, feral tribes fight for meagre resources.Last year it was Fallout: New Vegas, this year we're getting Rage and Brink. Look, we undertand that Armageddon isn't going to be a barrel of laughs, but can someone please imagine a dystopia thatdoesn'trevolve around homoerotic biker gangs, villages made of piled up car parts and Government-sponsored death gangs? George Orwell managed to construct a terrifying future England out of little more than poky apartments, unreliable State-sponsored media and really poor own-brand gin. Anthony Burgess did the same in A Clockwork Orange just with more violence and better drugs. Then TV gave us the grim socio-political horror of Threads, in which Barry Hines disappointingly theorised that life after a Nuclear winter would consist not of heavily-armed nomads belting around on customised Harleys, but of shambling, diseased serfs attempting to harvest irradiated vegetables on endless blasted fields. That's possibly not as much fun, but it's something to think about.A demon hunter hacks his/her way through a gothic realm of Lovecraftian monsters.While Bayonetta was fantastically stylish and Shadows of the Damned looks like fun, someone really needs to re-think the whole 'hack-'n-slash genre. Minutely updating the combat systems and inventing new power-ups and bigger swords can only take us so far along the road away from Devil May Cry.Open-world action adventures like GTA seem to have chased the beat-'em-up out of, for example, real-world contemporary locations – a shame as Streets of Rage, Spikeout and Double Dragon provided the firm foundations of the genre, while later efforts like Rockstar's The Warriors and VIS Entertainment's derided but amusing State of Emergency hinted at what could be achieved without recourse to giant demonic beasts. Since then, Dead Rising and Shank have brought in humour, but no one is really telling disinterested gamers why they should be pounding the X button for 20 hours, only occasionally stopping to work out which of the end-of-level monster's many appendages is the one you need to hack off in order to put the giant bastard out of his all-too-apparent misery. Hacking and slashing are fine in principle – just ask George Osborne – but can we hack and slash something new now? Haven't the demons been punished enough?How about you? Which familiar game concepts do YOU think are in need of renovation?
Charging your electronic gadgets by walking? Sounds like the sort of thing you used to do with self-winding watches. But Tremont Electric has developed the nPower PEG which generates electricity and refills its battery from your movement: simply put it vertically into a backpack or other bag and as you walk, it charges. At $160 - to go on sale later this year in the US - it's a straightforward idea for harvesting what would otherwise be surplus energy. (It works bymoving a magnet through a coil- which of course generates an electric current, asdemonstrated by Michael Faraday in 1831- but adds some patented technology.Here's Jessica Davis, director of PR and sustainability for Tremont, explaining how it works. It really is pretty neat - and sustainable, indeed.
We've come along to Asus's press conference, the first of CES. Let's get this ball rolling! Times are as it happened in PST, so not contemporary to this moment.14:11:Johnny Shih of Asus up on the stage. Thanks for being here with him! At this unofficial event. (Not that he's saying that.) 2010 was an amazing year for Asus, apparently. He doesn't specify why.Asus makes products from notebooks to motherboards. He makes much of being green. Journalists stop typing in reverence, or possibly the hope he'll say something more interesting.He's working the Steve Jobs trope, by walking back and forth and talking slowly, but it's not quite as compelling. "We were rated by many third parties as the most reliable computer." Had 3.5% of computers shipped in the US but came out top in reliability, according to Rescue. Three-year return rate better according to Squaretrade.Claims to be third worldwide in "portable PCs". What's a portable PC defined as? Netbooks aren't a very healthy segment just now. Zipping through these slides so quickly we can't pick up the numbers on them even though they're apparently showing great growth compared to Dell, HP, etc.Then he offers a bizarre diagram, with two axes: on the Y-axis, innovation; on the X-axis, choice. Apple is positioned high on Y (ie, lots of innovation) but short on the X (not much choice). Asus he plots with lots of X (choice) but not much Y (innovation). Quite whose fault that is, is not established. But he says he wants to put Asus at the lots of innovation, lots of choice point. Well, let's see what you've got.14:20:I'm hoping that CES will improve from here on out, because this is already both surreal and boring.He has a picture of a laptop. It's got a spillproof keyboard, scratch-resistant casing of its pro keyboard. "So you can see we can offer different sorts of choices." Possibly.14:21:"And now the main thing today – innovation in the cloud". EEE is their watchword: easy to learn, work and play. Let's hope Mars (as in the bars) isn't feeling litigious. It sounds so close, as a slogan, to work, rest and play.And he produces… "The first member of our EeePad memo family." Hmm, it's a tablet running Android which looks like a 7in screen and a … oh, no, it's got a stylus. (Though the specs later say it's a capacitive, not resistive, screen.) He zips through the specs after having posed for ages for the pictures. Nobody is able to write them down. Later emerges: priced $499-$699 (no idea what determines the price). To ship: June. (Picture at Crunchgear.)See, this is where he needs to study Steve Jobs: you tell people about the specs andthenyou show it off."Comes with MediaNote text app." YES BUT WHY A STYLUS? Everyone knows that the moment you lose your stylus, your stylus-dependent screen is pointless. Apparently it's a multi-touch screen. Runs on Qualcomm's Snapdragon. Can run 1080p playback. Dual cameras.Distinct lack of "oooh" from the (really quite big) audience of journalists here.14:24:"And now the world's most powerful tablet... The most professional power, the full Windows productivity, this is it. No compromise. It's a PC but it's not very PC." It's theEee Slate EP121. Look more excited at the back at the name, can't you?Wellthat'sSteve Ballmer's thunder for tomorrow night's keynote stolen, slightly. 12.1in screen, 1280x800 multi-touch, Intel Core i5 (really? wow), Windows 7 Home Premium, 64GB SSD, supports Flash 10.1, 802.11n. (Picture at Crunchgear.)Multiple input – Wacom digitiser pen, wireless Bluetooth keyboard. $999. And now a demo.14:26:Someone called Gary from Asus's Texan office is demonstrating. He's going to Photoshop a photo he took at Christmas. Notable that he is doing it with a stylus rather than with his fingers. When you see someone demoing a Windows tablet, watch very carefully what input method they choose. It will tell you a great deal. Here, it tells us that fingers are still not recommended input devices for Windows on a tablet.He's running the A-Team film in the backgroundbecause he can. Doesn't everyone run a film in the background while they're Photoshopping? No? Obvious stock photo of a model ("she gets her beauty from her mother"). He's filtering it, resizing it, saving it, emailing it, but still using the stylus. Noticeable that he hasn't used his fingers even for a moment; instead he's doing it with the handwriting recognition.Obvious question: why the hell would you buy a tablet to do a laptop's job? What's the price delta of this compared to a laptop with similar capabilities?14:30:People afterwards doubt whether it would get three hours' battery life, given that it contains an i5. Still, it would make a very nice lapwarmer.Next: "Smart mobility meets casual computing." It's a laptop: theTransformer. Quite a thin one. Ah: the screen detaches from the keyboard, and the picture continues. Well, that's because the keyboard is the add-on, I guess. (Shih hasn't explained if that's why.)Yes, seems the keyboard is a docking station. (Picture at Crunchgear.) $399 without the keyboard (er, why would you want it without the useful-looking keyboard?) or $699 with it (what! a $300 keyboard?)."EeePad Transformer. Its thickness is less than iPad. Two cameras. It can run full 1080p playback. Nvidia Tegra 2 dual-core processor" (that's good) "twice the performance of the iPad A4." Well OK then, show us doing it. Don't just claim it. Ah – demo again.14:34:Will it be the EeePad against the iPad? Oh, no. It's Gary the Texan again, showing the Android interface and Asus's apps that it's written. DLNA networking to connect to home servers. "Network guys tell me there are so many wireless devices here that the speeds are down," he says and glares at the audience. Well, excuseusfor coming along to your press conference.14:36:So in theory Asus is betting that people will want areally powerfultablet that can be a laptop, or possibly laptop that can be a tablet. It's a nice idea. Except it's an Android tablet, which means that the whole benefits of having a keyboard go away somewhat: Android doesn't run Office, nor even OpenOffice, nor anything you'd identify as a program that can edit Word, Excel or Powerpoint files.And if it were a Windows tablet, then you'd have the nightmare of its multi-touch unresponsiveness when it was a tablet. It seems such a solid, attractive idea: you have a device where hey! It's a laptop! No! Now it's a tablet! But those two functions each require a different approach, a different operating system. Tablets are not laptops with the keyboard taken away, and laptops are not tablets with an added keyboard.Asus EeePad Slider – for when you can't quite bear not to have a tablet that isn't a laptop?14:38:Next up: theEeePad Slider, "a unique hybrid of tablet and portable PC … so you've got a keyboard all the time." Already I'm starting to think that Asusdoesn't itself knowwhat people want, and is throwing designs at the world in the hope that one of them will prove popular. Is this a good idea? True, there's a risk in only offering one design: you might pick the wrong horse.But having four different designs? A 7in Android tablet, a 12in Windows tablet, a sometimes-tablet, a never-quite-a-tablet? OK, Shih said that he wants to offer the combination of innovation and choice, but this feels a bit scattered. Offering all of those products, with the different combinations of SKUs (product models) – different RAM, different storage – is the sort of thing that drives supply chain managers up the wall because they can't forecast who'll want what, which inevitably leads to oversupply in some places and shortages (you hope) in others. This is why multiple products that do roughly the same thing is a bad idea: because it leaves you with excess inventory which either has to be sold off or sent to landfill, and either way wrecks your financials.The Slider will, apparently, run on Android 3.0 "Honeycomb" – really? That's fascinating, because this is the first sighting of Honeycombanywhereto my knowledge –  10in screen, Nvidia Tegra 2 processors, dual cameras, HDMI, USB, card reader.14:40:Gary the Texan is back to show it off. "I feel like I'm living up here," he says from the stage. Can't quite express how monotone his monotone is. Supremely underwhelming showing of what ought to be amazing: Honeycomb? In the wild? But we're shown nothing that suggests this is really Honeycomb on the machine. It could be Android 2.2. We'd be none the wiser from the demo.14:43:Shih is talking about something vague to do with the cloud and web 2.0 under the title "Triple-Play Digit-Net" (that's what it says on the slide). I don't honestly know what his point is here. It's like when Bill Gates tried to explain the cloud with theworst slide in the world. "Together with the silicon brain, together with the human brain, that's the best of Web 2.0," says Shih. To utter silence.14:46:"We can put the silicon brain into things … but their aim is always to serve PEOPLE!" I'm not quite following. "Where are your friends, where is the parking space... I think this is the real concept of web 2.0." Really, Mr Shih?"And here I'd like to introduce another concept... through the concept of the interface make the whole of the family … I think each home may need a home CIO." Oh dear – isn't that what good user interface design is meant to make redundant? "Including videoconferencing.. where you go outside and create a video." I'm going to stop typing for a bit until he rejoins the planet.14:51:Ah. We're back. Short film. "IRIS: Inspirational Research for Immersive Space … what if the device adapts to your work space?" Yes, it's the home of the future – just like that thing you've been seeing for, ooh, the past 50 years. It seems to involve a wristwatch that has a detachable screen that can be blown up into a tablet the size of an iPad. That's not far awayat all, is it?14:53:And he's gone, and we're done. We're perplexed as hell, and we haven't even been given the chance to ask questions. Nor, indeed, to get hands-on. (Ignore any Google results that say "hands-on" relating to this presentation: nobody except the Asus execs got their hands on these products.)All the devices are being hurried off the stage. We later learn thatevery single devicewas taken straight out of the building immediately the talk had concluded – meaning there's no danger just yet of anyone getting their hands on them. Just as good: the electronic press kit handed out at the end includes a picture of the "Transformer", but it's a zero-byte file.Overall? A strategy without a strategy. Asus doesn't control enough of the supply chain: it isn't improving Android, it can't write software worth a damn, and it's at the mercy of both MicrosoftandGoogle in trying to advance its fortunes. Then again, the hardware-only business isn't that great: itsQ3 2010 resultssuggest a profit margin of about 5% after tax (which is about half of what you'd aim for as a rule of thumb). Asus is stuck between a rock (Windows) and a hard place (Android); all it can hope for is that others will find it even harder.OK, well – the rest of CES can surely improve on this.
"It's a lot easier to go public than to be public," observed veteran technology investor Frank Quattrone last year. That insight might prove doubly prophetic for Facebook, which is under fresh scrutiny about when it might take – or be forced to take – the social networking company public following a fresh $500m (£320m) round of investment led by Goldman Sachs.That has valued Facebook at $50bn– as big as Tesco.Joined by the Russian tech investment firm Digital Sky, which put $50m into the deal, Goldman has structured it as a new investment product. Clients can buy a chunk of Facebook equity by investing at least $2m, and have to agree not to sell shares until 2013 and not to trade in secondary stock markets.It is a deal that has prompted scrutiny of the rules on US initial public offerings. The securities and exchange commission (SEC) stipulates that firms with more than 499 shareholders must go public, though Facebook won an exemption from this ruling in November 2008 by saying most of its shareholders were staff. Outside Facebook, though, nobody knows for sure how many investors it has.Secondary marketsThat has not stopped analysts poring over SEC rules saying they specifically state that organisations cannot create entities – or "special purpose vehicles" – to circumvent the 499-shareholder threshold. This prompted speculation that the SEC will eventually demand Facebook registers as a public company, four months after the end of its fiscal year – May 2012 – a situation similar to that forced on to Google in 2004.Already the SEC is asking questions about hyperactive Facebook activity on secondary markets, which facilitate trading in shares of unlisted companies. These markets had already seen the use of special purpose vehicles, allowing smaller investors to club together to buy Facebook stock. Trading accelerated in November after Facebook's largest venture capital investor, Accel Partners, sold about a fifth of its 10% stake to give Facebook a reported valuation of $35bn.One secondary stock exchange, SecondMarket, confirmed this week that it had received a letter of enquiry from the SEC. The 500-shareholder rule was introduced in the 1930s to ensure that the public had access to crucial financial information before investing."These investors won't be throwing their money in on trust alone," said Anthony Miller, managing partner of analysts Tech Market View, who said the size of the Goldman investment had echoes of the dotcom boom."Though we haven't heard numbers for profitability or cashflow, we know the animal works, and that it's a market-defining proposition. For an implied valuation to reach one fifth of the value of Microsoft shows how much the investors believe in it, and no one puts money in unless there's a good chance of making that back many times over."Facebook's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, has repeatedly said he is in no rush to take the company public. "A lot of people building startups or companies think that selling the company or going public is this end-point – that you win when you go public," he told CBS last month. "That's just not how I see it."David Kirkpatrick, a Fortune writer and author of The Facebook Effect, the definitive work on the company, said Goldman Sachs's investment may actually delay Facebook's IPO. "Why do companies go public?" he blogged this week. "Generally for two reasons: to raise capital to expand operations and to offer liquidity to hardworking employees who have been compensated in part with stock options. Yet both of those goals will be achieved for the time being, with the deal Goldman has arranged for Facebook."Facebook does not disclose any financial information but Kirkpatrick used unrivalled access while writing The Facebook Effect to detail the company's shareholders. Last summer, it still had only 200, he insisted.The company's principal shareholders are names familiar from the film The Social Network. Founder and chief executive Zuckerberg holds about 24%. The implied valuation of $50bn gives him a fortune of $12bn. Co-founder Dustin Moskovitz holds 6%, Sean Parker – played in the film by Justin Timberlake – 4%, and Eduardo Saverin 5%.Accel Partners held 10% until late last year when it is understood to have sold some of that share to private equity firms on secondary markets. Accel originally paid $12.7m for about 10% of Facebook and was the largest venture partner but sold around about 20% of its share last November. That stock at a valuation of about $35bn.Digital Sky Technologies holds 10%, Greylock Partners 1.5% and Meritech Capital Ventures about 1.5%. Peter Thiel – Facebook's first corporate investor – holds 3%. Microsoft, which has tried unsuccessfully to buy Facebook, secured a 1.6% stake in 2007 that valued the site at $15bn. Advertising group Interpublic has a 0.5% stake and the Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-Shing has just under 1%, invested through his civic investment foundation.High-profile investorsAbout 30% of stock is owned by staff of Facebook, and individual investors that include LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman. But Kirkpatrick missed Facebook's highest-profile investor: U2 frontman Bono. His investment firm Elevation Partners bought 1.5% of the firm for $210m – that has now quadrupled in value.Privately, investors feel that a more realistic valuation is around $30bn. Nic Brisbourne of DFJ Esprit warned that a $50bn valuation would rely on huge growth and healthy margins. "That's a bit of a stretch, though it's clearly a fantastic business," he said. "There's no moral obligation on a company to go public – the obligation is to deliver the best value to the shareholders."Brisbourne suggests Facebook will use its investment to build out its infrastructure – a key part of its plan to dominate the web through social navigation. "There's a truth in social navigation – it will be a very important layer of the web. It is unimaginable how different the web will be in five years."• This article was amended on 1 February 2011. The original mistakenly made reference to US senator Barbara Boxer. This has been corrected.
Digital Sky Technologies, the Russian firm behind Goldman Sachs's $450m (£290m) investment in Facebook, boasts an eye-catching set of relationships of its own – including close ties with the investment bank, billionaire Arsenal suitor Alisher Usmanov and the Kremlin.Three well known Goldman bankers have joined DST over the past three years: Alexander Tamas in 2008; Verdi Israelian in 2009; and John Lindfors last June, while Goldman led November's $5.7bn flotation of Russian internet business Mail.ru, which was spun out of DST last year.DST was founded by Yuri Milner, pictured right, and Gregory Finger in 2005 and the company initially bought 2% of Facebook for £200m in 2009. That stake is now owned by Mail.ru but some estimates now put DST's stake at almost 10%. DST will pick up $50m of Goldman's $450m investment, which will be held through its DST Global division along with other internet investments including Zynga and Groupon.Usmanov, the Uzbek oligarch who owns 27% of Arsenal football club, has an undisclosed stake in DST Global. He also owns 27% of Mail.ru, which entitles him to two representatives – Vladimir Streshinsky and Matthew Hammond – on the company's nine-strong board. DST has admitted that its association with a man who spent a spell in Soviet prison during the 1980s [see footnote] initially caused "a lot of reservations" in Silicon Valley, although the company appears to have few such problems in Russia.A Moscow source said: "DST has the backing of the big boys at the top in the Kremlin, which is why it will go from strength to strength."A DST spokesman said: "Yuri Milner in his personal capacity is a member of the president's commission on modernisation. In this capacity he acts as an adviser on the promotion of broadband development and electronic government in Russia. However, there is no substance to the suggestion that DST receives any formal support from the Kremlin."•This article was amended on Friday, 14 January 2011. We have removed the phrase :"albeit on charges he claims were trumped up". Furthermore Mr Alisher Usmanov has asked us to point out that all charges in relation to the six years he spent in prison were dismissed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Uzbekistan and he was fully exonerated in 2000. His criminal record was expunged.
Statcounter, a web statistics company, says that Firefox has now passed Internet Explorer, for the first time ever, to become the most-used browser in Europe.The screengrab above (or see iton their web page) shows what happened, with Firefox trundling along at 38% or so, and Internet Explorer falling to about 37.5%.On which the companyremarked, "This is the first time that IE has been dethroned from the number one spot in a major territory," commented Aodhan Cullen, CEO, StatCounter. "This appears to be happening because Google's Chrome is stealing share from Internet Explorer while Firefox is mainly maintaining its existing share."Indeed, that's what the figures seem to show. Comparing the North American market (see pic) shows a broadly similar trend, but Internet Explorer is miles ahead there.Internet Explorer share is holding up in North America, StatCounter saysArguably, one reason why Firefox is so prevalent in Europe might beGermany, where it is streets ahead of anything in market share terms- at least according to StatCounter's numbers.But another theory I've heard put forward is that IE's decline is due to thebrowser ballot, launched in March, in which the 200m or so Windows users in Europe were offered a sort of roulette where they could choose to install a different default browser from a randomly shuffled group of 12, with the top 5 (IE, Firefox, Chrome, Safari, Opera) presented first in what turned out to be only a quasi-random order that slightly favoured Chrome, until it was fixed.So was it the ballot wot won it? Looking at the graphs, it's hard to say that there's any evidence of asuddenupward lurch in Chrome's share, nor a sudden downward one for IE. Nor does Firefox show any dramatic difference, which you might expect if the ballot had really influenced people. True, StatCounter wasreported as claiminglate in March that the ballot was "already having an effect" (though there's no actual link to that study on its site). But looking at the numbers, it's not so evident; all that seems to be happening is a long-term trend as more and more individuals - and particularly businesses - adopt other browsers.Even so, the advent of more competition in the browser market does have one good side effect: it increases the pressure for standards, and especially compliance (by browser writers) to standards like CSS2 and CSS3, and to emerging standards such as HTML5. Microsoft hasn't given up there - it's working on IE9 as you read this. But it's quite possible that the days when Internet Explorer was the only browser to code for are gone forever. In the future, the W3C's HTML standard might be what coders develop against.
A quick roundup of things that have caught our eye, ahead of the show's formal opening.What to Expect from the Consumer Electronics Show &gt;&gt; TimeGood roundup of what to expect, and opens with the withering sally: "Here's the first thing you need to know about the International Consumer Electronics Show (CES): despite the name, you won't find any consumers there. In fact, they're explicitly barred from entry. The 120,000 or so attendees descending on Las Vegas this week for the nation's premier gadget confab are employees of manufacturers, retailers and other outfits in the electronics trade, along with professional industry watchers like, ahem, tech journalists."I suspect that the show would provide a far more accurate vision of personal technology's future if it let in the people who are supposed to buy the 20,000 products that will be announced, encouraging them to poke, prod and provide their unvarnished opinions."Clickfree introduces hassle-free wireless backup for mutiple computers &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"With the new backup system, called Clickfree Wireless, the backup drive can be placed anywhere in the home or office. Using the company's Backuplink technology, the system can connect to multiple computers that are connected to the home network. With this system, consumers don't have to download, install, or configure software. They simply plug the Clickfree device into each computer to perform an initial backup. All the settings will be found and configured, and then backups will be handled automatically over an 802.11n wireless network." Neat. (The company is really called Storage Appliance, but you can see how Clickfree is more attractive here.)Eye-Fi eyes photo transfers to your phone and tablet &gt;&gt; CNetEye-Fi incorporates a Wi-Fi system into an SD card so that when you take photos, they can be sent direct to a computer (and/or uploaded). I've had mixed results when using it, but the company is looking to go further: "One oft-cited reason for the lack of cameras is that a lack of fast and easy wireless sharing capabilities keeps them from developing the ubiquity of a camera phone. Eye-Fi is planning on bridging the gap between traditional cameras and mobile devices like phones and tablets by adding a new capability, Direct Mode, to its existing Eye-Fi X2 product... Direct Mode will enable the card to create its own hot spot, so that devices running the company's app on a mobile operating system like Android will be able to pull photos off the camera and into the phone."HP Beats up its PC range &gt;&gt; The RegisterLots of updates, including a weird purple crisscross-themed cover. And: "Beats Audio, Dr. Dre's über-hyped sound output, will also be included with any new Pavilion desktops. It aint Nuthin' but an HP Thang!"Microsoft Supposedly Showing Off Its Answer To Apple TV And Google TV At CES &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Microsoft's Xbox 360 has been a big hit for entertainment and online video, and we've heard that Microsoft is trying to court more media companies to the Xbox."But it looks like the company is also going to unveil some sort of operating system for connected TVs and set-top boxes at CES this week."It's deja vu all over again.For Microsoft, 2011 to be Year of the Tablet ... Again &gt;&gt; Windows IT ProIf there are no second acts in American political life, are there in consumer electronics? "For Ballmer, this year's CES keynote isn't just a do-over, it's a chance to reset the playing field and refute the growing sense that Microsoft just isn't competitive in new markets anymore. As such, his keynote is shrouded in mystery. Microsoft's PR firm has denied any pre-show briefings, for the first time ever, and the company's Windows division will not be on hand at the show to provide in-person meetings after the keynote. This too is unprecedented."Analyst: Flash Could Be Hogging PlayBook Battery Life &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Despite Research in Motion'sbest efforts to silence them, questions about the battery life of its forthcoming PlayBook tablet have followed the company into the new year."In a sequel tohis original research notesuggesting the PlayBook's battery life is 'relatively poor' compared to rivals', Kaufman Bros. analyst Shaw Wu reiterates that claim, saying he would be 'very surprised if PlayBook matches anywhere near the battery life of the iPad at 10 hours unless it uses a larger battery.'"We're going to toodle along to the RIM stand because it's suggesting it will offer a "sneak peek". We may have to stand there for a few hours of course to see how the battery fares...
This week as the hike in VAT bites into your tech purchases, we look at the economics of technology.Aleks Krotoski speaks to the head of Wikimedia, Sue Gardener, about how the world's free encyclopedia makes cash, and what effect their goal of "freely sharing the sum of all knowledge" will have on global social change.Plus, Charles Arthur catches up with the author and futurist Doc Searls about the economies of the web – what keeps it going, and how you can make a million.
The ambitious location-based mobile gameSCVNGRhas announced a $15m investment round, led by Balderton Capital, that will help it expand gaming dynamics across what it says will be the next generation of the web.Led by charismatic founder Seth Priebatsch, a 22-year-old Princeton dropout and serial entrepreneur, SCVNGR has achieved rapid growth since it launched in&nbsp; 2008.&nbsp;Photo byursonateon Flickr.Some rights reservedGoogle Ventures has previously invested $4m in the startup, Highland $750,000 and DreamIt Ventures £35,000. Balderton, along with Google Ventures and Highland Capital Partners, have now invested $15m, with Balderton founder Barry Maloney joining the SCVNGR board.Similar to check-in games Foursquare and Gowalla, SCVNGR builds on that model by adding tasks and challenges to check-ins. SCVNGR attracted attention by pursuing a more commercially focus in the first half of 2010, signing up 1,000 paying clients so far. It claims to have built half a million users in 20 weeks and is aiming for 1 million by the end of January, said a spokesperson.Its first six months were spent securing deals with businesses including Coca-Cola, Sony Pictures and the New York Times. On New Year's Eve, SCVNGRpartneredwith American Eagle airlines to advertise acharitygame that asked players to complete challenges that triggered donations."In the last decade, what we've seen has been building the social layer, a structure for connections and that framework is pretty much finished. It's called Facebook," Priebatsch told aTedX eventin Boston last summer."This next decade is all about the game layer, about influence. It's about using dynamic and forces to influence behaviour and it's going to be even more important than the social layer. It's really important that we think about it very consciously and openly, and in a way that can be leveraged for good."Barry Maloney dismissed the suggestion that the appeal of location-based tools is waning among early adopters. "It's still very early days for this industry. There will be some very big businesses built here and we think SCVNGR is very likely to be the winner," he told the Guardian.Maloney praised Priebatsch as a "remarkable" 22-year-old. "What we like is the very focused way he set about building his business, being very insistent that he was building a real business with real revenues and real customers. That's different to other efforts in location-based so far."SCVNGR does not release revenues but a spokesperson said the startup had made $1m in revenues for 2009 while the game was still text based; it has subsequently released iPhone and Android apps and spent the last half of 2010 building its consumer user base.
BT today rejected claims it is paving the way for a "two-tier" internet by creating a service that will allow broadband providers to charge the BBC, Google and other content companies for better delivery of their video to the nation's homes.The telecoms company's wholesale arm is starting to sell a new service that allows broadband providers – such as Virgin Media and Sky – to put video from paying clients, like the BBC's iPlayer or Google's YouTube, in an internet fast lane.BT's new service, dubbed Content Connect, has provoked accusations of breaching the broad principles of "net neutrality", whereby all content is delivered equally to internet users.The BBC's traffic-hungry iPlayer and other video-on-demand services are putting an increasing strain on internet service providers' networks, many of which argue that they should be able to charge for better delivery of these companies' content.But BT today denied claims the new service will create a two-tier internet, saying that it "supports the concept" of net neutrality but believes that ISPs should be free to charge content owners for a "higher quality" delivery service."Contrary to recent reports in the media, BT's Content Connect service will not create a two-tier internet, but will simply offer service providers the option of differentiating their broadband offering through enhanced content delivery," a BT spokeswoman said."BT supports the concept of net neutrality but believes that service providers should also be free to strike commercial deals should content owners want a higher quality or assured service delivery."BT, which is the largest broadband provider in the UK, has already beenin fights with the BBCover the amount of bandwidth used to stream iPlayer content. In November the BBC said it would introducea traffic light system on the iPlayer, where users could easily see if their viewing was being hampered by their internet provider.Other large internet providers including Virgin Media and TalkTalk have also openly expressed a willingness to charge content companies for better delivery of their video to the nation's homes.Sally Davis, head of BT Wholesale, said providers had expressed "considerable" interest in the network, which is expected to launch in the spring.The service, which has been in development for more than a year, will operate on an opt-in basis for ISPs, giving them the tools to improve users' online viewing experiences by using a new digital delivery network.Content Connect enables ISPs to store video within their own networks, closer to the user, as opposed to third-party companies – such as Akamai, which delivers the BBC's iPlayer – caching popular content around the globe. By paying the ISP, rather than the third-party company, users could get a guaranteed delivery of service even at peak times.But it would also create a situation where companies that are unwilling – or unable – to pay would have their content delivered less efficiently to the end user.Jim Killock, executive director of consumer campaigns organisation Open Rights Group, said: "We are talking about ISPs competing with the internet for content delivery. Whether films, music or gaming services, the idea is that ISPs will deliver this stuff better and more reliably than the internet."The result could be a fundamental shift away from buying services from the internet to bundled services from ISPs: which would reduce competition and take investment away from internet companies. That would be bad for everyone."
MySpace is preparing to cut up to 50% of its 1,100 jobs by the middle of the month, according to reports, as the flagging social network struggles with falling revenues and traffic.Its management is said to be planning a series of dramatic cost-cutting measures to meet targets demanded by parent company News Corporation.MySpace, which is based in Los Angeles, has been overshadowed by the rise of Facebook, as well as the departure of several key executives and developer talent. The company has already cut jobs, reducing staff by 30% last summer.Jack Kennedy, News Corp's executive vice-president of operations, is to explore a sale of MySpace by the middle of the year, according to industry blogAllThingsDigital.News Corp is reportedly talking to various investment and venture capital firms, although the games company, Zynga,has also been mooted as a potential buyer, according to some reports. Zynga makes popular social networking games such as FarmVille and CityVille.News Corp's chief operating officer, Chase Carey, signalled the beginning of the end for MySpace during an earnings call in October when he said the site's losses were "not acceptable or sustainable".He also told the Reuters Global Media Summit in November: "There are opportunities here to do 20 things, but that doesn't mean you're going to do any of the 20. If there's something there that makes sense you ought to think about it."MySpace's travails continue despite anextensive overhaullast year, with more discreet advertising, new sharing and customisation options and even Facebook integration.Rupert Murdoch's News Corp paid $580m for MySpace in 2005 when the company was the dominant player in the new world of social networking. However, the company failed to develop new products and stuck instead to its existing model. It slowly lost its edge and was quickly overtaken by the upstart Facebook.Data from comScore shows global MySpace unique user numbers falling 26.4% from 110.8 million in September 2009 to 81.5 million by November 2010. In the UK, traffic fell from 5.1 million to 2.3 million unique users over the same period.The company declined to comment on the latest reports of impending job cuts.
I'm blaming New Year's Eve but the game I've played most this weekend is Singstar. Party, Dance, Queen, Take That, 80s - we weren't fussy. Even the original on the PS2 was dug out for some nostalgia.  Just Dance and the like are great - especially for the kids - but the Singstar games remain the best option when you want to bring some gaming to your party.  At the other end of the gaming spectrum I did manage to get some time on the World of Warcraft and Assassin's Creed Brotherhood.  But what about you? How was your New Year's/Bank Holiday weekend gaming?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Why yes, the Consumer Electronics Show (aka CES) is upon us once again, and we're planning to cover it in detail - including lots of short, punchy videos focussing on the gadgets and our evaluations of them, blog posts from around the show floor, writeups of the big speeches and themes, and so on.But of course we want you to be able to enjoy it to the maximum - so we'd appreciate it if you'd spare a few moments to look at what's on and point us in directions you'd like reviewed. (Yes, we will be going to Steve Ballmer's keynote, though it's not until 2am Thursday morning GMT, so you might want to assume that's done and look elsewhere.)Thewebsiteoffers a "by product category" link, which might be a good place to start: which is it out of Audio, Automotive Electronics, Computer Hardware &amp; Software, Connected Home, Content Distribution, Digital Health and Fitness, Digital Imaging, Electronic Gaming, Emerging Technology, Entertainment/Content, Internet-Based Multimedia Services, Lifestyle Electronics, Telecomm/Infrastructure, Video, and Wireless &amp; Wireless Devices that holds the most interest for you?Take a few moments to visit the site and tell us the exhibitors and themes that you think are most interesting.Or is it theconference tracksthat you think hold the most promise? There's a stack of those too. (Too many to list here.)We do know that last year's most popular video was theAR Drone(and it's back this year). But can you spot the must-see product of this year? Let us know in the comments.
Mark Zuckerberg faced a make-or-break year in 2010. From its first incarnation in 2004, Facebook had expanded effortlessly to a point where nearly half of the global online audience had visited the site but it was beginning to face a backlash from tech geeks, who accused founder Mark Zuckerberg of going too far in declaring the age of privacy over.Flash forward to the start of 2011 and the outlook could hardly be more different. Bolstered by Facebook hitting the 500 million user milestone in July, a $450m (£290m) backing from Goldman Sachs and immortalised on film in Aaron Sorkin's The Social Network, Zuckerberg seems more confident, skilled and omnipotent than ever. And Facebook appears to achieved the ultimate coup: threatening to unseat the mighty Google as the superpower of the web.There are some things money can't buy and, for Google, they are market-leading social media propositions. Despite its position as a technology superpower and with an estimated $33bn in the bank, it has largely failed to deliver a convincing consumer proposition for social networking.YouTube, which Google owns, has a vast network that reached 30 million monthly users in Britain alone last October, according to comScore, yet has little coherent, constructive community. Any enthusiasm for Google Buzz evaporated in a cloud of privacy controversy, while its Orkut site may be a Brazilian favourite but has failed to gain ground in Google's home market.Google is very far from anything like a crisis but it has been slowly undermined by Facebook's audacious and rapid development, the realisation of Zuckerberg's plan to reconfigure the web through social navigation and Facebook's exploitation of its popularity to recruit some of Google's hottest talent.Google has never underestimated Facebook. In 2007 it attempted a major investment in Facebook but was beaten by Microsoft, which took a 1.6% stake for $240m. Facebook's extraordinary, exponential growth – up to 633 million global users by October, according to comScore – is positioning it as the most powerful site on the web. Already secured as the busiest website in the world, Zuckerberg envisages a future where we will navigate the web through our social graph – our network of friends and contacts – with recommendations rather than searches determining what we buy, watch and discuss.The statistics, as estimated by comScore, speak for themselves. By October 2010, Facebook had already become the UK's largest display advertising publisher, showing 24.4bn ad impressions, or five times as many as Microsoft, to about 30 million web users. The number of advertisers tripled in a year. Revenues are estimated at $2bn for 2010, which would mean Facebook has raised revenues faster than Yahoo and almost as fast as Google.Facebook also had the third highest number of video viewers, behind YouTube and just behind the BBC, with 9.4 million unique users. And 47% of the global online population visited the site in 2009. Facebook's UK audience hit 31.6 million unique users for October."Facebook, along with Google, is now one of the titans of the internet universe," said Simon Carmichael, of merchant banking firm Torch Partners. "Look at the audience it has and how they monetise that; advertisers are already very keen and they are creating a whole ecosystem around Facebook."Peter Thiel, an entrepreneur and hedge fund manager who was an early investor in Facebook, said in September that the company would not go public until 2012 at the earliest. Carmichael agrees. "Facebook doesn't need to IPO to raise capital as its stock is already very widely spread, and there's a very lively secondary market for Facebook stock in the US. But it would be good for the tech industry and an IPO at that level would make it easier for $1bn businesses to get out."Investors cannot get enough of Facebook on these secondary markets, which allow Facebook shareholders – though not current staff – to cash in on their stock. Trading has surged since November when Accel, one of Facebook's largest investors, sold 15% of its stake for $517m, valuing the company at $35bn.Under US law, firms with more than 500 different shareholders must go public but Facebook won an exemption in 2008 by stating that most shares were held by staff. Regulators are looking again at these markets because of the volume of trading. Facebook's stock is by far the most popular and trades hands at rates valuing it at more than $50bn.With investors convinced the Facebook phenomenon is only just beginning, how does the firm plan to grow? Zuckerberg has said that Facebook is "almost guaranteed" to reach the one billion user mark – and is attacking on every front.The list of Facebook products introduced in the past 12 months testifies to Facebook's ambitions to move beyond a simple network of social connections to become the default navigation tool for our online experience. From dominating photos and gaming, as well as expanding its email system, Facebook has now added features designed to add revenue potential to gaming and local commerce, including credits, deals, places, and a Q&amp;A tool.Juniper's principal analyst, Windsor Holden, says Facebook's future domination depends on mobiles. "Mobile usage is far more engaging because it taps that dead time, like waiting for a train. Previously it was sitting on a desktop – a primary activity – but now it is like snacking." He says augmented reality, where images and information services are overlaid on a phone's camera, will explode in 2011. "The industry so far has catered for a niche community but there are 100m augmented reality-capable smartphones in use. That could be powerful for Facebook's advertising as it's a natural fit for advertisers."Facebook faces challenges in reaching one billion users, not least because Europe and North America will soon reach Facebook saturation, and markets such as China and Russia are dominated by domestic rivals. But the developing world is a huge opportunity for Facebook and one it has already begun to address by working with at least 50 local operators to offer Facebook Zero, a pared-down version of the site that users can access for free via mobiles.Already the web's biggest photo site, Facebook has disrupted sites such as Photobucket and Yahoo-owned Flickr. Facebook has provided a vast platform that allowed games studios Zynga and Playfish to flourish; Zynga's revenues alone are estimated at $600m for 2010.Television is lined up next; Facebook is an important app being built into many internet-connected TVs from Samsung's Smart TV to Yahoo's Connected TV that will allow users to Facebook message friends about the shows they are watching together, finally giving TV the potential for targeted advertising.The volume of information generated by Facebook globally is daunting. In any 20 minutes, Facebook typically sees 1m shared links, 2.7m photos uploaded and 10.2m comments. Facebook also records 7.7m "likes" every 20 minutes, generated not just by users on facebook.com but on more than 2m other sites across the web that have embedded Facebook's commenting tools.More than 10,000 sites are adding Facebook's tools each day, and about a third of users access the site this way at least once a month. Facebook hopes this strategy will make the site ubiquitous by allowing users to take their Facebook identity with them throughout the web.Until Facebook goes public, its priorities will be growth in users and revenues, which means more of these aggressive plans to expand. Those plans have just been boosted by a fresh investment round. With momentum like that behind Zuckerberg's plans to dominate the web, it might be easier to ask what isn't a target for 2011?"In the next five years almost every major product vertical [specialist industry] is going to get rethought to be social," Zuckerberg said, revealing his vision to the Web 2.0 Summit in November. "You're either going to have an incumbent turn their business around, or some creative entrepreneurs with great engineers who are rethinking the product from scratch. Get on the bus."
Wall of Spam. Photo byfreezelighton Flickr.Some rights reservedThere is, in the words of Jeff Atwood, "trouble in the house of Google". It's not unrest within the company that he's talking about, though; it's externally among users who are beginning to find that when they try to do searches to evaluate or buy consumer items - such as dishwashers, or iPhone 4 cases - or to find a site that will give them some useful answers, that Google's results are awash with spam.In fact, the problem that plagued the first generation of search engines such as Altavista now seems to be gaining traction on Google, which outdistanced those earlier rivals precisely because it dumped the spam so effectively.Paul Kedrosky ("investor, speaker, writer, media guy, and entrepreneur") noted in aplaintive post in mid-Decemberthat"Over the weekend I tried to buy a new dishwasher. Being the fine net-friendly fellow that I am, I&nbsp; beganGoogle-ingfor information. AndGoogle-ing. andGoogle-ing. As Itweetedfrustratedly at the tend of the failed exercise, 'To a first approximation, the entire web is spam when it comes to appliance reviews'."Kedrosky noted that "Google has become a snake that too readily consumes its own keyword tail. Identify some words that show up in profitable searches - from appliances, to mesothelioma suits, to kayak lessons - churn out content cheaply and regularly, and you're done. On the web, no-one knows you're a content-grinder."He also adds that "Google has to know this. The problem is too big and obvious to miss."And indeed Google does know about this. Jeff Atwood at Coding Horror - one half of the creators ofStack Overflow(the other half being Joel Spolsky) and the other "Overflow" sites (which let people ask questions on a topic and the better ones get voted up - like a, ahem, better version of Quora) - hadalready noticedhow sites which scrape Stack Overflow and its siblings actually rank better on Google than the original.Now, Stack Overflow allows scraping, as long as there's a link back to the original (which cannot be anofollow); yet even with this, it ranked below the scraping sites.Atwood consulted Matt Cutts, Google anti-spam king:"We did a ton of due diligence onwebmasters.stackexchange.comto ensure we weren't doing anything overtly stupid, and uber-menschMatt Cuttswent out of his way to investigate the hand-vetted search examples contributed in response to my tweet asking for search terms where the scrapers dominated. Issues were found on both sides, andchanges were made. Success!"Except it isn't really success. It's a temporary respite. As Atwood points out moments later, "Anecdotally, my personal search results have also been noticeably worse lately. As part of Christmas shopping for my wife, I searched for 'iPhone 4 case' in Google. I had to give up completely on the first two pages of search results as utterly useless, and searched Amazon instead."And it's not just purchasing non-essential items either. It's academic research too: in aguest post on Techcrunch, Vivek Wadhwa of the University of California at Berkeley assigned students to do venture capital research:"I instructed my students to use Google searches to research each founder's work history, by year, and to track him or her down in that way."But it turns out that you can't easily do such searches in Google any more. Google has become a jungle: a tropical paradise for spammers and marketers. Almost every search takes you to websites that want you to click on links that make them money, or to sponsored sites that make Google money. There's no way to do a meaningful chronological search."They ended up usingBlekko, which is interesting because (1) it has a new approach altogether (well, new-ish) and (2) it's pretty hot in picking upwhat it thinks is spam.Even the Shoeblogger was pained enough to break from channelling Manolo Blahnik tocomplain about scrapers ranking higher- sometimes consigning the original to the second page.At which point you might point to Wikipedia, whose content is regularly scraped (allowed under its licence) by other sites, yet which (almost?) always outranks them. The answer seems to be, from various forums, that Wikipedia has got a special pass in Google's algorithms - as in, the engineers long ago made it a special case and downgraded sites that seem to just reuse its content.(Matt Cutts hasn't been available via Twitter or other methods to comment on this or related matters, though several people have prodded him about it there; he seems to be taking some time away from it.)The reason why this has happened is obvious: Google is the 900-pound gorilla of search, with around 90% of the market (excluding China and Russia), and there's an entire industry which has grown up specifically around tickling the gorilla to make it happy and enrich the ticklers. I've not come across anyone who describes their job as "Bing results optimisation", nor who puts that at the top of their business CV. Well, I'm sure there are people inside Microsoft whose job title is exactly that. But not outside it.There are two lines of thought on what happens next.1) Google comes back from the Christmas break newly determined to fix those damned scraping sites that don't originate content, because it says in its ownwebmaster guidelinesthat "Google will take action against domains that try to rank more highly by just showing scraped or other auto-generated pages that don't add any value to users."The only value those scrapers add, in fact, is to Google, because they display tons of AdSense ads. (Well, you can make a fair bet that they aren't Bing's equivalent.)Wait - the scrapers that dominate the first search page, the place from which 89% of clicks come (foronly 11% of clicks come from the last 990 results out of the first thousand, or at least did in 2006, a number that has probably only shifted down since then) all benefit Google financially, even while it sees market share improvements? That's not quite the disincentive one might have hoped for that would make Google act.2) People start not using Google, because its search is damn well broken and becoming more broken for stuff you care about by the day. This could happen. The question is whether it would be visible enough - that is, whether enough people would do it - that it would show up on Google's radar and be made a priority.Over at Hacker News, thesuggestions in the commentsecho the idea that Google's search really isn't cutting the mustard any more ("vertical search" is the new watchword). Which means that really, Google does need to implement method (1) above. It might not notice if a few geeks abandon it - but once the idea really gets hold (as it will through the links they offer and comments they drop) that Google's search is broken, then the rout begins.I haven't been able to get a comment from Google on this, though I'm sure it would run something along the lines of "Google makes every effort to make its search results the best and takes seriously the issues raised here."Update:Google responded to this article: "Google works hard to preserve the quality of our index and we're continuing to make improvements to this. Sites that abuse our quality guidelines or prove to be spam are removed from our index as fast as possible". (For clarification, I didn't initially contact Google as it was a public holiday when I wrote the original article. Matt Cutts did not respond to Twitter contact as he is on holiday, Google says.)It would be crazy not to. The question is whether it really can make a difference.Bonus link from November, with Technology Review looking at the launch of Blekko: the (slightly judgemental?)Why Google is Choked With Spam.What about your experience: does Google still work as well as it did for you? And if not, what are you using instead?
Facebook has received a new round of investment that values the social media firm at $50bn (£32.3bn), making it worth more than Time Warner, eBay or Yahoo.The funds from investment bank Goldman Sachs and its long-time Russian investor Digital Sky Technologies underlines the astonishing growth of the social networking site, started from a Harvard dorm in 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg.Although it is yet to disclose a profit, the site's popularity has investors lining up for a piece of the action. Goldman Sachs is believed to be setting up a "special purpose network" to allow its rich clients to invest in the firm, whose shares – which can be traded on private stock exchanges – have seen increasingly  frenzied trading in recent months.Last year Facebook beat Google to become the world's most visited website, according to internet analyst Experian Hitwise. It accounted for 8.93% of all US visits between January and November 2010 and now has more than 500 million active users. Half of Facebook's users come to the site at least once a day.Zuckerberg, who last year became Time magazine's man of the year and saw the release of a hit Hollywood film about his life, The Social Network, stands to become one of the richest people on the planet on the new valuation of the company. He owns around 25% of Facebook, and it is thought that a sale at the new price would double his estimated $6.9bn fortune.Zuckerberg has brushed off rumours he is preparing to sell shares in the firm through a stock market flotation, telling a conference last year "don't hold your breath", when asked about it. But the new investment will fuel those rumours once more.Under US law private companies with more than 500 shareholders have to disclose their financial results. The rule in part triggered Google's decision to go public after similar interest from investors. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the US's top financial watchdog, is already investigating the trading in shares of Facebook and other hot social media firms including Twitter and Zynga, maker of the popular Farmville game.Facebook does not disclose its financial performance, though analysts estimate the company is profitable and had sales of $2bn last year, double those of 2009.Colin Gillis, technology analysts at BGC Financial in New York said: "Fifty billion is a big number but right now there is only one Facebook. People pour their private information into Facebook for free, it's an incredible platform for advertisers, and for games, and just look at that traffic."We haven't seen anything like this for a very, very long time."
