The PC World story that started on Monday (PC World editor quits over censorship of an Apple story, below), has taken another turn, according to theWired News blog: IDG has removed Colin Crawford (former CEO of MacWorld) as PC World's CEO and reinstated Harry McCracken as Editor in Chief.Wired News says: "It's good to see the IDG bosses standing behind principled editorial, even if it is a fluffy piece of Digg bait. It's even better to see a stand-up guy like McCracken keeping his job, while the shill takes a hike."In this case, 'taking a hike' means "rejoining the IDG management team as executive vice president, online."Update: PC World now reports thatEditor in Chief Harry McCracken Returns to PCW. It says: "The resignation sparked an outpouring of coverage [...] and reader protest, including subscription cancellations."
Last month, I visited Ubisoft Montreal and interviewed Assassin's Creed Creative Director Patrice Desilets and Producer, Jade Raymond for the Official PlayStation Magazine. My feature appears in this month's issue (the one with GTA IV on the cover), but there was lots of interview I couldn't use in the piece. So here it is.Ubisoft's visually awesome action adventure, set during the violent maelstrom of the Third Crusade, is an enormously ambitious project. The player takes an ambiguous role in the proceedings, an operative of the original assassin sect, your job is to kill nine men with controlling interests in the conflict - but are they part of a larger conspiracy? Think Leon meets the Da Vinci Code in downtown Damascus.It's an interesting concept, made more intriguing by regular hints that this might all be a virtual reality simulation, or a 'genetic memory'. Or something.Anyway, here are Patrice and Jade, discussing the ideas and inspirations behind the game...Patrice Desilets, Creative DirectorThe setting for Assassin's Creed is extremely morally ambiguous, there are no obvious heroes in the Crusades. What was it like to create a game in such an environment?Right from the beginning we wanted to have a setting where there's a culture clash, where there's no real bad guys, no good guys and where you as a player and character are in the middle of it and have to make choices and learn about the people with whom you interact. It's more than a challenge, it's a fun place to dig for ideas. Yes, there was a lot of ambiguity but that's what permits us to construct our own history - there's a lot of cliché about that period but when you try to understand what went on you realise it's just two cultures clashing - just human beings trying to live - and the assassins were right in the middle of that, fighting for their own reasons. We thought this was a really interesting environment to play with.How do you present all this in the game without taking sides?Well you start by choosing a third party - this is what the assassins are, they're the third faction in that war. Then you try to tell the story from behind the curtains, from backstage, then you can create your own history.How much does the game intersect with real history?We tried to make the world as medieval as possible, capturing the way the cities worked at the time, the way people looked... Then, when we tried to use some historical elements, it's really hard to do it well, because history is something closed, finished, done. When you put a character in who can transform it, it makes it really difficult. There are some historical moments - there's a big battle called the battle of Arsuf - and you play an important role in that battle, but you don't get the real full-scale battle where there were more than 200,000 people fighting each other - it would be pretty difficult for any company in the world to simulate that!Also, you see Richard the Lionheart - he's in two missions. Of course, no one knows what went on really. What we have from these times are people writing about it, there's no footage, no pictures... It's poets inventing a lot of detail, so we just took the different works and put it all together to create a believable Third Crusade.Tell us a bit more about the environment... it's based in three cities isn't it?So we have the summer of 1191 and the city of Acre has been taken by the crusaders... Damascus was never taken so that's the Arabian city - when you think about Arabian Nights, you're thinking about Damascus at this time; Jerusalem is the mix of all religions - you can feel that vibe in the city. And we tried to create a kingdom where lots of troops are moving around, where you fight on horseback a lot... The assassins were there in the middle. And you discover there was something else going on during the Third Crusade and... I'll stop there, you have to play it.Are you at all concerned that gamers will have trouble relating to, or getting to grips with, this era?I don't think so, well, maybe in North America because they're not really used to historical settings, but in Europe it'll be easier to understand - although actually we're still modern people - even for us, it's difficult to put ourselves into that medieval world... also because it's a game, it's pretty difficult to make a real city just like it was... You have to remember I come from Prince of Persia. The prince sounds cool but per se a prince doesn't do anything - he waits to become a king. But with an assassin, you see action, you see blades you see a shadowy figure. From the beginning they asked me to redefine the action genre, and I said, "yeah okay, but if we go into a fantasy environment, there's nothing to redefine there..." The really mature setting for me would be something closer to us. I want to make people think about what went on in those years.The historical environments and the way crowds engage with those environments seem to have been the starting point of the whole game...Yes, I just wanted to get people in those beautiful environments. When we started in 2004, we didn't have an Xbox 360, we had nothing - we just thought "oh well, it's got to be beautiful looking". Then we tried to incorporate gameplay. But I didn't want just beautiful maps with nothing in it that moves. So crowds were my focus. Also, I didn't want a character with a pre-defined path - like in Sands of Time. You can't get better in that game, you just have to find what we wanted you to do. Basically once you found that, you're as good as me. This time round I wanted to give players the freedom to have as much fun with an action adventure character as you can have in a sports sim where no two games are the same. So a lot of people and the ability to play with your character everywhere - those were the two main ideas.Has the PS3 opened up any new avenues for you?Technology is the tool, that's it. It's a struggle on any platform - there's no magic button you press to make a game. For me technology is not really a factor, it never was.It seems Assassin's Creed has been conceived from the start as a trilogy. Do you think this is the way game design is going - toward a more structured episodic approach, rather than bunging out a sequel or two if the sales are good enough? It's quite simple, frankly. We wanted to create a new IP and instead of just - like you say - trying it out and seeing if it works, we wanted to think ahead a little bit. That's what a franchise is all about. If you take a TV series like Lost of Battlestar Gallactica, even though they only shoot the first series then cross their fingers, for sure, they know a little bit about where they're going. This is basically the same thing.Assassin's Creed seems to have something to say about games and maybe even about war. Is this intentional?It's really important at Ubisoft and all the Creative Directors are taught it - you must have something to tell. What's your point? It's true in all our games - what's your point? If you don't have your theme you don't start.In the industry - we know the mechanics of making a good game - it's got to be fun, you get points, the character evolves... then there's the technology. Yes, that's fine, but what are you telling us? That's the main difference in entertainment between something that works and something that doesn't. Right now, the TV series Lost is losing viewers because they're like "what are you telling us?! What the f**k?!", but with, say, Battlestar Gallactica you feel there'ssomethingthey're trying to tell us...Having mentioned Lost and BG, it seems TV is where game developers are looking for inspiration whereas in the past it's always been movies...I think it's because of the length. Take 24 - it's 24 hours, just like a game, so the scope is the same, how the characters evolve... we're part of the entertainment industry and I guess TV shows are the best things right now. With movies, I don't feel I get enough - after two hours, okay that's it? Right now I'm watching Battlestar and it never stops - I have three seasons left to watch!I guess also that TV and movies are watching us a lot.What do you think Assassin's Creed says about modern game design?That there's so much more out there for us to try. We're stuck in an old-fashioned idea of designing games and a little bit afraid of trying new stuff. I remember Will Wright once said that the most difficult people to sell ideas to are the team members - I agree. Anyway, to try new ways of interacting, that's my personal goal - it's the interaction with the world that's the most important part of the game, it's not really the story. I'm 32 years old now and since the beginning of my life as a gamer all I've been doing is destroy stuff. That's the main interaction there is in gaming - and as I've said before that's because it's the easiest way of interacting with the world. We cannot forget that it's all about ones and zeroes. It's there, it's not there - that's the easiest way of interacting with a machine. There's other ways but it takes a lot of people, animation, sound, to make it really good. You can have an idea, but to make it work, to interact in new and different ways with the game world, that's my struggle... not struggle... actually, yes, I'll say struggle.Assassin's Creed looks to be an incredibly open-ended game. How do you control the player in an environment likes this, how do you ensure they uncover the story?Well, you can't control them - you can invite them to follow you. Sometimes you just play about with the curiosity of the player, sometimes you build bottlenecks, as simple as that - "no, you have to gothere..."It's the hardest part, as a game designer, where you have to let the player decide, because we're used to saying, well this is the rhythm of the map, you should go there and do this... Now I have to say, "yes, you can do that, that's alright". I was watching someone play one of our missions yesterday and he didn't play like I do, I was trying to tell him, "no, go here, it's more fun", and he said, "no, this is how I play". That's okay. It's not a problem as long as I give him a lot of tools and a lot of feedback about what he can do.In each city there's a place called the assassin's bureau and that's where you get your information. If you don't go there - and you don't have to - nothing else will happen. This is your base - it's not like in GTA where you just go there to save the game - this is where you get all your mission briefings. There's also the assassin's stronghold where you can pick up info on what to do next. The objectives are where we tell the story - the objectivesarethe story.Many developers have promised open-ended gameplay in the past and then seemingly pulled back from their original ambitions. This doesn't seem to be the case with Assassin's Creed...As I said, Altair is a sports character. I'm giving you a field, the field is interactive, there's a lot of people in it, you've got a character with a lot of skills... have fun.Jade Raymond, ProducerHow does Assassin's Creed take open-ended gameplay beyond what we've seen in games like GTA?I think the big difference is how integrated and how deep the story is. Usually with sand box games you have the big environment and lots of little side missions that kind of tie the story together but aren't really that important. What we wanted to do is take action adventure games into an open environment, and so the story is really, really tightly tied together - you couldn't removeoneof the guys you have to assassinate and still make sense of the whole thing, because it all ties together into one conspiracy. So everything you uncover and each experience you go through is key to putting all the pieces together and understanding what's really going on.Have PS3 and Xbox 360 allowed you to use open environments in ways you simply couldn't have done before?Yes. We're not only building Assassin's Creed, we're actually building brand new technology for all of Ubisoft's studios so we created the new engine from scratch. Our goal was to create a game that was never possible before. And one of the things that came out was crowds, so we just really pushed that idea. There's crowds in other games, but we asked, "what can you do that's really interesting with crowds - how can crowds become more than just a simulation and actually create gameplay?" So, yes, we're basically max-ing out the next-gen systems (laughs).It must be a design nightmare to create an open environment but at the same time ensure the player can't 'break' the game by meeting the wrong characters at the wrong times or simply missing plot events altogether...It's a lot of work. And there's always the question you have to ask yourself, which is "how much effort am I going to out into making the experience work for a gamer who just doesn't want to play the game?". Obviously you want to make sure that it's not super-easy to break the realistic living breathing world that we've created, but we also don't want to spend our whole development time thinking about all the cases for a user who's ultimately just trying to break it. And maybe that's the fun for them - when they do manage to break it. Development is about keeping that balance.So really, as technology becomes more advanced, it may be solving some problems, but it's also opening up new more complex issues...Yes, and another thing we're trying to build is some emergent gameplay, because we think the interest is going to come out of the diversity in the way you can play with these systems and get a different reaction depending on the strategy you take and the way you play. And because of that we're encountering some of the interesting things you see in AI research, which will create surprise for the player - and that's cool because you're not going to have the same experience twice while going through a mission.The other thing we're continuing to work on is how we space out the introduction of the different abilities and the different stuff you can do - and that's a lot of tuning and play-testing, ensuring that you introduce players a bit at a time, and the missions at the beginning focus on the first things you have.One of the abilities the player has is the intuition mode, which uses a graphical effect to highlight your assassination targets. In a way, is this an admission that graphics aren't quite photorealistic enough to allow you to pick out faces in a crowd as you would in real-life?It's not really that. It's just that there's always so much going on. Even in real-life if you're at the top of a building it's pretty much impossible to pick-out a target on the street. And also there's a whole layer of the story that we're not talking about that enables us to use some of the usual game conventions to give the player feedback that integrate into the story well.It's interesting how you've used teaser trailers - were you worried people wouldn't get it?We always knew what we wanted to do and there's been a pushback - mostly from marketing - about not discussing certain things. The result may look really well planned, but in the background there was us saying "we've got to do this, we've got to tell people about that..." and getting pushbacks. Even the little bits we've shown we've had to push for...
We receive far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have space to print in our letters and blogs space. So here's the full text of those from which we chose. Click through for the lot.END OF DRM?I was reading with interest your article on Apple and DRM. I think the issue with Apple DRM is the fact that it isn't possible to play the music on non iPod devices or indeed music software that isn't iTunes. This effectively locks you into their service, as users of Vista found when Apple initially refused to support Vista, meaning the iTunes music could not be played. I will only buy music now on eMusic. The record companies are ignoring their customers wishes and pretend that the Internet doesn't exist. Mad! Matthew Timms, BeaconsfieldApple couldn't drop DRM from indie's tracks previously because the minute they did the big labels would have pulled out, leaving them with no real business. EMI is a different story - they are big enough to push a trend in a certain direction, not to just have the big boys pick up their ball and take it home. As a digital music consumer, there is nothing good for me about DRM, so this is a great step in the right direction. So why not write about the positive benefits going forward from this, instead of carping on about whether or not they could or should have done it sooner. You can't turn back the clock, so what difference does it make? Articles spelling out the huge disadvantages of DRM for consumers would be much more worthwhile - get some sort of public debate going. People mostly just don't realise how stupid and restrictive DRM is until it's too late. [name withheld], Armidale, NSW AustraliaWendy M Grossman asks why Apple wouldn't sell music produced by independent artists without digital rights management despite years of requests. The reasons for this are rather less sinister than is implied; it is a simple case of clarity for consumers. One of the main reasons iTunes has been so successful is the simplicity with which it can be understood by consumers. From the interface through to the clarity of pricing, it's always been obvious to the customer what they're getting. Offering different versions of essentially the same songs fragments this clarity and introduces potential confusion in the mind of the consumer over what they're paying for. The only reason Apple were able to do exactly this with EMI is with the help of a large-scale press event and the associated media interest. Individual indies won't get similar attention and so the existence of two different versions of songs on what may appear to the consumer to be a random or haphazard basis would only cause confusion. Assuming the DRM-free music from Apple and EMI is a success (which I suspect it will be), the other major labels will follow suit, but I can't envisage the DRM-free indie label music being sold through iTMS until they represent the final piece of the jigsaw. At this point there is no risk of consumer confusion as every song will be available in both DRM and high-quality DRM-free versions. Ben Darlow, Richmond-upon-ThamesI would have like you to also deconstruct Jobs' illogical position that we still need DRM for video (Like the 1s and 0s that make up video content are different). The easiest prediction I'll make is that Jobs will come out against video DRM, but it will be carefully timed to be in Apple's best interests to do so. If you are ever interested in seeing a video download service that is making money without DRM, check out EZTakes (www.eztakes.com). Jim Flynn, CEO, EZTakes, Northampton, Minnesota&gt;&gt; I do think it's strange that book publishers seem to be moving towards stricter DRM control just as the parallel music industry is moving beyond that debate. I'd be very interested to hear from people (within or without Macmillan) what they think.http://charkinblog.macmillan.com/PermaLink,guid,e241abe8-a54e-4aa0-9874-a24c0d013412.aspxUNEARTHING OREI agree 100% with your article [16 April]. I was arrested as part of Ore, and pleaded not guilty to 'making' 204 undated unnamed thumbnail sized images that the police found in the free space of one old drive. Nothing else was found. At my trial the police rubbished my defence that these images were the result of unwanted popups, I was found guilty, then sentenced to 4 months in jail. My own appeal is currently underway, but, as the CPS destroyed all the evidence used against me shortly after my conviction, I don't hold out much hope that it will be given leave to proceed. This operation has cost the UK dear. I know of many individuals who used to have good jobs, families, own homes, who now live alone and on benefits. The cost of destroying an individual goes far beyond the cost of the prosecution process. The same state which destroyed them then has to support them through the benefits system for the rest of their lives. [name and address supplied]Quote. Letters last week." Let's get some perspective on what we are dealing with here, a rising and extremely pernicious crime against children ". Sure the assault on and videoing of assault on children is appalling and the making of such stuff deserves strong punishment. Whether the sickos who stare at the results of such crime are equally guilty is debatable. But " If the police contact people whose credit cards details appeared on Landslide's list, then let them prove these details were stolen if that is indeed the case. " Note, it is not the actual card stolen but the numbers from it. How can you prove having a set of numbers copied? So the writer claims that accused of having numbers copied, the defendant has to prove innocence. If someone uses a getaway car in a robbery with false number plates then you are guilty if the number is yours unless you can prove otherwise? Chilling. Dave Nicholson, WindsorI was astonished at the sanctimonious and wrong-headed assertion that it is for the individual accused of that most heinous of crimes, paedophilia, to prove themselves innocent. The criminal justice system in this country is founded upon the presumption that one is innocent of any charge until proven guilty beyond reasonable doubt by a court. Paul Duggan, BristolThe insouciance of your correspondent was breathtaking, especially when read after the immediately preceding letter from the person who suffered immeasurably from the "inconvenience" of having his credit card being misused by another individual. (He states that he proved the fraud, but the consequences were still dire.) As a father of three daughters, and grandfather of 8 children, I share the sense of horror to which your correspondent alludes. But, really - "inconvenience"? "Let's get some perspective on what we're dealing with here." Sydney Gibson, Deal, KentI showed your piece on operation Ore to several people who would ordinarily never look at the section. All asked why this shocking article was not on the front page. The letter from your correspondent (name withheld) last week clearly illustrates how operation Ore pushes innocent victims into a ducking stool system, in which the accused is punished irrespective of their guilt or innocence. This is not just, it is an outrage. Punishment for a 'paedo' crime is not simply a prison sentence; it is personal and social annihilation. The figures for suicide rates amongst the accused testify to this. The accused will be punished with loss of income, loss of wealth, loss of relationships, loss of children, social exclusion and an ever present threat of abuse and assault from vigilantes. Families of the accused are open to accusation and abuse by social services whose no smoke without fire approach to child protection leaves them open to accusation of collusion by proxy with vigilante punishment. In the same column Dr Dearey appears to think that it is reasonable to ask for proof of a fraudulent credit card transaction or else suffer accusation and consequent punishment, despite the fact that this would be asking the impossible as it would require proving a negative. A combination of hysteria over a particularly nasty IT crime and a lack of IT competence within the police force have led to unacceptable levels of human suffering by innocent victims of this country's justice system. As a newspaper it is your duty to reveal this to a wider audience and in doing so perhaps do something to redress the punishment of innocent victims. Dr Kevin McManus, University of Greenwich, LondonThe reality or not of whether Operation Ore suffered mismanagement is in my humble opinion quite definitely not the issue here. Just like any large scale operation; especially the like of Operation Ore which evolved rapidly into a scale the like of which had not been previously experienced, there are bound to be mistakes. Once central issue which was conveniently omitted is that of those persons both visited and arrested by the police who had (or claimed) their credit card details stolen or generated without their knowledge, a surprising number were found to be in possession of child pornography on their computers! Isn't that strange? (not) Surely, it doesn't matter that the details which lead the Police to a criminals door might be inaccurate (as long as the Police are ignorant of this fact). What matters is the smoking gun held in the hand of the criminal opening the door to them - in this case images of children being abused that have been downloaded onto their computer. Miscarriages of justice are always abhorrent, and I have yet to meet a single police officer who wants to put the wrong person behind bars. Whilst we need to strive to improve handling in complex and resource draining operations such as Ore, lets also spare a thought for those who strive all day (and often night) to try and reduce by even one, those children whose lives are ruined by scum who prey on them or those who fund such scum through purchase and/or sharing of their pictures. Remember that inadvertent mishandling may also result in the guilty going free. Again, I am certain that the Police and the CPS do not want this to happen. Neither, do the general public whom they serve and whilst we have a justice system that must protect the innocent unless they are proven guilty we may have a hard time explaining such a concept to the innocent children who suffer at the hands of paedophiles and their supporters. [name and address withheld]&gt;&gt; Quite often in these cases the police and sections of the popular press combine to stir up the fears and prejudices of the public. The stereotyping itself is enough to do the damage. And even newspapers like The Guardian only occasionally take up the cudgels on behalf the adults who suffer. Nobody likes to seen as being soft on potential child abusers. And most people don't want to read about child abuse at the breakfast table. So all credit to Duncan Campbell for doing this investigative work and to The Guardian for printing it. His article also highlighted the rise in credit card fraud. I can add a postscript to this courtesy of the Ham and High, which yesterday reported that my nearest petrol station, the BP garage on Haverstock Hill, has become a target for credit card thieves. One reader had £1,700 lifted from his bank account after a visit there. Next time I go, I shall pay cash. But it could happen anywhere. So here is a timely reminder for anyone who banks online. Remember to check your account every day in case your savings are being plundered by the ungodly.http://www.xcitybob.com/?p=353&gt;&gt; it's also worth side noting... that none of the alleged crimes prosecuted in the UK under Operation Ore involved the abuse of a child, and indeed that there is no evidence whatsoever that child sexual abuse is on the rise.http://www.pigdogfucker.com/2007/04/26/the-worst-scandal-of-the-millennium-so-far-ignored/SICK OF WIFIEMR is one of several possible causes of CCD. It is possible it is a contributing factor in what may be multiple stressors on bee colonies. To quote Jurgen Tautz' statement that "I'm sure mobile phone signals would have no effect on a healthy, unstressed bee population", is pointless. The statement is unsubstantiated. The bee situation is serious. And don't think its only bees that are affected. Bees are one type of insect that pollinate plants and we are aware of their demise simply because we farm them. We do need urgent answers and remedial action. This year 80% loss. Next year 80% loss of the 20% remaining. Not long before no bees. Also some of the people you ridicule in your 'article' have used mobiles for years, or invested in new DECT phones and /or Wi-Fi systems are dismayed to find that this technology makes them ill. It is not remotely intelligent and it is certainly inappropriate and unacceptable for journalists, government ministers or industry spokespersons to rubbish the experience of intelligent people who find that modern technology is making them ill. Sarcasm is the lowest form of wit. I challenge your journalists to actually do some research and write something worth reading. I'm sure I could do much better, if my computer didn't make me feel ill, I would ask for a job. Marion Wallis (no post town given)Charles Arthur should know better that to deny the dangers of mobile phones and WiFi radiation. I personally sent him a copy of Dr George Carlo's book "Cell Phone: invisible Hazards in the Wireless Age", which details the scientific studies he oversaw when he ran the US mobile phone industry's health research program in the 1990s. Research that demonstrated an undeniable link between mobile phone radiation and cancer but which was covered up by the industry. Mr Arthur should therefore know that there are plenty of well conducted, peer reviewed studies that leave no doubt that mobile phone and Wi-Fi radiation affect biological systems in ways that can lead to cancer through mechanisms independent of heating. It would seem also that neither Mr Arthur or Mr Beven [sic] attended Dr Carlo's presentation in the Attlee room in Westminster a couple of months ago when Dr Carlo described the scientific mechanism by which cells are damaged by exposure to this radiation. His understanding of the subject put our own government scientists to shame. He was able to point to research that our own government was not yet even aware of. A DVD of the presentation is available and I would suggest that Mr Beven and Mr Arthur have a look at it themselves before submitting any more or this unresearched and misunderstood drivel. I am particularly disappointed with the Guardian for publishing it. I would expect the Telegraph to print a story suggesting the Wi-Fi industry is above reproach and should be allowed get on and sell it's profit making technology. I would like to expect a bit more depth from the guardian like why they tried to cover up Dr Carlo's research. Simon Densley, London[The other writer was Ms Kate Bevan - Tech.Ed]GAMESBLOGGINGDecent of Aleks Krotoski to point out the dim life of confusion and under-achievement to which we determined non-gamers condemn ourselves. I suppose I'm just so old and out of touch that I'll never understand how the real world of infinite light, sound and colour, where everything has its own size, shape, weight, volume and heft, and where obstacles, opportunities, success and failure don't come pre-programmed, pales into tedium compared to the riches on offer if I could be arsed to spend my days punching keys and jiggling a little plastic joystick. But Aleks might care to ponder the fact that it is increasingly acknowledged that the misapplication of games theory to economics (ie "real life") over the last 30 years, from Thatcher and Reagan onwards, has contributed to most of the bad stuff that has happened in the world, and that therefore, although she is employed by The Guardian, in advocating the wider adoption of the gamer mindset she is actually working for the darkest force of reaction. Root Cartwright, RadlettI find Aleks claims that "I find playing [...] titles featuring epic clashes between orcs and goblins a waste of time [...] Trying to get me to play WoW is like trying to convince a stone to flip over, develop a mouth and ask for a bottle of fizzy water" very curious. I find it even more interesting considering that in a previous article (19.10.06), called "What a WoW of a way to get to know someone" she wrote of meeting a woman who's research she had read and with whom she shared interests and they would be meeting up again in... you guessed it, World of Warcraft. A the end of that article she specifically wrote "And if wearing a gnome outfit means I can hang with some of the top-flight people in my field, pass me my Blade of Reckoning." This makes in sound although it may not be so hard to get her to play World of Warcraft after all. In fact it could almost make it sound like those rocks are flipping over and demanding water already ;) Mandy Clarkson, BrightonSTANDBY CONTINUEDRon West has looked at the consequences of different approaches energy saving without looking at the costs. If you do the maths as you suggest, I think you might find that reducing standby power produces a small energy saving for a relatively small cost. John Ackers, London
Yep, I've secured another exclusive interview with Id founder John Carmack. Last year, Ispoke to himabout the development of excellent mobile title, DoomRPG. Since then he has worked withFountainhead Entertainmenton the award-winning old skool RPG, Orcs and Elves, and is now coding several projects, including a DS port of Orcs. He talks about all of them here.Importantly, Carmack's games have formed the centrepiece of EA's resolute assault on the mobile sector. The company's conversion of Tetris was the best-selling mobile title of 2006, while recently released console conversion, Fight Night Round 3, is already attracting plaudits.So, here's what John said...DoomRPG was one of the most well-received mobile titles of last year. Were you expecting that, and what do you think most contributed toward the critical success?I was fairly confident that DoomRPG would be well received, but we really didn't have a good idea if the market of mid- to high-end phones would be large enough to justify this type of game development. When I first talked publicly about mobile development, I remember reading some comments on message boards from existing cell phone developers about how the low-end market was too important to ignore. Fortunately, it looks like our decisions panned out.The most important thing we did was embrace the device form factor, and build a gameplay style that dodges the weaknesses completely, rather than trying to fight against them. I cringe when I see developers trying to hammer first-person shooters or side scrolling games onto mobile platforms, where the control schemes just don't work. The one-thumb playability of DoomRPG and Orcs &amp; Elves doesn't make you feel pissed off at your phone. Qualcomm has some exciting prototype phones with really great controls that would open up new worlds for mobile gaming, but I have doubts about their ability to gain enough market penetration to matter. For the time being, good mobile games are probably going to remain of a visibly different design than any other platform.In what ways do you feel Orcs &amp; Elves builds on the DoomRPG blueprint?The raw technology is nearly the same, but the design, polish and finesse that went into O&amp;E is much, much greater. With DoomRPG completed, Anna took stock of what worked well and what didn't, and with that experience, shaped the new design with a brand new Universe in mind. DoomRPG rode largely on things that I brought to the table: technical flash, novel game play, an established name, and an established fan base. Orcs &amp; Elves differentiates itself with the strong design and meticulous attention to detail that Anna [Kang, CEO and founder of Fountainhead] brings. Orcs had to prove itself and stand on its own by being a much better game.The game seems self-consciously 'retro' - everything from the simple title to the controls feels like formative RPG titles such as Dungeon Master. Was this a conscious design decision?The Bard's Tale, one of my personal early favourites, was the type of game that I had in mind when I was describing the feel of DoomRPG and later O&amp;E to Anna. She had no idea what I was talking about :-) What she was able to do is take what she liked about playing D&amp;D and put that experience onto the cellphone. The core of good games seem to be universal since she was able to reproduce that element of classic RPG design without ever having played one.The story of the title is amusing - we were discussing where we wanted to go with the mobile games at Id, and I said something like "Well, obviously someone should take DoomRPG and do a sort of 'orcs and elves' fantasy game with it." Todd Hollenshead said, "you know, that's not a bad name for a game." I was just reaching for a vague classification for a broad genre, but if you aren't a jaded old hand disdainful of the cliché, I think it works out just fine. The line between "classic" and "cliché" will vary from person to person, but I find it to be good, wholesome fun to go whack orcs with a flaming sword.Mobile game publishers are keen to get us all playing 3D titles. Do you think true 3D is really important on this platform?We have been in discussions with the various vendors about doing a specialty product to showcase mobile 3D acceleration, but nothing has come of it yet. I am quite confident that we could do something wonderful if we designed it from scratch, but it isn't clear that the market can support a good development effort.What are your ambitions for Id's mobile work? Are you planning to extend the Orc and Elves series or do you have other cellphone projects in mind?It is a bit ironic in a way - when I first decided to look at mobile gaming, I came up with a half dozen different ideas that I thought would play well on the platform. However, it seems that we hit a good direction the first time out, and we may almost be trapped in the style, almost like Id is "trapped" in the first person shooter genre. There are certainly worse fates. :-)Orcs &amp; Elves 2 is complete and it is really great, even better than the original. Lots of new play elements, great design, and a new skill level option that provides replayability. Anna has many more ideas for expanding the O&amp;E world, so there may be more yet to come but we also have several other game ideas that we'd like to try out.Have you thought about working on other handheld platforms like the DS and PSP?We are working on a DS version of Orcs &amp; Elves right now. I laid the groundwork for the 3D engine last month, and the Fountainhead team is hard at work. I had a great time doing the initial programming on it, since it has the same "small system" feel that you get with mobile development, but you have complete low level control of the system, instead of having to work through an API or Java.What about online multiplayer. Away from casual games, is anyone delivering a compelling multiplayer experience on mobile yet?The network latencies are such that twitch action online games aren't really viable, although close proximity Bluetooth gaming is. I think that EA is doing some good things with alternate game designs that are more latency tolerant, but I haven't seen a breakout app yet.Are you looking to try out online multiplayer with future mobile releases?From a purely technical standpoint I would enjoy seeing what can be done with it, and I have some ideas about virtual locality that I think could be promising. An online game is certainly a possibility for our next mobile game, but no decisions have been made yet.Are there any advances in mobile technology that have caught your eye this year? Anything you think will make the next Orcs &amp; Elves that much better - either to look at or play?The biggest thing we need is just a larger maximum memory size for the applications, and this is mostly in the hands of the service providers instead of the hardware vendors. The next issue is just better control of the hardware that is already there. For a device whose primary purpose is the input and output of audio, I find the state of game audio on cell phones pretty pathetic.After DoomRPG, can we expect to see any other famous Id series' making it onto mobile/handheld?We have talked about doing some Wolfenstein or Quake themed games, and that is a possibility for the next title, but again, no decisions have been made yet.Can you tell us what else you're working on at the moment? You always seem to have several projects on the go?There are a bunch of exciting things going on at Id, but almost all of them are still secret at the moment. Sorry.
Adrilinks tothis Reuters articlewhich has bad news for gamers hotly anticipating Will Wright's life simulation Spore. According to the news, EA reported a loss in the last quarter, resulting in a few unanticipated (and unwelcome) changes to its 2008 line-up:Redwood City, California-based Electronic Arts said it taken out "Spore," a game where players build organisms from scratch, from its financial projections for the fiscal year ending in March 2008, adding that the game could be delayed until fiscal 2009.Some gamesblog readers won't be bothered by this news (according tothe response from this article from March), but others' frustration may need an outlet. Feel free to emote below.
The kerfuffle betweenWikipedia and the science journalscould be laid to rest if a new project announced today comes together.The Encyclopedia of Life, which is being funded by $12.5m in charitable donations, is going to catalogue the world's animals and encourage "citizen-scientists" to report their sightings.Citizendium,formed by Wikipedia co-founder Larry Sanger, is one project hoping to bridge the gap between experts and ordinary people - but the Encyclopedia of Life is going even further.Here's what AP says:The effort, called the Encyclopedia of Life, will include species descriptions, pictures, maps, videos, sound, sightings by amateurs, and links to entire genomes and scientific journal papers.Its first pages of information will be shown Wednesday in Washington where the massive effort is being announced by some of the world's leading scientific institutions and universities. The project will take about 10 years to complete.It appears they will begin by scraping the web for information, then checking the material they gather for accuracy and copyright issues. Then that material will become the basis of the encyclopedia entry.Given that it's so early in development, the jury must still be out. On the one hand it sounds mightily ambitious; and on the other, one wonders whether a Wikipedia-style approach couldn't get it done far more quickly. But, if and when it comes to fruition, it should be a fantastic resource.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Almost as a caveat toTerra Novaalso brings word of an event designed to challenge game designers to think outside the proverbial console box. Ludium II is designed to extend the theory behind theGame Developers Conference's Game design challenge- where top flight commercial creators grapple with devising an interactive experience with topics as difficult as Emily Dickenson (and her poetry) and William Shakespeare's sonnets. This year's event at Indiana University in the US will demand that the participants conceive of games to do with public policy.From the blurb:The theme "Videogames and Public Policy" will be explored through a game that puts participants in a 19th century US political convention, complete with smoke-filled rooms and bombastic delegates. OK, due to health concerns we will not allow cigars, but bombasticism will be encouraged regardless of the risks. Gameplay: The delegates will form caucuses and compete to get planks on the party platform. They'll also elect a party nominee for President. Results: A platform recommending 10 (or so) Principles for Sensible Video Game Policy, and a single person, the nominee, who will become our de facto spokesperson for the ideas in the platform. From the Ludium's end until November 2008, we will point to the nominee whenever we are asked about games by the media, legislatures, courts, lobbying groups, or voters. Prizes go to participants who get the most ideas on the platform, and for being a candidate or the eventual nominee. Participation will be open. We have room for 400 people.Last year's event was met with great praise. If you have the funds (it ain't cheap), I highly recommend it. It's provisionally happening in mid-June.For us paupers, we can watch from afar onUpcoming.
German prosecutors have launched an investigation to find anonymous participants of the online computer game Second Life, who are reportedly buying sex with other players posing as children, as well as offering child pornography for sale.Second Life is an internet-based virtual world with at least 6 million players, where you can choose your appearance, age, gender and colour.Investigators in the city of Halle are acting on specific information about a German Second Life player, or avatar, who put child pornography images up for sale and paid for sex with underage players or players posing as minors."We are trying to find out the identity of this person," Peter Vogt, chief prosecutor from the central office against child pornography told German television. " What is being offered is nothing short of child pornography."Nick Schader, a reporter with the investigative television programme, Report Mainz and a member of Second Life, said he had been "shocked to see" the virtual child pornography meetings to which he was invited for 500 Linden dollars - around &pound;1.50. He said the same group of people subsequently put him in touch with traders in real child pornography.Robin Harper, the deputy president of the San Francisco firm Linden Lab which runs Second Life, said: "We will find out who is behind this, and then inform the police."Whilst in the US "virtual" child pornography is not a crime, in Germany it is punishable by up to five years in prison.Those under 18 are banned from the adult area of Second Life and adults are banned from the "Teen Area", but critics say in reality it is impossible to check the ages of participants. Some players dress up as child figures, but with no sexual motivation, purchasing "skins" to make them look like minors. But so-called "age play", in which players request sex with other players who dress up as child avatars, has encouraged a growth in players posing as children in order to make money. Sex with animals is also increasingly popular on the site.
I really likethis poston 2old2game.com, written by a mum who has played videogames with her son for several years. It's about how sharing the likes of Super Mario 64, Luigi's Mansion and Halo has brought the two closer together, and allowed the parent to understand the child."I shared in the excitement when after 20 grueling tries he would finally beat a level or boss and I would bask in the hugs, kisses and pride when I beat a level or boss he could not defeat. And yes I even spent late nights while he slept looking for hints and walk-throughs."It's a little bit schmaltzy, and I'm not sure many gamers would be happy inviting their mothers to games nights, but it says important things about understanding and engaging in game culture. If the alternative is slumping in front of the TV with your kids watching soap operas then gaming has to be the better choice.So, gaming parents out there - do you share games with your kids? If so, what titles, and how do you govern their gaming time? Do you swot up at Gamefaqs while they're asleep? Is that wrong?
Got an email today from Tom Woolley, Curator of New Media at the National Media Museum and also one of the organisers behind the brilliantBradford Animation Festival. The annual event features a dedicated videogame strand - regular readers might remember that I hosted this last year, which didn't seem to overly detract from its success.Well, they're busy getting ready for this year's iteration, and the videogame theme will be 'Immersive Worlds' - "exploring interactive narratives, sound design and the blurring of online and real worlds". Confirmed speakers includeMind Candy(a creator of alternative reality games), Rare, Sony and Second Life developer,Linden Lab. Oh and, unless my second child arrives late, I'll be there too.Mark November 14-17 in your diary now!
Richard Bartle, co-creator of the seminal virtual world Multi-User Dungeon paradigm, has proposed one of his regular challenges over on virtual worlds weblogTerra Nova. This month's question is how to create a virtual world that doesn't fall back on the old standards of dungeons and demons (please!) or the well-trod mechanics of role playing games:One of the things that bugs me about virtual worlds (game-like ones in particular) is how the paradigm doesn't really change much. We still get designers discussing what classes and races their world will have, without having considered whether they need classes or races at all.So here's a question: given the absolute minimum that you need to have a virtual world, how can you extend that in ways that don't take us back to Second Life or World of Warcraft?Some of the suggestions are so blue sky they practically lick the stratosphere. Others can't seem to break free from the historical chains. Is there a way to do somethingnewwith the online games sphere or are we stuck smacking down rats in underground sewers for all of virtual eternity?
Lost in Showbizis probably the latest blog in the growing Guardian stable. Hm, so what does this have to do with technology? Spot the use of Yahoo Pipes and a Google-powered gadget.....
Sorry to barge in on Games blog. I'm Kevin Anderson, the blogs editor here at the Guardian. I've popped in the comments from time to time, mostly just to explain why the blog was behaving badly.Over the last week or two, we've had a commenter who has been pasting large chunks of text, sometimes the same text repeated over and over and over. Many of you called for the commenter to be banned and thought we weren't listening.Aleks, Keith and Greg were definitely listening and let me know about the problem.We ban people as a last resort, and we try to give people a chance to change their behaviour and to readour talk policy. We're trying to become a bit more sophisticated in our approach rather than just automatically sending someone to 'the naughty step' as a colleague calls it.Some of these instances are classic trolling, and it's best not to feed them. But also, if someone is pasting War &amp; Peace into a comment, it's going slow things down for the rest of us. That's bad.We did notice in all of this that the complaints e-mail address on Games blog wasn't going anywhere all that helpful. We'll sort that out. However, in the meantime, rest assured that we did hear ya. I now return to you to your regularly scheduled Chatterbox.
German prosecutors have launched an investigation to track down anonymous participants of the virtual computer game Second Life who are reportedly buying sex with other players who pose as children, as well as offering child pornography for sale.Investigators in the city of Halle are acting on specific information about a German Second Life player, or avatar, who put child pornography images up for sale and paid for sex with underage players or players posing as minors."We are trying to find out the identity of this person," chief prosecutor Peter Vogt from the Central Office against Child Pornography told German television. "I am lost for words. What is being offered is nothing short of child pornography."Nick Schader, a reporter with the investigative television programme Report Mainz, and a member of Second Life, said he had been "shocked to see" the virtual child pornography meetings, to which he was invited for 500 Linden dollar - around &#163;1.50. He said the same group of people subsequently put him in touch with traders in real child pornography.Robin Harper, the deputy president of the San Francisco firm Linden Lab that runs Second Life, said: "We will find out who is behind this, and then inform the police." He said that Linden Lab also planned to introduce an age control system.While in the United States "virtual" child pornography is not a crime, in Germany it is punishable by three months to five years in prison.Under 18-year-olds are banned from taking part in Second Life, but critics say in reality it is impossible to check the ages of participants because of the virtual nature of the game.Some players choose to dress up as child figures, but with no sexual motivation, purchasing "skins" to make them look like minors, but that do not as a rule depict the private parts of the body. There are even adoption agencies that offer lonely "children" the chance to have a virtual family.But the established Second Life practice of so-called "Age Play", in which players request sex with other players who dress up as child avatars, has encouraged a growth in players posing as children in order to make money.It has already attracted much criticism both from inside and outside the imaginary world. Child protection agencies say it has encouraged people with paedophile tendencies to play out their darkest fantasies and could have a knock-on effect in the real world. Bestiality, or sex with animals, is becoming increasingly popular on the site, which now has over six million players and is growing by an average of 800,000 a month. Germans make up the largest single representation of any country, with 209,000 members.
I was just readingRead/Write Web's list of the the 15 nomineesin the StartUp 2.0 competition for European Web sites, which will be presented next Thursday at an event in Madrid.What I find amusing is that I've only actually used -- or even heard of -- one of them:SlideBurner.Can you do better?Am I out of touch, or does it just reflect the fact that the UK still operates online as, in effect, an off-shore US state?
Layoffspaceis a new social networking site for the US-based jobless. In an article inRed Herring, co-founder Jake Ludwinski says: "People who are unemployed are really down on themselves. They have all this time on their hands. What do they do with it? We need a place where we can get them together."Sounds like a great idea, but will it work? AtWebProNews, Doug Caverly says: "given the stigma often associated with being unemployed, users may be hard to attract. The current state of the site -- its forums are pretty much ghost town -- speaks to this problem." However, "lack of users might just be a symptom of its newness."
Tuesday's Chatterbox
The BBC Trust's decision topush on with a locked-down internet delivery systemthrough iPlayer is truly disappointing - not only for anyone who believes that digital rights management is a bad thing, but also for anybody who values the public service remit that makes the BBC unique.It is also a smack in the mouth for anybody who bothered to let the Trust know what they thought about its proposals - more than 10,000 individuals and organisations.There were several points of contention that I, and others, had with the original plans. Firstly the iPlayer system would be built around a DRM-laden Microsoft delivery mechanism, which (secondly) would be initially available on Windows only, with other platforms to follow.This worried me on a number of fronts. The tightening relationship between the corporation's technology divisions and Microsoft should concern everyone - not because Microsoft is big and evil, but because our public service broadcaster should be able to retain independence and freedom in its mission to deliver programming to the British people. It is already in hock to some corporate interests thanks to bad decisions from senior executives; it should refrain from becoming more so.I also objected to the idea that anybody who was not willing or able to use a Microsoft rights management system would be excluded from using iPlayer.However, the BBC Trust decided that despite the corporation's strength and leadership position, it was not in a position to innovate the business of internet delivery:Some people argue that it is possible simultaneously to provide content under an open licence while realising that content's commercial value, but we regard the business models for this approach to be unclear at present.This was backed up by the fact that "no industry stakeholders raised this [DRM] as an issue". Like a myopic king who lines his court with sycophants and self-interested parties, the Trust's advisers failed to raise even a whisper about digital rights: and the Trust, therefore, assumes that meant digital rights was a non-issue. Such short-sightedness is rarely rewarded.My argument was that the BBC owns the rights to a large amount of programming, and is in a position of significant advantage to negotiate rights with other producers. We, the public, have already paid for the programming and believe that the corporation's power and remit give it the chance to be a leader, not a follower, in this area. Instead it has decided that developing in these areas is not part of its job: instead, it is simply a rebroadcaster of material.(Let me point out here that I am not arguing for a "remix culture" which allows anyone to do whatever they like with BBC content. I simply believe that I should be able to store programming that comes to me through the internet just as I can store it straight from the TV. I'm asking for parity between the two.)It also decided, despite strong public response, that platform neutrality was not a great concern. Again, said the review, it "did not come through as a significant issue among industry stakeholders". Those industry stakeholders, eh?However, those members of the public who took the time to respond were fairly unanimous:"81 per cent (5,804) said this was very important and a further 5 per cent (355) said it was important. Such was the strength of feeling that respondents did not appreciate, or did not consider it relevant, that the Trust was proposing that the BBC achieves platform neutrality within a specified period. Any period of excluding other operating systems was apparently considered unacceptable by our public respondents."Here the patronising tone becomes almost too much to bear. Listen to the language - respondents "did not appreciate" or "consider it relevant" that the BBC wasn't saying it would only. They clearly don't understand what's going on here - after all, the proposal was to achieve neutrality within "a specified time period" wasn't it?Well, only a fool would suggest that all platforms could be developed at equal speed - and given the Microsoft bias in terms of file formats and players, it's obvious that a Windows-based solution is going to emerge more quickly (the two are inextricably linked). That doesn't stop those of us with concerns about the way these systems are built to realise that the promise of jam tomorrow doesn't always come true.Still, the BBC Trust might be right - at least we've got a "specified period", eh?Sorry, no.Read to the end of the document and you'll see that the recommendation is that platform neutrality is achieved within "a reasonable timeframe". That sounds remarkably unspecified to me.Euan Semple - formerly of the corporation - saysthe BBC could have been brave, and that shows neither "the insight or the courage" to apply pressure on the television and music industries.So what we have, as far as I can tell, is a BBC Trust which values private partnerships more than the public: one that ignores - and with a measure of disgust - the opinions of the public it is supposed to serve. Instead of being a watchdog for its values, the Trust is a rubber stamp for bad decisions which are made at management level.I think we, the millions of Britons who pay a licence fee, have all lost out in this decision. The iPlayer might be close to vaporware, but the corporation had a chance to prove that it is working in the public interest. Instead all of us - you, me and , in the long run, the BBC itself - are the losers.
So how disappointing is the Spider-Man 3 game then? Ok, it's not *that* bad - swinging through Manhattan still has its moments - but far too much of the game is tedious button bashing and the game just feels rushed. It's pretty ugly too and that's on the 360, I've not seen the Wii version yet. But the biggest issue, for me anyway, is that Crackdown has blown the sandbox genre wide open. Compared to the polish, fun and freedom of Crackdown, Spider-Man 3 feels decidedly flat. Not a problem for Crackdown-free PS2 owners obviously, but for 360 owners Spidey 3 is one for diehard fans only.
inPC Worldis about as pedestrian as you could imagine. It's even "balanced" by10 Things We Love About Apple, which takes mediocrity to even greater depths. Maybe they get better if you skim more than the first couple of entries, but that's part of your life you'll never get back. If you have one.It's embarrassing, and the editor is right to sound embarrassed:"both were meant as silly little conversation-starters,"he says. Given the fuss about the first of these pieces (PC World editor quits over censorship of an Apple story, below), it looks as though PC World needs better ideas, better writers, better editors, and a much better publisher.
I've written about this on theTechnology blog. I still prefer Gmail, but if you're a Hotmail user, I recommend taking the upgrade.
I've spent a decade trying to get people off Hotmail, with limited success, but it has now made a great leap forward with Windows Live Hotmail. This offers a drag-and-drop interface and supports right-clicking, provides 2GB of storage and, most importantly, it doesn't junk your email if you forget to log on for a month. It's already available in 36 languages.Actually there are two interfaces: a "classic Hotmail" with tabs, and the Live version, which is similar to Outlook, and obliges you to agree that you have a fast connection. During the beta, this was horribly slow, but the final version seems much snappier. It's certainly usable.Still on the way are the Microsoft Office Outlook Connector and WLMd, both now in beta. The Connector lets you run your Windows Live Hotmail account from inside Outlook, with contact and e-mail folder synchronization. (Support for iCal would be nice, too.) WLMd or Windows Live Mail Desktop replaces Outlook Express (and Vista's Windows Mail). Technically these add up to a next-generation Web/desktop application that puts Microsoft ahead of both Google and Yahoo, though the combination of Gmail and Thunderbird (etc) adds up to much the same thing.Windows Live Hotmail is still my third choice in major Web-based mail systems. Google's Gmail is still the best, I think, though Yahoo is pushing it close, and Live Hotmail is still a bit behind that. But it's not completely horrible, so Live Hotmail represents a major advance. It also has an advantage in covering so many languages.And for people who use Microsoft Live Messenger, or want to blog to their Space via email, the integration of Live applications will also have some appeal.Microsoft hasa press releasewith details.
A few years ago I commissioned a series of articles while working at Another Paper about people who had switched from Windows to OS X, and Windows to Linux. I tried for some weeks to find someone who'd willingly (as opposed to employer-mandated) gone in the other direction, but in the end failed.But here comes a tale of a developer who hasswitched from Mac OS X to Vista- on the same machine. (He's using a MacBook.. Pro, I think.) But now, after using OS X for nearly a year but suffering a bad disk crash, he switched to Vista (you can run it on a Mac using Boot Camp). He was pleasantly surprised:[the] main difference is that the interface is much much smoother and neater and despite popular belief performance is actually fantastic. I was used to waiting on Mac OS X while my standards apps would open up - Quicksilver, Firefox, Skype, etc. but Vista goes almost straight into the desktop and most apps boot very quickly.I didn't expect it to be like this, I didn't want Vista to be this good - I was expecting to boot back into OS X and living happily ever after, but damn, this is one fast, slick and nice operating system. If you are a Mac user try it yourself, install boot camp and Vista and it will feel like you just added another CPU and doubled your RAM - I can't see any evidence for any of the reports of Vista being slow or power-hungry.Not that he's any average Joe:As somebody who has published over a dozen security vulnerabilities for Windows I can see how the new security initiatives within Microsoft that started 4-5 years ago have really taken hold in every part of the operating system and applications - IE has gone from being a hacked up toy to a serious browser that keeps users safe from themselves.The comments are hardly models of, well, sense; one almost feels we shouldsend Tessa Jowell over. (I'm sure she could mediate between Windows and Mac fans.)My only question would be whether this perceived speed is that new operating system smell. Once the system starts getting a bit more digital cruft - you know, leftover temp files, ballooning index files, giant browser histories - will it still be as fast? Or will a switch back seem like a breath of fresh air?
Doberman, blood diamond, Vietnam war, bookshop. Alternatively, what about tango, zeus, Zara and the police? A world map of the mind can be sketched out by the words people search for on the internet, which are recorded by country by Google Zeitgeist (google.com/press/zeitgeist).If you thought the first four searches displayed a certain seriousness, and an interest in European dog breeds, you may have guessed they were among the 10 most requested in Denmark during March (the most recent month for which figures are available). The second set of terms gained most in popularity in Spain that month.Unsurprisingly, searches in Britain seem to be about entertain-ment (PSP games, Johnny Depp, Shrek 3 and Red Nose Day were all in the "top gaining" top 10). This pattern is repeated across the frivolous western world. Australia's fastest risers were crosswords and Ugg boots; in France it's Orange and Tokio Hotel, a German rock band; in the Netherlands it's Killers and Starbucks.In contrast, searches in developing nations are much more worthy and urgent: in Colombia popular searches include co-operatives and the Colombian livestock farmer association; in the Philippines it is hospitals and typhoons. Popular searches in Afghanistan include army knowledge online and ministry of higher education. Iraqis were looking at army correspondence course and kidnapping Iraq.Globalisation throws up some interesting incongruities. Iraqi searchers' sudden interest in Anna Nicole Smith (ninth most popular) is explained by her widely reported death, but why did Greece experience a spring surge in fascination for Catherine Zeta-Jones? And why was Celine Dion suddenly popular in Finland?Google is coy about the popularity of less family-friendly search terms. It has been reported that there are more Google searches for sex in Pakistan than anywhere else in the world but Google Zeitgeist has no such figure (in March, Pakistanis were looking at Lamborghini and, intriguingly, "male models"). Does Google not record pornographic searches? Are the most popular searches always rude ones? "That's absolutely not the case," says a Google spokesperson. "We think it's more interesting to look at what gained popularity in a period of time. [Searches] are not all dominated by adult keywords."
Taiwan's Asustek -- which makes some notebooks for Dell and 13.3 inch MacBooks for Apple -- plans to start manufacturing own-brand notebook PCs with prices starting at $249 or less. These could be a threat to sales of MIT's $140-$200 XO, designed under the One Laptop Per Child banner.Asustek is planning four designs based onIntel's Classmate PC prototype (see below), at prices from $249 to $549, according to company vice president Jerry Shen. He reckons sales could reach 10 million units next year.The story was reported in the Chinese-language Commercial Times, then picked up by the English-languageDigitimesandArs Technica. However, an earlier story,published by Digitimes on April 16, said there would be five Classmate-based notebooks with prices starting at $199.Ars Technica previously publishedA comparison of OLPC's XO laptop and Intel's Classmate PC. It says:Both the XO laptop and the Classmate PC provide unique advantages that are worthy of consideration. With a more powerful processor, more memory, and support for unmodified Windows and Linux software, the Classmate PC provides schools with more choices and greater flexibility. OLPC's XO laptop offers a better price, a more cohesive and well-integrated software platform, and special features like a built-in video camera, high-resolution dual-mode screen, longer battery life, and pull-string charging.Governments adopting the Classmate PC could go withEdubuntuor take the Microsoft deal that offers Windows and Office for $3, or both.At the moment, Windows has close to 100% of the third world market because of the ease with which cheap machines can be assembled locally, and the ready availability of pirate software, including games. Non-standard designs such asAMD's PIC(Personal Internet Communicator) have fared poorly.The OLPC even uses what is basically the same chip as the PIC: theCyrix Geode. Cyrix was bought by National Semiconductor, which sold it on to Via and AMD.
Down the ages, the Honda Civic has rarely looked like the wildest car that money could buy. There have been periods in its life, indeed, when it has enjoyed the reputation of a stout pair of shoes. You may remember the question posed by eco-sensitive Christians in America: "What would Jesus drive?" The most convincing answer was a Honda Civic.Recently, in common with most hatchbacks (which are obliged to wage an active, all-fronts war against exciting developments in the realms of the MPV and SUV), the Civic has gone in for fruitier shapes and more crowd-pleasing headlight clusters. In fact, it's barely recognisable as the trusty Japanese linen basket on wheels it once was. Even now, however, the Civic buyer isn't trying to persuade anyone that it's no more Mr Nice Guy.Meet the Civic Type-R, though. Unless the son of God was more interested in body-hugging Recaro sports seats than the Bible tells us, this heated-up, Tarmac-chewing variation on the Civic theme could not conceivably find itself parked under Christ's carport. Peace is not this car's middle name, and nor is "sensible", as may be directly apparent from the sheer quantity of supplementary lower-body panelling in which it swaggers around. (In an interesting departure from the way things tend to go in the human realm, the sexual daring of a car is measured by the degree to which its skirts reach its ankles.)Clinging gamely to the boot, the chunky rear spoiler casually slices in half the view in your mirror. Airflow, clearly, is everything; seeing who's coming up behind you is secondary, even if it's quite likely, in the circumstances, to be a policeman, because the Civic Type-R has six gears, but, essentially, one mode - namely, blue-arsed fly.This car has no discernible interest in going slowly, even as a hobby. If you can hold it under 35mph in second, you're doing well. Idling in traffic all but brings it out in a rash. At motorway cruising speeds, the rev counter sits around the 4,000 mark, as the engine squeezes itself mercilessly for performance, setting up a high, agitated hum and, needless to say, snorting petrol the while. Factor in the throbbing red, cinema-like carpeting and a fistful of red-lit dashboard dials, and you'll appreciate that this was not the world's most restful environment, nor was it intended to be. I had a powerful demonstration of this when trying to use a 70-mile night-time journey in the Type-R as a sedative for a three-year-old - a fail-safe method, I had found, in many other, non-R-type vehicles. An hour and a half later, the child in question was still bolt upright, suggesting topics for conversation and (metaphorically speaking) phoning out for pizza.Most cars can be made to lend themselves to at least a few of their driver's moods. This one can't imagine that you would ever be anything other than fizzing with adrenaline. Does that sound like you? Are you always looking to assert yourself, aggressively if necessary? Are you permanently on...#8209;task? Do you ever lunch anywhere other than at your desk? Are you, in fact, a contestant on The Apprentice? Then this is your car. Everybody else, beware: the Civic Type-R can wear a person out.
This time two years ago, industry pundits, financial analysts and practically anyone who had ever held a joystick could be relied upon to proclaim as an economic certainty that PC games were going the way of Betamax and Tom Cruise. Instead, they're currently enjoying a magical resurgence, largely thanks to massively multiplayer online phenomenon World Of Warcraft, in which 8.5 million players guide their characters into battle with mystical beasts and each other. While the world was watching Sony and Microsoft beat each other up and Nintendo unveil its own surprise innovations in their ongoing console war, the PC games market quietly registered its first annual growth in a while, attracting gamers shy of blowing &pound;425 on a PS3 or paying &pound;50 each for Xbox 360 games, as well as those whose need for accurately portrayed flight simulators borders on obsession.
MondayWho's like who? Game DesignGod of War 2 and the dead goatGoat-gate: Sony respondsGamers Against ViolenceTuesdayFrozen Indigo AngelGoing HomeWednesdayPSP gets Go!CamForza 2Parappa comes to PSPThursdayNgagedSamorost and Club Penguin get Web gongsTrip Hawkins and Mobile Game 2.0IBM's nano-chipFridayBank Holiday Gaming
It's a merger, or takeover, that has been considered numerous times over the past decade, and according to theNew York Post, it's being discussed again.The new approach follows an offer Microsoft made to acquire Yahoo! a few months ago, sources said. But Yahoo! spurned the advances of the Redmond, Wash.-based software giant. Wall Street sources put a roughly $50 billion price tag on Yahoo!.But it's hard to see the benefits in product terms: all you'd get is a load of pointless duplication.Whether it makes sense to run the two companies separately but combine the advertising platforms is another issue, and might provide enough mass to compete with Google's monopoly power. But that could be done without a takeover, and hardly sounds like it would be worth $50 billion.Update: But there is no deal, says The Wall Steet Journal. It says: "Microsoft and Yahoo discussed a possible merger or other matchup that would pair their respective strengths, say people familiar with the situation. The merger discussions are no longer active, these people say, but that doesn't preclude the two companies from some other form of cooperation."
Friday's chatterbox...
"A ground-breaking decision by the Consumer Complaints Board may have crucial consequences for Apple and for thousands of Apple laptop users all over the world," saysDenmark's National Consumer Agency.In a specific complaint case, the Consumer Complaints Board in Denmark now has evidence of a hidden, original design defect in Apple's iBook G4. This can have serious consequences for the computer manufacturer, which has so far denied the existence of this defect. Thousands of users all over the world have tried to get Apple to acknowledge the fault and agree to take back the computers.The defect appears because a solder connection in some 12in models weakens when the iBook is turned on and off, and can eventually fail. The fault was isolated by Delta, an independent electronics laboratory. The lab reports are available in English in a5.11MB PDF. The press release says:In April, the Consumer Complaints Board decided therefore that Danish consumers must be able to return computers with this fault to Apple. Apple Computer International has already settled a number of cases in Denmark on the basis of the investigation report.The question now is whether Apple is going to go on denying that there is a design fault in the same type of computer in the world outside Denmark's borders.Well, it seems reasonable to assume that Apple will be able to verify the fault. It's rather more surprising that it was unable to find it when 12in iBooks started failing....
Not long till the Bank Holiday weekend, though if you're lucky yours may have already started. With the weather supposed to be iffy what better way to spend your time then with a game or three? The biggest release this weekend is Spider-Man 3. I've no idea how good it is but a strict review embargo makes me fear the worst. Other than a look at Spidey I'm planning to finally nail some of the more obscure Crackdown achievements while getting some doubles practice in on Virtua Tennis. Anything to take my mind off the huge Saints game on Sunday - those playoffs are tantalisingly close. What are you playing this Bank Holiday?
I'm not even go to pretend to fully understand this, but it has interesting ramifications for future videogame console development, so here goes. IBM hasannounceda new computer chip based around self-assembling nanotechnology."The natural pattern-creating process that forms seashells, snowflakes, and enamel on teeth has been harnessed by IBM to form trillions of holes to create insulating vacuums around the miles of nano-scale wires packed next to each other inside each computer chip. In chips running in IBM labs using the technique, the researchers have proven that the electrical signals on the chips can flow 35 percent faster, or the chips can consume 15 percent less energy compared to the most advanced chips using conventional techniques."Apparently the nanotechnology manufacturing process provides the equivalent of two generations of Moore's Law, in terms of performance improvement, in a single step. It will be incorporated into IBM's manufacturing lines in 2009.Kuturagispoke last weekabout his plans (or former plans) for PlayStation 4,5 and 6. I wonder if these two announcements will one day prove to be linked?
Web 2.0 started it. Now technology visionaries find it difficult, nay impossible, to talk about the future without giving it a x.0 suffix. Sony introduced its Home and LittleBigPlanet innovations with talk of the Game 3.0 era. Now EA founder Trip Hawkins has unveiled his vison for the future of moble gaming, entitled... Mobile Games 2.0. From the press release:"Mobile Games 2.0 revolves around creating a stronger emotional connection between the games and players, as well as a sticky, longer-term relationship between consumers and carriers. The model allows for in-game cross-promotion, viral discovery and free trial, all of which culminate in driving more customers directly to the point of purchase, i.e. carrier deck, providing greater revenue opportunities for carriers."Hawkins' current company, mobile games publisher Digital Chocolate, is planning to address these issues with its DChoc Café series of casual titles - puzzle games, card games, board games - the sort of stuff you might well play in a café - well, a bohemian non-chain café where the barristas won't glare at you for spending too long over your double super skinny latte. "Customization features of the game series include personalized avatars, groups and chat capabilities, similar to social networking site elements, all elements of Mobile Games 2.0," says the release.Of course, mobile games publishers have been attempting to tap into the popularity of online casual games for several years. Dozens of popular titles like Slingo, Zuma and Bejeweled have been ported across to mobile, while seasoned casual games experts like Popcap are now creating mobile titles. But the social element of casual games sites has largely been missing - especially in the UK where operator support for any kind of connected online play is severely lacking.It is, you would think, a 'no-brainer' for game developers, publishers and operators to build social networking functions into their games. Mobile phones are after all the single most important social tool of the modern age, and try as they might, manufacturers and network operators have had only limited success in convincing people that phones are also TVs and games machines. But if people feel that gaming can add to their lives, they might be more tempted.Mobile social networking is now building momentum - game developers need to stake a claim on all that juicy data trafficnowif they are to make gaming a key element of the experience. I see a future where you build a mobile IM buddy list, which allows you to check if any mates are online (whether that be via their own phone or sitting at home on a PC - cross-platform functionality is key) and if they fancy a quick game of Tetris. This is how mobile gaming will break free of its self-imposed ghetto of retro arcade shooters and second-hand casual hits.Hawkins has a point, but it's nothing new. Everyone in the industry knows he's right. Now it's the hard part - doing it.
Twelve years of shopping at Amazon.com has made real-world bookstores frustrating: where is the damn search button? But the previous decades of bookstore shopping also make Amazon frustrating: why is its search function so limited? Why should you have to use Google to search Amazon?In the interests of protecting myself from being savaged by letters from readers more attentive than I am, I did do some testing before saying that. You actually can make Amazon do more refined searching than at first meets the eye. You can, for example, fine-tune your search by category, price and author.And, although it isn't on the front page, an advanced search button on the books pages gives you the set of fields you might use to search a library catalogue: author's name, title, ISBN, and so on. A similar advanced search exists for DVDs and videos. You can even constrain the publication date and the format. It is, in fact, better than I originally thought it was.But that's great if you know what you're looking for. It's a little less great when you're not sure until you've found it, and sometimes it doesn't work at all. You can't, for example, easily search for tennis players' memoirs from the 1940s. And the big one: you really can't distinguish between authors with the same name. You'd think that after 12 years Amazon would have come up with the not-terribly-innovative idea of replying to an author search by offering you a list of authors to choose from. If Amazon couldn't come up with birthdates, it could still help you narrow the field by listing their main topics of interest or the years they were published in.It isn't all Amazon's fault. Authors are not required to pick unique names, and often we don't. The Guardian has had two concurrent contributors named Duncan Campbell on related subjects. Even humans couldn't always tell them apart. There is even another Wendy Grossman who is a journalist, but at least she's in Houston, Texas; the "M" in my byline is meant to differentiate us. Do an Amazon search on my name, and the first hit is a book of mine, but the second is a CD of no relevance at all and the third is a book co-written by yet a third Wendy Grossman. Yet theInternet Movie Database- which Amazon owns, by the way - manages to differentiate among no fewer than three Henry Morgans and four Andrew McCarthys. You'd think its parent could do the same for book authors.After all, if we could actually successfully find the title we were looking for, we might buy it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Blogger's Blogalerted me (viaTwitter) to the groovy announcement that the magnificentCzechgameSamorost 2has taken this year'sWebbyfor best game. The stunning browser title took a trophy at the 2007Independent Game Festivalceremony at the Game Developer's Conference 2007 and has now broken out of the game ghetto into the interactive, er, mainstream. If you've never played it, gohereimmediately and lose yourself in the astounding environments and perfectly formed gameplay.Also worthy of voters' love isClub PenguindistributorMiniClip. The kids' social networking site (down, people, it's got gaming elements to it too) is percolating through the interactive community.These games clearly shone; the other nominees were surprising (American Dad vs. Family Dad Kung Fu?). Anyone have web-based games they'd particularly recommend?
Sony revealed its new PlayStation Eye camera last week and although I joked at the online Gamesblog that it looks remarkably like the headgear of a federation soldier from Blake's 7, it's a pretty powerful piece of kit, boasting four times the resolution of the EyeToy, as well as better low light performance and a microphone for video chatting. The device will contribute heavily toward the next generation of camera gaming - and make no mistake, the camera is going to be the accessory of the decade. The combination of talent-show TV with the Web 2.0 revolution has instigated a burgeoning era of fame gaming. It's not the winning that counts, it's the being seen taking part.There are some interesting PlayStation Eye titles on the way. The new online version of Sony's SingStar karaoke game will allow users to record videos of themselves performing then post them online for other players to rate. In the online multiplayer mode of forthcoming racer Burnout 5, the Eye automatically takes shots of your horrified face whenever your car crashes - these are sent to your opponent, allowing players to build large galleries of their victims. Users will also be able to film and edit home videos, and then upload them to YouTube. Grafting photos of ourselves on to avatars, which may then carry our identities into Home, the PS3 massively multiplayer virtual world, is another possibility.But cameras have a more serious role to play in gaming. The EyeToy camera introduced the concept of motion tracking to a wide audience, a technology that allows players to control games through simple physical gestures. This was just the beginning. GestureTek, the company that provided the motion-reading software for EyeToy and the Xbox camera, has produced a version for phones that uses the built-in camera to track the motion of the user's hand. As with the Wii controller, mobile gamers can now play golf and tennis sims by merely wafting their mobile around. The new D904i phone from Japan's NTT Docomo has the EyeMobile Engine built in. More will follow.There are technologies already providing head tracking for PC gamers using USB cameras (NaturalPoint's TrackIR, for example). But PlayStation Eye could bring this concept to the masses. Beyond that, the holy grail is full real-time 3D tracking. Imagine a game that can translate your every movement into onscreen action.Experts reckon the technology will be widely available in the next couple of years. The Wii controller has been fundamental in introducing movement controlled games to a huge audience, but it's still only tracking one hand. The Eye could change all that.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Chris Avellone is one of the roleplaying game (RPG) genre's most venerated designers - he's worked on such classics as Fallout 2, Icewind Dale and is behind what is arguably the best, Planescape: Torment. We met the man to talk about his latest projects, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II and the recently-released Neverwinter Nights 2.Technology GuardianThe original Neverwinter Nights [2002] was a massive success and still sells well today. Were you worried about straying too far from the original formula?Chris AvelloneWe definitely wanted to preserve a great deal of the first game. I think our CEO, Feargus [Urquhart], summed it up best with the idea that NWN wasn't broken. It was a great idea. So, our line of thinking was, "Well, let's just add more to it!" And I really think that was the right thing to do.TGA big part of NWN's success was its toolset, which players used to create their own adventures. What are its main new features?CABasically, we took a look at all the issues the community seemed to have about the first game, and decided to do the following things: first, we said, "OK, we recognise that people developing their own modules [campaigns] for NWN helped push that product far beyond where BioWare thought it would be." So we just tried to make sure the toolset had a lot more options. You can deform and shape the environment, you can spray down textures and you can modify the way water looks. Things like that. We've tried to make something that fans can play around with for the next two, three or even four years.TGAny specific feature of which you're particularly proud?CAI think the water. It's great, because while our coder was working on the water, he made sure that all the variables about the water can be tweaked by the designer. For example, if you remove the choppiness, slow its rate down to a crawl, make it very viscous, and put on a molten-red texture, then you've got lava.TGGiven criticisms of the original NWN's vanilla plot, one would assume you'd also be dedicating considerable attention to the game's main storyline.CAThat was definitely a focus. We wanted to add more to the main storyline and the companions. The campaign had to feel deeper - the player will feel he's involved in some very epic stuff - and we added extra game mechanics, like controlling and maintaining a stronghold, and arguing your defence in trials.TGYou're known for creating characters with a depth that's foreign to most games. In your most celebrated project, Planescape: Torment, the player's relationships with his companions actually advanced and enriched the story. Was this also a goal with NWN2?CADefinitely. My belief is that companions, adversaries and basically any "critical-path" people need to have just as much depth as - if not more than - your character. You need them to ask a lot of serious questions about the player that actually make you think. That really adds to the experience.TGYou seem to have made a concerted effort to create strong, complex female characters, which is definitely not the norm in this industry.CAYeah, I think, frankly, they're usually given the shaft. If there's anything I can't stand, it's the cliche of the female handler who's always talking through the radio with your player, telling you where to go and what to do with a sexy voice. It's such a horrible, horrible cliche. You just get so tired of it. It's like, is this all she's ever going to be? I knew with Torment that I wanted major female adversaries, and I wanted the females in your party to be a lot more real than that fucking idiotic, "Oh, you're such a hero!" stereotype. There's just so much more room for interesting female characters.TGDani Bunten Berry, one of the first supporters of multiplayer games, famously joked that, "No one ever said on their deathbed, 'Gee, I wish I had spent more time alone with my computer!'... " With your dedication to engaging game characters, would you say you're challenging that sentiment?CAYes, I would challenge that. It depends on how you view the medium - if you see it as solely entertainment, the quote's easily defensible. But if games can challenge you to think in new ways, introduce interesting themes or just give you something to think about when you've stopped playing, it's absolutely time well spent. I know that for some of the games we developed back at Black Isle, and now at Obsidian, we really did look for ways to create experiences beyond just the game. And if the game makes you think, that's fantastic.TGDo you think creating such intriguing plots and characters is more difficult in games rather than static media such as film and literature?CAYeah. Pacing and consistency are probably the biggest issues. You want the player to be able to explore the world on their own; to move whichever way they choose. And you do give up a certain amount of dramatic pacing to allow that. But the advantage of that sacrifice is that you address the fact that some players don't actually care about your story. The most important thing in games isn't the designer's narrative, but the story the player creates through his experiences.TGWorking with licensed properties, as you've done throughout your career, must make it even more difficult, as you have to adhere to the source material.CAWell, yes and no. Because everything is predefined, you need to learn what your boundaries are. And you need to learn everything you can about the franchise. That can require a lot of work. Second, you have to run everything by the franchise holder for approval, to make sure it's not straying from the franchise. But that's rarely been an issue for us - we've gotten on really well with Wizards of the Coast [Dungeons &amp; Dragons owners]. Same with Star Wars - during the whole of Knights of the Old Republic II's development, we only got about 10 comments, and they were about little things like, "We know this guy's name isn't spelled properly."Once again, I would much rather set the parameters myself and create my own world. I think that would be much easier to do. This is mainly because I find trying to mimic the tone of someone else's franchise difficult; you can never get it quite right. I'm never going to get George Lucas's tone just right, and I'm never going to get Ed Greenwood's view of the Forgotten Realms just right, either. To me, there's always something slightly off about it, and that's always bothered me.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
PC World magazine's multi-award-winning editor-in-chief Harry McCracken has quit, reportedly "because the company's new CEO, Colin Crawford, tried to kill a story about Apple and Steve Jobs," reportsWired News.Apparently the spat was about a "whimsical" (usually a synonym for "worthless") article called Ten Things We Hate About Apple, which will no doubt get a much higher readership than it deserves when it's leaked via someone's blog. However, Wired News says:Apparently Crawford also told editors that product reviews in the magazine were too critical of vendors, especially ones who advertise in the magazine, and that they had to start being nicer to advertisers.This would be as good as a death sentence for PC World, as Crawford ought to know. Is it possible that he doesn't?Crawford was former CEO of MacWorld and only started at PC World about a month ago. According to the PC World source, when Crawford was working for the Mac magazine, Steve Jobs would call him up any time he had a problem with a story the magazine was running about Apple.Whether or not that's the case, it's impossible to imagine a similar dispute about an article called, say, Ten Things We Hate About Microsoft. However, Apple's media coverage often seems to lean towards the sycophantic side, whether it's because of doing exclusive deals with Apple, its advertising clout ("Are you running any anti-Apple stories?"), or simply because so many publications (including The Guardian) are run on Macs.For a recent example, there was a spat at Time, reported in New York magazine, about an exclusive story on the new iPhone, "in which writer Lev Grossman tweaked Apple CEO Steve Jobs about his secretive access to the product ... and suggested that Apple had 'some explaining' to do about backdated stock options".It says:When the story hit the Web, Jobs called [managing editor Richard] Stengel to complain (as it happens, Apple is a major advertiser in Time, and Jobs is a good friend of Huey's). Stengel reacted by immediately excising the offending paragraphs from the Web (they have since been restored). Then he had Grossman come into the office to rewrite part of the piece for the print edition. Grossman was infuriated.Jobs also responded to a critical book, iCon, by calling Peter Olson, chief executive of Random House, to try to persuade him to stop publication. When that failed, he banned sales of all Wiley's titles. AsThe New York Times reported:some two dozen popular technical titles, including "Dr. Mac: The OS X Files" and "GarageBand for Dummies" (as well as "Macs for Dummies" by David Pogue, a columnist for The New York Times), were removed from Apple store bookshelves and returned to Wiley's distribution center in New Jersey.The New York Times story concluded:"It is not possible, aside from things unimagined, to damage his reputation," said Mitchell Kertzman, a partner at Hummer Winblad Venture Partners in San Francisco. "Steve is on such a roll in both of his companies, he's earned the right to do whatever he wants."Update: on his blog called, with stunning originality,Colin's Corner, Crawford says: "IDG and I hold editorial integrity in the highest regard. PC World, has not been nor will it be influenced by advisers' [sic] pressure" -- presumably he means advertisers' pressure. To which any Cixen would reply:MRDAor Mandy Rice Davies Applies (meaning "he would say that, wouldn't he").
If it was a Hollywood movie it would be a remake of Alien v Predator. On one side is the giant Sony corporation, which is backing the Blu-ray high definition DVD format by building it into its PlayStation 3 games consoles. Facing it across the global battlefield is Toshiba, backed by Microsoft and Intel, promoting the rival (and incompatible) HD DVD format.The stakes are very high indeed for companies on both sides. Yet Sony, the pre-fight favourite - with the best-selling games console franchise in the world and the backing of seven Hollywood studios (basically all of the big ones except Universal Pictures) making their movies available on Blu-ray - is nowhere near delivering the early knockout blow it wanted.Instead, early defections from the Blu-ray-only camp and lagging sales of PS3 consoles have blurred the picture of which format will win. Samsung broke ranks with Blu-ray last month by announcing it will make players that play both HD formats, following a similar move by LG. In addition, most analysts acknowledge that the PC manufacturers will play a key role in the format war - and having Microsoft and Intel behind HD DVD is significant. Neither of these two Toshiba allies has shown signs of switching camps so far.Gamble on a bundleMeanwhile, PS3 sales in the UK, the European market where PS3 has had its most successful launch, were 165,000 in week one but fell to 28,000 in the second week, a trend that has been echoed in other markets as well.Sony took a big gamble bundling the Blu-ray player with the PS3, a move that contributed both to delays in its release and higher prices for the consoles. Last week Ken Kutaragi, the "father of the PlayStation", paid the price and resigned as chairman and chief executive of the Sony Computer Entertainment unit.With the sales of PS3 lagging, the new machines may not be the cornerstone of a recovery at Sony, with videogame-related losses for Sony's year ending in March expected to amount to $2bn (&pound;1bn) - double original expectations.Sony has a lot riding on the success of the PS3, especially after it was wrong-footed in the music player market by Apple's iPod. It certainly doesn't want to have another Betamax or MiniDisc story, either. For Sony the PS3 and Blu-ray are part of an important corporate move to regain its pre-eminence in the consumer electronics business.The picture is less clear for Toshiba, but certainly the company is keen to secure its share of the nascent market for high-definition players, and that means not wanting terms to be dictated by Sony. Toshiba also has an important backer on its side in Microsoft's Xbox.The decision not to build the HD DVD player into the Xbox console means it does not work as a Trojan horse as the PS3 does for Blu-ray. But those who choose to buy an HD DVD attachment for the Xbox are definitely motivated by a desire to buy and play discs in the new HD format.On the retail side, the battle is also taking some interesting twists. In a recent blog on Digital Trends, Rob Enderle said that US retail giant Wal-Mart (which owns Asda in the UK) plans to bring in "a massive number of low cost (possibly sub-$200) HD DVD players for Christmas". Although unconfirmed by Wal-Mart, such a move could be decisive. Wal-Mart uses DVD sales as a loss-leader to attract shoppers and accounts for between 40% and 45% of all US DVD sales.In Europe, the HD DVD Promotion Group has also been busy signing up smaller European studios to the Toshiba format, hoping to "build a local ecosystem" for HD DVD software. The group is able to leverage the fact that the cost of replicating HD DVD discs is cheaper - the equipment is an upgrade from DVD replicators and there are no regional code controls.Appetite for local-language movies is also quite high in several European countries, a fact that the HD DVD camp hopes to exploit by having more of these titles available on their format sooner. In France, for example, 40% of the DVD market is for titles from independent studios, according to Screen Digest. "We expect to have 200 unique titles available by year's end in Europe and a third of them will be local," says Xavier Bringue, HD DVD European group manager.Crumbling supportAt the moment there are 180 Blu-ray titles available in Europe, coming almost exclusively from big Hollywood studios. But despite the weight of titles, the number of HD DVD discs that are bought against the number of players sold is much higher than for Blu-ray discs. In the UK, this so-called "attach rate" for HD DVD discs is 28 per year on average, while for Blu-ray it's five, says the HD DVD Promotion Group.While sales of Blu-ray hardware in the US (including PS3s and standalone players) is 5-to-1 against HD DVD hardware sales, Blu-ray's software sales figures are also a lot less impressive, at 2.3 discs per player, according to a recent report. "If PS3 people all started buying HD discs then by sheer weight Blu-ray would walk this battle," says Helen Davis Jayalath, senior video analyst at Screen Digest. "But that's not likely, because they are gamers." And, she adds, the Wal-Mart story "was an overoptimistic leak on the part of one of a number of Chinese companies that Wal-Mart is talking to. [Enderle] seems to believe that if a Wal-Mart cheap player deal goes ahead, HD DVD will 'win'. I'm not sure Sony will give up that easily."But the Blu-ray hard line has begun to crumble among Hollywood studios, where Warner Bros and Paramount are hedging their bets by making discs in both formats. And it may be significant that Warners will offer its much-anticipated The Complete Matrix Trilogy only on HD DVD later this month. Given the importance of the first Matrix movie to the adoption of DVD players, this may be significant for HD DVD.Much of the format battle revolves around which blockbuster movies are released on which formats and when. But an even bigger question is the pricing of players. At the moment Blu-ray players are more expensive - and not just the PS3 consoles. Standalone Blu-ray players are as much as $300 more expensive in the US than HD DVD players; similar pricing gaps exist in other markets.But perhaps the biggest problem is that even the cheapest standalone players cost more than $300 each, too high to spur mass consumer adoption. Given the high stakes for both hardware makers and content companies, neither side is likely to stand down easily. In fact, this format war might not have a clear winner and loser. Despite the video industry's painful memories of Betamax vs VHS, multiple formats do co-exist in the games industry."The most likely scenario is that neither lose, but instead both formats survive," says Davis Jayalath of Screen Digest. "That doesn't mean it will be a 50/50 split. It just means that even though it is more than likely that Blu-ray will be the stronger format, HD DVD is still strong enough to be a viable business."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
My PC seems to have died: all I get on the monitor is "no signal received please check connections", but everything seems fine. Does this mean the hard drive has given up the ghost, and how can I recover the lost data? Nick BriggsIf you're lucky, the problem is the video connection. The error message could be the result of a graphics card not being seated correctly in its slot, a plug not inserted fully or a fault in the VGA cable. Try removing and re-inserting the VGA cable. If that does not solve the problem, try to start your PC in Safe Mode. This usually involves pressing F8 during the start-up sequence, but check your manual. The menu offers a range of options, so try the one that uses the "last known good configuration" before trying Safe Mode.If Safe Mode works, uninstall the graphics driver and restart the PC: Windows should then use its own driver. You can upgrade to newer drivers later.If the problem is more serious, you will have to use your ears when you reboot. Can you hear the hard drive and fan starting? Do you hear any beeps? When the PC was designed, IBM included a feature called Power-On Self Test (POST) to signal any errors. One long beep and one short beep, for example, indicated a system board problem, while one short beep means everything's OK. There is a list of beep codes at the PC Hell site (http://www.pchell.com/hardware/beepcodes.shtml).If you don't hear any beeps then it could be a power supply problem or a system board failure. Have you checked the power supply plugs, cables and fuses?The simplest, cheapest and only reliable way to recover lost data is from your backups.Otherwise you can try removing the hard drive and installing it in a different PC. The simplest way to do this is to buy an external hard drive enclosure of the correct size, so you can use your disk as an external USB drive.But if you can't retrieve your data that way, and if the drive does not spin up, then you will probably need to go to an expert data retrieval company. Expect to pay £500 to £1,000 -- roughly the cost of a new PC. How much is your data worth?
I bought a 500GB external hard drive to back up my laptop, which has 100GB. The backup failed and stopped at 4GB. I got a message saying: "You have either run out of space, or the backup file (.bkf) is too large for this disk." Miyako AbikoYour external hard drive is using the FAT file system, which cannot handle files larger than 4GB (actually, one byte less than 4GB). FAT works with lots of systems, including Windows 95/98/Me and Macs. However, if you don't need this feature, you should change it to the NTFS New Technology file system, which is faster, more efficient and more secure. This is a one-way process and requires Windows 2000, XP or Vista. Since this is a new drive, it's simplest to right-click on the icon and format it. This will delete any files it is storing. However, you can convert it to NTFS without losing any data. For instructions, seehttp://support.microsoft.com/kb/307881.
My PC has effectively been taken over by Spy Marshal, which appeared a couple of days ago. How do I get rid of it? Jim MorrisonI'm not familiar with Spy Marshal, but there are lots of similar programs. Removing them generally involves running HiJackThis (which has been bought by Trend Micro), FixWareOut.exe and sometimes Siri's SmitFraud.exe. If you need help, there are plenty of forums that will talk you through the removal process. These include TechGuys, CastleCops and TomCoyote -- pick one from the list athttp://www.merijn.org/forums.php. For examples of the process in action, see theTech Support GuyandLockerGnomeforums.A site called 411-Spyware also offers Spy Marshal removal, but I can't see any reason to trust it.Many rogue anti-spyware programs, such as SpyAxe and SpyFalcon, use the Zlob Trojan downloader and backdoor, which is dangerous. This is often bundled with video codec packages, as explained inan article on the Trend Micro site.If you have not installed anything recently, make sure you have installed all the latest Windows updates. Also, switch to IE7 or Firefox.
Can you recommend a stable email client for home-business use? Thunderbird is excellent, facility-wise, but it is not stable. Every so often I get a random error message and it all collapses. I am already doing all the routine maintenance things that are supposed to keep it working. Andrew WhiteThe most stable email programs I've used are Microsoft Outlook and Eudora, and Outlook is the de facto market standard for business use. However, while I use Outlook for contacts and its terrific synchronisation features, I hate its opaque PST (personal storage) files with a passion. I've never actually had a PST file become corrupt, but it's a threat that means you have to be serious about keeping backups.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Half a dozen lurid and splodgy pictures in the local paper brought home to me the death of an honourable profession this week. I took them. I am in my small way responsible for impoverishing an old friend, because he, not me, is a professional photographer, and his living has been more or less abolished by the changing world. Just as film has been replaced by digital, professionals are being replaced by amateurs. The changes are partly technological and partly economic, but the final blow to his profession has come from Flickr and similar Web 2.0 sites.Twenty-one years ago, when he and I started together on the Independent newspaper - then famous for the quality of its photographs - the pictures that could sell newspapers could only be produced by professionals. Not only did photographers need the cunning, determination and eye for a story that journalists admire, they needed quite simple equipment and considerable technical skills. It took years for them to learn to see the world in black and white, and to get the best out of their cameras. It took years, too, to learn how to develop film and print it so as to bring the best out in every picture.The first blow to this world was the adoption of colour photography. Colour film is so much harder to develop that it is all done by specialists. There is no longer room for the individual photographer to refine his own style. And colour requires a much less specialised way of looking at the world. To make a striking black and white picture, you need an eye; to make a striking colour picture, all you need is a patch of striking colour. Black and white photography makes the world look strange, and new; colour makes it look vivid and familiar, so colour photographs of much lower technical accomplishment became acceptable in newspapers.As the demand for technically accomplished photos was shrinking, technology was making them easier to take. You now have to pay quite a lot to find a digital camera that will even allow the photographer to make any of the decisions once demanded for every photograph. And the digital camera, left to itself, will get these tricky decisions right. It will adjust itself, focus and even search out the face in a picture. My mobile phone takes better pictures than a snapshot camera would when the Independent started.These developments may have diminished the value of a professional photographer's skills. But they couldn't eliminate the need for professionalism: the difference between a professional and an amateur is not that the amateur never takes really good pictures. It is that the professional will always come up with usable ones. A talented, hardworking and lucky amateur can produce wonderful pictures on the best days. But that will be one picture in a hundred. A professional can produce something that is nearly as good as their best 50 times in a hundred. That's why they are worth employing.News photographs don't have to be technically accomplished. They sell on their captions. But many professionals make their money from photographs that are no longer news - the stock images sold by picture libraries. This is the market that the web will devastate. It is already damaging it: when I went round to see my friend, he was looking at a pile of 4,500 stock transparencies returned to him by a well-respected agency that had just gone bankrupt.A picture-sharing site like Flickr contains the work of tens of thousands of talented amateurs, all of them capable of producing one or two photographs a year that could be published anywhere. A British photographers' site, EPUK, has calculated that if only 1% of the pictures on Flickr are publishable, that would mean 1.5m usable pictures uploaded there every year. Most of the drudgery of identifying good, relevant pictures is also done here - by the photographers themselves, who tag them, and by the other users, who notice them and have their interest recorded by the software.Perhaps none of these people could make a living as a photographer, but few want to. Any money they make is gravy for them - and bread taken from the mouths of professionals.&#183;thewormbook.com/helmintholog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the curiosities of social networking sites like MySpace and Bebo is that they are overwhelmingly populated by younger people. Yet it is when people grow older and more socially isolated - as relationships at work fade and the difficulty of travelling increases - that they are most in need of them. The problem is partly related to the digital divide but also to the intrinsic difficulty of getting older people organised, as a succession of trade union leaders could testify to. In theory older people could have a dramatic political influence, since around a third of people eligible to vote are over 55 and they are twice as likely to vote as younger people. The national debate now raging about the erosion of pensions ought to provide a golden opportunity to harness pensioner power around a common objective. But it isn't that easy.Being old isn't of itself something that makes people relate to one another. Having something in common isn't the same as having a common interest. It can be more of a turn-off leading to feelings of ghettoisation. And, as Digital Unite points out, the vast majority of older people in the UK don't even have the luxury of feeling ghettoised on the net because only 20% of over 65s have access to it at home. Organisations that try to galvanise people by capitalising on their age have found it difficult to reach critical mass. The recently formed eons.com (at present restricted to people with a US postcode) is trying to crack this by harnessing user-generated content such as travel experiences. It has been dubbed the "MySpace for the 50-plus crowd" partly because of its funky, colourful design. Maybe it will be the first to conquer the age gap, but it won't be easy since it specifically targets the over-50s.No such problem exists in the three-dimensional virtual worlds now sprouting up on the web, where you are known through an avatar (a 3D version of yourself) so you can be any age you want to be. This is unlikely to appeal to older people who have trouble accessing the web itself, but it does offer interesting options for the future. One of my neighbours in the virtual world Second Life told me at the weekend that she had seven grandchildren.May 25 will see another Silver Surfer's Day in the UK to try to get more older people online. You can type your postcode into a box onsilversurfersday.orgto discover local events, or become a BT internet ranger to help an older person understand the web. This is an admirable initiative, although still on a small scale (17,000 people were helped last year), and suffers a bit from image problems associated with the phrase "silver surfer".Sadly, too many people still think that online activities are too complicated, yet it couldn't be easier to use, say, a search engine and email, which would be a boon for time-rich older people. Nearly 75% of over 65s have a VCR, according to Ofcom, yet only 20% have a digital camera, which is easier to use these days - just keep the setting on "automatic" when taking photos. When you connect the camera to a computer through the provided cable, the photos are instantly uploaded to your desktop from where they can easily be sent to a photo-hosting website such as Flickr to be shared with other members of your family.For all but the very poor, time will solve this problem as the generation reared on BBC and Sinclair computers comes of age, and later, the MySpacers. But that is no excuse for the exclusion of older people today. There are some interesting ideas around, such as the International Longevity Centreadvocating a social networkto connect retired people with companies that can make use of the social capital of retirees. Even better, existing social sites should embrace older people rather than regarding them as an exclusion zone.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
What does N-Gage mean to you?Sidetalking?Fiddly game card insertions? Pathway to Glory being pretty good? Nokia wisely binned the hardware model last year and announced that N-Gage was now a global software "eco-system". In English? Basically a piece of software that will pull in publishers, developers and users and run on any Series 60 mobile.As someone who only plays mobile games as a last resort - and even then I usually give up in minutes - I was interested to see if N-gage could offer something that would finally make mobile gaming live up to its incessant hype. And the demo I saw yesterday may well do that. If you're feeling lazy then think Xbox Live on your mobile. Ok, clearly it isn't a patch on Live but online gaming, friend lists and try and buy are a cut above what you would normally associate with mobile gaming. What I saw showed an intuitive looking interface, with easy access to your games, friends etc. As you'd expect community is vital, with the ability to create events, post reviews and generally do that web 2.0 thing.So far EA, Gameloft and Glu have signed up with more announcements soon. N-Gage is apparently of interest to developers who, "welcome the chance to work on a unified mobile plafform". Even taking Nokia's spin into account you can imagine this being fairly true - developing for different handsets is a recurring nightmare for mobile games devs.Of course, there are still important details to be ironed out before the Autumn launch - data costs, coverage, variety of titles - but there was enough shown to suggest that N-Gage could be the catalyst that finally makes mobile gaming interesting.
Ever tried listening to Pandora, the "this should sound like that" online sort-of radio station? If you don't live in the US, then you'll have found its insistence on a US zip code trivially easy to circumvent. But now it's going to get serious, filtering users based on their IP (internet address), which is a clearer indication of where you are.Moredetails at TechCrunch, which says the switchoff will start some time in the next 24 hours. A lot of people in Britain will probably miss it - which makes it good news that Pandora is working hard on negotiating rights to play in, yes, the UK.It's also struggling with other mad cost impositions in the US, as TechCrunch notes:This isn't the only bad news recently for Pandora. Along with other Internet radio companies, they have also been fighting the RIAA over revisions to the fee structure they must pay for playing music online. The rates they pay are significantly more than satellite providers pay, and terrestrial radio stations pay nothing to play music.I wonder what it means for any US military and other staff overseas? If they listen to Pandora and have valid US addresses, how will they be whitelisted?Still, being able to play legally in the UK would be a boon: they could get some revenue from people buying through Amazon and iTunes in the UK, which one was prevented from by, um, geography before.
