Mike Magee ofThe Inquirerreckons the Intel road map has 10.20GHz chips coming in 2005. That's a very aggressive schedule. Trivia point: Intel codenames are commonly based on towns in Oregon, such asNehalem
Sitting at a personal computer for hours and hours can lead to DVT (deep-vein thrombosis), just like sitting in a plane. Read about e-DVT or "e-thrombosis" at theGuardian Onlinesite orComputerworld.
It's Thursday, so Online is on the streets andon the webtoday. If you're interested in where weblogging is going next, don't miss Jim McClellan'sexcellent pieceon the people trying to make blogs profitable. Meanwhile Sean Dodson looks at interactive gaming on TV, Ben Hammersley writes about the Wikipedia, and Glyn Moody suggests Linux is ready to give Windows a run for its money on the desktop. And there are lots of jobs, too.
PlatoonPC £29.99 Strategy First * While there aren't many periods of military history that remain      unclaimed by game developers, the Vietnam War is one.Things are changing, with two releases on the horizon.      Out now is Platoon, a real time strategy game. Ostensibly based on the Oliver Stone film, it is a terrible      disappointment. Issuing commands is an inflexible and unfriendly process, not helped by a useless camera.Strategy becomes a pointless exercise, with most missions little more than glorified seek and destroy affairs.      Then there is the total lack of AI as your boys remain prone while under fire from one of the regular surprise      attacks. Then there are the slow-moving, heavily armoured troops who make progress such a chore. Lack of      save spots, amateurish grammatical errors on screen text, and a general lack of polish only compound the      agony.The graphics aren't bad, though, with nicely depicted jungle, villages and rice paddies. But when further      compliments can only involve the box cover art, it's time to stop. (GH)Impossible CreaturesPC 	&#163;29.99 Relic/Microsoft 	****Microsoft seems to be making a concerted effort to corner the real time strategy market. Impossible Creatures is another inspired effort - a flawed but still impressive    template for sequels.  IC's big idea is genetic splicing. There are 51 beasts to collect, each of which can be combined with any other, creating a possible bestiary of more than 2,500 (body parts can also be interchanged.)  This leads to a game of near    infinite possibility, as you find the ideal combination of eagle and hammerhead shark while hoping your opponent has not found a better one.This is a genuine challenge: somewhere around the mid-way mark, it goes from easy to "Are you kidding me?", as the number, of enemies increases, and hoards of mutations stream in from every direction. The armies are restricted to 50 units, a limit that would not be a problem had controlling your beasts not been so frustrating. For example, each has a special attack mode, and although these can be linked to hotkeys, they must be triggered manually - something difficult to do in the heat of battle, especially as some moves cause damage to your own side.As you wrestle to control an army of relatively primitive intelligence, the title Impossible Creatures begins to sound increasingly ironic. This is not to detract from a highly imaginative and well-designed game. As the story plays out in animated cut-scenes, you are sucked into a world that is part Tin-Tin and part HG Wells. (MA)Virtual Skipper 2PC £29.99 Duran Duboi ***The arcane world of yacht racing is about to enjoy another brief      period of limelight, as the America's Cup is due to take place in New Zealand next month. Thanks to this yacht      racing simulator, enthusiasts can now enact their America's Cup fantasies (after a fashion) without stirring      from their PCs.A light breeze of trepidation prevailed when installing Virtual Skipper 2; we had no idea whether      yacht racing would translate into a compelling gameplay proposition. But it proved surprisingly addictive, and      should prove a hit among the yachting crowd.Duran Duboi has sensibly kept the game focused: you can compete      in regattas involving four types of yacht (the Melges 24, an America's Cup boat called the Defi Areva, a 43-foot      monohull and the pumped-up Open 60 Trimaran), on courses off the shores of Cowes, San Francisco, Porto Cervo      and Auckland.All aspects of yachting bar the actual racing are deemed extraneous, but incredibly detailed      physics modelling lends a startling air of authenticity. Racing is a mere matter of setting your course, ensuring      the right sails are up and trimmed, then staying out of trouble with the impartial umpire.A well thought-out      multiplayer engines allows free-for-all and fleet racing with up to eight ships. A number of handy aids - notably a      colour-coded arrow showing your relation to the wind - mean that novice sailors need not feel excluded. The      racing experience is gripping in a similar manner to OJ Simpson's infamous low-speed car chase, especially when      you start to hit little milestones, such as exceeding 10 knots or capsizing for the first time. A strange but      endearing game. It is available fromwww.virtualskipper2.com. (SB)
The BBC was last night under pressure to make public the precise role played by director general Greg Dyke in the handling of its controversial &#163;150m online learning project following an internal inquiry that led to the resignation of one of the corporation's most senior executives.Michael Stevenson, the BBC's &#163;233,000-a-year head of factual and learning, quit yesterday after admitting that he acted wrongly by talking to potential partners for the scheme, including media group Pearson, before it had received government approval.However, it is understood that Mr Dyke also corresponded with Marjorie Scardino, the chief executive of Pearson, about the project before approval had been given.The BBC confirmed that Mr Dyke and Ms Scardino had exchanged letters but refused to reveal their contents or release the inquiry report. A spokesman said Mr Dyke's role had been "peripheral" and insisted that there was no suggestion he had done anything wrong. Shadow culture secretary John Whittingdale last night called for the findings of the inquiry to be made public. "If Greg Dyke was also pursuing this without government approval it is a very serious matter. This report should not be buried," he said.Mr Whittingdale also reiterated a call for the BBC to be brought under control of the new communications super-regulator Ofcom."This is further evidence of the need for the BBC to be subject to stronger external regulation," he said. "It is absurd that the biggest and most powerful broadcaster remains outside the remit of the new communications regulator. The existing regulatory structure has proven to be deficient and impotent."Mr Stevenson has spent two decades with the BBC and, in a previous role as secretary of the corporation, was partially responsible for its accountability. He said he was resigning because his talks with Pearson had been "an error of judgment". Project director Clare Riley has also quit.Last year the BBC was forced to apologise in court for the talks and for spending &#163;60,000 more than it should have on the service. Mr Dyke ran Pearson's television business before joining the BBC and remains in close contact with Ms Scardino.
Ted Turner, the billionaire founder of the CNN news network, announced last night he was stepping down as vice-chairman of parent company, AOL Time Warner, which earlier had reported a loss of $99bn (&#163;60bn).The full-year loss had been anticipated, but not its staggering size - the largest in corporate history.The company took a write down of $45bn in the fourth quarter - twice as much as analysts had expected - because of the declining worth of the America Online business. The internet service provider has been plagued by plummeting advertising revenues and slowing subscriber rates and is a shadow of the business that acquired Time Warner two years ago.Under new accounting rules, US companies must reflect the value of their assets on their books annually. The business took a $54bn charge in the first quarter for the same reason.Shareholders in the company have become disaffected with its performance and Mr Turner, 64, is the latest in a growing line of top line executives to quit. He said he planned to become a full-time philanthropist.He leaves after a tumultuous couple of years. He was sidelined from the company he built after the merger of AOL and Time Warner, he was divorced from his wife of eight years, the actress Jane Fonda, and he suffered the death of one of his grandchildren.In a recent interview with the Guardian, he said he had been left feeling "suicidal" and   admitted the need to slow down, though his decision to quit was still unexpected.Mr Turner, one of the most compelling media moguls of his generation, has built a reputation as a philanthropist in the mould of the great Victorian industrialists.He pledged $1bn to the United Nations in 1997 and helped to pay off the $34m it was owed by the US in 2000. His UN Foundation, the largest of his three charities, spent $22m in a single month fighting intestinal parasites in Vietnamese children and reducing China's greenhouse gas emissions, among other causes.In his resignation letter to AOL Time Warner's chief executive, Richard Parsons, Mr Turner said: "After much reflection, I have decided to resign from my executive duties. I have not come to this decision lightly. As you know, this company has been a significant part of my life for over 50 years."He said that in the past five years it had become "even clearer" how much satisfaction he derived from philanthropic efforts and said he would like to "devote even more time, effort and resources to them." Mr Turner is the biggest individual landowner in the US and he has a fortune of $3.8bn.Mr Turner launched CNN in 1980 and changed the face of television news. He bought Hanna-Barbera's entire back catalogue, creating the Cartoon Network, and hundreds of old MGM films, which he recycled on another lucrative channel, Turner Classic Movies. His company eventually merged with Time Warner.
Does the computer play a big part in your lifestyle?It certainly plays a big part in my work - especially in my office at the university. Lots of memoranda and essential bits of information arrive by email. I have a Mac in the office and an oldApple Power Macintosh 9500at home, which I use as a typewriter and magical filing cabinet. I'm very fond of an old Adler electric typewriter, but the spoke with the letter "a" is broken and I can't get it fixed. It's a bit like losing a love. I do most of my writing in a summerhouse in my garden. I don't have a computer in it, as I somehow think it wrong. My preferred writing instrument is still the 2B pencil.Has email corrupted the art of letter writing?It might not be email so much as these text messages with their abstruse, abbreviated language. It's a generational thing and I dare say you have to live with it, rather than being crusty or reactionary about it. Mobile phones are putting me off travelling on trains: it's almost as if you're in a telephone exchange.You didn't follow Online's text-poetry competition?No. I don't see the mobile as a medium for poetry: it would just make haikus even shorter.Is poetry well served by the net?Magazines such asPoetry Reviewused to include their best websites but I never really consulted them. A few of my students use the net a lot and a bibliography in a dissertation is often a list of websites rather than books.Will electronic media ever challenge print?Not really. I just couldn't read a book off a screen. A former student, Sarah Bryant, called me to say she'd had her novel,The Other Eden, accepted as an ebook. I was worried as she's also a book person, until she told me who the publisher was - Time-Warner. It has since come out as a book, too, but I'd be interested to know how many people read it electronically and how many prefer to read it in book form.Is more education coming online?There's a massive amount of stuff available online. I was looking for something to give my students to read about Gogol and Chekhov. There are standard books and essays on these authors, but no embarrassment of riches. However, I was able to get some extremely pertinent information from the net, so it can be useful. While it's massive, though, it's not complete.Favourite websites?I don't use the internet like that. I use it more as a way of filling in gaps I can't satisfy from my collections or the library. I'm not a Luddite but I still consider myself a techno-peasant!&#183;Visit:www.st-andrews.ac.uk/~www_se/dunn/home.html&#183;New Selected Poems 1964-2000 by Douglas Dunn is available from Faber &amp; Faber
Boss virusI am being bombarded with messages from big@boss.com. BT Openworld's virus screening has removed the virus, which it describes as W32.Sobig.A@mm.enc. What is it? Is it a general problem?Carl GardnerJack Schofield replies:W32.Sobig.A@mm appeared recently - Symantec says January 9 - and mails itself to whatever addresses it can find on your PC. It is easy to spot because mail appears to come from big@boss.com and it has one of four subject lines: Movies, Document, Sample, and Here is that sample. It only affects Microsoft Windows 9x/Me and NT-based systems (including Windows 2000 and XP). It does not affect Windows 3, Macs or Unix machines. All the anti-virus vendors should have updated their virus signatures to identify it by now, and Symantec has a removal tool athttp://masl.to/?U4FE23C03.You can try to stop it arriving. Turn off the Preview Pane (under View|Layout) in Outlook Express, select a big@boss.com email and add it to your address book. Go to the Message menu and select Create Rule From Message. Tick the boxes for what you want the rule to do. This could be: (1) Where the From line contains people, (2) Delete it from server, (3) Where the From line contains big@boss.com, (4) Bigboss. Click OK. Most email programs have a similar way of generating rules to handle identifiable email messages.Opt outI have received an email from Opt in Marketing asking me to phone 0871-877 7001 by the end of January if I do not want my email address sold on. Why do I have to opt out and not opt in?Annette RayJS:The email is spam, and there is not much you can do. The phone number is not obtainable, and the email address is fake, but even if you did respond, I don't think it would make any difference. A    British company calledOpt-in Marketing, founded in 1996 by David White, says it has no connection with the campaign - the phrase is widely used in the industry. Another reader, Alan Bamber, reports that "Trading Standards say they can't help because they believe the company is American and out of their jurisdiction." The European parliament has voted for an opt-in system but the UK government appears to have problems facing reality.Cookie cutterWill running a cookie removal program impede access to, for example, banking sites? Would I have to go through the initial logging-on procedure every time?Ron HumphriesJS:Many websites use cookies - small text files saved on your hard drive - to identify returning visitors and simplify the log-in process (seewww.howstuffworks.com/cookie.htm). If you close your browser and remove all these cookies then you will have to go through the whole log-in process again, and the site will create another cookie. Many secure sites will not work unless you have cookies enabled. The solution is to use a cookie control program that will allow you to save the cookies you want and delete the rest. Nir Sofer'sIECookiesView v1.40is a small, free program that will do this in Windows.Cookie Centraland the main download sites offer others for PCs and Macs.You can set Internet Explorer 5 to always accept cookies from a site by putting it in the Trusted security zone (under Tools|Internet Options| Security) and always block them by putting a site in the Restricted zone. Newer web browsers, such as Opera 6, usually offer better cookie control.Ripping DVDsI have Windows XP and a CD rewriter and would like to copy movies onto CDs. Is there free software I can use?Mark GoldJS:It would take too much space to describe the process butDoom9offers a comprehensive guide.VCD Helpshould also be useful. For an overview, seewww4.tomshardware.com.Wi-Fi healthIs there information on the effects of exposure to radiation from a PC connected to a wireless LAN, or from a wireless router in your lounge?Adrian ClarkJS:According to Intel: "No adverse health effects have ever been attributed to wireless LANs." Wi-Fi uses radio   waves in the unlicensed 2.4GHz band also used by Bluetooth personal networking products, wireless headphones, cordless phones, and model planes. This is in the microwave part of the electromagnetic spectrum between radar and FM radio, not the X-ray part, which is the other side of visible light. Non-directional radio waves decrease in power with distance following the inverse square law, so if you are more than a foot from the device, the RF energy from Wi-Fi is negligible. A Wi-Fi router in the lounge has vastly less potential for harm than a mobile phone in your pocket.Backchat&#183;The last word, I think, on typing French and other accents. Nigel Greenwood says: "The simplest way of typing accents and other 'special characters' in Windows is to apply the US International keyboard layout via the Control Panel. This will produce all the letters needed for Western European languages, including the inverted exclamation and question marks for Spanish."&#183;Don Smith asked about software for encrypting and protecting email. Martin Sadler suggestsXenoMail, "which integrates with Outlook and you can switch it on and off as you choose". John Bingham and others wrote in support of    Phil Zimmermann's Pretty Good Privacy.PGP 8.0 Personal"offers a good cross-platform solution and excellent integration with MS Outlook and Outlook Express," says David Morris, an IT manager.Robert W Hall adds that PGP is now included in theTurnpike mailsoftware which is free to Demon users, and available at low cost. Thomas Graham points to free, open source versions of PGP atwww.pgpi.org. I suspect that since PGP has not taken off in the past decade, it is not likely to, but if you want to buy it, you can get it from Phil:http://www.philzimmermann.com/sales.shtml.&#183;In last week's item about recycling PCs, I mentioned that Norman Chapman advertised his ancient Amstrad in Simsbury's. He actually said Sainsbury's. Any suspicion that I had just got a copy of Sim City 4 would be well founded.
Whether it's an eBay fraudster, paedophile policemen or email viruses, internet security seems to be in the papers every day now. So what is to be done? I think that a useful way forward might be to stop thinking about how to "fix" the net and instead adopt an approach being investigated by the Japanese: build a parallel security infrastructure to work alongside the net for those who want to use it.I've often expressed the view that all email should be encrypted and signed (although not necessarily with your "real" name) for a variety of reasons. This has just as often led to accusations of paranoia. To caricature the opinions of some otherwise sensible people who have called me this, it seems there are two core elements to their argument: that the only people who can be bothered to encrypt and sign are geeks who understand Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) and that if you haven't got anything to hide, then you've got nothing to worry about.This latter element really bothers me. A recent UK court case illustrates why rather neatly. A student persuaded two friends, employees at O2, to intercept his girlfriend's text messages and pass them on to him. From these, he determined that she was seeing someone else so he "hacked" (ie, guessed the password) into her Friends Reunited account, changed her details and pasted photographs of the two having sex. He also "hacked" into her email account and posted inappropriate mes sages. This story, in a nutshell, encapsulates everything that is wrong with the net in security terms. Anyone can read your email and your text messages; anyone can log in to websites as you. You've got nothing to hide? So what.Worse still is the extension to this argument that says that since "the authorities" are essentially benign (because we live in a democracy), then there's no need to worry. Really? I live in a country (yes, England) where policemen in the National Crime Squad are going to jail for drug dealing. We should not have to rely on good intentions or honourable behaviour to give us security.The way to achieve this must be to implement an infrastructure that sits alongside the net. Instead of tampering with the net to try to make it more secure, which runs the danger of undermining its dynamics (ie, that anyone can connect, communicate and create), perhaps it would make sense to leave the net alone and build something alongside it.The Japanese approach is certainly interesting. The government has given everyone a citizen number (read "entitlement number") and local authorities have started   issuing smart cards for access to services. (They're also used for the buses and so on.)In this case, the underlying net infrastructure is unaffected. If you want to log on and do something, you can. But if you want to log on and do something securely, you use your smart card. Thus, the security of the services is vested in the smart card and not in passwords, web servers and so on.With this kind of approach, essentially creating a "disconnection infrastructure" to run alongside the net's connection infrastructure, it becomes straightforward to deliver secure e-business and e-government services and prevent the kind of abuse noted earlier. It would suit me never to have to remember a user name or password ever again, and it would seem to suit the service providers (eg, banks) that I access as well. A Meta Group study   found that password-related help desk calls cost as much as $30 each, and in one company - MFS Investment Management - passwords accounted for a quarter of support calls.There's a mental shift that goes along with this approach, because it means that the security infrastructure is the infrastructure that counts. This would mean that security would become central to the online proposition and that service providers would make security the simple default option for access, not a complicated "add on". It's a serious issue, which is definitely holding back the evolution of online services. Half of all American IT executives surveyed recently rated security as the biggest barrier to the deployment of web services, for example.Viewing security as infrastructure should also mean that security becomes the norm, rather than the exception, and that all email and web access could be encrypted and signed. No one would be able to pretend to be me on Friends Reunited: now that's progress!&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
On Monday, Orange and 02 announced that their subscribers would be able to send photo messages across the two networks. For most camera phone owners, however, sending images from a handset using one network to one that's using another simply can't be done. It's likely that full interoperability, when all photo messages can be sent to any network (similar to text messages), is still several months away.At present, if the recipient's camera phone is using another network, all they get to see is a plain old text message detailing a weblink where they can view the shot. A British company, Now  Wireless, claims to have overcome the problem. Rather than using the networks' systems, Now Wireless has set up an independent gateway (available viawww.nowmms.com) that routes the images from one network to another via its servers.The company also claims that its system is less expensive for consumers, too.  "Instead of paying the fee per message, users only pay the data transfer fees for GPRS, which are much cheaper," says Keith Norris."Essentially, we are setting ourselves up as a MMSC (multimedia messaging service centre) so users have to change some of the settings on their handset from their network to ours," says Norris. This is in the form of an SMS    which, when opened, changes the setting automatically. Norris hopes to keep the service free (apart from the network's charge of sending data over GPRS) by funding it via advertising.Users will receive SMS and MMS-based adverts, though Norris insists it will be no more than two a day and that they will feature subjects the user is interested in. Software that enables users to access their PC remotely from another computer has been available for several years.Now, Scottish company PocketWatch hopes to take the concept further by letting consumers view and, in some cases, control files on their PC. PocketHub - a free trial version is available atwww.pocketwatchsystems.com- offers remote real-time access to many PC-based applications via any handset.Users can access Microsoft Outlook to check and respond to email, see calendar information and call contacts. PocketHub also allows access to Word files and JPeg images.   Company founder Alex Heneveld says: "PocketHub is invisible to the user - until they are away from their desk and need an important file, contact or email. Then  PocketHub is there for them."The software also enables owners to see their PC files from another PC or connected PDA. It sounds really useful - but does it work? Downloading the trial version of PocketHub v1.0 took several minutes even with a 1Mbps broadband connection because the file is 34MB. Once downloaded, installation was simple and completed in about five minutes.For PocketHub to work, the owner needs a permanent internet connection and the system's software to be running on the PC.  PocketWatch claims PocketHub is compatible with all mobile phones, yet our first handset - the Orange SPV - delivered no files, just an error message.A second phone, 02's XDA, also defeated the system. Heneveld explained that "neither phone follows the standard of WML or HTML and the company has not finished developing a driver for them". It promises that version two of this system,   available later in the year, will work with both handsets.Fortunately, a Sony Ericsson T68i was to hand, and after entering the URL, the phone's small screen was soon displaying a basic interface promising a view of Outlook.  With a further click, I could see the latest email files that had been downloaded to Outlook and, using the handset's tiny keys, type a short reply. I could also view Word files and JPegs and, in what could prove to be its killer application, email them as attachments.Inevitably, I felt constrained by the small screen and the fiddly keypad of the T68i. I was also aware that browsing my PC remotely was clocking up a fairly sizeable mobile phone bill. Yet there's no denying that remote access to a PC via a mobile is a very useful tool. While I'll still be using the truncated version of Outlook express on the SPV to check my email, I'm sure PocketHub will, at times, prove to be a real bonus.
Porn freeThe Smoking Gun website has added A Different Bomb to its archive. This is guitarist Pete Townshend's six-page paper about internet pornography where, he says, the "pathway to 'free' paedophilic imagery is - as it were - laid out like a free line of cocaine at a decadent cocktail party: only the strong-willed or terminally uncurious can resist." It seems the paper was published on Townshend's official website in January 2002.www.thesmokinggun.com/archive/petetownshend1.htmlwww.petetownshend.co.ukHaiku? OK!Winter into spring/ brightly anticipated/ like Habeas SWE  (tm) isn't much of a Haiku but it makes a nice change to see a poem in your message headers, not just the usual "Received: from hewlettyf9yy" etc. But this is a poem with a purpose. It guarantees that the message is not spam. This sender warranted email (SWE) system is operated by Habeas, named after Habeas corpus.Habeas can only be used for mail that is not spam, and spammers who use it without a warrant can be sued. "Copyright does not protect names, titles, slogans, or short phrases," says Habeas, "it does protect poetry". Spam filters can be set to accept mail that includes the haiku. Habeas is free to individuals but makes most sense if used for newsletters that might otherwise be rejected by spam blockers. Ken Leebow's 300Incredible.com is an example.www.habeas.comwww.300Incredible.comWeb for allIBM, the world's biggest computer company, has launched a Web Accessibility for All programme to support    the European Union-led European Year of People with Disability. The EYPD site has links to national sites including the UK's effort. The EU's e-Europe Action Plan includes guidelines on improving web access for people with disabilities and older people. These are expected to become public policy by 2005, and many government websites will probably have to be redesigned. IBM, a EYPD corporate partner, will presumably be hoping to pick up some of the business.www.eypd2003.orgwww.disability.gov.uk/euro/euro.htmlwww.ibm.com/able/europeRadio daysIf you long for the days when the family gathered round the radio to listen to Abbott &amp; Costello, Groucho Marx or the Al Jolson Show, you can recreate them at the Radio Lovers site. Dozens of American shows are available, free, in MP3 format. The site admits it does not own copyrights but says: "We believe that any copyrights have expired, and that many of the shows are in    the public domain because they were never copyrighted".www.radiolovers.comUltrashortsIf you thought the idea of a five-minute movie was too much to handle, there's a web-based competition that should appeal. The Ten Second Films Competition is soliciting digital films that last 10 seconds. It opens for entries on February 3, and there's a $1,000 prize. The rules are a bit stiff: "No recognisable trademarks can appear in your film," for example. Apparently, competition judge David Wild "pioneered the concept of ten second films - which he described as Midwestern haiku" - and this led to a series of Ten Second Films on MTV. One point: many digital still cameras can record up to 30 seconds of video.www.tensecondfilms.comDraw a blankFat computer manuals often had blank pages that were not blank, because they contained the statement: This page intentionally left blank.    Inevitably, you can find people bringing the same sort of meditative blankness to the over-fussy world of thoughtless junk that makes up the web. Follow the links from the TPILB home site and, while some are already dead, others are delightful. If you run out, a simple Google search turns up 139,000 hits. The pages are nothing like as interesting as the old 404 Not Found project, but at least they download really quickly.www.this-page-intentionally-left-blank.orgwww.leftblank.comhttp://masl.to/?K10325F33www.plinko.net/404New &amp; noted&#183;Bafta nominees:www.bafta.org/film/announce.htm&#183;The campaign for free internet access for everyone over 50:www.idf50.co.uk&#183;Tesco Computers for Schools started again this week:www.tesco.com&#183;The search engine awards:www.pandia.com/post/016.html&#183;More interesting than the game:www.adbowl.comwww.msnbc.com/news/856714.asp&#183;Icon's Story:www.infonegocio.com/xeron/icons.swfSix of the bestPhoto albumsYahoo! Photoshttp://photos.yahoo.comMSN Photoshttp://photos.msn.comCanon's Fotangowww.fotango.comKodak's Ofotowww.ofoto.comHP's Cartograwww.cartogra.comPicturetrailwww.picturetrail.com
Dictators are all the rage at the moment. Saddam Hussein and Kim Jong-il are targeted as the twin evils that threaten world peace. They're easy to hate, they're easy to caricature, and they make our own leaders look moderately competent. They distract us from the fact that our railway system is kaput and the traffic is in permanent gridlock. We're too busy trying to decide whether the McDonald's carton on the seat opposite is some slob's detritus or a gift from Saddam's terror network to notice that we've been stuck in a tunnel for 20 minutes.As I type this, Saddam is preparing his country for the Mother of all Battles II. But when he's not greasing his Scuds and currying his camels, he's writing speeches - very bad speeches, I might add - which are posted on theofficial Iraqi website.Here is Saddam in typically obscure form: "The new Iraq was born on such a view, and was born with it, its rifle in place of the arrow, spear and sword, to be armed so that the ravens could not be so covetous as to venture its palms and the eyes of its children." I    was going to join thehuman shield in Iraquntil I read that speech.If you fancy taking out Saddam, single handed, but don't want to face the messy business of real bullets, you can always play the online game,Quest for Hussein, or you can relive the last conflict, with better graphics, by playingConflict Desert Storm.Why are dictators such bad speech makers? These words are alleged to be Idi Amin's: "Mr Queen, Sir, Horrible Ministers, invented guests, ladies under gentlemen. I thank the Queen very plenty for what he has done to me. I tell you, I have eaten so much that I am now fed up with malicious meal." There are more frothings from Field Marshal Dr Al Haj Idi Amin Dada to be had atwww.fortunecity.com/campus/books/845/idiamin.htm.Although Dada was clearly barking, the British government couldn't drop him from invitation lists right away: after all, the British army had trained him. As Franklin D Roosevelt said of Nicaragua's heavy-handed dictator Anastasio Somoza Garcia: "He may be a son of a bitch, but he's our son of a bitch." And so the son of a   bitch lives out his last days in Jeddah, a free man.Friendly Dictators Trading Cardssupplies a list of autocrats who never fell foul of the American administration. These are the bad guys we've chosen to overlook because they've got something we want or, more importantly, they don't have anything we want. Haiti's Papa Doc never got a bad rap simply because he was fiercely anti-communist. It didn't matter that he killed 60,000 Haitians and embezzled $16m from the International Monetary Fund. Nor did it matter that he rewrote the Lord's Prayer to read: "Our Doc who art in the National Palace for life, hallowed be Thy name by present and future generations." What mattered was that he kept the commies at bay.For more humour, visit theGuess the Dictator or Television Sit-Com Characterwebsite. After asking questions such as: "Do you live with your father and his therapist?" and "Are you a salesman?", the website correctly determined that I had Hitler in mind. Maybe it works on the premise that everyone has Hitler in mind   when thinking of dictators.Still, you don't have to be the head of state to show your despotic credentials. As Daniel Defoe said: "Nature has left this tincture in the blood, that all men would be tyrants if they could." Wouldn't we all love to implement our own quirky laws?The Discovery Schoolhas posted a lesson plan online so teachers can give their pupils a chance to "experience and analyse the pros and cons of a dictatorship".Who said this? "I'm a tough boss, yes. I drive people but it's my job to do that, but it's utterly ridiculous to call me a dictator." Yes, of course, it was our dear Maggie Thatcher (to read her hagiography, visitwww.margaretthatcher.com). And here's a quote from her mate, Augusto Pinochet: "I'm not a dictator. It's just that I have a grumpy face."But not all dictators are reviled or lampooned. Take Fidel Castro and his outsized cohiba robustos. Even the Manic Street Preachers have gigged for the bearded one, despite his human rights violations (well catalogued byAmnesty International). Castro is still considered the king of cool in some quarters because, a) he was mates withChe Guevaraand b) he cocks a snook at the uppity Americans. And, as the Manics sing, if you tolerate this, will your children be next?
This threatens to be a non-glorious year for businesses of all sizes. The serious possibility of war and the insecurity whether it happens or not, the economic climate and the level of consumer debt all bode ill. There are some predictable events, though, that will happen regardless and can be helped by technology. Here are a handful of them.&#183; January 31:It's that tax return time and, oh look, it's tomorrow. This basically means taking your tax return if you have one (and most business owners and all self-employed people will) to your local tax office with a cheque for your first payment this year. Packages that will help if you've left it this late include Microsoft Excel if your finances are straightforward and you can calculate the amount owing by yourself, or Intuit's Taxcalc and similar products if you can't (for a more in-depth explanation see On top of the form, Business Solutions, September 26 2002). If your books are not yet in order then forget the software, you need Harry Potter with his magic wand. And an escape capsule.&#183; February-March:Ideally you will be working on cash flow forecasts for the coming financial year during this period, except many small businesses don't have the money or inclination to produce detailed forecasts in this way. One answer is to look at some of the cash flow systems available at low cost; IntelligentApps has one (www.intelligentapps.co.uk) for &#163;99 per user, which is essentially a mega-tweaked version of Excel. The advantage is the low learning curve and access to the sort of sophisticated financials you'd normally associate with a much larger company.&#183; April:Depending on how you are set up, your tax year will almost certainly finish this month, and this would be a good time to re-evaluate the accounting system you use. Issues to consider include: Self-employed people might be using a personal finance package with invoicing added on. How satisfactory is this, and how simple is it to enter bills from suppliers you have yet to pay? It could be worth upgrading to a proper accounting system - TAS Books, Quickbooks, Instant Accounting, Simply Books and MYOB are all inexpensive and will handle everything you need.How easy would it be to change your systems if you started employing someone, if you don't already? Check on the availability of a payroll module for the system you use, and if there isn't one look at changing again.Will you be selling overseas this year, and will you need to set up multiple currency bank accounts as a result? Not all systems allow you to do this - double check that you will be equipped to cope.&#183; April:Related to the previous point, this year the flat-rate VAT system comes into effect for businesses with small turnovers. Forget the technology for the moment; accountants will be able to advise on whether this will or should apply to you, and how to amend your reporting to take account of it if so. If your accounts package calculates your VAT automatically make sure you're registered for updates now so that when the system changes you'll be brought into line without any extra charges, or if you were thinking of changing your accounts system anyway consider doing it now with something up to date.&#183; April again:April is when all the changes from the last Budget take effect - not to be confused with the Budget statement in November, which doesn't come into effect until it's morphed into a full-blown Budget later this year. They do it to confuse you - you're not paranoid, it's entirely personal. This makes April a very good time to chat with your accountant to ensure you are up to date, and to check your accounting system or payroll system is up to scratch. If this sounds like too much hassle it might be worth looking at MyBusiness (www.mybiz.co.uk) which will take your employees' gross salary, squirt them down a broadband connection to the MyBusiness server, which will process them according to up-to-the-minute regulations and send back the P60 you need to send off all the cheques.&#183; April yet again:All the corporate reporting has to happen here. Company returns can be done online and this will save time. The one not to do online, unless something dramatic changes, is your VAT return; for reasons that beggar belief, it's actually more expensive to do it that way than simply to send the paper form in.&#183; June/July:The UK is expected to adopt the European directive on intangible goods, which is going to be a riot if you buy and sell software, music, images or any other 'soft' goods online. The Americans are opposing it, but the principle will be that if you sell anything in this way it will be up to you to arrange the local sales tax. This should mean an end to the postman or courier turning up with your goods and a bill when you buy foreign software. On the other hand it means people with websites with pull-down menus allowing customers to select their home country will in theory need to know all of the local sales tax rates in all of those countries. And assuming America's one of them, that includes more than one rate of tax. Corporate tax software supplier Taxware has set up a pilot scheme in the US which allows for the automation of payment of different sales taxes between states, taking the onus off the trader; Customs and Excise is understood to be watching carefully to see whether an adapted version will work over here.&#183; July 31:Second payment of income tax for self-employed and anyone with a tax return.&#183; September 30:First of the tax deadlines for self-employed and company directors - if you're uncomfortable with calculating your tax liability, this is your deadline to get your tax return in. You will then receive a bill for January. Which is about where we came in...
It is 1996. A cross-party group in parliament has just launched an exciting project. Called the Information Society Initiative, it aims to tell companies about this new-fangled internet thing and to get them talking about and using e-commerce more than previously. Celebrities at the launch event include Nick Ross, the people behind Wallace and Gromit and many others.  
Fast forward to late 2002. The ISI has morphed into UK Online, with a separate UK Online for Business brand. The dotcom crash has happened and there is a lot of negative feeling about the government's ability to hit its 2005 deadline for e-enabling just about everything - to say nothing of countless surveys concluding that when people want business advice they tend not to go to government sources.Overall you can't help but feel it has been a rough time for the scheme, and its new head, Liz Grant, could have been forgiven for wondering what she was getting herself into when she took up the post in the middle of last year.Unusually for someone in a government post, Grant came not from a civil service background but is on secondment from IBM. She has a 20-year background in IT. What? A government agency with a genuine commercial sensibility and background? Tell us more.The central change Grant wanted to put into place was in the emphasis. "Historically we had focused on commerce and e-commerce," she says. "We now stress the fact that that's a single facet of e-business ... we're doing a lot of publicity to emphasise the people elements of the business; three years ago we really laboured the technical issues." This isn't to criticise the staff three years ago - when e-business was that new, putting the spotlight on the technical stuff was inevitable. It isn't now.Grant has based her plans partly around her experience at IBM, where she was in close contact with SMEs - the sort of business that makes up the vast majority of the UK economy. It enables her to see the linkage between the "e" bits and the rest of a business clearly. Which is fine, but on a practical level what is the organisation doing about it?Well, there's the website atwww.ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk, which gets a lot of traffic. "We get around 3,500 page impressions a day," she says. The site has a lot of information and business advice on supply chain, e-commerce and many other issues. But you get the impression that Grant's real focus is not on the electronic side of UK Online for Business but on the numerous events that it organises, often in conjunction with chambers of commerce, banks and IT and telecommunications vendors. "I love going out to the events in person," says Grant.The objectives of the events and information is to get businesses thinking about technology in a different way. "They're not thinking about it strategically," says Grant. "There's this tripod, based on people, processes and technology." Too many organisations consider those elements in isolation, when in order to get real value they need to take them in the context of each other. "I'd love to be able to say most businesses are getting it, but I don't think they are." There are some truly enlightened examples, she suggests, whose integration of the net has meant more than just bolting it on to the front of a company, and many of these are profiled on the UK Online for Business website.The number of people involved is impressive - 28 people in the Department of Trade and Industry are focused on the UK Online for Business initiative, plus three contractors and two secondees. There are 300 specialist ICT (information and communication technology) advisers working under the scheme's banner across the country and there are collaborations with business links, the Confederation of British Industry and the Institute of Directors.The British Chambers of Commerce has a national e-business club under the scheme's auspices; Grant has every intention of pushing it further to the benefit of smaller traders. Her background in the commercial arena forces her to keep a constant watch on the value the organisation brings to its clients.There are still bits missing from the jigsaw. No doubt due to internal politics rather than technology, businesspeople can't just log on to the UK Online for Business website and find something that says "Here's where you pay your tax online, here's where you pay your VAT and here's a link to Companies House for your company returns online" - which would be useful and save some ferreting around.The aims overall, though, to inform people about what can and should be done in terms of e-commerce and to get qualified, rigidly independent advice to business on how to go about it, are laudable. The website tends to get tarred with the same cynicism that attaches itself to any initiative with the word "government" attached. Overcoming this will be one of Grant's most difficult jobs.
Our panel of experts this month comprises Gavin Russell, technical director of consultancy Wavex, Chris Green, technical editor of Computing magazine, David Quarterman, chief executive of independent software house Corexe, Ollie Ross, researcher, Corporate IT Forum, and independent consultant Gill Hunt.If you have a problem you would like to see answered, email it toonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukor post it to Online, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER.&#183;An employee has sent an email containing a rather explicit joke intended for a colleague to the company's biggest customer. Is there anyway I can retrieve the email and stop this happening again?GR:Outlook does support a message recall facility, which can be used to retrieve messages sent in error. This is accessed by going to the offending sent message, choosing the "Actions" menu item and then the "Recall message" option. However, one word of warning: this function relies on the addressee having an email system that understands the recall request. Therefore, if the recipient is using an incompatible system, they will not only see the message you wished to recall but also a "recall" email, which might draw extra attention to the message.&#183;I am a partner in a consultancy, at the heart of which are two senior PR consultants, one based in London and one in Reading. We rely ever more heavily on email contact databases and would like to synchronise them without rekeying information. We keep our costs low on behalf of clients, and as there are only two of us, networking the computers seems an expensive option.OR:Networking doesn't need to be expensive. As long as you both live in areas with access to broadband internet, you can buy a simple hardware virtual private network (VPN) and firewall device that gives you the ability to send data to each other and synchronise databases quickly and easily, all without the need for a server.This should solve your problem, although it will mean one of you has to keep hold of the master copy and have your computer switched on 24 hours a day. If you both meet up regularly, the other, more low-tech, option is to hold the master copy in a third location and update as and when you meet.&#183;I have a PocketPC with Bluetooth, which works fine except occasionally I get a "Bluetooth stack cannot be loaded" error message. It seems to work again when I reset the thing, but I am concerned about what is going wrong and what else might be happening under the bonnet. What is causing it, and how do I stop it?GH:You don't say what make of PocketPC this is, but the message you are getting is a common problem with the iPaq series from Compaq. It means that the PocketPC hasn't got enough memory to load the Bluetooth software, probably because you are running too many other programs at the same time.To prevent this make sure that you have closed down any games or other software before connecting via Bluetooth.There is an updated version of the iPaq software available fromwww.compaq.com/supportwhich should at least make the messages more sensible.&#183;I have been told I should have a firewall for my office network. There seems to be a lot of options available at a range of costs, but we don't want to pay a fortune. Can anyone recommend a cheap but effective system and explain how it will work?DQ:If you use Microsoft-based servers (Windows NT 4 or later), you have a firewall built in, although you may not be using it. But if you don't want all your eggs in one basket, try ZoneAlarm from ZoneLabs or Wingate from Deerfield. Both are cheap and easy to install and can run on the server that you use to connect to the internet.Both work by applying techniques that make your entry to the internet almost invisible and if you are invisible, nobody can hack you. You can test your vulnerability to attack by going towww.grc.comand running the Shields Up utility.&#183;We, like many companies, back up our data on a daily basis. However, when I return to the office in the morning I often discover that operation hasn't been successful. Is there a quick way to ensure the operation completes before I go home in the evening?GR:It is not a good idea to run a back-up during office hours, because many more files are in use, which can cause problems. The usual reason for back-up failure is because the back-up software is attempting to replicate files that require backing up in a particular way or shouldn't be backed up at all.However, one should remember that when the server registers a back-up failure, this does not mean everything has failed. An examination of the log files will highlight what data has and has not been replicated.&#183;I want to use broadband, but it is not available on my BT exchange. I have been told satellite broadband is an economical option now for small businesses, but I don't understand all this stuff about latency and contention. Can someone explain the issues and pitfalls?DQ:If ADSL is not available to you, satellite technology might be an option. But, if you are a "standard" internet user, browsing websites and information surfing, the effects of latency - the time taken for your request to travel from your PC through the uplink to the satellite and back - might wipe out speed gains that you expect over a 56K modem.If you regularly download large files, this delay might not be noticeable and you will get much better throughput.Contention is less problematic on satellite (compared with ADSL), because sophisticated algorithms are used to prevent any one user from hogging the bandwidth.&#183;We have an office email system that uses a dial-up connection based on Macs, using the Eudora email program. I would like to be able to check emails remotely, using my mobile phone, but I want to be able to keep the original email on the office system so that it can be viewed by colleagues and archived. I can check emails using webmail, but this only shows unchecked emails that haven't yet been downloaded in the office. We are a small business with fewer than 10 computers. I have a Wap-enabled phone.CG:Some webmail systems support Wap and allow you to view all the mail in your mailbox, not just the stuff that is marked unread. One such service is Mail2Web, which directly accesses and displays the contents of your mailbox, rather than just copying unread messages into a webmail account. You can access the service via Wap, which is free, atmail2web.com/wap.   
Remember that if you download mail to your computer, most email clients by default delete the contents of the mailbox after download, so select the "Leave mail on the server" option in your email software preferences to retain all your mail for use via webmail or Wap.
Readers will realise the Business Solutions supplement, highlight of the month though it is, is written a little in advance. So whereas you're reading at the end of January, at this end of the word processor that month is only half-way through. And I've broken most of my new year's resolutions - midweek wine with dinner was supposed to be out (hah!) and visits to the gym, well, they were supposed to have happened by now.In business there are other resolutions to make. These will often involve practices that should have been adhered to in the first place - this year I'm going to take the receipts out of my pocket more regularly, this year I'm going to do my accounts every week, and this year I'm going to be more organised. On the organisation side there's a lot of software and indeed hardware out there to help.&#183;Organisers: softwareAt the most basic level, all office suites have some sort of PIM (personal information manager) application built in. Microsoft Outlook is far and away the market leader and includes email as well as contacts, task lists and calendaring functions. You can get more sophistication by putting a customer relationship system such as ACT from Sage over the top of this, but if you are new to electronic organising it can be worth sticking with the basics first.     Microsoft Works also has a calendar, albeit a more basic one, and Lotus Smartsuite costs only &#163;19.99 and has a perfectly workable organiser that even looks like a Filofax on screen.Other independent companies also offer organiser systems. Isbister (www.isbister.com) makes Time and Chaos, offering an appealing visual guide to your appointments and contacts, and SmartAddress (www.sa2k.com) likewise organises contacts in a clear and satisfying manner.Watch out for the multiple diary syndrome, however. Many accounting systems have basic scheduling and, of course, they contain contact details for customers. Keeping these synchronised with other diaries you might have on your system through organisers can be a pain. It is worth asking your supplier whether the contacts and scheduling can be shared across applications.&#183;Organisers: hardwareHand-held computers tend to end up getting used as glorified organisers, which is of course an excellent way to spend your &#163;399 or however much you plan to cough up. The good news is that they come increasingly with other functions and excellent organiser software.     Palm has its own proprietary organiser software, which you can either use or bypass in favour of an easy link with Microsoft Outlook, Lotus Notes or whichever system you prefer.     PocketPC-compatible systems, such as the Compaq iPaq and offerings from Toshiba, arrive with a licensed copy of Outlook XP. This doesn't actually require Windows XP to work, but people with low-spec computers will need to consider upgrading if they want to use it - what the packaging forgets to tell you is that if you have an older copy of Outlook on your system it'll probably work with that.The principle is simple: you enter the information, you set up your hand-held computer's software and it takes all the contact, scheduling, email and whichever other information you want it to have from your computer. Depending on how much storage you have, you can carry Word and Excel files around in your pocket as well as music, e-books and games.     Businesspeople might be more interested in getting tailored systems together to organise their activities. Jack Panayi is a partner with Soccertutor (www.soccertutor.com), which has developed an application for the PocketPC platform. Coaches can take a hand-held computer into their sessions and use them to track the attendance and progress of each player.     "Administrators will be able to use it as an online event manager to organise courses," he explains.Essentially the coach ticks off the players on an electronic list, enters information about them as the session progresses then plugs it into the main computer afterwards and the player profiles are updated automatically; the administrator then knows the exact status of each player in almost real time. A version for Smartphone is currently under development - which the market has yet to demand but which, Payani believes, will be an important hardware platform in future.&#183;DatabasesSoccertutor is arguably an interesting case because it uses what looks like an organiser, but the company has written a database application to power the very specific tasks it wants to perform.This is the same as the approach taken by developer Muddyboots, which produces a system called CropWalker for agronomists. Richard Palmer is an agronomist who heads a consultancy called Farm Vision (www.farmvision.com). His job involves visiting farms and advising on growing conditions and also on tracking the crops - everything, in the current supermarket climate, must be absolutely traceable to where it came from.He has used CropWalker, a database Muddyboots wrote in Visual Basic, for five years, and was suitably chuffed when the Pocket CropWalker system, which takes information into a PocketPC and downloads it on to the computer when the user returns to the office, emerged.     "I had been writing everything down on paper and then typing it in," he confirms. "Now it happens automatically and the system sends an email to my farmer customer. Ideally he'll be using CropWalker as well, so it's automatically in the right format." If not, the system sends a PDF through Microsoft Outlook.Databases don't need to be that specialised of course, and they don't need to cost a fortune. Microsoft Access, part of the professional version of the Office suite, which costs £474 from Amazon or &#163;279.99 for Access alone, can be tweaked by someone with the appropriate skills into the right tool for your business and it has several templates built in.Filemaker Pro is stronger on templates for different businesses, costs &#163;225.99 and will work on Windows or the Mac. Lotus has the Approach database in its ludicrously priced Smartsuite set of products, and Corel's WordPerfect Office also has a database.Microsoft will be the preferred option for people wanting to transfer their databases to other people's computers, and you are more likely to find someone with skills in developing for the more popular databases than the lesser ones.Nobody is suggesting that every business will need to have a system tailored for its exclusive use, nor that every niche market will need its own software application. Organisations will certainly benefit from simple sharing of schedules, and the use of PDAs in their most basic form can be a productive layer on top of that. But it is worth noting that once you are into organising your work using IT, there is often a great deal that can be achieved beyond standard diary and address book systems.An answer to their prayersNot all organisations are there for profit, which is why sometimes someone takes a sideways look at their system and uses only the bits they want. Goldmine, for example, is a sales and marketing system that specialises in contact management and group scheduling, with a view to making an affordable customer relationship management system. It is perhaps a surprise, then, to find The Boiler Room, a Christian group in Reading, using it."We'd been trying to organise ways to keep us in touch with the people who come to pray here," says prayer room manager Peter Ward. "There were large groups with whom we wanted to maintain contact, and we don't have a typical church building - we're separated out into different rooms."It was this diversity of location, even within the same building, that made the organisation look further than the standard Microsoft Office packages. Although Outlook can be networked, it was simpler to install something like Goldmine, which by default is set up to take information from a single database for multiple users."We could have used Outlook, but we'd have had to use Microsoft Exchange," says Ward - and in this five-strong charity there wasn't the time to learn how.Indeed, the only gripe with the Goldmine system is that it isn't as intuitive as a lot of software these days. "You definitely have to learn it - it doesn't feel natural," says Ward. And he is aware that he is only touching the surface of what can be done with it: "We don't use the scheduling at all. Again, we just haven't got the time to learn how to do it."Nevertheless, as a means of putting visitors into groups on a central database and getting all the staff access to the records as flexibly as possible, Ward is pleased with the results.Help panelPersonal, portable and in your pocketPDA:Personal digital assistant, or hand-held computer.PDF:Portable document format made using Adobe Acrobat. The reader is free from www.adobe.com and the idea is that files in this format will be readable by any computer.PIM:Personal information manager - diary and contact book software.PocketPC:The Windows system for PDAs, which competes with Palm.Smartphone:In this context it means Microsoft's Smartphone system currently working on Orange's SPV model and other mobile phones. It can also mean any intelligent telephone.
&#183;Depressed about the impending tax deadline? If you are self-employed or a company director needing to submit their self-assessment form and have yet to do anything about it, you ought to be at least a little anxious.This is why Alliance &amp; Leicester has got the Inland Revenue on board for itswww.billpayment.co.ukwebsite, which can be used to pay the bill at any point until midnight on January 31 so that you avoid a fine. Numerous companies, including the tax office, will accept payment through this website, and you don't need an online bank account to take advantage of it.&#183;Printer manufacturer Epson is pushing its way into the all-in-one market, launching a multifunction machine that will compete with similar space-saving options from Brother, Hewlett-Packard and others.The company claims customers are disillusioned with offerings from other companies since they focus on only one element of the device, such as the scanner or the printer, at the expense of the others, whereas the new Stylus CX3200 won't make this mistake. Pricing had yet to be confirmed as we went to press.Meanwhile, Hewlett-Packard is also targeting the smaller trader working from home with the HP OfficeJet 6110 and OfficeJet 5110 multifunction systems, coming in at &#163;349 plus VAT for the higher-end product with the flatbed scanner built in, and HP LaserJet 1005w personal laser printer, which will cost &#163;199 plus VAT.The company believes it is making business products available for consumer-ish prices without compromising on quality. Expect retaliatory price cuts or new product launches from the competition as a result.&#183;Wireless networking is becoming desperately trendy but useful, and manufacturers Zyxel and Netgear are making efforts to make it easier and cheaper to use.   
Zyxel has launched a suite of products, including a wireless gateway with ports for four computers to share an internet connection without cables, a PC card, a PCI card and an ethernet adapter, all selling through Electronic Frontier and including extra security. It has also launched the 650HW router, which is a network router with a wireless access point built in for under &#163;200.Netgear is also pushing the more-devices-in-one idea, with a combined switch, router and wireless access point in the one box with a simple setting-up process. This is called the DG824M and will support up to 256 computers sharing the same internet connection, although if you had all of them online at the one time it would almost certainly slow down quite a lot.&#183;The Department of Trade and Industry-backedUK Online for Business schemehas published four booklets aimed at helping people who want to get their business online. The organisation has published research suggesting that in spite of the business advantages nearly a quarter of retailers in the convenience store sector and more than half the micro-businesses in the area have not even considered e-commerce - meaning that the big supermarkets will win the online business every time.UK Online for Business claims its publications, EPOS and Supplying Electronically, EDI and Supplying Electronically, CAD/CAM and Supplying Electronically and Just-in-Time - Transforming Your Business, will help and will be jargon-free. Whether anything with EPOS, CAD/CAM and EDI in the titles can really make that claim is open to discussion.&#183;UK businesses are scaling back on their investment in leading-edge technology as the amount of information they need to process expands. Research from CopperEye entitled The Business Information Study suggests 87% of companies believe IT will continue to play a vital part in their business and two-thirds expected the information they will need to process to grow massively. However, they will not be investing in new applications but sticking with established technology to deal with it.&#183;A new collaboration between Avaya, Proxim and Motorola should sort out a lot of the confusion around the various means of communicating when you are on the road. Using technologies shared between the participants, the alliance hopes to start issuing multi-standard devices so the user won't have to think about whether they are on a mobile phone for internet connections, or using GPRS through a mobile, or near a WiFi 'hotspot' (an area in which you are allowed to share a wireless connection).The systems themselves will detect and configure the best way to get you online. You will also be able to make telephone calls over the net where it will be cheaper. Trials of products are expected to happen in the second half of this year.&#183;Financial software specialist CIP-Global (www.cip-global.com) is coming to the UK with financial management products for small businesses. Its systems use SQL Server and are ready to take advantage of Microsoft's .Net environment. The scalability means the same system can be used to track the finances of a 10-strong company or indeed a 10,000-strong organisation. The products are particularly strong in reporting.
When you are running a small business, particularly if you are the only employee, a trip abroad poses a choice. Do you cut yourself off and hope nothing important turns up while you are away, or do you stump up to stay in touch?Fortunately for business continuity, keeping track of electronic communications while abroad is becoming increasingly easy and cheap. If you simply want to check email and send quick replies while abroad, you might not need to take your own computer, as pay-as-you-use web connections have become common in many parts of the world. Many airports have such facilities. Travellers in US cities will find connections at office services chains such as Kinko's. And in Australia, web connections are increasingly seen as part of the tourism infrastructure. Melbourne's brand-new Federation Square tourist information centre, for instance, includes a good-value web cafe. For those who don't mind mixing with the young and footloose, backpacker hostels all over the world offer web access services, even if you are just paying to use the office computer for a few minutes.If you use a webmail service already, such as Hotmail, you will use it as normal. If you normally receive your email through your internet service provider (ISP), check whether it offers a way to access your inbox via the web. If it doesn't, or if it does but is slow or unreliable, trywww.mail2web.com. This free site retrieves email from almost any ISP and allows you to reply using your usual address. It works fast and reliably in several countries - useful when you are paying by the minute. You can use it as and when you need to or you can set up a personalised home page, meaning you just have to enter your password when on the road. Bear in mind that the latter makes your password more important than usual, and you should be careful with its security.If you do feel the need to take a computer abroad, and you have collected all the power adaptors and phone plugs required, you still need local ISPs. GRIC (www.gric.com) has a global network of ISPs providing such services. An expensive but convenient alternative is to connect to your normal ISP in the UK. However, some UK ISPs, including Freeserve, bar connection when caller-line identification is not available. This includes many foreign calls, so check with your ISP first.With your mobile, the first question is whether will it work. Standard dual-band phones will be fine in most of Europe, Asia and Australasia, but networks in the Americas generally require tri-band handsets. Japan's networks are incompatible with phones from the UK. If you take the mobile, you normally need to call your network to register for international calls. But when you do, check the call charges, bearing in mind that you will pay for accepting calls as well as making them. International rates vary enormously, both in size and structure. Orange, O2 and Virgin Mobile have simple rates for each country to and from the UK, whereas Vodafone and T-Mobile alter their rates depending on the time of day and which local network you use. It is usually cheaper to call a number in the same country, although Orange charges the same as for calls to UK.To show the range of prices, accepting a call in the US costs 39p a minute with O2, but from £1.22 to £1.28 with Vodafone, although that can be pushed down to 71p if you pay an extra £2.50 a month. Calling the UK with Vodafone is less than the standard rate to receive - 86p to 99p.Beware the answering service; Orange, T-Mobile and Virgin Mobile can charge you three times over for its use when abroad, as you pay for an inbound and outbound call while the message is being taken, then an outbound call to retrieve the message. You can avoid this by disabling the service before going abroad, or leaving your mobile phone behind and calling a UK number to check messages. Both services need to be set up with your network before departure. Vodafone and O2 users can arrange to receive text messages alerting them to messages, then only pay for a call to the UK. Even if you turn off the answering service, the mobile can still be used for text messaging, which remains good value. It doesn't cost any more for those sending you messages and you rarely pay to receive them. You will usually pay more to send messages; one sent through Australia's Telstra network takes Orange's cost per message from 10p to 30p, for example. But that's competitive compared with calling.If going abroad for a while, minimising your mobile contract's free minutes often makes sense, as these often don't count towards calls made abroad. On longer or repeated stays, buying a local handset or SIM card can work out cheaper, although you then have to give people a new number to try. It is often cheaper to use landlines for making calls, and using a pre-pay UK network with freephone access numbers in the countries you are visiting makes it convenient. Alpha Telecom (www.alphatelecom.com) offers access numbers in 60 countries, OneTel (www.one-tel.co.uk) in 40, while Swiftcall (www.swiftcall.co.uk) covers 28. Some of these services charge a rate per minute for using the local access number, meaning you will pay something even if you don't get through.However, the prices can be excellent value. Alpha Telecom charges 14p a minute for calls made through its freephone US number to UK landlines. BT's Chargecard service, which is charged to a BT bill, is available from 120 countries but starts at 89p a minute from Ireland - perhaps for emergencies only. If email, voicemail and text messaging seem a bit basic for your customers, but you can't afford a full-time secretary, several of the mobile phone networks offer pay-as-you-use answering services. With these, an operator takes your calls and then forwards messages through another medium.See various mobile networks' international pricing at:www.vodafone-roaming.co.ukwww.o2.co.uk/personal/productsservices/mobileservices/travelling/worldwide/callchargewhenabroad/0,,153,00.htmlwww.virginmobile.com/mobile/services/abroad/abroad.jspwww.t-mobile.co.uk/Dispatcher?menuid=roaming_l_cHelp panelHow to keep the costs down&#183;You probably don't need to take your own computer just to check email - pay-as-you-go web connections are increasingly easy to find.&#183;Let your network know you are going abroad, and be sure to check their prices. It will cost to receive calls abroad - in some cases, more than the cost of actually making calls - and the pricing is often complicated.&#183;Leaving the answerphone switched on can be ruinously expensive, but text messaging is a bargain.&#183;Services that provide you with free dial-in numbers from the countries you plan to visit can be both convenient and good value - although
The French do it effortlessly, as do New Zealanders, but suggest to the British public that they should use a PIN rather than a signature when they make a card payment, and apoplexy is likely to follow. Or is it?Haven't we had to remember PINs for cash machines for years? Don't we have codes on car radios and PCs and countless passwords to remember? The arrival of what is known as Chip and PIN will probably go even more smoothly than decimalisation. Especially as there are advantages for us.For banks and merchants, it represents a huge customer marketing and education exercise, and a massive cost. First, let us define what this technological innovation means and why it is happening. You may have noticed that your card has changed recently, in that it has a shiny gold silicon chip on one side.With a memory of just 1KB, it is by no means a powerful computer, but it provides more of a challenge for fraudsters than the 20-year-old magnetic stripe.    Massive computer power in a laboratory will eventually crack the chip, but it takes a great deal of time. In short, the EMV (Europay, MasterCard and Visa) agreed specification for chip cards is the banking industry's answer to large and rising card fraud.This cost the UK payments industry &#163;400m last year. The migration to EMV chip cards is taking place all over the world, for the same reasons. Card fraud is biggest in the UK and so it will be one of the first to roll out the system. The problem is that although the chip makes the card more secure, it doesn't in itself prevent a criminal stealing your card and pretending to be you. Have you noticed how rarely your signature is checked against the card?It was obvious that to stop lost or stolen cards being used for fraud, it was necessary to verify that you really are who you say you are. Biometrics - using a copy of a body part, such as a fingerprint - would be perfect, but there are privacy issues and the technology is not sufficiently sophisticated to work every time. Public key encryption (or jumbled numbers) looked    promising, but takes a lot of computing power, and hasn't proved particularly useful on transportable devices. So it was back to the good old-fashioned PIN.French card fraud went through the roof about 10 years ago, and an early version of a smart card was introduced, verified by PIN number. Using Chip and PIN is empowering for the cardholder.Not for the French, the angst of handing over that treasured piece of plastic to an unknown person. Instead, the till operator presents a little gadget that looks like a calculator, and the customer puts in his card and punches in a number. There is a visual display panel that tells the customer what to do, and provides information about the progress of the transaction.On confirmation that everything has been autho  rised, the cardholder removes the card and that's it. No scrabbling for a pen and the card never leaves their sight. There is no time for an employee to swipe the card in a counterfeiting device, as happens in areas such as Spain and parts of the Asia Pacific region.  Making duplicates of the magnetic stripe credit and debit cards is a doddle.With Chip and PIN, it will be much harder. And as long as you don't let anyone know your    PIN, no criminal can get money from your account by pretending to be you. How long before we follow the French example?The first trial of Chip and PIN is scheduled to begin in April in Northampton. All the major banks are involved, and they will be testing to make sure that when the system is launched countrywide in a gradual migration until January 1, 2005, there will be no authorisation problems or software issues. While the earlier trials of chip cards without PINs were seamless, Chip and PIN will be different, requiring more education and cardholder participation.Ian Barber, Chip and PIN spokesman for Barclaycard, says: "We have got to get out there to communicate to the people on a massive scale."Both customers and shop assistants will have to learn a new process. Customers will have to remember the PIN for credit cards and, as many won't know what this is, banks will need to gear up their direct marketing and customer call centres. Retailers need educating on how to use the terminals and how to explain to the customer what to do.Direct marketing by the banks will also be reinforced by generic advertising by the bankers' associations. All cards will have to be reissued to make them useable for Chip and PIN. This will involve 30,000 in the NN1 to NN6 postcodes in Northampton, but outside of this trial, cards will be issued as the old ones become out of date. It has not been decided whether customers will be asked to keep their old PINs or whether they will be issued with new ones. Whatever system is adopted, the cardholder will be able to change the PIN at ATM machines.During the migration period, customers will still be able to use a signature. After January 1, 2005, it is "no PIN, no deal", says Barber. Special arrangements are being made for those with disabilities and short-term learning problems."The big advantage of the chip is that it is clever, and can talk to the point of sale terminal," says Barber. "So if a customer has a disability, a message will come up that signature is to be accepted.No explanation is needed, and the cardholder is not stigmatised by having to carry a different payment card." For more information, go to the newly launched Chip and Pin website atwww.chipandpin.co.ukor just sit and wait. Sooner or later, your bank will be contacting you.Did you know?According to an encryption specialist and ex-hacker, most people choose low numbers when selecting their PIN. This is where a fraudster will start.
The Wikipedia, perhaps one of the greatest testaments to the generosity on the web, has just hit a milestone of 100,000 articles, a week after its second birthday. Written by thousands of volunteers around the world, in 30 languages, the Wikipedia is run on a system that allows anyone to edit any page or create a new one.That might seem a little surprising, but it's the key to the way the Wikipedia works: by allowing anyone to edit anything, the site builders have found that the community at large works hard to produce the best entries they can. Any vandalism is rapidly edited away, and far from repelling the most learned, the volunteer aspect and the way the entries are available free for all seems to attract an excellent level of authorship. It's so successful that its founders, internet entrepreneur Jimmy Wales and philosopher Larry Sanger, have startedWiktionary.org- a dictionary version.What makes the Wikipedia so compelling - and this arti cle so hard to finish - is the way everything is so massively linked. You read one entry, and before you know it, you're reading up on Anne Boleyn or Italian greyhounds. But more than that, anyone can add to or edit an entry, or even create another one. Edit that page, create a link, save it, click on the new link, and edit the empty page you get to."Unless we really are experts on a subject," says the Wikipedia Reponses to Critics page, "or we want to do a huge amount of research (which some of us seem to do!), we cannot easily state what is known on a given subject. But if we put our heads together, we manage - over time - to create surprisingly balanced treatments of various subjects."It is this "over time" statement that is the key to the Wikipedia. It aims to deliver an emergent knowledge base. Everything can be refined by every reader and nothing is ever lost to the Wikipedia. All changes can be rolled back again by anyone, back to the first version of a page.The Wikipedia is not unique in this system. The    first such site, the WikiWikiWeb, was written by Ward Cunningham in March 1995, as an add-on for the Portland Pattern Repository, as a place to discuss Design Patterns, a powerful programming idea gaining popularity at the time. WikiWiki, which became a generic term for user editing, is the Hawaiian word for "quick". The WikiWikiWeb's popularity soon   outstretched the need for discussions on programming techniques and today, there are many Wiki clones written in many languages, and many Wikis set up for groups to share their knowledge.Wikis are also popular because of something known as WikiStyle. For a start, you do not need to know code, HTML, or how to upload files. You just hit Edit and    type ordinary text. Links are automatically created when the Wiki sees two capitalised words placed together LikeThis. That phrase, or WikiWord, automatically becomes a link to the page with that WikiWord as its title. If the page doesn't exist, it is created as a blank sheet, and instead of a link, you see a small question mark. Click on the question mark, and you   can edit the new page.Because it allows for very fast creation of hyperlinked ideas, many people install Wikis on their own machines to act as notebooks. You can throw things into them very quickly, and create vast swaths of interlinked research and material without really thinking about it. Writing WikiWords - missing out the spaces - becomes second nature.It's a cool habit you might not want to get into. Read this article online, and you might wish it was editable. You might find yourself with the rest of the Guardian readership, editing and clarifying, annotating and expanding, on each day's issue. First an encyclopaedia; next, perhaps, a newspaper.Linkswww.wikipedia.comwww.c2.com/cgi/wiki?Welcomehttp://dmoz.org/Computers
When IBM unveiled its backing for the open source Apache Web server in June 1998, and Oracle announced a month later a version of its flagship database for the GNU/Linux operating system, free software gained not only yet more visibility but also respectability. Since then, GNU/Linux has continued to make inroads into the corporate server market, to the point where it is now the only serious rival to Microsoft's Windows.In some respects, it has already moved beyond Microsoft's flagship product. GNU/Linux is the operating system at the heart of low-cost supercomputers called Beowulf clusters, widely used in the scientific world. Combined with the open source Globus toolkit, GNU/Linux dominates the hot new area of grid computing - linking computers with very fast connections to create a large virtual machine. And IBM has announced that it will be using GNU/Linux as the operating system for the world's most powerful computer, Blue Gene/L.With its 65,536 processors and 16,000GB of memory,   Blue Gene/L is expected to operate at 200 teraflops (200,000,000,000,000 floating point operations per second), which IBM claims is greater than the combined computing power of the current top 500 supercomputers. There could hardly be a better symbol of how far GNU/Linux has come since it first ran on a 386 PC with 8MB of memory in a Helsinki bedroom back in 1991.However, until recently, even the most zealous fan of open source software would have found it difficult to claim that GNU/Linux stood much chance on the desktop. There, its famed stability was overshadowed by an equally infamous user-unfriendliness. More serious, perhaps, was the lack of a suitable alternative to Microsoft Office. These problems are now well on the way to being solved.Graphical user interfaces like Gnome and KDE, combined with slick installation, offer a user experience close to Microsoft. Building on this progress, many companies are coming out with versions of GNU/Linux specifically aimed at the desktop.SuSE, one of the open source pioneers, has just launched its Linux Office Desktop. The cheekily named Lindows.com startup offers a version of GNU/Linux that includes automatic download and installation of applications over the internet. Sun Microsystems will soon unveil its Mad Hatter project, a desktop product based around GNU/Linux.All of these include the same office suite: Sun's StarOffice 6.0. StarOffice began life as a program from the German software house Star Division. In 1999, Sun bought the company, and made the office suite freely available. However, StarOffice 5.1 fell far short of what Microsoft Office provided, and had only minimal impact on GNU/Linux's fate on the desktop. Things changed with the announcement in August 2000 that Sun would be releasing StarOffice as open source. This created the focal point for a   community of programmers who have taken StarOffice's code and improved it to produce OpenOffice 1.0. This is freely available, but there is also a paid-for version from Sun, StarOffice 6.0, which comes with extras and full support.Coupled with GNU/Linux, StarOffice/OpenOffice provides the first real alternative to Microsoft Office running on Windows. It offers compatibility with Microsoft Office's file formats, provides easy transition from existing systems, while retaining the ability to work on existing documents, and on those from colleagues still using Microsoft's programs.Of course, office tools are not the only software people want. GNU/Linux users have the choice of two web browsers that are free yet full-featured: Mozilla and KDE's Konqueror. An indication of the latter's quality is the fact that Apple   chose to make it the basis of its well-received new browser Safari.For coders, the IBM-backed Eclipse project has created an open source, extensible platform that will form the basis of a range of programming tools; together they could represent a rival to Microsoft's very popular Visual Studio. Similarly, a program codenamed Chandler, from the newly formed Open Source Applications Foundation, is a personal information manager that aims to offer a free alternative to Microsoft's Outlook. Both of these will run on Windows as well as GNU/Linux.GNU/Linux may lack the huge range of end-user software written for Microsoft Windows, but this is also the case on the server side, where it nevertheless goes from strength to strength. What matters is the availability of a few core applications that most people need, and GNU/Linux is close to achieving this on the desktop, as it did on the server in 1998. Everything else is just a matter of time.LinksApachehttp://httpd.apache.orgBeowulfwww.beowulf.orgGlobuswww.globus.orgBlue Gene/Lwww.research.ibm.com/bluegeneGnomewww.gnome.orgKDEwww.kde.orgThe Gimpwww.gimp.orgSuSE Linux Officewww.suse.com/us/privateLindowswww.lindows.comMad Hatterwww.sun.com/smi/PressStarOfficewwws.sun.com/software/star/staroffice/6.0OpenOfficewww.openoffice.orgMozillawww.mozilla.orgKonquerorwww.konqueror.orgSafariwww.apple.com/safariEclipsewww.eclipse.orgOpen Source Applications Foundationwww.osafoundation.org&#183;Glyn Moody is the author of Rebel Code: Linux and the open source revolution, published by Penguin.
Tomorrow, the government closes public consultation on its multibillion pound plan for a national identity card or, as the Home Office prefers to call it, an entitlement card.Everyone would be required to obtain such a card to access government services, but would not be legally obliged to carry it at all times.A main aim would be to tackle identity fraud. Cifas, an anti-fraud organisation funded by banks, retailers and utility firms, recorded 79,766 identity and impersonation frauds last year, compared with 53,536 in 2001. The Home Office says such crimes cost the economy &#163;1.3 billion each year.However, there is scepticism that an identity card would make much difference, particularly online.BBC1's Kenyon Confronts programme recently opened a credit card account with web bank Smile.co.uk, hijacking the identity and credit-rating of the author Frederick Forsyth.Smile says the application was made with two valid utility bills, and passed other checks. The programme had placed Mr Forsyth on the electoral role, and obtained a copy of his birth certificate - something anyone can do. This loophole was featured by Forsyth in his thriller The Day of the Jackal, but has never been closed.Smile's spokesperson adds: "When it comes to internet banking, I don't think identity cards could help. We couldn't expect &#91;a customer&#93; to bring it in to us."Companies use utility bills to check identity because on their own, these documents do not prove identity and people are therefore prepared to send them by unregistered post. But you would need to take an identity card in person to a bank branch, something online banks don't have."It would mainly help in   face-to-face situations," says Graham Titterington, a senior analyst at the research firm Ovum, but he adds there are dangers: "It could allow unwanted correlation of data."Government databases are currently separated, but the Home Office's consultation document acknowledges that an identity card could be used to link them. This could make it quicker to fill in forms, particularly online, as your identity card record could provide much of the data.But no system is secure. And if all your government data were linked - taxes, health records, education - someone with total access could know you better than your own mother.Ian Brown, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, says an identity card would increase identity fraud. "At the moment, there are several different pieces of identity and the people looking at them are aware that they are not hugely secure," he says.Making one document valid for every purpose, and claiming it is highly secure,   would make checks slacker.Brown also points out that most benefit fraud involves people lying about the seriousness of a medical condition.Unless computers are upgraded to read identity smart cards, a home user's online identity will continue to be focused on the email provider, often protected by nothing more than a password.Internet service providers focus on account usage, not email access. BT Openworld investigates when an account is accessed from several phone numbers, partly to check that its unlimited use policy is not being abused. Freeserve only allows one number for an unlimited use account.Both say the user is primarily responsible for security. "We stress the importance of keeping passwords secure and the ultimate responsibility of the account holder for what passes over their use of our service," says David Melville, Freeserves's company secretary.The National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS)   says that the greater danger online comes from criminals who impersonate companies, rather than hijack individual identities.Most web-users have received an email asking for help in transferring millions of pounds out of Nigeria, in return for a large cut - if you pay some expenses. In reality, there is no fortune.But such crimes are moving closer to home. "Last year, a major high street bank was subject to web-spoofing, and two Canadians lost &#163;100,000," says an NCIS spokesman.Earlier this month, the Mirror reported on spoof emails using the domain name barclaysprivate.com. In this version of the Nigerian con, the money is apparently from a rich relative, handled by a reputable bank. But Barclays says it has nothing to do with the emails, and is working with the police.The reality is that web and email users need to take care of their own identity, and be aware that others may not be who they say they are. "The single best thing is to be careful with whom you do business, and where you go, on the internet," says Ovum's Graham Titterington.&#183;Email the Home Office at entitlementcardsunit@home office.gsi.gov.uk if you have a view. Alternatively, civil rights campaigner Privacy International has set up two local-rate phone lines. Comments will be passed to the Home Office, and your choice of line allows Privacy International to gauge opinions. If you are in favour of a card scheme, call 0845 330 7245. if you are against, call 0845 330 7246.Protect yourself&#183;You should change all passwords regularly, avoid obvious choices such as your or your partner's name, use different passwords for every service and never write them down.&#183;Check your credit card and bank statements carefully. If there is anything you do not recognise, call your card provider immediately.&#183;Consider keeping a credit card with a low credit limit for online purchases.&#183;Avoid using services on websites that remember your credit card details. It leaves you vulnerable if their systems are hacked, or your computer stolen.&#183;Never give out sensitive information in an email, or when someone calls you. This particularly applies if someone claiming to be from a financial institution asks for account details or passwords. It is very easy to fake the "from" address in an email.&#183;Most identity fraud results from abuse of snail mail. If statements or bills don't appear, let the organisation know. If you move, pay the post office for redirection. And shred any post with personal data. Seewww.cifas.org.ukandwww.cardwatch.org.uk.SA MathiesonFor more informationwww.homeoffice.gov.uk/dob/ecu.htmStandPrivacy International
"The Easyinternet cafe chain has been found guilty of copyright infringement for allowing customers to download music from the internet and copy it onto to (sic) CDs", reportsBBC Online. "The BPI [British Phonographic Industry] launched the legal action following an investigation at Easyinternet cafes in eight cities in the UK which found hundreds of music files on computer hard drives." Founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou plans to appeal.
Game 2 in the Kasparov v Deep Junior match was drawn, reportsNew Scientist.
AOL Time Warner has announced a loss of $44.9 billion in the fourth quarter because of the costs of writing down the value of America Online and its cable television systems. The write-downs boosted the loss to $98.7 billion for all of 2002. Cable TV news pioneer Ted Turner, the former Mr Jane Fonda, is resigning from his position as vice chairman. The company owns CNN, Time and People magazines, Warner Brothers (think Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings), Warner Music, AOL, ICQ, Netscape, CompuServe, Winamp and too many other things to mention. For the numbers, seeAP,Reuters,CNNor just about any news site.
Microsoft failed to follow its own advice and some of its internal servers were infected by the SQL Slammer worm, reportsThe New York Times[free registration required]. The attacks could easily have been prevented if IT departments kept up to date with security patches, so it's more than a little funny that keeping up to date with Microsoft patches is beyond even Microsoft. Microsoft spokesman Rick Miller carried the can in public: "We, like the rest of the industry, struggle to get 100% compliance with our patch management," he said. "We recognize — now more than ever — that this is something we need to work on."
Researchers in New Zealand have warned that long hours sitting in front of a computer screen could cause deep vein thrombosis (DVT), a condition that has been linked with long-haul flights.Researchers at the New Zealand Medical Research Institute have reported what could be the first known case of "e-thrombosis" in a 32-year-old man who spent between 12 and 18 hours a day working at his computer. He came close to death after developing a massive blood clot that formed in his legs and travelled to his lungs.Richard Beasley, director of the institute, said the incident may be the first reported case of "prolonged mobility sitting at a computer" leading to the development of life-threatening blood clots."He would typically sit for one to two hours, and not infrequently as many as six, without standing up from his work station," the researchers said."This certainly wasn't an isolated case," Mr Beasley said following his report's publication in the European Respiratory Journal. "Just as with deep vein thrombosis suffered by travellers, this was only recognised as a fairly large scale problem after the first few cases were publicised."Mr Beasley has also led a team of New Zealand researchers investigating "economy class syndrome", or DVT linked to long-distance air travel.DVT is a condition in which a blood clot forms in the deep veins of the legs. It can be fatal when part of the clot breaks off and blocks a blood vessel in the lungs.Currently two airlines are participating in pilot studies being conducted by the World Health Organisation to determine whether or not flying can cause DVT. The results are not expected until 2007.In Australia, 2,700 passengers are seeking damages from airlines after developing clots. Victims and their families are currently appealing a decision that prevented them from suing airlines in Britain. Cases are also working through the legal systems in Canada and the United States.Research published in the medical journal Lancet in May found that about one in 10 people who took a long haul flight without wearing compression stockings developed a blood clot in their calf veins. The same researchers reported that wearing compression stockings appeared to negate the risk.
Jack's column from Saturday is being dissected on Slashdotagaintoday. I laughed at WaffleIron's comments: "Just like a good movie on a VCR tape, this story [is] worth rewinding and playing again and again. I never get tired of VHS vs. Betamax flamewars. Nothing could be more compelling, relevant or engaging than debating the relative merits of these 20-year old tape formats a few more times." Of course,Jack's pieceexplains exactly why he thinks such things are relevant.
Here's anupbeat assessmentof Apple's fortunes from the forthcoming print edition of Business Week. Peter Burrows believes Apple's innovation will keep it safe. "Fear not, Mac faithful," writes Burrows. "Apple may never again pose a threat to Microsoft Corp and its PC allies, but its niche is safe."
The music industry claimed a big victory yesterday in its fight against illegal downloading over the internet when Stelios Haji-Ioannou's EasyInternet Cafe chain was found guilty of copyright infringement.The Greek entrepreneur said he would appeal against the high court ruling that his business was wrong to let customers download music.The cafes formerly allowed people to copy the downloaded music on to CDs for &#163;5. They suspended this service in September 2001.The action was brought by the British Phonographic Industry, the trade body, along with Sony Music, EMI and Universal Music. They are thought to have demanded &#163;1m in compensation."Illegal copying jeopardises the livelihoods of artists and songwriters, as well as putting at risk the thousands of jobs directly and indirectly created by the recording and publishing of music," said Peter Jamieson, the BPI's chairman."We're delighted that we've won this ruling, which sets an important precedent in sup port of authorised licensing services."Mr Haji-Ioannou - who founded the EasyJet no-frills airline but has now left its board - had argued that the cafes could not be held responsible for customers downloading music. "We will appeal. I believe the judge's interpretation of the law on our main defence point was inaccurate."His defence was based on the principle that consumers had the right to record music or video in order to consume it at a more convenient time. "That is why they can use the VCR at home."He added: "I believe it is a question for the House of Lords and not for a summary judgment. We will continue to fight the point on behalf of the consumer."The court has yet to determine what costs and penalties are to be levied.The fight between the music industry and internet users is a long-running and controversial one. The singer Robbie Williams recently acknowledged that his bosses at EMI might not like his view that downloading music from the internet was "great".
It sounds like a check-out nightmare: "How much are vehicle licences, Sharon?" None the less, your local
    supermarket may soon be offering a line in government documents. The office of the e-envoy is about to
    announce proposals for intermediaries such as businesses and voluntary organisations to run electronic public
    services. Motoring organisations and insurance companies could issue car tax discs when members renew
    policies, for example.Difficulties abound. How much access should intermediaries be given to government
    databases? Should private companies make a profit? Should the government withdraw from providing a particular
    e-service? Most importantly, is the British public ready for Stelios Haji-Ioannou or Richard Branson to become
    the face of government?A draft policy on e-government intermediaries, circulating in government and due to be
    published for consultation in spring, will suggest answers. But the office of the e-envoy is committed in principle
    as part of its project to put government online."By 2005, we'll have a mixed economy in e-government
    services," a senior official said.This commitment comes from the top. In 2000, Downing Street's think-tank, the
    performance and innovation unit, urged the government to nurture a private e-government industry. A report
    written at the height of the dotcom boom said: "Competition between public, private and voluntary sector
    providers of government services will improve service quality, stimulate innovation and improve value for
    money."The report called on the e-envoy to "champion the involvement of the private and voluntary sectors in
    the electronic delivery of government services."Nobody in Whitehall took much notice. When one start-up began
    selling fishing licences online, the Environment Agency undercut it with its own web service. The reason for the
    revived interest in intermediaries is simple. Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy, is confident that almost all government
    services will be available online by the target date of December 31, 2005.But on present trends, few people will
    be using them. Government websites are already being described as online versions of the Millennium Dome -
    impressive, but deserted. The way to get usage up, the theory goes, is to create services that can be run
    through commercial websites and call centres. Coenraad van der Poel, European managing director of EzGov, a
    supplier of online government services, says that the way to break down barriers is to offer services in places
    where citizens are used to completing transactions and feel comfortable in doing so.One model is the deal under
    which a travel agency, Double S Travel, accepts passport applications at 400 World Choice travel agents. For £5,
    the firm checks that the forms have been filled in correctly and the right docu ments included. Applications are
    less likely to be held up and the passport agency has to handle fewer incorrect applications. As for the company:
    "It's good for building customer trust," says a partner, Steve Pattenden.However, checking forms is relatively
    straightforward. But if third parties are to offer real e-government services, they will need access to online
    government data - the vehicle ownership register, for example. This poses political and technical difficulties.
    The e-envoy's draft policy will propose about a dozen "rules of engagement" to balance security with availability
    and create a level playing field for business.Later this year, a new intermediaries section on the e-envoy's
    website will invite suggestions for services. But Van der Poel warns against getting carried away. While
    intermediaries can reach more citizens, responsibility for content needs to remain with the government.
    "Nobody's interested in buying government services from a third party if they know the third party is making a
    profit. It goes to the heart of trust. At the end of the day, we still expect government services to come from
    the government."
Lovely parody of the AppleSwitchads - only this one's telling you toswitch to Linux.
Apple has refreshed its range this afternoon, and next month buyers will be able to get a G4 running at1.42GHz. This is a massive 17MHz faster than the fastest current model. Starting price: £2,099. (Come on, chaps, only another 1.64GHz to go!)
Microsoft got an Open Source Product Excellence Award at LinuxWorld last week for its Services for Unix 3.0 integration software.No, it is not open source. Yes, it does run only on Windows.VNUnetlists all the awards.
As expected, Apple has revised itsPower Macdesktop line for professionals. The new top-end machines start at £1,149 for a single-processor 1GHz machine, although at the time of writing I couldn't get in to theApple Storeto check the price on the new top-end dual 1.4GHz model. There's also a new 20-inchdisplay, if you have £1,099 knocking around.MacWorldhas a roundup, and comparison with the previous machines. The new machines don't do much to close the megahertz gap on the PC world, but they do at least add support for FireWire 800, Bluetooth and Airport Extreme networking.
Opera Software has "expressed significant doubts it would continue producing a browser for the Macintosh operating system," reportsZDNet News. It is worried about the Safari browser, which Apple can bundle with its monopoly hardware. "The Mac platform may not be viable for us any longer," said Jon von Tetzchner, Opera's chief executive. Comment: All operating systems grow over time, and add popular features that used to be provided separately. (On PCs, things like typefaces and networking used to be separate, for example.) The problem is the small size of the Mac market. You can get rich on 5% of the Windows market, but 5% of the Mac market may not be worth the effort.
Karlin Lillington writes inWired Newsabout the 16-year-old Irish student who has startled the online world by unveiling a multi-function web browser that makes some startling speed claims. "MIT principal researcher with Media Lab Europe, Gary McDarby, said he was astonished by the teen's 'years ahead' programming skills. Even if the speed claims prove false, McDarby said, 'What he's certainly doing conceptually is raising the bar for the commercial companies.'"
Record numbers of UK households and businesses are signing up for broadband internet services, telecoms regulator Oftel has announced.Almost 30,000 subscribers a week are switching to broadband, taking the total number in the UK to more than 1.4 million, latest industry figures show.When Oftel announced the number of homes and business with broadband had reached 500,000 last May, new subscriptions were running at around 20,000 a week.Separate research conducted by Oftel found a big rise in the number of people aware of the benefits of broadband.Last February 32% of people already connected to the internet, but not with a broadband connection, knew about the new technology.In the same survey of just over 2,300 users last November the figure had risen to 70%.Around 42% of UK households are connected to the internet - either with a standard or broadband connection.David Edmonds, director general of telecommunications, said: "Broadband has really taken off in the UK with almost 30,000 consumers a week signing up for broadband services."Among the advantages of broadband are connection speeds to the internet up to 40 times faster than a standard connection.Users are also permanently connected, meaning their computer does not need to dial-up each time they wish to log on.
A posting on theTechdirtsite, put up today (Monday): "As the fight continues over who wins the next music disc format war, SACD or DVD-Audio, I begin to wonder why anyone cares at all? I'm reminded of the old urban myth that VHSs beat Betamax even though it was technically inferior. The truth is that VHS machines offered customers what they wanted. The quality was "good enough", and what they wanted was tapes that could record a full movie (Betamaxes could only record about an hour)."Really? Fascinating. But does Techdirt's refrainsound familiar, anyone?
Not many people would give this a second glance but Microsoft'sAcceleratorand marketing muscle just might give some extra impetus to Six Sigma, the pre-eminent statistical quality control system. Microsoft is now using Six Sigma and naturally the approach is based on using Microsoft software such as Office, Project and Visio, though it is working with established suppliers such as Apriso and SigmaPro. If you work for a manufacturing company then you ought to be very familiar with Six Sigma. If not, there's a quick run-downhere. If you hadn't realised the statistical theory of errors had any significance in business management, start withDr W Edwards Deming.
Kasparov has won the first game against chess computer Deep Junior, reportsAP.
Wired Newshas a mostly tedious report on a campaign to get Apple CEO Steve Jobs to run for President. It only gets interesting further down when we learn about his political activity, and the best bit is right at the end, where they report a wag on Slashdot suggesting Jobs invade Iraq and rename it iRaq.Well, it made me laugh...
Taking time out from their premiership title bid, Newcastle United football club have joined forces with the NHS to produce a computer-based game designed to teach schoolchildren about the importance of  physical fitness and healthy eating.The CD-rom, called It's Your Goal, sets pupils the task of returning a Newcastle player back to peak fitness by demonstrating to him how to exercise and eat properly.The footballer's weight problems have been caused not by excessive drinking in nightclubs and  a penchant for  kebabs, but by a evil wizard - quite possibly a Sunderland fan -  who has cast a spell to turn him into a couch potato.Sir Bobby Robson, the Newcastle manager, makes a personal appearance to ask for help in rescuing his wayward star, whose expanding waistline and lack of motivation has led to his being dropped from the team.The pupil must undergo a series of challenges which test their knowledge of nutrition and balanced eating, emotional well-being, and physical fitness in order to progress to a confrontation with the wizard and the chance to defeat him and reverse the spell.Martin Asburn, ICT consultant and teacher at Newcastle FC's learning centre, said the £50,000 game, which was funded by local health authorities as part of a healthy schools initiative, had proved a massive success.It was the most popular game among children who come to the study support centre, and was also used by the club' s academy players. "It manages to tap into football, Harry Potter, and the kids' love of Newcastle football club," said Mr Ashburn.The game, which was funded at a cost of £50,000 by the former Newcastle and north Tyneside health authority and created by software developers Indigo, has also provoked huge interest from other schools and health authorities. There are plans to develop a national version of the game."We would love to do something similar on smoking, anti-drugs, or bullying," said Mr Ashburn.
Mobile phone users will be able to send picture messages to friends and family on other networks for the first time after Orange, T-Mobile and O2 signed ground-breaking deals to connect their networks.The move, seen as the first step towards picture messaging becoming as ubiquitous as text messaging, will allow O2 customers to send and receive photo messages to Orange and T-Mobile customers, and vice versa.T-Mobile is understood to be close to sealing a similar deal with Orange, meaning that picture messages could be sent to any other network bar Vodafone.The operators are banking on picture messaging, which also allow users to send sound and animation, to kick start falling handset sales and swell the amount that each customer spends per month.The four major UK mobile operators are banking on converting mobile phone users who sent 16bn text messages last year at a cost of around 12p each, to picture messaging, which cost up to 50p a time to send.T-Mobile launched the first picture messaging phones in the UK last summer, and the other three mobile networks have followed suit, backing their efforts with massive advertising campaigns such as the current Vodafone ads featuring David Beckham."Our head start in picture messaging has given us an unrivalled understanding of the needs and expectations of customers. This agreement is just the beginning," said Clent Richardson, T-Mobile's chief sales and marketing officer.Although early sales have been encouraging, many users have already become frustrated that they can't send messages to other networks. At present, users on different networks receive a web address via text message where they can pick up the photo."In the not too distant future, media messaging will be as popular as today's texting," predicted O2 head of data marketing Angus Mitchell."However, enabling customers to send and receive media messages across the different networks is one of the most critical steps towards widespread media messaging adoption," he added.
Influential AOL Time Warner shareholders are planning an attempt to oust former chairman Steve Case and two of his allies from the board.Several investors have already discussed plans to vote against Mr Case and two other directors, Miles Gilburne and Kenneth Novak, when they are nominated for re-election in May.Although unlikely to muster enough support to succeed in their bid, the move shows the depth of feeling against Mr Case that still exists among some shareholders.Despite agreeing to step down as chairman, the internet visionary who engineered the record-breaking £66bn merger between AOL and Time Warner remains head of the company's strategy committee.Mr Case announced his resignation earlier this month in the face of growing opposition from shareholders who have seen the value of the company plummet by 70% over the past two years.Shares have fallen as the company's online unit, once seen as the jewel in its crown, has been dented by falling subscriber growth, shrinking advertising revenues and a government investigation into   accounting practices.Although chief executive Dick Parsons, who also recently replaced Mr Case as chairman, insisted the company had no plans to spin off the America Online unit some investors and analysts are still keen.They believe that if Mr Case could be ousted from the board along with his two key allies from the pre-merger days, the way would be clear to once again split up the two companies.Proponents of spinning off the internet unit believe that it would enable Time Warner's assets, which include CNN, Time magazine and the movie studio behind Lord of the Rings, to return to their rightful value.Some also feel that, simply by remaining on the board, Mr Case is sending out a bad signal to the market at a time when it is trying to get back to basics and disassociate itself from the dotcom hype  that surrounded its merger in 2000.
The aftershocks of the latest worm to attack the internet continue to be felt around the world this morning, although security experts say that the problem is largely under control.The SQL Slammer worm, which is also known as Sapphire, crippled tens of thousands of computers worldwide. It also congested the network for countless others, and disabled Bank of America cash machines.Some experts expressed concern that lingering infections could appear as businesses reopen this morning. The FBI have said that the attack's origin is still unknown.Slammer exploited a known security hole in Microsoft's SQL Server 2000 software, which was discovered in July and could have been stopped by software update patches introducing extra code. Microsoft first spotted the problem at 1.30pm GMT on Friday as the worm attack created a surge in global internet traffic.As the worm infected one computer, it was programmed to seek other victims by sending out thousands of probes per second, saturating many internet data pipelines.Unlike most viruses and worms, it spread directly through network connections and did not need email as a carrier. Therefore, only network administrators who run servers, not end users, could do anything to remedy the situation.SQL Server 2000 is used mostly by businesses and governments, but many users had not updated their software in time to avoid the latest worm. Microsoft has said that most home users are not affected by the worm.The latest virus-like attack on the internet exposes more than a software flaw: it illustrates that the very strategy typically adopted for security by the managers of computer networks has proven to be inadequate.Bruce Schneier, chief technology officer at Counterpane Internet Security, said the attack has shown that relying on patches is flawed, "not because it's not effective, but many don't do it".Howard A Schmidt, cybersecurity adviser to the US president, George Bush, said that the impact of the worm was largely avoidable. "There was a lot that could have been done between July and now," he added."We make sure we have air in our tyres and our brakes get checked. We also need to make sure we keep computers up to date."Two previous major outbreaks, Code Red and Nimda, had also exploited known problems for which patches were available.But with more than 4,000 new vulnerabilities reported last year, according to the government-funded CERT Coordination Centre at  Carnegie Mellon University, system administrators can have trouble keeping up.Patches also take time to install and could disrupt other systems and applications. Mr Schmidt said that many network managers delay installing patches to fully test them first.Meanwhile, Wired news has reported that some people could not download the security fix due to the high level of demand, coupled with the heavy internet traffic caused by the worm itself.Microsoft spokesman Rick Miller said that the company is working with network professionals to develop better tools, including ones to automatically scan systems for known vulnerabilities.Experts believe security needs to be rethought if future attacks are to be prevented. Favoured approaches range from getting vendors to make  better software to paying private companies more money to handle the brunt of the work.Microsoft executives have said that they want to make security updates automatic, meaning users could grant permission once and then have multiple patches installed over the internet whenever needed. Network managers, however, worry that such automation could inadvertently  introduce problems for other applications.A larger problem is inadequate information on which patches need to be tested and installed first, said Dan Ingevaldson at the Internet Security Systems' X-Force research arm.
Congrats to Jack on hisdebut columnon Guardian Unlimited yesterday. The first Schofield on Saturday has been featured on uber Geek site Slashdot, provokingquite a discussionover there. Thanks toGavin Sheridanfor the sighting.
A worm that infects Microsoft SQL 2000 database servers slowed the Internet on Saturday, and caused particular problems in South Korea, according to numerous news services includingAP. Microsoft published a critical patch to fix the hole six months ago. Companies affected included Bank of America and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, according to the report. And asUPIpointed out, the attack was easily avoidable. Comment: It does seem strange that large corporations can fail to take simple precuations. It is hard to believe their IT departments couldn't find anybody with the skills needed to download and install the patch. Given corporate change control policies for critical systems, maybe six months just isn't long enough for them to get round to it.... or maybe they were all on holiday when the similar Code Red worm struck in July 2001. Because if they'd seen it all before, you might suppose they would have done something about it.
The PC industry has formed a new lobbying group, the Alliance for Digital Progress, "to fight Hollywood efforts to require anti-copying technology in digital entertainment devices," saysAP. "Members of the new group say Hollywood's insistence on embedding anti-copying technology in devices would crimp product innovation — and trample consumers' rights." Founder members include Microsoft and Dell Computer.
"This year, just in time for the 50th anniversary of Sir Edmund Hillary's first ascent of Everest, climbers on the mountain will have the chance to connect with the world below by e-mail. That is because Tsering Gyaltsen, the grandson of the only surviving Sherpa to have accompanied Hillary on that famed climb, is planning to build the world's highest Internet cafe at base camp," reports theNew York Times[free registration required].
