And so 2012 comes to a close. The year of Wii U, Vita, Dishonored, Journey and Xcom is almost over. Let's see it out with some game-related chatter.
It's the last one of 2012: So here's yet another burst (of 8 links) for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUnnatural acts and the rise of mobile &gt;&gt; Keith TeareIt's at Techcrunch, but Teare should be listened to because he helped build EasyNet, and then RealNames (and, well, TechCrunch):A major symptom of the frenzy to monetize is that previously platform-centric products are reverting to destination-site thinking. Twitter's adoption of media embedding, Instagram's decision to pull its content from Twitter, Facebook's launch of Poke and Google's failure to add a write API to its G+ platform all display an "own the user" mentality. AdSense and AdWords would never have been invented had Larry and Sergey not understood the value of providing a monetization platform for others to benefit from, even for users not on Google. This is the type of thinking required today but currently all roads point to several varied attempts to re-portalize; that is to say, to own your own traffic and seek to monetize it. This is the old Yahoo view of the world and it clearly represents a limited mindset that will not scale to the huge mobile opportunity. For Twitter in particular, which has a large global opportunity as a platform, this trend represents a shrinking of its real opportunity.There's plenty more like that, and all his insights are worth paying attention to.Surprise: only 1% of domains drive over 70% of referring traffic &gt;&gt; Conductor BlogNot long ago, Rand Fishkin mused about the possibility of a long-tail to the web's referral traffic (Is There a Long Tail to Referral Traffic?).He theorized:...that only ~20% of the referrals that the average website receives comes from the tail of the distribution curve, whilst Matt felt that number should be considerably larger.Rand's analysis of several domains (broken out separately below because the number of sites used for the two groups differed) showed that the top 10 referring domains (between 0.33% and 1.47% of the total domains driving traffic) drove between 65% and 88% of all referral traffic.Quad-core Sony smartphone with 1080p display rumored for CES &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaA quad-core Sony Xperia phone is rumored to debut at CES in January, according the Chinese-language site ePrice. The phone's screen will rival that of the giant Samsung Galaxy Note series at 5 inches, but will outpace its competitor's displays with a 1080p resolution.Rumors have been swirling about a Sony phone meant to compete on the level of LG's Nexus 4 or HTC's Droid DNA, both of which launched this past fall. The upcoming Sony phone, designated as the Xperia Z L36h, is reported to have a 13-megapixel backside-illuminated camera, Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 quad-core processor with Adreno 320 GPU, 2GB of RAM, and a microSD slot, according to ePrice.We're going to have to find things for all those cores to do. Some of those specifications would look good on a PC of a few years ago.Weak Windows 8 demand saps PC sales, Fujitsu President says &gt;&gt; BloombergFujitsu, Japan's biggest provider of computer services, said the company will miss its annual shipment target for personal computers amid slow demand for Microsoft's Windows 8 operating system.Initial appetite for the software, introduced in October, is "weak," Fujitsu President Masami Yamamoto, 58, told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. Slumping demand in Europe amid the sovereign-debt crisis will also erode sales, he said. PC deliveries for the year ending March 31 may be more than 6m units, compared with an October estimate of 7m, he said.That's a 15% shortfall. Europe's economic woes, and the US's slowing appetite for PCs, are likely to be the explanation used by quite a few chief executives later in January. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Ultrabook vendors concerned about revision of MacBook Air in 2013 &gt;&gt; DigitimesApple has issued requests for quotations (RFQ) to Taiwan-based supply chain makers for the revision of several notebook models including MacBook Pro and MacBook Air series in June 2013, causing ultrabook vendors to be concerned, according to supply chain makers.The sources pointed out that the MacBook Air for 2013 will feature a new processor platform, but its industrial design will not see any major changes.The sources noted that pressure on ultrabook vendors mainly comes from the Air's price since Apple is likely to reduce the prices for its existing MacBook Airs before the launch of the new models which could take away demand for ultrabooks.Scaling to different screens - Building Windows 8 &gt;&gt; MSDN BlogsLooking at the data about devices in the marketplace today, we see that only 1.2% of active Windows 7 users have screens with a resolution of less than 1024x768. When designing a new platform that supports the devices of today and tomorrow (with undoubtedly higher resolutions) we optimized for the majority of today's screens (i.e. 98.8%) without sacrificing the experience and complicating the developer story for legacy screens. In addition, the runrate of new PCs with screen sizes of 1024x600 and 1280x720 has dramatically fallen and, to the best of our knowledge, almost no new mainstream PCs are being manufactured with this resolution.All very true. The surprise is that 1366x768 is the most common screen size for Windows 7, with 42% in use.FAA rules make electronic devices on planes dangerous &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comOver the last year, flying with phones and other devices has become increasingly dangerous.In September, a passengerwas arrestedin El Paso after refusing to turn off his cellphone as the plane was landing. In October, a man in Chicago was arrested because he used his iPad during takeoff. In November, half a dozen police cars raced across the tarmac at La Guardia Airport in New York, surrounding a plane as if there were a terrorist on board. They arrested a 30-year-old man who had also refused to turn off his phone while on the runway.Nick Bilton says that dealing with the FAA on this is like arguing with a stubborn teenager: there's no proof of harm, but they won't change their mind even so until someone proves it's completely safe - which is a logical impossibility.Opinion: In business, why 2013 is RIM's BlackBerry year &gt;&gt; Macworld UKRob Enderle:As we look ahead to 2013, it's becoming increasingly clear that the new year provides an unprecedented opportunity for Research in Motion to make a huge comeback.This is largely because the market is dominated by two platforms: Android, which is seen as an unsecure malware magnet, and iOS, which comes from a firm that has never learned to spell "IT." In fact, Apple's biggest failures were Lisa and the Apple Server, both created on Steve Jobs' watch (Lisa was even his product, initially) and both targeted at the IT market.While phones and tablets are largely a consumer play, they are increasingly being used for business. Even in a BYOD world, IT still has a great deal of say about the hardware connected to its networks and services. As we start 2013, and as RIM brings out its next-generation products, the company will stand alone as the only mobile solutions provider focused on IT first and the needs of users later.This one's a keeper. Check back in 12 months.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Price£10,750MPG67.3Top speed110mphI'm not sure what planet my 11-year-old daughter lives on, but it's obviously a&nbsp;place of wonder and bewilderment where anything is possible. When I told her that we were getting a Panda this week, her eyes opened wide and a look of pure delight spread across her cheeks. "Really? A&nbsp;panda? How amazing! I&nbsp;love pandas." ClearlyFiat's Pandais likeable. It's got plenty of character and a snappy little engine that's full of vim and vigour, but it's no match for the black-and-white bamboo muncher she clearly had in mind. She was disappointed after I&nbsp;broke the news to her, but I felt uplifted that she lived in a place where it was entirely plausible that a panda would be coming to stay.Anyway, the Panda arrived – a red one. These days the roads are awash with small cars. But not that long ago, a small car was merely a wretched excuse for a big car. Uncomfortable, dangerous and appalling to drive. Biscuit tins on wheels. Their only selling points were that they were cheap and made reverse parking a&nbsp;doddle. But things have moved on. Soaring fuel prices, clever design and superb technology have combined to mean that dinky cars now punch well above their weight. Rather than being the lacklustre city runaround to park alongside the family's proper car, they're all the car you're going to need. They're even a pleasure to drive.This evolution is perfectly encapsulated by the Panda. Fiat first introduced its eye-poppingly, teeth-grindingly basic urban car in 1980 and, even allowing for the fact that it was conceived of as Italy's no-frills answer to theCitroën 2CVand was cheaper to keep than a&nbsp;stick insect with body issues, it had all the allure of an abandoned supermarket trolley. And yet it endured. People loved it – or they loved a bargain anyway. For more than 30 years the Panda sold an average of 200,000 a&nbsp;year, recently passing a total of 6.5m. Finally, in 2003, Fiat put it out of its misery. It promptly won the coveted European Car of the Year in 2004. Now Fiat's had another go at it, so this here is the third-generation Panda.The third looks much the same as the second, but beneath its skin its a&nbsp;very different beastie. It's smoother, quieter, safer and more sophisticated. Great efforts have been made to reduce road noise and increase ride comfort. For such a small car it feels refreshingly functional and solid. It comes with a&nbsp;"collision mitigation system" that will emergency-brake the car below 19mph (the average speed  in London is 12mph, so that's plenty).Inside, Fiat has aimed for stylish practicality – the car equivalent of an Ikea makeover. It's all about multitasking storage bins, durable and tasteful fabrics and surfaces, and sensible design flourishes with the occasional dash of whimsy. The handbrake, for instance, is said to "double as a&nbsp;hand rest". How ridiculous. Why not boast that the accelerator doubles as a foot rest. Or&nbsp;that the windscreen is actually a&nbsp;"real-life cinema"…Three different engines are offered in the Panda: a basic 1.2-litre 69bhp engine, a 75bhp 1.3-litre turbo diesel, and the award-winning parallel turbocharged 85bhp twin-cylinder TwinAir engine. This emits less than the magic 100g of CO2per km, so it's free to tax and there's no city congestion charge.I test-drove the TwinAir, which is enjoyable both in the city and on the open road. It makes a&nbsp;wonderfully slow-mo raspberry of a rattle. Fiat claims an incredible 67.3mph for this engine. Which sounds like a figure plucked from the sky, and as my young daughter knows, what you wish for and what you get are not necessarily the same thing.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.uk
The number of aliens you kill may directly contribute to an improvement in your brain. This may not sound like a typical scientific discovery, but it has come from some of the world's finest neuroscience laboratories. In fact, it is the genuine outcome of studies on how action video games can improve your attention, mental control and visual skills. We're talking here about fast-moving titles such asHalo,Call of DutyandGrand Theft Auto, which demand quick reflexes and instant decision-making. They're often portrayed as the most trashy, vapid and empty-headed forms of digital entertainment, but it looks as if they may be particularly good at sharpening your mental skills.This may come as a surprise if you read much of the popular press, which is often obsessed with technological scare stories. Scientific evidence has been less media-friendly but considerably more convincing. We now havenumerous studieson how playing action computer games, as opposed to puzzle or strategy titles such asThe SimsorTetris, leads to an improvement in how well we pay attention, how quickly we react, how sensitive we are to images and how accurately we sort information. Crucially, these studies are not just focused on people who already play a lot of video games, but are testing whether action video game training genuinely leads to improvements.The studies use randomised controlled trials. It is a method normally used to test medications, but it can be applied to anything. In this case, a group of people are randomly assigned to one of two groups. Half get the "treatment", perhaps blasting away at enemy combatants inMedal of Honor, while the others get the "placebo" – for example, managing a digital family inThe Sims 3. Reliably, those assigned to play the fast-moving action games show improvements on neuropsychological tests that measure the ability to process quickly and react to visual information. It's worth saying that these conclusions were thrown into doubt in 2011 when several scientists, led by Walter Boot from Florida State University,suggestedthat these findings may be due to poor experimental design, but subsequent and better planned studies have continued to find a positive effect.Another aspect of the game debate concerns the impact of violent video games. This has become a matter of public anxiety again in light of the tragic Sandy Hook killings after the gunman was identified as being a fan of first-person shooter games such asCall of Duty. It's worth saying that such appalling events are not a good basis for science, simply because the popularity of this form of entertainment makes it difficult to attribute any form of link between their use and statistically rare individuals. This does not, however, mean that the issue itself is not important and worthy of study – and it has, in fact, been researched widely.Also using randomised controlled trials,researchhas found that violent video games cause a reliable short-term increase in aggression during lab-based tests. However, this seems not to be something specific to computer games. Television and even violence in the news have been found to have a similar impact. The longer-term effects of aggressive gaming are still not well studied, but we would expect similar results from long-term studies of other violent media – again a small increase in aggressive thoughts and behaviour in the lab.These, however,&nbsp;are not the same as actual violence. Psychologist Christopher Ferguson, based at the Texas A&amp;M International University, hasexaminedwhat predicts genuine violence committed by young people. It turns out that delinquent peers, depression and an abusive family environment account for actual violent incidents, while exposure to media violence seems to have only a minor and usually insignificant effect. This makes sense even in light of horrifying mass shootings. Several of the killers did play video games, but this doesn't distinguish them from millions of non-violent young men. Most, however, had a previous history of antisocial behaviour and a disturbed background, something known to be much more common in killers.Perhaps the most telling effect of video games concerns not what they involve but how much time someone spends playing them. A helpful study&nbsp;on the effect of giving games consoles to young people found that, while the gaming had no negative impact on core abilities, school performance declined for those kids who put aside homework for screen entertainment. Similarly, a significant amount of research has found that putting aside exercise for the physical inactivity of video games raises the risk of obesity and general poor health.And while "addiction" is now the pop psychology label of choice for anything that someone does to excess (sex, video games, shopping), the same behaviour could just as easily, and more parsimoniously, be described as a form of avoidant or unhelpful coping. Rather than dealing with uncomfortable life problems, some people avoid them by absorbing themselves in other activities, leading to an unhelpful cycle where the distractions end up maintaining the problems because they're never confronted. This can apply as easily to books as video games.The verdict from the now considerable body of scientific research is not that video games are a new and ominous threat to society but that anything in excess will cause us problems. The somewhat prosaic conclusion is that moderation is key – whether you're killing aliens, racing cars or trying to place oddly shaped blocks that fall from the sky.Vaughan Bell is a clinical and research psychologist based at King's College, London
LESSON 1 Tweet in haste, repent at leisureWho would have thought that an elderly Tory peer would become a leading innovator in internet law? Yet that is what Lord McAlpine has become. It's not clear whether it  was him or his lawyers who came up with the idea of going after the UK Twitter users who tweeted – or retweeted – false allegations that he had been involved in child abuse, but, whoever was responsible, the fact is that it has changed the legal landscape in the UK.The smart move was to discriminate between different classes of users. Those with 500 or fewer followers could get in touch with McAlpine's lawyers and, upon payment of a small fee to charity, escape with a pardon. More substantial tweeters were required to pay heftier damages or face the full force of m'learned friends in court.Sally Bercow. Photograph: Paul Clarke/Rex FeaturesChief among the latter was Sally Bercow, Mr Speaker's lively spouse, who, at least at the time of writing, seems determined to see things through to the bitter end. If it comes to that, we can look forward to an entertaining and instructive legal contest.All of which is comforting for the establishment. At last, the unruly internet beast is being tamed. Twitter gives broadcast-type communication power to ordinary citizens and if a broadcasting network such as the BBC can be held responsible for what it transmits, surely Twitterers should be too?Only up to a point, Lord Copper. Obviously, people should be responsible for their actions, but it's absurd to judge the behaviour of a thoughtless individual by the same standards as we apply to that of aprofessional news organisation such as the BBC. If the only tweets that were judged acceptable were anodyne ones, then the value of Twitter as a public service would be greatly diminished. Besides, lots of professional journalists made similar errors in jumping to conclusions about the identity of the Sandy Hook killer.LESSON 2 Valuing technology companies remains an inexact scienceBefore Facebook's initial public offering (IPO), the big question was: how much is the company worth? Post-IPO, the answer was: less than we thought – or were led to believe by Wall Street. Facebook shares fell 24% in the first three days of open trading, a fact that has led some disgruntled investors to contemplate legal action. Clearly they hadn't heard that valuations of internet companies arrived at by consulting the entrails of chickens are possibly as reliable as those arrived at by legions of spreadsheet-wielding consultants.But the story of Facebook's oscillating valuations paled into insignificance compared with the row about the price that Hewlett-Packard, the troubled US computer giant, paid for software firm Autonomy. In October 2011, HP bought the Cambridge-based company for $11.7bn. Last month, HP announced that it was taking an $8.8bn write-off because it had realised that Autonomy wasnot worth anything likeits purchase price. HP claimed that $5.5bn of the write-off was explained by the discovery of "accounting irregularities".HP's criticisms are vigorously denied by Mike Lynch, the founder  of Autonomy, who hasset up a websiteto contest them. Meanwhile, in another part of the forest, Larry Ellison, the CEO ofOracle, has also set up a website, which claims that "Autonomy had been 'shopped' [ie offered for sale] to Oracle as well, but Oracle wasn't interested because the price was way too high". While all of this is going on, the average reader might be forgiven for asking how a big company such as HP could have made an $8.8bn mistake in its valuation of a prospective acquisition. Shouldn't it have taken the advice of accountants?It turns out that it did. TheNew York Timesreportedthat all of the Big Four firms – KPMG, Ernst and Young, Deloitte and PwC – had been consulted at one time or another. Next time, HP should try those chicken entrails.LESSON 3 Raspberries come in  unexpected flavoursA few years ago, Eben Upton and some of his academic colleagues in Cambridge University's Computer Laboratory became concerned about the fact that most of the kids who wanted to study computer science no longer knew how to program. So they had the idea of designing a small, cheap computer that they could give to prospective students at open days. Anyone who turned up for interview would be asked what they'd done with it and only those who had done something interesting would be considered for admission.Thus beganthe most intriguing home computing experimentsince the BBC Model B transformed Britain's IT landscape in the 1980s. "We thought we'd make maybe a few hundred of these devices,"Upton wrote later, "or, best case, a lifetime production run of a few thousand."How wrong can you be? When Raspberry Pi, for that is what the device was eventually christened, was announced, 100,000 people joined the mailing list. When it went on sale, the demand crashed the servers of the two major online retailers that had signed up to sell it. To date, it has sold more than 800,000 units and stands as an astonishing rebuke to the sceptics who said that in these days of iDevices and tablets there was no market for a device that ran Linux and simply sat blinking at you when you switched it on. But then that's what they also said about the BBC Micro.LESSON 4 The iPad isn't a magic bullet for publishers after allPrint publishers hate the web, partly because they can't control what people do with the content that they publish on it, but mainly because they can't make the buggers pay for it. So when the Apple iPad arrived they fell upon it like ravening wolves. Sure, they had to pay the Apple 30% tax for publishing through the iTunes store, but at least the customer paidsomething. And the gorgeous screen and processing power of the Apple tablet meant that publishers could create "immersive reading experiences" that, coincidentally, kept the reader from venturing out into the nasty world wild web.Rupert Murdoch closed the Daily after less than two yearsEver willing to try something new, Rupert Murdoch launchedThe Daily,the world's first iPad-native newspaper, in February 2011. He closed it on 15 December 2012, saying that the product "could not find a large enough audience quickly enough to convince us the business model was sustainable in the long term".An expensive mistake? Yes, but also a valuable experiment for the rest of us. The truth is that iPad publications may look cool, but they can be pretty clunky. For one thing, you have to download the whole publication before you can start reading page one. (Imagine if you had to do that with websites.) For another, they are mostly "little more than heavy PDF files, weighed down with multimedia bells and whistles". That's not to say that iPad-native magazines don't have a place in the digital ecosystem, but they're not the magic bullet the publishing industry once hoped they would be.LESSON 5 Why Facebook should not have a seat at the United NationsWith a billion users, Facebook may have as many people as India, but basically it's a dictatorship. Come to think of it, adhering to democratic principles is not – and never has been – a requirement for admission to the UN club. Robert Mugabe's Zimbabwe, is a member, for example, as are Iran, Belarus and Angola. So maybe Facebook's CEO would feel quite at home at the UN's New York HQ. After all, like all the best dictators, he always knows what is best for his people.Facebook's Mark ZuckerbergHe knows, for example, that they want everything to be "social" – ie open to the world. He also knows that their petty obsessions with their privacy are just that – petty. Only the other day, the company announced the termination of users' ability to hide from Facebook searches. Sam Lessin, one of Zuck's henchmen who has the interesting title of "director of product", told journalists that theability to hide from the site's search would be "retired"as only "a single-digit percentage of users" actually hide themselves from Facebook search. HowGeorge Orwell would have loved that use of the word "retired"!Given that Facebook has a billion users, a single-digit percentage could mean tens of millions of privacy "retirees". Oh and by the way,the "product" in Mr Lessin's job title is you and me.LESSON 6 Book publishers have finally realised that they are the main course in Amazon's lunch menuHere's a riddle: "Disintermediation is a very long word. How do you spell it?" The answer, of course, is "it". But disintermediation is now themot de jour. It meanswiping out the intermediaryand that is what the internet does. Remember travel agents? Record shops? Bookshops? Book publishers?For a long time, publishers maintained that, while the internet was certainly destroying the business models of other industries, book publishing was such a special business that it wouldn't happen to them. After all, in the end, every author needs a publisher – doesn't s/he? Only sad people go in for self-publication.Er, not necessarily. The arrival and widespread acceptance of ebooks, together with on-demand printing and Amazon's ebook publishing engine have transformed self-publishing from a dream to a reality. If you've written something and it's in Microsoft Word format, then upload it to Amazon's publishing engine, upload an image for the cover, choose a price and in about four hours it'll be for sale on the web.And in case you think that self-publishing is just for wimps, remember that that's the wayFifty Shades of Greystarted.LESSON 7 Just because governance of the internet is too important to be left to the United Nations doesn't mean that it doesn't need governanceAfrican delegates at WCIT-12The farce that was theWorld Conference on International Telecommunications (WCIT-12) has ended, but the problem of internet governance endures. The conference was ostensibly about updating and harmonising international telecommunications protocols (for example, mobile roaming rates) but some countries, including quite a few authoritarian regimes, and phone companies sought to use it as a vehicle for controlling internet content and levying charges on those who create and provide it.In the end, the conference broke up in thinly veiled disarray, with most western countries refusing to sign up to the proposition that the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) should have any major role in internet governance. Two cheers for that. But we are still left with a problem, which, crudely stated, is this: it ain't broke, but it needs fixing. Because of its history, governance of the net is unduly weighted in favour of US-based or US-dominated institutions. This was fine when the internet was predominantly a US-European phenomenon. But now it's a truly global network and we need a multinational governance structure that a) reflects that reality but b) doesn't break the openness and vitality of the system. The first person to  crack that problem gets a Nobel prize.LESSON 8 If you want privacy keep off the net. Or at least encrypt your stuffIn 1999, Scott McNealy, then the CEO of Sun Microsystems, famously observed that consumer privacy issues were a "red herring"."You have zero privacy anyway," he said. "Get over it."At the time, people wondered what Scott had been smoking. Now we know better. We have been sleepwalking into a networked world where privacy is ostensibly worshipped like motherhood and apple pie but is everywhere abused.You may wonder why particular ads seems to follow you everywhere you go on the web? Or why brands you "like" mysteriously turn up in your timeline and in those of your "friends". Google knows every YouTube video you've ever watched (and also what's in your Gmail). Facebook knows all of this stuff plus your real name.And, on the other side of the fence, the US National Security Agency (and possibly also its overseas franchises) is hoovering up all your electronic communications. The UK Data Communications Bill suggests that our domestic agencies have similar ambitions. And western countries are still selling electronic surveillance kit to repressive regimes all over the world.The only real solution is to switch off your mobile phone and never again use the net. Failing that, you could try encrypting your emailusing something such as PGP. But that'snot for the faint-hearted, so perhaps the rule to live by is this: don't put anything in an email that you wouldn't put on a postcard.LESSON 9 The future's mobile and that's not necessarily good news2012 showed that the explosion in  the adoption of smartphones (ie internet-connected mobile handsets) and tablet computers shows no signs of abating. This means that we're heading for a world in which most people will access the internet via handheld devices. And this hasmajor implications. The upsides are clear: it will be easier for billions of people to integrate the net into their daily lives, with all the benefits that that can bring.The downsides are less obvious to most people, but they are worrying and real. In particular, it will be a world in which most people access the net via closed, "tethered" devices that will greatly enhance the powers of corporations that few of us have any reason to trust. Technology giveth and technology taketh away.
There's a joke going the rounds about LinkedIn, which is a kind of Facebook for corporate types. It goes like this. First man (smugly): "I'm on LinkedIn, you know?" Second man: "Really? I had no idea you were looking for a job."LinkedInwas launched in May 2003, currently has around 180&nbsp;million registered users worldwide and is available in 17 languages but – interestingly – not Chinese. It was floated in January 2011 with shares priced $45. They are currently trading at $115, so the market clearly thinks there's a real business in there somewhere.The ostensible purpose of the site is to allow its users to maintain a list of contact details of people with whom they have some sort of relationship. Members can also upload their CVs and maintain profiles designed to puff their achievements, experience, etc, which is what leads to jokes such as the one just quoted. I've noticed, for example, that whenever I hear that an acquaintance's employment status is changing, I brace myself for an invitation to "connect" with them on LinkedIn. After all, you never know when someone – even a newspaper columnist – might come in useful.All of which is harmless and maybe even helpful in the rat race of organisational life. I'm on LinkedIn not because I'm looking for a job but because, as someone who writes about this stuff, I believe one should eat one's own dog food (as they used to say at Microsoft when insisting that employees should use the company's software). I found the service annoyingly inflexible, for example, in the way it obliges one to force one's employment history into a set of inflexible categories; its insistence on describing one's working relationship with someone in terms of largely obsolete corporate job descriptions; and its inability to accept that one person might have several jobs.But for much of my time on LinkedIn, things have been mercifully quiet. There's been the odd connection request from someone I know; a persistent stream of annoying invitations (always declined) from total strangers seeking to add me to their "professional network"; occasional requests from ex-colleagues for recommendations; notifications of achievements, promotions, awards etc that have come the way of my contacts. Small beer, really.Recently, however, baffling emails from LinkedIn began to trickle into my inbox informing me that so-and-so had "endorsed" me. What it meant, apparently, is that so-and-so had affirmed that I do indeed possess the skills that my profile claims I have. Not having asked anyone for such endorsement, I was initially perplexed.Then the trickle turned into a steady stream. It seemed that everyone on my contact list had, somehow, been badgered into confirming that my online CV wasn't fraudulent. I began to feel like some kind of electronic mendicant, trespassing on the goodwill of friends and colleagues alike. Finally, I became really irritated by the presumption of a service that, in an idiotic attempt to drum up activity, had been annoying people into effectively giving me a reference that I do not need.It turns out that I'm not the only person to be annoyed by LinkedIn's gambit. As my colleague Dr Quentin Stafford-Fraser acidly observed ina lovely blog post: "Frankly, I wouldn't, in the first place, link to anyone I thought was likely to lie on their CV. I'm old-fashioned enough to remember the days when a LinkedIn connection was meant to imply some sort of endorsement in itself."Interestingly, it turns out that one can "endorse" people for skills that they never knew they had. "I never listed any on my LinkedIn page," writes Stafford-Fraser, "until some kind friend said I was awfully good at 'architecture', which I assume they meant in the sense of 'computer systems architecture', but, who knows, perhaps they had seen my old garden shed modifications? Hoping for some interesting job offers from that one."In a neat postmodern joke, Stafford-Fraser then added "LinkedIn endorsing" to his list of skills and was gratified to find that several contacts had generously endorsed his skills in that field. "So maybe," he mused, "by way of bringing a little festive cheer, I should be endorsing their LinkedIn-endorsing-endorsing?"Touche! What obviously lies behind LinkedIn's fatuous wheeze is an attempt to drum up page visits to its site. Each endorsement email is clearly designed to trigger a site visit by the gratified recipient, where he or she is invited to add the unsolicited endorsements to their profile. In the end, therefore, LinkedIn merely confirms once again the first law of internet services: if they're free, then you are the product. So here's a new year resolution for all netizens: try paying for online services and rediscover the liberation of being the customer who is always right.
Less emissions, more emotions, is Seat's grammatically questionable slogan for&nbsp;its Ecomotive range. Dubious in terms of veracity, too. Not the emissions, which are impressively low, but the emotions. I'm just not getting much in that department, I'm afraid.Which is disappointing, after looking through the brochure, full of&nbsp;pictures of beautiful, tanned young people grooving in the sunshine, clearly in love, with each other and with their Seat Ibizas. "Youthful spirit has always been the beating heart of the Seat Ibiza," the blurb says. "A car that fizzes with fun&nbsp;while&nbsp;laying down some serious performance." Again, I'm not feeling&nbsp;the fizz or the fun, certainly not the serious performance. There's talk of "passion", "exilaration" (sic), even a "definite glint of mischief in its headlights". All of which has been achieved through something called "enjoyneering".Annoyeering, more like. The Ecomotive range may be a step in the right direction in terms of not doing too much damage to the planet, but these copywriters are devastating the English language. Perhaps they should forget all the&nbsp;fizziness and fun, and stop pretending that stepping into a Seat Ibiza is the same as stepping on to the island of Ibiza itself, and that you will be surrounded by sunshine, love, music and beauty. Happy days.No one's seriously going to fall for that, are they? They're going to get one of these because the numbers make sense. And they do for the Ecomotive Ibiza, three of them in particular. Eighty, for a start, which is how far it will go, in miles, on a&nbsp;gallon of diesel. Then 92, which is how much CO2it produces in grams per kilometre, meaning that road tax is free and there's no London congestion charge. And 15,000, which is what one costs in British spondulicks (OK, it's a bit more).Those numbers are seriously impressive. And they're achieved in a car that might not get the passion juices flowing but is likable enough. Its unspectacular exterior is enlivened by a couple of fashionable creases. And don't forget that glint of mischief in the headlights. Did it just wink at me? Ay ay, cheeky, I'll see you later…Inside, it's cheap and cheerful, with just about everything you need&nbsp;and not much else. It trundles along perfectly adequately, as you'd&nbsp;expect of a 75 PS 1.2 TDI with&nbsp;an emphasis on economy. Unemotionally.Actually, trundle isn't quite right. It makes a strange noise, something between a leaf blower and the loose flatulence of the elderly. Not unpleasing – perhaps this is what they mean by "enjoyneering".Seat Ibiza ST SE 1.2 TDI CR Ecomotive 75 PSPrice£15,280Top speed107mphAcceleration0-62mph in 13.9 secondsCombined fuelconsumption80.7mpgCO2emissions92g/kmEcorating8/10Cool rating5/10
A few short weeks ago, the sometimes lauded, sometimes hated hacking collective Anonymous launched an attack against the nearly universally disliked extremist Westboro Baptist Church.After the church announced they would be protesting at the funerals of victims of the Sandy Hook shooting – which included 20 children aged six and seven – Anonymous used one of their favored tactics of a data drop to publicly release the addresses, social security numbers and contact information of the group's known members.This information leak happened just before security firm McAfee released a report on Thursday that predicted the decline of Anonymous in 2013. A team of McAfee labs researchers said in the2013 Threats Predictions (pdf)that too many "un-coordinated and unclear operations" made by Anonymous are destroying its reputation.Added to this, the disinformation, false claims, and pure hacking actions will lead to the movement being less politically visible than in the past. Because Anonymous' level of technical sophistication has stagnated and its tactics are better understood by its potential victims, the group's level of success will decline. However, we could easily imagine some short-lived spectacular actions due to convergence between hacktivists and anti-globalization supporters, or hacktivists and ecoterrorists.The McAfee assessment draws a distinction between purely political hacking groups and the loose collection of hackers at Anonymous, irrespective of the group's evolution into a politically motivated group.Writing for Wired,journalist Quinn Norton explained in Julyhow the group has changed. Norton said: "In the beginning, Anonymous was just about self-amusement, the "lulz," but somehow, over the course of the past few years, it grew up to become a sort of self-appointed immune system for the internet, striking back at anyone the hive mind perceived as an enemy of freedom, online or offline."Anonymous's collectivist structure means that individuals decide whether or not they want to partake in hacking when an operation is proposed from within.In part because of this decentralized structure, the McAfee analysis predicts that attacks by Anonymous will be usurped by cyber-attacks orchestrated by "more politically committed or extremist groups." McAfee also expects an increase in successful hacks by "hacktivists" who use their skills to aid political groups in areas plagued by unrest and tyrannical internet control, like Libya.Anonymous mounted several distinctly political cyberattacks in 2012 including hacks of local and federal US government agencies, a Mexican drug cartel and the Syrian defense ministry.The group's most notable act of the last 12 months came froma 2011 hack of private intelligence firm Strategic Forecasting (Stratfor), which resulted in the release of more than 5m emails between the company and its clients by WikiLeaks in 2012. This attack resulted in what might become the real threat to Anonymous' ability to wreak havoc on the cyberworld in 2013 – legal action taken by government agencies.Anonymous's "former unofficial not-spokesman"Barrett Brown was arrested in Septemberfor threats made against the FBI and is also facing federal charges related to the Stratfor information release. One of those charges is for posting a link in a chat to credit card information and identities of 5,000 people in Stratfor's database, which puts journalists who share similar data dumps in a compromising position.The Chicago-based hackerJeremy Hammond, 27, was arrested by the FBI in Marchfor charges related to the Stratfor hack. Both Hammond and Brown have been cited as potential members of Anonymous's now-shuttered offshoot LulzSec, which met its digital end after it was discovered that one of Anonymous's most notorious hackers was an FBI informant.The informant was top Anonymous hacker Sabu(real name: Hector Xavier Monsegur) who had a hand in the Stratfor hack, a cyber-attack on News Corporation and cyber-attacks on UK and US law enforcement groups. Information he provided to the FBI led to the arrest of Brown, Hammond and a handful of other members of the collective. His status as an FBI informant suggested that the intelligence agency has been privy to discussions between the group and WikiLeaks, compromising the Anonymous' safety and showed that Anonymous could be subject to information leaks just like the rest of us, gives credence to the McAfee assessment.The strength of the group's influence in 2013 remains to be seen, but the McAfee report also issued warnings for other cyberthreats, including an increased likelihood of mobile phone attacks and large-scale attacks like the computer worm Stuxnet, which aim to destroy infrastructures, not steal money.
Ah, the beauty about Christmas is that stories - already rebutted - can get a second life after the holiday season. And the beauty about writing about the music business is that everybody is prepared to believe that there is a great rock'n'roll swindle out there. Which, frankly, is much more fun than the dull old truth. But we can get to that in a moment.Today, over at our second favourite website - MailOnline - there is this fun looking story illustrated by a picture of a surprisingly well dressed Rihanna (the Mail has got into trouble for revealing too much of her before, but that's another story). The headline is "YouTube cancels billions of video views after finding they had been 'faked' - but were hackers working for the music industry?" And everything before the word after in that headline is absolutely true.Before Christmas, analysts atan outfit called SocialBlade noticed that YouTube had slashed the view counts for channels owned by Universal Music and two owned by arch rival Sony Music, SonyBMG and RCA Records. Universal had slightly over one billion views struck off and Sony forfeited an almost identical number from its two sites. This in turn waspicked up by the Daily Dot blog, which sort of slipped in a bit a journalism, turning the numbers into news, before heading off into the outer reachesof Black Hat World, where there has been a lively debate on the topic of YouTube view counts more generally.Daily Dot offers no evidence that the music majors are linked to inflating viewer counts, but does refer to a person who used the name Tapangoldy, who until recently had sold YouTube viewer counts. Tapangoldy is somebody whose moniker had cropped up in the forums, prompting the Daily Dot to ask if Tapangoldy is "tied to Universal, Sony, and RCA?" Except the site's conclusion is such a link is "something we can't presently confirm". Oh well.Anyway, what is true is that Google, YouTube's owner, has undergone one of its periodic cleansing exercises where it checks viewer counts against its terms of service. Over at another forum discussing the same topic (some folks are busy out there) there is indeedwhat appears to be a Google executive posting that recent changes in were "an enforcement of our viewcount policy". Which would be enough to make you wonder what it is that Universal and Sony had done to see YouTube strip a billion views from each of their YouTube totals. As anybody who has watched Gangnam Style knows, a billion views is a lot. Particularly when it is a real billion.Anyway, fast forward to today, and the Daily Dot story is back, prominently on the MailOnline site as discussed, with references to the Daily Dot and all the source material cited so far. MailOnline is mostly careful in its writing, but tries to finger Universal and Sony, noting in its first paragraph: "The world's biggest recording companies have been stripped of two billion YouTube hits after the website cracked down on alleged 'fake viewers'." But after going through the tedious business of reaching Universal and Sony, it appears there is a different explanation - andone already published before Christmas - on venerable music industry site Billboard.Universal and Sony have, since 2009, been moving their music videos away from their YouTube channels and over to Vevo, the music industry site the two companies own with some investors from Abu Dhabi. YouTube, meanwhile, thinks that is only right to count channel video views for videos that are still actually present on the channels - which means that whenever YouTube got round to reviewing the music majors' channels on its site, a massive cut was always going to be in order. The majors prefer Vevo because they own it, and get a better deal from advertising sold there, and with an estimated four billion videos served up monthly there, Vevo is probably doing OK, thank you.Of course, the problem with this prosaic explanation is that it is much less exciting. Much better to attach a story about a fall in viewer counts to the most half-baked bit of conspiracy theorising. Because on the internet, partial facts + total conspiracy = extra traffic.
The former chief executive of Autonomy claimed that Hewlett-Packard was watering down the accusations it had levelled against him over the accounts filed by his old software company – and said that he had not heard from the US Department of Justice, which HP had revealed had opened an investigation into the dispute last month.Mike Lynch, releasing a statement in the small hours of the night, complained that HP "failed to provide a detailed calculation" of the $8.8bn (£5.4bn) write-down in the value of Autonomy in an end-of-year SEC filing released earlier on Thursday, and said that HP's lack of specificity amounted to a "material change" in the allegations made.Last month, HP stunned investors when it announced it was taking an $8.8bn charge against the $11.1bn it had paid for the British company it had bought from Lynch the year before, and said that over $5bn of that write-off stemmed from "accounting improprieties, disclosure failures and misrepresentations" – charges all denied by its ex-boss.In its annual 10-K filing, HP said that the US Department of Justice "had opened an investigation" into Autonomy on 21 November, the day after the US company announced the $8.8bn charge. The company said it was "co-operating" with the DoJ and the UK's Serious Fraud Office and the US Securities and Exchange Commission, having "provided information" to all three bodies in the wake of an internal investigation.Responding, Lynch said that he and other former executive directors of Autonomy had had "no contact from any regulatory authority" on either side of the Atlantic. Reiterating previous denials: "Simply put, these allegations are false". Lynch said that he and colleagues intended "to co-operate with any investigation and look forward to the opportunity to explain our position".The Cambridge-educated software entrepreneur also said that HP had otherwise failed to give more detail as to how it had accounted for the write-off and that HP's filing was "now less clear" on how much of the charge was "being attributed to the alleged accounting issues, and how much to other changes in business performance and earnings projections".Sources close to Lynch  say that the absence of any extra information in the HP document meant that the investigation into Autonomy appeared to be moving backwards. In his statement, Lynch added: "Simply put, these allegations are false, and in the absence of further detail we cannot understand what HP believes to be the basis for them."
It's Friday, so those of you who've had to work for two days can now have two more days off again. Ah, the confusion of the festive season. There's only one way to get through it all and that's video games.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFarewell Android &gt;&gt; Peek&amp;CoPeek has built a wide range of products and technologies in the last few years- a full stack hardware/OS/app low-cost smartphone- a port of our cloud apps for mass market embedded OS phones- applications for video sharing and picture sharing on iOS for customers- our core products on mail, social, etc plus games and other apps for Android- customer work on Android- web app layer stuff to power other people's mobile apps- a full toolkit for deploying real-time smartphone apps onto featurephone OSesIn all that work, the products that earned us the least engagement, money, and time -&gt; Android productsWe'll announce some of the good results of our work on other platforms soon. But Android, farewell for now. We've decommissioned our various Google Play market apps this several weeks and switched off our apps.Surprising. (There's also a graph showing the number of active device installs.) Any iOS equivalents where they've abandoned the platform?Samsung launches ChatON 2.0 with web interface, tons of new features &gt;&gt; Android AuthoritySamsung's cross-platform messenger service ChatON has received its most significant update to date.The update brings many new features and improvements to the ChatON service, which has now hit version 2.0, and is available for Android, iOS, and PC users.ChatON 2.0 adds a new multiscreen feature to the service that allows users to chat with up to five different devices using a single account. Perhaps the most significant improvement ChatON 2.0 brings is the support for personal computers. Samsung has launched the chaton.com site, which will allow users to carry on their ChatON conversations from a web browser. ChatON 2.0 also offers users the ability to chat with their Facebook, Twitter, and Weibo friends by inviting them to the service.Samsung developing its own rival to Google Chat? Being cross-platform is a smart move.iPhone 5 Scuff Remover &gt;&gt; furbo.orgRemoves unsightly scratches, dings and scuffs IN MERE SECONDS! *Looks pretty good.Should you trust app store reviews? &gt;&gt; Terence EdenIf you're an average customer, reviews can be worse than useless for determining whether an app is any good. It can be hard to determine if a negative review is the fault of the app - or the user's phone. Is the reviewer the sort of cretin who complains that a £0.99 app doesn't have the same polish as a £40 video game? Has the reviewer misspelt even the most basic words? These are all warning signs that a reviewer should not be trusted.Yet, even knowing all these things, it's easy to be seduced by a negative or positive review that sounds plausible but is what we in the industry call "total unmitigated bollocks."So, gentle reader, I present perhaps the best app review in the Google Play App Store.And he does. But also has some useful suggestions on how you could get app reviews that would have meaning.The LINUX TABLET IS THE FUTURE - and it always will be &gt;&gt; The RegisterScott Gilbertson:So far, despite Microsoft's best efforts, the tablet world is still very much orbiting the twin stars of iOS and Android.Having used a Samsung Windows 8 tablet for a few months, I have a theory as to why: you think you want a full desktop computer on your tablet - I certainly did -- but you don't. It simply doesn't work.In the case of Windows 8 you can blame some of the "not working" on the buggy, incomplete software that is Windows 8, but not all of the problems can be attributed to a shortcoming of touch APIs.Much of what makes a full desktop interface terrible on a touch screen tablet is simply the whole desktop paradigm was never designed to be used on a tablet and it shows. The Metro interface for Windows 8 is excellent; different, but in my experience really well done.Where Windows 8 on a tablet falls apart is when you try to bring the software keyboard to the traditional desktop interface on a tablet. The software keyboard takes up half the screen, which makes even simple tasks difficult. How to you rename a file and move it? First you tap it to select it, then you tap the button to bring up the keyboard, then you type, then you touch away the keyboard, then you touch the file again. It isn't just awkward and slow; it's downright antagonizing...[But] There is a device that just might fit the bill for many a Linux user who thinks they're dreaming of a Linux tablet - the touchscreen laptop.The touchscreen laptop is exactly the place for an only slightly tweaked OS - touch "optimized" if you will - to succeed. When it's more convenient to touch the screen you can, but when you need to type there's a keyboard available.Internet-connected TVs are used to watch TV, and that's about all &gt;&gt; NPD GroupThe challenge may be that too much choice is creating a complex user experience. There are six or more types of devices bringing the Internet to HDTVs: the TV itself, video game consoles, Blu-ray Disc players, streaming media set top boxes, TiVo, and a few audio/video receivers. While 15 percent of HDTV displays are connected directly to the Internet, that number increases to 29 percent of HDTVs screens due to these other devices. This is driving the availability of around two connected eco-systems on the same TV screen, leading to a confused user-experience as consumers have more than one way of accessing their favorite TV apps.Six out of ten "smart" TVs are used to watch "over the top" (ie internet), but do you need a smart TV when you've got so many other devices that can do "smart" through your TV? (Thanks @modelportfolio for the link.)ForeSee Releases E-Retai l Satisfaction Index, US 2012 Holiday Edition &gt;&gt; ForeSeeAmazon.com continues to set the standard for customer satisfaction, matching the record high of 88 it set last year in the holiday edition of the Index. Amazon has had the highest scores in the Index for eight years in a row, consistently setting a pace that other retailers don't seem to be able to touch. Their high score is partially because of the appeal and variety of merchandise they offer, a priority area for some other retailers.Apple gets 80, down 3; Microsoft's online store gets 78, from not playing last year. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Raspberry Pi Raspberry Jam meetup for 11-16s in London &gt;&gt; EventbriteIt's Thursday, 3 January 2013 from 13:30 to 16:00 (GMT) in London (UK). Still some tickets left.HTC shares jump on strong Butterfly model sales in Japan &gt;&gt; CNA ENGLISH NEWSAccording to the KDDI sales data, the 5-inch HTC J Butterfly model surpassed the iPhone 5 during the first week (Dec. 10 to Dec. 16) after its launch in Japan. Also, this particular HTC model was ranked the sixth bestseller in the Japanese smartphone market during the same period."Consumers in Japan have been well known to be picky," Hsu said. "The sales of the HTC's newest smartphone model are the evidence that the company has made a breakthrough in design and technology to cater to the Japanese."..."In the U.S. and Taiwan, HTC has also adopted the same strategy to attract customers. On the back of its improved production technology, in particular the high-definition panel, the model has been a hit," Hsu said.The analyst said HTC could very likely achieve its sales target of NT$60bn for the fourth quarter, adding that this sales goal could even be topped on the back of the Butterfly model's current popularity.The "Butterfly" is HTC's "phablet" - its take on the Galaxy Note size. The iPhone 5 first went on sale in Japan on 21 September. As the story suggests, there are five phone selling better in the market, though there's no indication which ones. (Likely, Samsung and Sony.) Meanwhile, if HTC hits NT$60bn for the quarter, that means its revenues have shrunk by just 40% year-on-year. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Apple CEO Tim Cook's compensation totaled less than $4.2m in 2012, down from $378m last year &gt;&gt; The Next WebAnyway: due to the size of the RSU [Restricted Stock Units] award granted when Cook was promoted to CEO, which will vest over the next decade, Apple's Compensation Committee did not grant him another one in 2012.Just FYI: that's the same year in which Apple became the most valuable publicly-traded company ever (not counting inflation).On the other hand, Apple's late co-founder and former CEO Steve Jobs famously earned an annual $1 salary.And it's also worth noting that Cook's base salary was actually increased from $900,000 last year to $1,400,000 in 2012. But, as Apple itself puts it: "Mr. Cook's target cash compensation remains significantly below the median for CEOs of peer companies."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Tim Cook has finally made it to the top at Apple, but in his first full year as CEO his pay package shrank about 99%.Cook, the successor to the late Steve Jobs, was awarded total compensation of $4.17m in 2012 – down from $378m in 2011, Apple said in a federal filing on Thursday.The 2012 package for Cook, who took over as chief executive in August 2011, is also well down on his 2010 pay, which was 14 times his 2012 deal. In 2010 he was serving as Apple's chief operating officer.Jobs, the CEO and co-founder, died in October 2011 of pancreatic cancer. The huge pay reduction is a result of Cook not receiving any stock awards for 2012 because he was handed more than $375m in stock awards the year before. Those awards will pay out over many years.The 2012 package instead includes a salary of $1.4m and a bonus of $2.8m, according to the filing. Cook's base salary actually increased compared with the $900,000 he earned in 2011.While Apple's shares are 35% higher than when Cook assumed the CEO role, they have fallen more than 27% since October, when they climbed through $700.The California-based business, which became the world's most valuable company in the summer – when the stock market value of the business was equal to more than $10m for every one of its 63,000 employees – has lost its shine as concerns have mounted that it is losing its momentum.While Apple's iPhone sales still outdo any other manufacturer, some 75% of smartphones sold use Google's Android operating system.Analysts at Jeffries and UBS have both said in the past two weeks that Apple has substantially scaled back its orders for iPhone components, by up to 25%, suggesting it may manufacture fewer devices than previously expected.The company has been dogged by patent disputes and court appearances this year as it tried to ban the sale of Samsung Galaxy phones in the US – and succeeded.However, it failed to get the Samsungs banned in the UK and was instead ordered to make an apology to the Korean company. Apple has also taken legal action against HTC and Motorola, which, like Samsung, use Android.The launch of its iPhone5 was dogged by a rare mis-step when Apple ditched Google Maps, replacing it with its own mapping technology, complete with numerous mistakes. Cook was forced to issue a public apology and Scott Forstall, Apple's iPhone software boss – and an executive viewed as a potential successor to Cook – left the company. The Apple Maps boss also departed.
App download records for iPhone, iPad and Android devices were shattered on Christmas Day, with 328m downloads on 25 December alone, according to mobile analytics firm Flurry.That's up from242m iOS and Android downloadson Christmas Day in 2011, representing a hefty festive bonus for developers of the most popular apps on Apple and Google's platforms.Flurry's software is used by developers to track usage of more than 260k apps, giving it a good insight into overall market trends. Based on the same data, the company estimates that 17.4m new iOS and Android devices were activated on 25 December, up from 6.8m in 2011, and 2.8m in 2010.In ablog post announcing these figures, Flurry's Peter Farago estimates that over the first 20 days of December 2012, daily activations of iOS and Android devices averaged 4m, showing the scale of the Christmas spike.Of the 17.4m new activations on Christmas Day, Flurry estimates that 51% were tablets and 49% were smartphones. The company hasn't broken that down by device and manufacturer, other than saying this:"The big winners were Apple iPads, Apple iPad Minis and Amazon Kindle Fire HD 7" tablets. In particular, Amazon had a very strong performance in the tablet category, growing by several thousand percent over its baseline of tablet activations over the earlier part of December."Some developers have already talked about their own figures for Christmas Day downloads.For example, Imangi Studios co-founder Keith Shepherdtweetedthat its Temple Run game "had over a million downloads on iOS, over a million on Android, and over 500k on Amazon on Christmas day" – Amazon being a reference to the Amazon Appstore for Android devices, including the Kindle Fire range but also other devices.Flurry expects downloads for the week up to New Year's Day to continue to soar. "Flurry anticipates downloads to surpass more than 1.5 billion, and have a shot at breaking through the 2-billion download barrier for the first time ever," blogs Farago.
When Facebook shares something about you that you thought was private, it's your fault because you screwed up the privacy settings. But when Facebook shares something about the founder's sister – well, it's still your fault, because "it's not about privacy settings, it's about human decency".That double standard surfaced when Randi Zuckerberg, the sister of Mark Zuckerberg and a former Facebook executive,posted a candid family photothat proceeded to take on an internet life of its own. The picture popped up in the news feed of Callie Schweitzer of Vox Media. She tweeted it. It went viral.The problem was, Randi Zuckerberg never intended the photo to be seen by anyone but her Facebook friends. She castigated Schweitzer via Twitter. "Not sure where you got this photo," Zuckerberg wrote,in subsequently deleted correspondence captured by BuzzFeed. "I posted it only to friends on FB. You reposting it on Twitter is way uncool."Schweitzer apologized, saying the picture had innocently appeared in her feed – apparently because she is Facebook friends with another Zuckerberg sister – and she didn't realize it was private. Instead of responding, Randi Zuckerberg, now a reality TV producer, called the internet in for a lesson in playground conduct."Digital etiquette: always ask permission before posting a friend's photo publicly," Zuckerberg tweeted. "It's not about privacy settings, it's about human decency."Digital etiquette: always ask permission before posting a friend's photo publicly. It's not about privacy settings, it's about human decency&mdash; Randi Zuckerberg (@randizuckerberg)December 26, 2012Having your privacy invaded is a bad feeling, and it's unfortunate that it happened to Zuckerberg. Separately, it's mildly disheartening to contemplate the cultural hydraulics by which a picture of five people standing in a kitchen becomes an object of torrential popular interest.But what's most odious about the episode is the high-handedness of Zuckerberg's response.Facebook makes money when users surrender their privacy. The company has made it the user's job to defend personal information, which otherwise might be made public by default. Got a problem with that? The company's answer always has been that users should read the privacy settings, closely, no matter how often they change."The thing that bugged me about Randi Zuckerberg's response is that she used her name as a bludgeoning device. Not everyone has that. She used her position to get it taken it down," Eva Galperin of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy advocacy group in San Francisco told the Associated Press.Galperin said that while Facebook has made amendments to their privacy settings, they still remain confusing to a large number of people. "Even Randi Zuckerberg can get it wrong," she said. "That's an illustration of how confusing they can be."It seemingly takes a massive user backlash – like the one this month when Facebook abruptly declared that Instagram photos could be sold to advertisers – to change the company's mind.You can stay "private" on Facebook. The company just doesn't want you to. Without surrendering some privacy, you're a free rider.You can also pay your credit card off every month. The company just doesn't want you to. Without paying interest, you're a free rider.But credit card companies, at least, don't openly scold consumers for not paying cash, when their very existence is built on swiping plastic. That's what Randi Zuckerberg did. Her career and her family's fortune were built at a company whose policy is to relieve you of your privacy first and ask questions later. So when the topic is respect for privacy she runs quite short on moral authority. She may have the millions but she doesn't get the pulpit.One more thing: review your Facebook privacy settings. When in doubt, make content available only to friends – and not friends of friends, as Zuckerberg appears in this case to have done.
Wikipedia's data on the most viewed pages of the year throws up some surprises, not least that web users are still confusing web searches with web addresses. Facebook came out top on the most viewed English-language pages with more than 32.6m views, while Wiki (we assume people were Googling for Wikipedia) came second at 29.6m and Google ninth with 18.5m.The not-slightly unnerving 'Deaths in 2012' was the third most viewed page with 25.4m while the reassuringly normal 'One Direction' (big both in the US as well as the UK) was fourth at 22.4m. Films the Dark Knight Rises and Hunger Games also made the top ten with 18.8m and 18.4m respectively.Toolserver, a wing of Wikimedia Germany has more if you have an appetite for scanning top Wikipedia pages from China, Bulgaria and more.1.Facebook32,647,9422.Wiki29,613,7593.Deaths in 201225,418,5874.One Direction22,351,6375.The Avengers (2012 film)22,268,6446.Fifty Shades of Grey21,779,4237.2012 phenomenon20,619,9208.The Dark Knight Rises18,882,8859.Google18,508,71910.The Hunger Games18,431,626
Several Yuletides ago, before the novelty of camera phones had worn off, a group of us spent much of Christmas doubled up with laughter after inventing 'hand porn', where we'd photograph close ups of our hands in a way that looked anything from suggestive to explicit. It was funny at the time.All too late, but Facebook has just produced the perfect platform for this kind of smut in the form of itsPoke app. Old school Facebookers will remember Poke as that innocent nudge gesture still hidden in a corner of the site, but the new Poke is a standalone app that's caused no small amount of consternation among the startups community.Download Facebook Poke and you'd be forgiven for being a little mystified. You'll be invited to write a message, take a photo or record a video to any of your Facebook friends, and then asked to choose how long they'd like to see it for – anything up to 10 seconds.In the often banal world of social updates, it could be seen as a blessing that messages self-destruct after a few seconds. No more compulsive, infinite timeline scrolling – freedom! But the darker purpose to this design is sexting – allowing teens (and it is mostly teens) to flash their bits without adding those bits to a photo library somewhere.This is in a different league to bit-flashing on Chatroulette; the intimacy and access of mobile and the cunning self-destruct feature designed to lull the bit-flasher (almost always female) into a false sense of security. The app alerts the user if a screenshot is taken while the message is displayed but there's always a workaround – not least taking a picture of the screen with a separate phone.If it seems morally questionable that Facebook is actively pursuing the sexting audience (especially a company with an inexplicably prudish attitude towards breastfeeding) it's also worrying app developers. The format for this app was first carved out by the startupSnapchatwhich launched quietly in September 2011.Facebook pretty ruthlessly cloned the app and boasted about it doing it in just 12 days,releasing iton 21 December. Veteran entrepreneurJason Calcaniswas scathing about Facebook's move."Putting aside the abhorrent nature of children sexting for a moment, Poke brings up massive questions about Facebook's product direction … What do Facebook's elite developers think when Zuckerberg comes into the room and says, 'Let's all bust our asses for two weeks to copy a sexting app?' What do those same developers think when their friends at Google talk about Sergey Brin walking into the room and asking them to create dent-in-the-universe projects like Google Glass, self-driving cars and a dozen other insane products Google X has going on that you would be proud to tell your kids and grandkids you worked on?"Facebook has never been shy of its agile development policy – do it, ship it, ask forgiveness later. But it does beg questions about its priorities, its focus and its own understanding of its mission. Facebook used its privileged and monopolistic position as controller of more than one billion newsfeeds to promote Poke which rocketed to top place in the app charts. But it quickly dropped off and now comes in at 34, while Snapchat basks at number 5.Being cloned by Facebook doesn't mean certain death;AllThingsDpoints out that Facebook has already killed its Quora attempt, Questions. Still, I'm hoping there's a niche market to be captured in grainy pictures of suggestive digits, so there's a starter if Facebook wants to grow its core audience.
If you're back at work today, why not talk about all of your great Christmas presents (or disappointing lack of them) right here, right now?!
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (RIMM) - 6-K - &gt;&gt; SECOn December 21, 2012, Nokia and RIM announced that they have entered into a new patent license agreement. The agreement will result in the settlement of all patent litigation between the companies and Nokia's dismissal of all pending actions in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada and Germany. The financial structure of the agreement includes a lump sum EUR50m (approximately $65m) one-time payment, which has been recorded in the Company's consolidated statement of operations in the third quarter of fiscal 2013.Note that "includes". There are likely to be ongoing payments (similar to those Apple makes to Nokia). And next in line for Nokia: HTC. Will that sort of amount tip it into loss?RIM pricing power with carriers slips as sales decline &gt;&gt; BloombergResearch In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)'s pricing power with carriers shows signs of slipping after the BlackBerry maker was forced to cut subscriber service fees as demand for its smartphones in emerging markets slows.Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins, who will introduce the BlackBerry 10 operating system next month, told analysts on a Dec. 20 conference call that RIM faces pressure to reduce fees to "stay relevant in our markets." The Waterloo, Ontario-based company dropped the most in more than four years on Dec. 21 in Toronto.Carriers pay RIM a monthly per-subscriber fee. But for the past two quarters, RIM and carriers have been saying the same thing: the smartphone maker's ability to keep that fee up has dropped.Quarter of PC users may switch to other devices &gt;&gt; Center for the Digital FutureFor one-quarter of computer owners, their current PC may be their last.Twenty-five percent of computer owners say they may not replace their PC when their current machine becomes unusable, signaling a possible trend of consumers becoming PC-less because they switch to a tablet or a similar device, according to a national survey conducted by the Center for the Digital Future in collaboration with market research and strategy firm Bovitz, Inc."We are seeing a major change in how a large percentage of Americans view their computing needs," said Jeffrey I. Cole, director of the Center for the Digital Future at the USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism.That's pretty dramatic, especially when you consider those who haven't even got their first PC yet.Reliable!!! &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansOne of the many forms that Android now takes: a$55 Android netbook. Resistive screen, Android 2.2 and a built-in RJ-45 ethernet socket.When people talk about Android market share, this is included. It's a great way to expand access to the internet in emerging markets, but it isn't exactly a competitive problem for Apple or, arguably, Microsoft.Maybe not for Apple, but Microsoft might find it concerning: it's dropping the price of keyboard computing access substantially.This is still the best thing to watch if you want to know how tech companies should try to fix TV &gt;&gt; Business InsiderSteve Jobs, speaking in 1998:I've spent enough time in entertainment now with Pixar, and with Disney, who's just a terrific company to work with, by the way, is that people go to their television primarily to turn their brain off. I used to think like many of you might have thought that there was this giant conspiracy from the networks to but mediocrity on television and dumb us down, did you ever think that? I thought that. It thought that was giant conspiracy to rob the American populace of their mind if not their soul. I then found out the truth which is far more depressing. The networks give people precisely what they want. The reason people want this stuff. They come home from a long day. They have dinner with their kids and they're fighting and they get them into bed and they just want to turn their brain off for half an hour. Do you ever do that? I mean, I must admit I don't watch much TV, but I can admit I will turn on the TV for a half hour, and it really does turn your brain off. People got to their TV to turn their brain off. People go to their PC to turn their brain on. These things aren't going to be together, they perform completely separate functions.There's a video with more.The Apple vs Samsung verdict: a critique &gt;&gt; ForbesPamela Jones of Groklaw:I also started to be more aware of a smear campaign against Google, instigated, I came to believe, by Microsoft and implemented by its running dogs too not only in the media but also to regulatory bodies, with some success, not only about search but about the new theory of FRAND patents.Putting all those pieces together,  seeing a pattern in the attacks on Android, I was dumbstruck when the jury verdict came in.Been a long time since the phrase "running dogs" was used seriously in the western media. The idea that you could use the ownerships of FRAND patents (which product builders are obliged to incorporate) to force sales bans is unpalatable, though - but that's what Google's Motorola and Samsung are trying to do in a number of jurisdictions.Your top 10 Windows 8 questions of 2012, answered &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:The new Windows 8 app model, with apps available only through the Windows Store, is still in its infancy. Last I checked there were around 20,000 apps listed in the Store. That includes some very good ones, including a Kindle reader, solid apps for the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, Skype and Shazam, Wikipedia and Khan Academy, and (naturally) Angry Birds. Some of the built-in apps that are installed with Windows 8 are superb. But many apps you can find today on competing platforms or on the web are missing in action in Windows 8.There's no penalty in sticking with Windows 7 and waiting as the Windows 8 ecosystem matures. In fact, there's no penalty waiting until the first big update to Windows 8 appears, perhaps as soon as mid-2013.Or, as I wrote back in July:"Honey, if you don't want to upgrade, just don't upgrade."Could the iPad be ending the British public's long love affair with cars? &gt;&gt; WalesOnlineBut average annual car mileage by men [in their 20s] had already fallen to about 4,400 miles per annum by 2005-07.The latter statistic pre-dates the impact of the economic downturn and the rapid rise of mobile internet.Prof Jones said: "There's a big reduction in young men driving to visit friends and relatives, which could be a result of people using Facebook."Also, more young men now lived with their parents. Where men previously drove over to a friend's house to socialise, that was less likely if the friend lived with his parents."The thing about young people is it's not just a British phenomenon. In most European countries and America there's been this reduction in car use among young men, but not women," he said.The trends for men have a bigger impact on overall traffic than the trends among women because there have always been many more male drivers than female.So basically: no. (Also, have youseenthe price of fuel?)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Shiny new tablets and smartphones given as presents make Christmas Day and Boxing Day the two most lucrative days of the year for app sales. Yet in the apps economy, turkeys are a year-round phenomenon.Thousands of new apps are released every week for devices running Apple's iOS and Google's Android, but most sink without trace. With an estimated 1bn apps released so far on those two platforms alone, there are relatively few winners and many losers.This month, industry analyst Canalys claimed that in the first 20 days of November, Apple's US App Store generated $120m (£75m) of app revenues, with just 25 publishers accounting for half of that. And 24 of those 25 companies make games, including the likes of Zynga, Electronic Arts and Angry Birds publisher Rovio.But analysts suggested in August that two-thirds of Apple store apps had never been downloaded – a lifeless long tail of more than 400,000 unwanted apps.So who is making decent money from apps? The top games publishers certainly are, especially those with popular "freemium" games which are free to download but make money through in-app purchases of virtual currency or items.British developer NaturalMotion made $12m from its iOS car racing game, CSR Racing, in the first month after its release in June, and Finnish rival Supercell was reported making $500,000 a day in October from its Hay Day and Clash of Clans games.Meanwhile, Angry Birds has set a template that other games hope to follow – generating app store riches, followed by real world revenues from toys and merchandise.Apps have not saved the newspaper industry just yet, but three of the 10 most lucrative iPad apps on the UK App Store in 2012 belonged to newspapers: the Times, Telegraph and Guardian. There are success stories in magazine apps, with UK-based Future currently grossing $1m of sales from its digital editions.Apps are fuelling some of the more disruptive media companies too. Streaming music firms Spotify and Deezer have 5&nbsp;million and 3 million paying subscribers respectively, with mobile the main reason people pay for them. In the US, 77% of listening to personal radio service Pandora is now mobile – and it was the sole non-gaming company in Canalys's list of the 25 biggest earning US apps.Apps have been important for the growth of online TV services such as Netflix and Hulu, while in the UK, 24% of programme requests to the BBC's iPlayer now come from handheld devices.Ultimately, though, one company dwarfs the rest when it comes to making money earning from apps: Apple. The company said in June it had paid $5bn to app-makers since its App Store launched in 2008.Yet in its 2012 financial year, to September, Apple sold $80.5bn of iPhones and related products, and $32.4bn of iPads and related products, with apps a key selling point for both devices.Individually, most apps still fail. But collectively, they are colossally successful at building the fortunes of the App Store's owner.
Human rights campaigners have called for an investigation into the British surveillance technology companyGamma International, which they accuse of exporting controlled surveillance products without licences to regimes with dismal human rights records.Gamma International says that its surveillance technology offers "world-class offensive techniques for information gathering" and can intercept texts, phone and Skype calls, log keystrokes and copy files.The campaign groupPrivacy Internationalalleges the equipment has been used to gather information on activists who are targeted by the repressive regimes. It wants greater restrictions on the export of surveillance products, which are increasingly being used but are increasingly used but have not had the same level of export restrictions as traditional weapons. The group has sent a 186-page report to Revenue and Customs (HMRC) alleging that the unlicensed export of some Gamma International products "would amount to criminal conduct"."For years, British companies like Gamma International have had carte blanche to sell incredibly powerful surveillance technologies to any government that can afford them, even when they are subsequently used to target human rights defenders. Gamma International is one of the worst culprits; it does business with regimes that most companies would not touch with a bargepole," said Eric King, head of research at Privacy International.The organisation argues that Gamma – which insists it does comply with export controls – has been exporting its products without licences in place and has called on HMRC to investigate.In August, theDepartment for Business, Innovation and Skillsinformed Gamma International that its FinSpy products, designed to use "controlled cryptography" (software that uses high-grade encryption to protect information) required "a licence to export to all destinations outside the EU".The department also confirmed Gamma International had submitted a control list classification (CLC) inquiry – asking if a product required a licence – for the first time in June 2012 and as of 11 September had not applied for any licences.A department spokeswoman said products designed to use "controlled cryptography", such as FinSpy products from the FinFisher range, were controlled by EU legislation and would have required an export licence since at least 2000.Privacy International says the rules in place were insufficient and wants controls on surveillance technology overhauled. "The fact that some controls have been in place for over a decade but appear not to have been enforced suggests the government policy on this kind of technology is patchy at best. We need to ensure all surveillance technology is properly controlled: these are digital arms and need to be treated with the same vigour as traditional weaponry," said King.The organisation argues that Gamma had a responsibility before it was explicitly informed by the business department to check if it needed an export licence and have the necessary licences in place.Gamma has repeatedly stated that it only supplies products and services to legitimate government organisations. In an email, a company executive, Martin Muench, said Gamma would not provide details of any applications for export licences for confidentiality and security reasons, but added that the company co-operated with the export control organisations of the UK, US and Germany.He said there was no statutory or regulatory requirement for companies to seek a CLC but that the company had made such an application in June 2012 "after discussions with a government agency which suggested that it would be advisable … for certain products". The company was working on a code of conduct for "the industry as a whole", he said, adding that Privacy International turned down an invitation to discuss it.Gamma was criticised after Egyptian human rights activistsfound documents from the companyin the headquarters of Egypt's state security before the February 2011 uprising. The company later said that it had demonstrated software to the Egyptian government but "did not supply any FinFisher products to Egypt that could have been used during the movement of the opposition".In December 2011, WikiLeaks published Gamma promotionalvideosshowing how police could plant FinFisher on a target's computer. In September last year, the foreign secretary,William Hague, who speaks for the government on computer security issues, said exports of goods "that could be used for internal repression is something we would want to stop" but admitted the law governing software exports was a grey area.Privacy International's document to the HMRC also alleges that Bahrainipro-democracy activistsreceived emails containing malware that, when analysed by researchers at the Toronto-based Citizen Lab, contained "strong evidence that the malware in question was "FinSpy … distributed by Gamma International". Gamma said: "We have no knowledge of any operation involving those named in the article."It was reported in mid-August that FinFisher products were being used by countriesincluding EthiopiaandTurkmenistan.The leader of the Green party, Caroline Lucas, said she had written to the government expressing her concerns. "It sends a very damaging signal when British companies are selling products that undermine democratic processes the government says it supports," she said. "I hope this process is successful and if necessary prosecutions are made in order to send a strong signal that it should be illegal to export this kind of surveillance technology to these regimes and it must be stopped."An HMRC spokesman said: "HMRC cannot comment on individual cases. However, where we receive information of possible export licence issues we consider the facts and take appropriate action."Case Study: Ala'a ShehabiAla'a Shehabi, 30, is a British-born economics lecturer, activist and writer in Bahrain. She has a PhD from Imperial College London. Her husband was a political prisoner in Bahrain but has recently been released.She was born and raised in the UK but moved back to Bahrain, her parents' home, with her husband in 2009. With a family history in political activism – her father sought exile in the UK after speaking out against the government in the 70s  – she soon because involved in the political uprising that started in February 2011. She foundedBahrain Watch, which calls for more transparent governance in the kingdom."There was a very charged atmosphere in Bahrain," she said. "My husband was arrested and held for 10 months and I was banned from travelling and forced to stop work."With police filling the streets and martial law imposed dissent moved online and underground, she said. "Everyone was aware that what they wrote would be monitored so suddenly you saw all the faces disappear from Facebook, people deleting their Twitter accounts," she said. "I essentially worked on the assumption that everything I did or said was being watched."It was soon after the crackdown that she received the first of four suspicious emails, addressed to her personally from feasible email accounts. She sent the emails to Bill Marczak, a computer science doctoral candidate at the University of California Berkeley, who went to school in Bahrain and is also a founding member of Bahrain Watch.As Bloomberg reported in July, Marczak established the link to Bahrain by tracing the trojan's transmissions back to an internet address in Manama, Bahrain's capital. Other evidence came from the work of Morgan Marquis-Boire, a security researcher at Citizen Lab, at the University of Toronto, who analysed the infected e-mails and published adetailed reportof the findings through Citizen Lab. He exacted "digital DNA", or a signature from the infected emails that bore the hallmarks of FinFisher.Luma Bashmi, a spokeswoman for the government's information affairs authority, told Bloomberg that Bahrain had no policy of targeting political activists through surveillance technology. "Such allegations are taken very seriously and if there is any evidence that there is any misconduct in use of such technology, each case will be investigated immediately according to the laws and regulations of the Kingdom of Bahrain," she said.Gamma Group, which makes FinFisher, said it had no knowledge of any operation involving those named in the Bloomberg article and could not comment on individual cases or clients.Shehabi said she welcomed the step to impose some controls on the export of surveillance software, but that stricter controls were needed. "I expect this type of treatment from the Bahrain government, which is reduced to lawlessness and doesn't believe in human rights, but if they have been serviced by a British company that really angers me," she said. "There shouldn't have to be another victim like me to come along before these exports stop."
In one noisy corner is Google, claiming victory for its strategy of free, ubiquitous software, while in the other, there are Apple's eye-watering profits as the world's most valuable company. This is the titanic battle to control the future of the tablet and smartphone market – and with it, the way thatmore than a billion peoplewith the devices access information.In the latest round, Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, claimed victory over Apple in the platform wars – just as Microsoft triumphed over Apple in the 1990s by working with hardware manufacturers and forcing Apple into a market niche. He cited research by Gartner that found Google's Android had secured 72% of the global smartphone market compared with Apple's 14%."This is a huge platform change; this is of the scale of 20 years ago – Microsoft versus Apple," said Schmidt. "We're winning that war pretty clearly now. The core strategy is to make a bigger pie. We will end up with a not perfectly controlled and not perfectly managed bigger pie by virtue of open systems."Much of Google's rhetoric seems designed to undermine Apple, from its open internet strategising to Schmidt's characterisations of an internet space he once described as "the largest experiment in anarchy that we have ever had". It's a seductive observation – and one designed to reinforce Google's strategy and worldview as one of boundless possibilities and an open, creative internet.Apple, however, is unlikely to be bothered by much Google is doing and looks anything but vulnerable. With a well-feathered nest of $176bn in assets, and on track to sell, at best guess, 113m iPhones in 2012, it looks exceedingly comfortable.As well as smartphones, Apple and Google compete in the tablet market, with Android powering a slew of tablets and Apple pushing the iPad and iPad Mini. It's an industry sector set to boom in 2013, according to Gartner. The iPad Mini also indicates a new willingness from Apple to extend its market reach by offering a smaller, cheaper product for a market subset – something that may indicate a parallel cheaper iPhone could be on the cards.This competition is good for consumers, says Enders analyst Benedict Evans. "The consumer benefits from a surge in competition and frenzied innovation," he said. "But there are some complex overlapping issues here, and it's not binary competition between Apple and Google; Apple primarily makes money from devices and Google makes money from advertising."Together, Apple and Android now account for 90% of the smartphone market, but only a third of global mobile sales. Though Schmidt can boast of Android's market share, those figures disguise sales in China, where key Google services are not preloaded. "If Apple is selling 200m iPhones at a 45% gross margin, it really doesn't matter how many phones Google is selling," said Evans. "It is not concerned with market share, but has also managed to attract and retain developers. Apple's is an ecosystem that is self-sustaining."The rise of mobile – and the popularity of apps that Google has itself promoted through Android – is creating pockets of data effectively walled off from the rest of the web. Though some, like the picture-sharing app Instagram, extend their content online, many do not and this presents a challenge to Google's stated aim of indexing the world's information. Google's answer has been to promote HTML5 as a rich design language for the mobile web – thus encouraging developers to build apps that function within a web browser and within Google's indexable domain.While websites are obsessing over which mobile strategy to employ, all that consumers might have noticed was a slower, less ambitious mobile app. The Facebook founder, Mark Zuckerberg, announced an abrupt change of tack, ditching a browser-based HTML5 app, that worked across all smartphones, for a native app. "We burnt two years," he said. With mobile critical to Facebook's future, and investors piling on the pressure for a solid mobile strategy, that may prove to be a costly mistake.Mobile advertising is still experimental and ineffective, facing a tough challenge in balancing small screen size with a meaningful, non-invasive experience; eBay announced last week that it had pulled advertising from its mobile app.David Wenig, eBay's president of global marketplaces, said: "We aren't happy with the user experience and we don't need the money."Other companies – including Facebook – are less fortunate, and have to find a way to make mobile ads work.Mobile could also be pulling the rug out from under Google's significant business, despite its strategic moves into mobile software. A slip of the printer's fingerreleased Google's third-quarter results earlyand without the spin of the chief executive, Larry Page. Revealing earnings below expectation and a slowing of Google's previously exponential revenues, the result was a $20bn drop in the company value.With Apple seemingly secure in the premium consumer electronics space, there is one more major shift in mobile that will spell trouble for Google. "Discovery is moving away from typing, but also from search. Apps too are a structural threat to search, because they are vertical search," said Evans. Behavioural data backs this up; search traffic declined in September this year for the first time since 2006, partly because of more vertical searches through apps.That's bad news for Google, which still relies on search-related advertising for its core business – and great news for Apple and its app-controlling empire."Google is starting to miss out on signalling information that gives context to searches, being cut out of knowing the device location," says Evans. "Google has a problem."This article was corrected on 27 December 2012: "a 45% growth margin" in the original should have read "a 45% gross margin".
The Wikipedia page for Judge Lucy Koh - who has overseen a number of court battles between Apple and Samsung - has been locked until Sunday after an "edit war" by people seeking to cast doubt on her independence as a judge, apparently because of her rulings in those trials.Koh oversaw the major Apple-Samsung patents and design case in the summer, in whichApple was awarded $1.05bn by a jury for patent infringement by Samsung. The case has now moved to post-verdict hearings.But a bizarrely partisan reading of the Apple win has led some contributors to alter Koh's page - which should be an impartial reference about her work and life - to create nonexistent "controversies" about her decision-making.Koh's page is required to conform to the"Biographies of Living People" standard, requiring among other points a "neutral point of view" and "verifiability".But asfirst pointed out by Philip Elmer-DeWitt, the page related to Koh was altered on Friday 21 December at 20.07 (UTC) to add a paragraph under the headline "Questions of Impartiality in Apple vs. Samsung" sayingIt has been discussed extensively in the Technology Community whether or not Lucy Koh has been completely impartial in handling Apple vs. Samsung. She ordered several preliminary injunctions on Samsung products that were later overturned by other federal agencies or were found to have not infringed on Apples Patents. (1) In addition, her refusal to allow Samsung to submit case changing evidence raises red flags. (2) (3) The investigation of the role of Jury Foreman Velvin Hogan in the verdict also leads to questions of Koh's impartiality.(4)  Samsung is currently appealing the trial in the Federal Appeals Court and seeks a new trial.You can seethe page as altered; and this ishow it is at present.The paragraph falls well short of Wikipedia's requirements - or most logical systems. None of Koh's trial decisions over Apple-Samsung have been finally reversed on appeal; some are still in process. There's no ongoing investigation of Hogan's role (we know his role: he was the foreman of the jury), and what investigation there was (he had a lawsuit with Seagate in 1993) has no influence on Koh's impartiality.And of course there's been no "extensive discussion" in the "tech community". Two articles on small-ish sites aren't extensive. It simply isn't an issue.The IP at 173.63.98.107, used to make the edit on 21 December, belongs to Verizon, a US ISP, which suggests the person who made the edit is based in the US. They have alsomade edits on Wikipediaon 13 December to the page about Apple's A6 processor (wrongly saying it performed worse than others, according to a later editor who threw out their revisions) and on 11 December to the page about the Samsung Nexus 10 tablet. adding details about its flash and HD capability. It's possible that the IP was reallocated between those dates, and between the time on 21 December that the paragraph about Koh was added, but it's unlikely.The revision on the Koh page was firstshortened, and then turned around to aim at Samsung (the revised paragraph read:It has been discussed extensively in the Technology Community whether media coverage of Judge Koh's handling of Apple vs. Samsung was co-opted. Samsung's history of corruption and unfair business practices (1) appears to have manifested itself in coverage of the case. (2) (3)- that by the IP 68.13.194.193, which also belongs to Verizon. By the early hours of 23 December, itseemed to be gone, with the comment that the editor had "Deleted clearly slanted language questioning Judge Koh's integrity".But you can't keep a bad meme down. About 12 hours later, on 23 December, the edit wasback, with the same language as the original, though this time emanating from a different IP - 109.128.12.20 - with the comment that the language was "still true". This, however, came from a Belgian address.45 minutes later:gone again. Peace reigns for a couple of days.. and then, turkey-stuffed, itcomes back, via a user calledSmith59923- whose only contributions to Wikipedia have been to the Koh page, and specifically in the "Controversies" section, which didn't exist a week ago.A brief edit war occurred over Christmas day, as Smith59923 added the "controversy" back in, another Wikipedia user called "Lord Roem" deleted it, and a third IP (98.155.79.13, a US ISP called Road Runner, but whoseWikipedia area of expertise appears to be Korean culture, and who has made a number of allegations of bias - none supported with data - against other contributors) joined in to re-add it.All in all, there were more than 20 edits in three days - almost all removing or adding back the offending (in every sense) paragraph.Finally, it was removed by a higher Wikipedia editor, and - saving grace - the page was locked until 3.30pm on 30 December.The real puzzle, though, is what is going on more broadly. Losing a court case might be tough, but it's really not a cause for making untrue claims. Especially if you're not working for the company involved. So why are people so worked up? Is it something bigger? Elmer-DeWitt is in the process ofconsidering whether a persistently negative commenter going by the pseudonym of The_Truth_Hurts is in fact being paid to cause trouble:His critics -- and there are many, including some who have taken up mocking handles like the Ugly Truth, He_Doesnt_Speak_The_Truth, and IgnoranceIsBliss -- believe TTH is a shill, professional "troll" or provocateur paid by one of Apple's competitors to spread FUD (fear, uncertainty and doubt).If he doesn't get a satisfactory answer, he's going to ban the commenter. Something odd is afoot, but whether it's overactive commenters or something much more sinister remains to be seen.
Samsung, the south Korean electronics giant, could face fines running to billions of pounds from the European commission over its attempts to use its "standard-essential" patents on 3G to ban sales of Apple's iPhone and iPad in Europe.The Google-owned smartphone company Motorola Mobility may face similar penalties over its attempts to ban sales of Microsoft's Xbox 360 through its use of SEPs relating to Wi-Fi and the H.264 video standard.Both companies could yet receive fines in the US as well, where the federal trade commission weighed in earlier in December in a court case between Motorola and Apple, arguing that Motorola's use of SEPs amounted to a "hold-up". Samsung is also being investigated by the US justice department over its use of SEPs in cases against Apple.The European commission's competition arm, run by Joaquin Almunia,issued a formal statement of objectionslast Friday.The potential fines can run to 10% of a company's worldwide turnover, which in tSamsung's case would amount to nearly $15bn (£9.3bn), based on its 2011 revenues of $148.9bn. The commission opened its investigation into Samsung in January.Samsung and Apple have been battling each other through the courts - and seeking sales bans on each others' products - in dozens of countries around the world.Apple has been seeking bans based on what it claims are infringements of specific patents that are not part of any standard, such as the "pinch and zoom" feature on touch screen phones, as well as design patents on the appearance of its products.Samsung, by contrast, has frequently tried to use its SEPs, which differ from the patents asserted by Apple in that they are only included in a standard such as 3G if the owner makes a formal commitment to license them to allcomers on a "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory"  basis. If the licenser and licencee cannot agree on pricing, it is set by a court. The commission noted that Apple had offered to make a payment, but that the two sides differed on the sums involved.Just days before Almunia's office moved against Samsung, the company announced that it waswithdrawing its demands for sales banson the iPhone and iPad in Europe - though the lawsuits, in which it is demanding payment for Apple's use of the technologies, continue.The company said: "Samsung remains committed to licensing our technologies on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, and we strongly believe it is better when companies compete fairly in the marketplace, rather than in court. In this spirit, Samsung has decided to withdraw our injunction requests against Apple on the basis of our standard essential patents pending in European courts, in the interest of protecting consumer choice."It is continuing, however, to seek sales bans via SEPs in other parts of the world, including the US, Asia and Australia.Almunia argued in the statement that allowing companies which hold SEPs to ban sales where companies have not agreed pricing amounted to a "hold-up", because "access to those patents which are standard-essential is a precondition for any company to sell interoperable products in the market".The commission decided that because Apple had offered to pay a licensing fee on the patents for 3G owned by Samsung, the Korean company's demands for a sales ban were unjustified. "Recourse to injunctions harms competition," it said.The statement of objections means that Samsung will have to respond and then the commission will determine whether to impose a fine or other measure.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTepid sales of Microsoft's Windows 8 point to shaky market &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comClaude Ballard was among the customers at the Microsoft store who tried out Surface, a new Microsoft-designed Windows tablet. Mr. Ballard, who described himself as a "semiretired" computer systems manager for a real estate firm, said he was intrigued by the eye-catching design of Windows 8 -- but not enough to scrimp to buy a new computer this year."It's economics, really," he said. "It's going to be a better year for my mechanic than it is for me."Weak PC sales this holiday season suggest that the struggles of Microsoft and other companies that depend heavily on the computer business will not abate soon. Plenty of consumers already own PCs and seem content to make do with what they have, especially in a shaky economy in which less expensive mobile devices are bidding for a share of their wallets..."What you're seeing is not a retirement of PCs, but a push-out in the replacement cycle," said A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. "If people used to buy PCs every four years and are now buying them every five years, that could lower PC sales by 20 percent over time. That's substantial."PC sales have been declining year-on-year in the US pretty much all through 2012.Why 2013 will be the worst year ever for China technology users &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaVarious reasons, but note this one:The mobile market will be restricted. One of China's tech regulatory bodies, MIIT, isplanning to reach its cold, bony handsinto the world of mobile app development and sales. Exactly how that will turn out isn't yet clear, but MIIT's regulatory processes are the reason an iPhone takes an extra three months to come out in China. App developers are understandably concerned that they're going to be slowed down -- which can be a death sentence in the fast-paced mobile ecosystem -- or censored, or very possibly both. Whatever happens with this round of regulation, I would guess that this won't be the only time we see MIIT interfering in the mobile space in 2013.And there's plenty more interference where that came from.Christmas Eve at the Apple, Microsoft and Sony stores &gt;&gt; Fortune TechIn pictures.Calling Snapchat "the sexting app" misses a huge shift in mobile, photos, and communication &gt;&gt; Pando DailyThe tech blogosphere -- the ones who are supposed to "get" new technologies while old media does its best impression of your dad trying to program the VCR- keeps calling Snapchat the "sexting app."I'm sure it drives clicks, but in doing so, they're dramatically missing the point on what this company is doing, why it's growing so quickly, and why several top investors are falling all over themselves to get an early piece of the LA-based company.This kind of thing is common with social companies. They are almost always seen as something frivolous at the outset. Facebook was long considered merely a college bulletin board that adults couldn't imagine joining and surely college kids would mature out of using. YouTube was just a place for videos of your cat. Instagram was just mobile photos that a gimmicky technology could made look old. Twitter was nothing more than telling the world what you had for lunch.They're still harping on that for the last two. And missing the point. Snapchat is intriguing.Google's Santa Tracker..Ooops. Possibly in Central Park somewhere.. (scroll the picture)JEOPARDY! Adult Online TestErr... "How do I get to be a contestant in the US series Jeopardy on January 8,9 or 10?"Smartphone market share trends by country: Android dominant, iPhone gains, Windows Phone slips further &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh posted this on Christmas Day. We'd just like you to know that.Layoffs pending at HP's Autonomy unit in the UK &gt;&gt; AllThingsDSources familiar with the company's plans tell AllThingsD that the number of jobs expected to be cut is actually fewer than 70; the cuts will focus on sales personnel, all of whom were originally hired prior to HP's acquisition of the company. Additionally, the job cuts were put in motion in September, well before HP made public its intention to write down the value of Autonomy by about $5 billion. Layoffs in European countries, like those in the U.K., are more complicated to carry out, and so take months to complete.Unhappy new year.Techmeme's top 20 headline terms of 2012, and what they signify &gt;&gt; Techmeme NewsWe can uncover a variety of patterns analyzing the data Techmeme has accumulated over the years, and given Techmeme's pan-industry focus, these findings can signal large-scale trends developing across the tech industry.One simple analysis is ranking terms by the percentage of Techmeme headlines in which they appeared. Results for the top 20 words from 2012 headlines appear in the table below. We only count headlines fully featured on Techmeme, which are also those tweeted by @Techmeme, and not those merely appearing beneath headlines in "More". This table also excludes the 164 words most common to writing and general news (like "the" and "to").You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It is a battle of internet titans, but fought on a&nbsp;tiny scale: amid the wrapping paper and badly fitting jumpers, millions of people around Britain unwrapped a 7in tablet this Christmas. But will it be from Apple, Google or Amazon?The answer could point to which company dominates the fastest-growing segment of computing, as they compete for attention, users and profits.The key choices this year have been between the newest models, such as Google's Nexus 7, Amazon's Kindle Fire, Apple's iPad mini and the Nook from Barnes &amp; Noble.In the runup to Christmas, many retailers sold out of iPad minis, while Google, Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble paid for hefty advertising campaigns, but nevertheless warned their devices were subject to availability, which may mean many have been disappointed in trying to get one."The specific reason why people are looking at 7in tablets rather than larger ones like the [9.7in] iPad is the size and price," says Benedict Evans, telecoms and technology analyst&nbsp;at Enders&nbsp;Analysis. "They're very appealing because they're the size of a&nbsp;notebook, rather than a copy of&nbsp;Vogue. It makes the iPad seem like something basically a home or desk device because it's bigger and heavier."Evans says another element in their success is price. Where the iPad, so far the most successful tablet, costs at least £329, the Nexus 7, Kindle Fire and Nook start at £159, while the iPad mini begins at £269.Amazon, B&amp;N and Google are reckoned to be selling the devices at close to break-even, in the expectation that content sales will make up any initial loss. Even Apple is thought to be taking lower margins on the iPad mini than its other products.Those who got theirs before the Christmas rush definitely seem pleased. Nick Efford, a teacher and author based in Leeds, says he was worried that a Nexus 7 would be too small."Size turns out not to be an issue at all," he explains. "I use it a lot for Twitter and email, and casual browsing while sitting on the sofa. And it works for gaming – phones are too small. Basically,&nbsp;it's a less intrusive presence than a laptop when you are doing other things but occasionally want to go&nbsp;online."Ofcom reckons that UK tablet ownership jumped from 2% a year ago to 11% by December. But this Christmas, with three of the biggest internet companies in the world offering their own tablets, that could rise dramatically."This Christmas has been like a giant science experiment," says Evans. "We're finding out if people want big tablets or small tablets, if they want them cheap or expensive, whether they want them with big app stores or small ones, whether they want them to be storefronts or internet browsers."But the explosion in sales heralds a shift in how we use computers, Evans says. "We're going from a time when 90% was done on a desktop or laptop computer and perhaps 10% on a mobile, to a time when it's one-third desktop, one-third on a mobile and one-third on a tablet," he says."It doesn't particularly matter which sort of tablet – it moves you away from the paradigm where you had a computer that sat in a room and you turned on, to something that you have at the breakfast table, or that is carried in a handbag – that you use wherever you could be reading a print&nbsp;product."Carolina Milanesi, a smartphone and tablet analyst for the research company Gartner, agrees. For content consumption such as watching films or TV shows, or for apps or games, she says, "a 7in tablet is ideal, and that is what most consumers will use it for".A key driver is that consumers now have more choice: "There's the Kindle Fire, Nexus7, iPad Mini and a few lower-cost ones," Milanesi says. "The Fire is all grown up and now has no compromised hardware, so that it is a true tablet rather than a glorified e-reader as the original was. Prices have also come down considerably, which makes it easier for consumers to make the decision to spend the money."By contrast, she says, the smartphone market hasn't seen much innovation in 2012: "It rests on pretty much a handful of phones this year: Apple's iPhone 5, Samsung's Galaxy S3, which is getting a bit old now, Google's Nexus 4, Nokia's Lumia 920 and HTC's 8x."Contract lock-ins have meant it's harder for people to get new phones – which has cooled growth in the US and Europe.Francisco Jeronimo, IDC's smartphone analyst, said: "Google and Amazon will bring the tablets to the mass market – not specifically because of the screen size, but the combination of brand, specifications, experience, content and price."When Apple launched the first iPad in April 2010, it galvanised a market that had been asleep for years after being started by Microsoft in 2001.PC tablets were clunky laptops; the iPad was much thinner, with a longer battery life and instant-on availability, and a huge range of apps that used its bigger screen&nbsp;space.Samsung and others quickly tried to compete, offering 7in tablets that failed to take off. In October 2010 the late Steve Jobsfamously dismissed them, saying that "we think the 10in screen size is the minimum size required to create great tablet apps." He added: "The 7in tablets are tweeners, too big to compete with a smartphone and too small to compete with an iPad."But Amazon proved him wrong, launching the first 7in Kindle Fire – a tablet able to surf the web and run apps or show films as well – in October 2011. Though it was US-only, it sold millions. Google followed in June with the Nexus 7, even while rumours were emerging that Apple was working on a smaller device – which was unveiled as the iPad mini in October. And the fight was on.That has driven explosive growth in the global tablet market, where sales are increasing at roughly 50% year-on-year each quarter. Forecasters have had to keep revising their estimates upwards: in June 2011, IDC was forecasting that 50m tablets would be sold in that year, and 75m in 2012. After four revisions – the most recent this month – it reckons that 71m were sold in 2011, and that this year's figure will hit 122.3m.But that will in turn have huge implications for the success of both Apple and Google – and to a lesser extent Amazon and B&amp;N – as they battle for users' attention and, more importantly, money. Though Android phones sell in larger numbers, iPhone users spend more on apps – and iPad users have thousands of custom-made apps to choose from, compared to a far smaller number on Android tablets. (The Kindle Fire and Nook can run Android apps.) Advocates for Android say that its apps don't need rewriting for tablets, because it can automatically resize them – but that has not been translated into money spent buying them.Evans suggests that will mean Apple's dominance in apps – where many games and products, such as Temple Run and Instagram first appeared on its platform – will continue. "The question for app developers is, where do you put your effort?" says Evans. "If you've got one person who buys Google's Nexus 7 because it's £100 less than the iPad mini, what does that say about their willingness to spend money on apps? So which one do you spend money developing for first?"Yet there's also a big player missing in this competition: Microsoft, whose Windows software dominated the desktop era of personal computing.This Christmas, no company offering its new Windows 8 or Windows RT software has a 7in tablet on sale – and even the number of 10in tablets running Windows 8 is limited compared with the number of Apple and Android offerings.Nothing is expected before 2013 –  which leaves open the question of whether the former giant of the PC will have been left behind by the biggest shift to hit personal computing in a decade.Top apps this ChristmasSneak (69p)Beat the kids' boxing day boredom by getting them to sneak up on virtual monsters.iPhone/iPadFlickr (Free)Yahoo's rejuvenated photo-sharing app is The New Instagram! As well as being The Old Instagram.Android/iPhoneClear (69p)Elegantly-designed to-do lists app Clear is just the thing for new year's resolutions.iPhoneGreat British Bake Off (£1.99)Fed up with turkey? Time to cook biscuits / fudge cakes / giant gingerbread houses.iPhoneLondon: A City Through Time (£9.99)Catch up on some capital history with this sprawling London encyclopedia.iPhone/iPadSongPop (Free)Keep your musical brain fresh with this social tune-spotting game that was a craze of 2012.Android/iPhone/iPadSummly (Free)A sobering thought for 2013: if algorithms can summarise the news, how long till they're writing it?iPhoneVyclone (Free)A New Year's Eve essential, if several people shoot video, Vyclone edits the footage together.iPhoneGoogle Maps (Free)The not-getting-lost man/woman's alternative to Apple Maps this Christmas.Android/iPhoneThe Snowman and the Snowdog (Free)Raymond Briggs' famous cartoon got a sequel this Christmas, and yes, there's an app for that.Android/iPhone/iPad
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOfficial NORAD Santa TrackerIncludes a running total of gifts delivered. We hope you have been nice, not naughty.Foldify for iPad - Create, Print, Fold!Create 3D figures on iPad. Then print and fold them from paper.Something to do after lunch?Why you shouldn't buy a subsidised phone &gt;&gt; OpenSignal BlogWe compared three near-identical sets of plans over a 24-month duration (the standard length of a Vodafone contract), factoring in the initial cost of buying the handset as cheaply as possible from an independent retailer at the start of sim-only plan.Apple now allows 30-pin and Lightning connectors on accessories, POP charger may be on the way (update) &gt;&gt; The VergeApple spokesperson Tom Neumayr told us that the an earlier version of its iOS accessory guidelines had indeed prevented the use of both 30-pin and Lightning connectors on the same device -- a selling point of the charging station -- due to "technical issues," but that those problems had been solved and the guidelines since changed.(Thanks @memesmith, @meestersmith for the link)Nokia, China Mobile to offer Lumia 920T for just 1 Yuan &gt;&gt; Windows Phone CentralChina Mobile will subsidise the price of the Windows Phone, much like what's available in the US and Europe on select carriers with supported smartphones. Win.cp managed to publish what these plans will cost the consumer when a Lumia 920T is taken out. The first is the up-front fee, while the second price is the monthly payment.1 Yuan - 388 Yuan /month800 Yuan ($130) - 288 Yuan /month1200 Yuan ($190) - 228 Yuan /month2000 Yuan ($320) - 188 Yuan /month388 Yuan is about £38. (Thanks @dmyke for the link.)Does Microsoft have a Phablet strategy? &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:No matter how big you make the screen, a Windows Phone 8 device is still going to be a smartphone and not a tablet and Windows RT is not going to be a smartphone.Don't weep too much for Microsoft.  It's design decisions give it an advantage in the tablet to notebook continuum that is ultimately more valuable.  Not only that, so far Apple has eschewed the Phablet space confirming it might remain a fairly small niche.  So the question becomes, does Microsoft ignore Phablets completely?  If not, how are they going to address them?Notebook demand expected to be weak in 1Q13 &gt;&gt; DigitimesAs sales of Windows 8 notebooks have been short of expectations, and competition from iPad and Android tablets is increasing, the global market for all types of notebooks is expected to be stagnant in the first quarter of 2013, according to Taiwan-based vendors and suppliers.Since notebook vendors still have high-levels of Windows 7 notebook inventory, most vendors are aggressively offing price cuts. Some Core i5-based notebooks have been priced below US$599.Microsoft Corp v Motorola Mobility LLC &gt;&gt; bailii.orgThe full judgement rejecting the Motorola patent:In assessing whether a claimed invention is obvious, it is always important, although difficult, to avoid hindsight. The fact that, after the event, it is easy to see how the invention could be arrived at by starting from an item of prior art and taking a series of apparently simple steps does not necessarily show that it was obvious at the time: British Westinghouse Electric &amp; Manufacturing Co Ltd v Braulik (1910) 27 RPC 209 at 230 (Fletcher Moulton LJ), Non-Drip Measure Co Ltd v Strangers Ltd (1943) 60 RPC 135 at 142 (Lord Russell) and Technograph Printed Circuits Ltd v Mills &amp; Rockley (Electronics) Ltd [1972] RPC 346 at 362 (Lord Diplock).Particular care needs to be taken with allegations that a claimed invention is obvious in the light of common general knowledge alone.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Last year, we teamed up with James Dance, owner of video game-themed barLoading, to createa range of cocktailsbased on our favourite games of 2011. It was such a success that James has agreed to concoct a new selection, based on this year's top titles.As well as running Loading, Dance and his collaborator Will Edgecombe have created themed drinks for a variety of games companies like Ubisoft and Turtle Beach, as well as crafting one-off showpieces, includingan amazing cocktail landscapecreated to resemble Minecraft.So, before planning that last minute Christmas get-together, or your New Year party, you might want to check out these rather astonishing concoctions. Just remember to drink – and play games – responsibly.XCOM Ingredients UnknownSee off any alien invasion with this potent defensive squadronWhat you'll need5ml Creme/Milk10ml Creme de fraise10ml Sparkling wine15ml La Fee clear absinthe12.5ml Pernod12.5ml Kahlua (or black coffee if you prefer)10ml Vanilla Vodka10ml Citron Vodka5ml Overproof Rum10ml Passion Fruit Syrup10ml Orange Juice5ml Cranberry10ml Cherry sambucaCrushed IceNot just one cocktail, but an unassailable team of drinks, representing the different classes of soldier available in this challenging sci-fi strategy sim.For the Sniper, replicate the hyper-alert 'Squad Sight' skill with a mix of Kahula and Pernod. Simply pour the Kahlua into a shot glass then carefully add the Pernod, pouring it down the side of the glass to help the layering.The Assault class is your basic infantry, prepared for close, personal damage – just like this drink. Combine the Vanilla, Citron and a splash of overproof rum with crushed ice for a potent, shotgun-style mix.Then we have the Heavy class, the chaps with the really big guns. To lay down a 'suppressing fire' at your party, simply serve cherry sambuca and creme de Fraise in a shot glass, and maybe add a dash of milk to give it extra weight. "The red colouring symbolised the game's laser weapon upgrades," assures Dance.The psychically-powered Psy-Ops class is all about messing with the enemy's – or your guests' – minds. Simply mix the La Fee clear absinthe and sparkling wine and everyone will be under your control.Last, we have the crucial medic class – and you'll probably need it after drinking the others. Here, we have a mix of three health boosting ingredients – just splash the passion fruit syrup, orange and cranberry juice into a long glass and gulp it down. There, all better.The Spelunky Gold RushGo for gold with this priceless treasure chest combining Jack Daniels Honey and GoldschlagerWhat you'll needIce25ml Lemoncello15ml Jack Daniels Honey10ml White rum10ml GoldschlagerLemonadeLemon WedgeCaster Sugar and Yellow Food ColouringHoneycomb piece to garnish if your feeling flashDerek Yu's ultra-uncompromising platformer is all about digging deep into a series of randomly generated temples looking for treasure. "You spend the whole game avoiding death and chasing gold," says Dance. "So it seemed fitting to create a drink all about the loot you painfully leave behind with each inevitable restart..."Start buy putting ice, lemoncello, white rum, and the JD Honey into a shaker. Next, prepare your sugar by pouring some into a freezer bag, add a few drops of yellow food colouring and shake. Run the lemon around the rim of a highball glass and dip in the sugar. Now shake your spirits and carefully pour into the glass avoiding the sugar, top up with lemonade and start your adventure.The Dishonored whale oil burnerCraft your own steampunk machinery, powered by Dunwall's precious fuel sourceWhat you need100ml Whole MilkVanilla Ice Cream25ml Todka (Toffee Vodka)25ml Creme de Cacao10ml Baileys10ml Overproof rumMarshmallowsWhale oil is the viscous liquid that powers the steampunk city of Dunwall in this atmospheric stealth adventure. Our drink allows you to build your own whale oil furnace. Put the Creme De Cacao, Baileys, vanilla ice cream, milk and todka into a blender and pour out into a glass or old jam jar. Finally, take a spoon and rest it on the surface of the drink and slowly pour on the overproof rum. Now carefully light the rum and you have your whale oil burner! Now roast your marshmallows over the top.The Journey desert coolerEmbark on a mystical odyssey of your own with mulled wine and sloe ginWhat you'll need175ml Mulled Wine50ml Sloe Gin15ml CointreauIceJourney is a mysterious yet minimalist adventure – challenging qualities to capture in a cocktail. "We settled on mirroring the main character's robe colours and choosing a drink that would be easy to recreate," says Dance. Start with mulled Wine but instead of warming it, shake over ice and add a shot of Cointreau and sloe gin. "Don't serve upside down like in the picture," warns Dance.The Borderlands quartet of chaosA whole army of crazed concoctions, capturing the cel-shaded anarchy of BorderlandsWhat you'll need25ml Dark Rum25ml Spiced Rum50ml Whiskey300ml Ginger Beer30ml Vodka25ml Jagermeister175ml Coke25ml Blue Curacao25ml Lychee Liqueuer100ml Peach flavoured Water25ml Chambord/Berry Liqueuer25ml Gin200ml LemonadeIce25ml Kahlua10ml Vodka15ml CreamCocoa to garnishBorderlands is a crazy sci-fi blaster set on a hostile planet populated by maniacs. These are the drinks we reckon the inhabitants serve when they're not attacking each other for loot. As with XCOM, Dance has designed a set of cocktails to reflect the different classes of character available the game.For the shoot-happy Gunzerker class, we're going to get you to dual wield two tumblers, each containing slugs of dark and spiced rum, a slosh of whiskey and, to protect you from the cold on that inhospitable planet, half a pint of fiery ginger beer to finish. The use of classic spirits is inspired by the game's most old-fashioned and reliable arms manufacturer, Jakobs.The stealthy Assassin class is represented by this impossible to detect mix of vodka and Jagermeister, equipped with coke to act as a shield. The Siren, meanwhile, gets things off the ground with a Martini glass, a blast of Lychee Liqueur and a 'phaselock shot' of Chambord. You can add the 'Maliwan Grace skin' by sneaking a few less conventional spirits into the mix: blue curacao and a fire-resistant spirit of peach water shaken over ice and strained.Our Commander drink starts with gin paired with white rum for combat stability and then covered with a regenerative shield mixer of lemonade. Now you'll need a separate shot glass – or gun turret – containing a mini white Russian of Kahlua, vodka and cream. "Drink this combo and you should still be fine to lead the team to greatness," says Dance. To be honest, I'm not sure you'll be leading anyoneanywhere.
Well, it's Christmas Eve and if you're reading this, the chances are you still have at least a morning of work to slog through. Why not spend it talking about video games? Oh and Merry Christmas!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUK court rules against Motorola's "sync messages" patent &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaOn Friday, the High Court in London issued a ruling that said that one of Motorola's patents covering technology to synchronize messages across several devices should be invalidated. Originally, the patent covered the synching of messages across multiple pagers, but recently Motorola has used the patent in lawsuits against Apple and Microsoft for using similar message-syncing services in iCloud and on the Xbox, respectively.The presiding Judge Richard Arnold declared Motorola's patent invalid and said it should be revoked because the patent (which has a priority date from 1995, but was issued in 2002) contained technology that "was obvious to experts in the field at the time."Microsoft brought the case - Exchange and ActiveSync would have infringed. But it's stil in force in Germany. And in the US. (Though Motorola's patent value just fell a little.)Google finds its design voice on iOS &gt;&gt; The Next WebGoogle doesn't just make apps for Android and the web. It also makes them for Apple's iOS -- 25 different apps at last count. That's more apps than Apple offers on its own store. Unfortunately, when it comes to design on the iPhone and iPad, its offerings have left a lot to be desired. That is until recently when, suddenly, its apps started getting very, very good.BT faces £94m in repayments for overcharging &gt;&gt; PC ProBT is facing repayments to its wholesale customers of nearly £100 million after Ofcom ruled the company had been overcharging them.In a ruling that covers three separate complaints from a host of ISPs, Ofcom found that the prices charged by BT for its Ethernet services around five years ago were too high...The ruling explains that Sky and TalkTalk jointly raised a dispute over pricing for BT's Backhaul Extension Services (BES), arguing that between June 2004 and July 2009 "BT had failed to comply with its obligations to ensure that its charges for BES were cost orientated".Google designing 'X Phone' to rival Apple, Samsung &gt;&gt; WSJ.comThe [Motorola] deal complicates Google's mission to advance Android. Hardware makers typically install a version of the operating system that comes attached with Google's revenue-generating services such as Google Search, Google Maps and Chrome browser.Samsung, with its popular "Galaxy" devices, is the biggest such partner and is quickly gaining market share. The South Korean company shipped 40.3% of all Android-based phones in the third quarter, according to IDC. Google has co-developed devices with Samsung and provided it early access to new versions of Android software.Some Google executives have expressed fears the relationship could go sour if Samsung decided to use a "forked" version of Android, according to four people familiar with the matter. That means Samsung would create devices based on a version of Android that doesn't come with Google apps preinstalled.Motorola is seen as a kind of insurance policy if Samsung shifts strategy, these people said, even though there is little evidence so far of such a move. Google could begin adopting an integrated approach of having its Motorola and Android units work more closely together, like Apple does with its hardware and software teams, they said.The idea of Motorola rivalling Apple or Samsung is presently ludicrous: those two companies have billions sunk in manufacturing and supply chains. Motorola is a minnow by comparison; it will take a long time and huge investment to really rival them. Is Google prepared for that? (Subscription may be required.)The dark nature of Google's business ... and self-driving cars &gt;&gt; ZDNetTom Foremski:For a taste of the complexity of Google's world, and everyone that's trying to make money in that world, take a look atthis infographic from SEOBookattempting to explain the many different strategies that Google uses when updating its search algorithm.Google's goal is to confuse search engine optimization (SEO) efforts and to uncover aggressive SEO techniques through delaying, or obfuscating results from SEO changes being made.By making it harder to link a change in a web site, with the resulting change in search rank, Google believes it can fight SEO and clean up its search rankings.Unfortunately, it also means that a lot of legitimate online businesses can lose rank overnight and lose revenues for no fault of theirs but due to clumsy algorithm changes that favor big brands and big business.The past couple of years of algorithm changes have been very hard on small online businesses, and forums are full of heart breaking stories of decimated revenues and job cuts.Press Release - Antitrust: European Commission sends Statement of Objections to Samsung on potential misuse of mobile phone standard-essential patents &gt;&gt; ECThe European Commission has informed Samsung of its preliminary view that Samsung's seeking of injunctions against Apple in various Member States on the basis of its mobile phone standard-essential patents ("SEPs") amounts to an abuse of a dominant position prohibited by EU antitrust rules. While recourse to injunctions is a possible remedy for patent infringements, such conduct may be abusive where SEPs are concerned and the potential licensee is willing to negotiate a licence on Fair, Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory (so-called "FRAND") terms. The sending of a Statement of Objections does not prejudge the final outcome of the investigation.Comparatively rapid: case was opened in January 2012. Fine: can be up to 10% of company's annual worldwide turnover.Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales denies Kazakhstan connection &gt;&gt; Examiner.comOver the past 48 hours, something very strange and disturbing has been panning out on one of Wikipedia's most popular pages - the Talk page of the project's co-founder, Jimmy Wales. Accusations have been leveled about the Wikimedia Foundation (which Wales created), saying that the non-profit organization is working too closely with the government of Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan's president has been the target of many worldwide criticisms for his authoritarian crackdowns on free speech in the former Soviet republic. The Kazakh government funds a new wiki-focused project in that country, called WikiBilim.Walessounded offon Friday:"The Wikimedia Foundation has zero collaboration with the government of Kazakhstan."And more.UK &amp; Ireland: November ISP rankings for UK and Ireland &gt;&gt; The Official Netflix BlogOur 30 million members view over 1 billion hours of Netflix per month, so we have very reliable data for consumers to compare ISPs in terms of real world performance.Starting this month, we'll publish monthly rankings of ISPs in the UK and Ireland, based upon their actual performance across all Netflix streams.None is anything to write home about, to be honest.Method and System for Exposing Multi-Billion Dollar Racketeering Scheme &gt;&gt; PlainsiteIntellectual Ventures is not run by amateurs, of course. In the same way that no one has actually ever seen Keyser Söze, the ficticious Hungarian mafioso described in the film The Usual Suspects, few companies have been sued by Intellectual Ventures. But its agents, or in this case, shell corporations, are legendary. Everyone knows they are out there, but no one seems to know who they are.That is because to the best of our knowledge, until now, there has been no publicly available list of Intellectual Ventures shell corporations, unless you count the USPTO assignment database, which contains millions of other records as well. In fact, in response to recent queries about their shell corporations, Intellectual Ventuesstated, "Those interested in viewing granted patents and patent applications can search the USPTO's public database."So that's what we did.Like all of the USPTO's on-line systems, the assignment database is a technological abomination--sadly ironic for the agency that effectively manages the nation's technology rights.Apple kills a Kickstarter project: Portable power project POP refunding $139,170 to backers &gt;&gt; VentureBeatPOP was billed as "the intersection between charging and design" and featured connectors to charge iPads, iPhones, and yes ... Android devices. Its four retractable cord reels would have powered anything using micro-USB charging connectors.That's a problem with Apple. In fact, even combining Apple's new Lighting connector with the old 30-pin connector in a charging device was verboten; Apple would not approve, forcing the team to abandon the project."We are pissed," Edison Junior CEO Jamie Siminoff told me on the phone today. "I think they are being a bunch of assholes, and I think they're hurting their customers."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Facebook has become the latest multinational to come under the spotlight for its tax affairs after figures revealed it paid just £2.9m in tax on profits of more than more than £800m.Filings for Facebook Ireland, through which all of the social network's profits outside the US are channelled, show it paid the Irish tax authority €3.2m (£2.9m) last year.Facebook is structured so that companies buying advertisements on the website in the UK, or anywhere outside of the US, have to pay Facebook Ireland.This allowed Facebook Ireland to make gross 2011 profits of £840m – or £3.1m per each of its 287 staff. Despite the high gross profit, Facebook Ireland was able to cut its tax bill to just €3.2m by using an accounting technique called the "Double Irish".The manoeuvre allows multinationals to move large amounts of money to other subsidiaries in the form of royalty payments. Facebook moved nearly £750m to the Cayman Islands and its Californian parent in licensing and royalty payments.After the transfers, Facebook Ireland reported a £15m annual loss, despite it accounting for 44% of the social network's $3.15bn (£1.95bn) revenues.Like Apple and Google, Facebook uses its Irish subsidiary to reduce its liabilities to HM Revenue &amp; Customs and other European tax regimes. Amazon and Starbucks also cut their British tax bills by using the same technique via other European countries. Last year Facebook paid just £238,000 in UK corporation tax – less than the average pay and bonus of its UK-based staff. Its estimated UK revenues amounted to £175m last year.The revelations are likely to reignite anger at giant US companies paying very little tax in the UK despite making hundreds of millions of pounds in the country.Starbucks had been facing calls for a mass boycott after it emerged it paid no corporation tax in Britain for the last three years, and just £8.6m since 1998. It has promised to pay about £10m to the exchequer a year for the next two years.A Facebook spokeswoman said: "Facebook complies with all relevant corporate regulations including those related to filing company reports and taxation."The company added that it chose to base its international headquarters in Ireland as it was the "best location to hire staff with the right skills to run a multilingual hi-tech operation serving the whole of Europe".George Osborne, the chancellor, promised to tackle "unacceptable" tax avoidance in his autumn statement this month. He said more resources were being put into ensuring multinational companies "pay their proper share of taxes".He also confirmed a £154m blitz on tax avoidance and evasion, with HMRC hiring an extra 2,500 tax inspectors to target high earners who aggressively exploit loopholes to avoid or evade tax.Margaret Hodge, the chair of the public accounts committee, said multinationals had been allowed to get away with "ripping off" taxpayers because of a weak tax authority, poor legislation and a lack of international co-operation."Global corporations with huge operations in the UK generating significant amounts of income are getting away with paying little or no corporation tax here. This is an insult to British business and individuals who pay their fair share."Corporation tax revenues have fallen at a time when securing proper income from taxes is more vital than ever."The inescapable conclusion is that multinationals are using structures and exploiting current tax legislation to move offshore profits that are clearly generated from economic activity in the UK," she said.
Just like their neighbours across the sea, the Irish enjoy nothing more than whingeing about the weather. But, according to internet giants such as Google, the people of Ireland should be grateful for their dank, damp, cold climate.The country's mist, rain and chilly air have all become selling points: Google and other multinationals say that the Irish weather is now one of the main attractions for global computer and online corporations setting up data centres in the Republic. The Silicon Valley firm has just established a $75m (£46.2m) data processing centre alongside its European headquarters in Dublin, insisting that the chilly climate makes it more energy efficient – and hence "greener" – to cool down its servers.Since Google's arrival, south-east central Dublin has been rapidly transformed into a technological hub similar to Berlin's Silicon Allee or London's Silicon Roundabout. Other companies such as Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Zynga, HP and Dropbox have all set up in Dublin. Amazon also operates a cloud computing centre in the Irish capital, while overall most of the world's data-centre providers have a base in the city.Ireland has been able to attract these world-famous corporations despite the depth of its financial and economic crisis, due to the lobbying work of the country's Industrial Development Authority; a highly educated, young, English-speaking workforce; and, crucially, the Republic's rock-bottom 12.5% corporation tax. And now the weather can be added to those factors."It's not often that Irish weather is a cause for praise, but the temperate climate was very significant in choosing Ireland as a location for this data centre," says Dan Costello, Google's global data centre operations officer. The group has managed to reduce the amount of energy it uses worldwide to cool down its data systems to just 12% of its energy bill. "It's not quite as simple as just opening the windows, but it's pretty close," he says.Google now employs more than 2,000 staff in Ireland and generates 40% of its revenue from its European hub near Dublin's south docks. "Silicon Dock", as the area has become known, has generated spin-off retail and food businesses to look after the thousands of well paid, highly educated workers who have flocked there. The Google effect has also created a recession-free bubble in an otherwise stagnant economy, where national unemployment is still at 14.5% and general domestic demand stuck in the doldrums.Empty office space and ghost towns remain physical symbols of the Celtic Tiger collapse. Outside of this hi-tech hub on the south side of the river Liffey, for instance, only 13% of office space in the surrounding Dublin 2 area is currently occupied.Other companies in the same sector have also moved large parts of their operations to Dublin. UK-owned Telecity invested €100m (£81.3m) in August 2011 in a data processing centre at three locations in Dublin. It currently employs 60 people in Ireland and 660 across the EU.Maurice Mortell, Telecity's managing director, emphasises the importance of the weather for the data processing industry. "The growth of the digital economy is creating significant demand for IT infrastructure environments … The cooling element of these IT facilities is one of the reasons why Ireland is a popular choice for data centres," he says. A year before Google's investment, Microsoft put an additional $130m into its data processing centre, having already invested $500m.The Irish government recently injected €5m into a new cloud computing research centre atDublin City Universityas part of its strategy to maintain the republic's reputation as a leading nation in computer development. The centre in north Dublin, the 11th of its kind to receive state funding, is guided by a panel of experts from Fujitsu, Intel, IBM and Microsoft.As far back as 2009, American independent technology research company Forrester Research  – in one of the darkest years of the Irish recession – urged US companies to establish their overseas headquarters in Dublin. It recommended: "Make sure you consider Dublin, it is becoming an ever-more popular alternative to London for the more abundant power, less expensive real estate, and climate suited for free cooling."Charlie Connelly, the author of a recent history of the weather,Bring Me Sunshine, which was a Book of the Week on Radio 4 earlier this year, says that with Google giving Ireland's climate the thumbs-up, we could finally see Irish weather as being cool in more ways than one. Connelly points out that the Romans famously refused to establish long-term colonies in Ireland because of the weather, and called it Hibernia, meaning the Land of Winter."Maybe Ireland will now embrace its climate. Some have tried already, most notably the 19th-century writer William Bulfin from County Offaly, who described the Irish rain as 'a kind of damp poem. It is a soft, apologetic, modest kind of rain, as a rule; and even in its wildest moods it gives you the impression that it is treating you as well as it can under the circumstances.' But this [Google's recent investment] is probably the first recorded case of anyone planning a move to Ireland because of the weather," he says.
Over at theNew Statesman,Steven Poole&nbsp;is Mad as Hell. Like Howard Beale in the filmNetwork, he's Not Going to Take It Any More. What's bugging him is what he calls "cybertheorists" (aka "cyberhustlers") – the guys – and they are mostly guys – who are constantly "dreaming of a perfectible electronic future and handing down oracular commandments about how the world must be remade. As did many&nbsp;religious rebels before them, they come to bring not peace, but a sword. Change is inevitable; we must abandon the old ways. The cybertheorists, however, are a peculiarly corporatist species of the Leninist class: they agitate for constant revolution but the main beneficiaries will be the giant technology companies before whose virtual image they prostrate themselves".There's lots more in that indignant vein. Who are these intellectual hustlers, these "Pol Pots of the touchscreen and Twitter"? Poole fingers the usual suspects – Jeff Jarvis, David Weinberger, Clay Shirky, Steven Johnson (only a "minor cybertheorist", poor chap) and a brace of Chris Andersons (one the ex-editor ofWiredand the other the guy behind TED talks). To which one expostulates: what – no Kevin Kelly!!! And where are Stewart Brand, John Perry Barlow and Nicholas Negroponte, to name just three other cheerleaders for the digital future? If Poole is so annoyed, then he might at least have prepared a more comprehensive charge sheet.Cynical web-marketing types might view Poole's rant as what is known in the trade as "linkbait" on the grounds that articles that namecheck prominent digerati tend to attract lots of Google juice. But let us be charitable and attribute no such sordid motive to him. What his piece usefully highlights is a serious asymmetry in our public discourse about the internet and, indeed, about technology in general.One way of thinking about this is suggested by the work ofJoseph Schumpeter, the Austrian economist who was fascinated by the process of economic development. Pondering the role of entrepreneurship and innovation in this process, Schumpeter argued that capitalism renews itself in periodic waves of traumatic upheaval. He was not the first to have this idea, but he was the first to come up with a memorable term for the process: Schumpeter called them waves of "creative destruction".We're living through one such wave at the moment, but our public discourse about it is lopsided. That's because the narrative tends to be dominated by enthusiasts and evangelists, by people who, like the "cybertheorists" Poole detests, tend to focus on the creative side of the Schumpeterian wave. At the same time, people who are sceptical or fearful about the new technology tend to be labelled – and sometimes derided – as luddites or technophobes.The trouble is that Schumpeter meant what he said: innovationisa double-edged sword. Digital technology is indeed creative, in the sense that it enables us to do new things that were hitherto impossible, or to do old things better. In the case of&nbsp;the internet, for example just think&nbsp;of the web, Wikipedia and Skype, all instances of technology that&nbsp;have transformed our lives, mostly&nbsp;for the better.But technology is also destructive in the sense that it destroys or undermines things that are valuable: bookshops and print newspapers, for example and – who knows? – maybe even institutions such as the BBC. Digital technology has already resulted in a dramatic erosion of personal privacy. And it's enabling things that are potentially or actually sinister – government surveillance on a massive scale and at an unimaginably detailed level, for example; and the growth of a few mega-corporations such as Google, Apple, Amazon and Facebook that might eventually mediate most of our communicative acts.Given that technology is both creativeanddestructive, wouldn't it be better to have a public discourse about it that accepted this uncomfortable truth? Obviously yes. So why doesn't it happen? One answer, suggested many years ago by the great cultural criticNeil Postmanis that we live in what he called a "technopoly", that is to say a society in which technology is effectively deified."Because of its lengthy, intimate and inevitable relationship with culture,"Postman wrote, "technology does not invite a close examination of its own consequences. It is the kind of friend that asks for trust and obedience, which most people are inclined to give because its gifts are truly bountiful. But, of course, there is a dark side to this friend… it creates a culture without a moral foundation. It undermines certain mental processes and social relations that make human life worth living. Technology, in sum, is&nbsp;both friend and enemy."Spot on. Cybertheorists – and luddites – please copy.
It's tempting to measure Assassin's Creed III on the Wii U against the earlier release on competing formats. Tempting, but almost pointless, as the game itself is largely unchanged.It is still the tale of trainee assassin Desmond and his memories of half-Mohawk ancestor Connor, set in the earliest days of America's founding. The scale, the expansive environments, the exploratory freedom – none of this is diminished. The what of the game is the same; it's the how that's different, and that's down to the Wii U GamePad.Even so, the changes are minor – the map screen is now displayed in larger scale on the controller's screen, giving a much-appreciated greater awareness of location and targets, though details must still be found by clambering to vantage points to scout areas. You can also swap Connor's weapons and equipment with a mere touch now. That is, essentially, it. These two tweaks allow for smoother navigation and combat, but not enough to drastically alter the gameplay experience.A remarkable game and worthy purchase for anyone who hasn't played yet, though nothing 360 or PS3 owners will want to jump ship for.
Price £17,995MPG 43.5Top speed 125mph"Would you like your car wrapped?" asks Thierry Agard, a charming Frenchman who heads upVelvet Cars. It's Christmas, I think, so why not. In our house anything that can be passed off as a present gets the crinkly-paper treatment – my wife once gave me a&nbsp;wrapped loo seat. Can't say I was thrilled. But a car… that would certainly bulk things up.However, Monsieur Agard doesn't have bows and Santa paper in mind. He wants to wrap my car in velvet. It's the latest fad in the trend for applying adhesive "skins" to vehicles. You'll be familiar, of course, with cars swathed in ads, but these new coverings are a whole lot more wacky. Fake grass, chrome, sheets of Swarovski crystals, glossless carbon… and now velvet. Well, not quite velvet but a high-tech vinyl film coated with synthetic fibres.Thierry tells me the sheath is quick and easy to apply, and relatively cheap (about two grand for the whole car), and any colour is possible. The velvet is totally weatherproof, chip proof, sun proof and – when you come to your senses – removable. Thierry showed me one he had done earlier. The effect is startling. It makes the car tactile. Gone are its hard corners and unforgiving metal panels. Now it was all soft, downy and touchy-feely. Passers-by stopped to stroke it, murmuring, as if it was a&nbsp;giant black cat. In a way it's the ultimate steel fist in a&nbsp;velvet glove.The car Thierry was offering to wrap for Christmas is theHyundai VelosterI've been driving this week. A deep crimson velvet would have suited its curves and dramatic angles. I ask the nice people in the press office if they're interested, but they turn the offer down – they think their Veloster is striking enough without stooping to such gaudily seductive tricks.And they are right. The Veloster is a real head-turner. It's the Korean  firm's latest attempt to produce a&nbsp;two-door coupé that has the convenience of a four-door hatchback. It's practical, sporty, handsome… and a&nbsp;bit eccentric. The most unusual thing is that it has three doors – the usual two plus an extra one at the back, but only on one side, so you have to hop in and slide over. It makes access easier and probably saves on cost, but when I asked why Hyundai had decided not to include a fourth door I was told it was to make the car different. It certainly does that. But if it's just difference they're after surely they should reconsider the velvet.As you would expect of a car named Veloster (which sounds like a speedy dinosaur), it is quick – not in aJack Whitehallway, but rapid enough. And being low-slung it  feels faster than it is. There is  a choice of two engines: a 138bhp 1.6-litre petrol unit which is a little underwhelming, and the far better turbocharged 184bhp version. Suspension is firm and handling is direct. It's fun to drive; one of those cars that makes you want to slalom down empty roads.Despite the low roof line, the back is roomier than you'd think and a&nbsp;sunroof that sits over the rear third adds to the sense of space. And no review of a Hyundai is ever written, rightly, without mentioning the excellent five-year unlimited-mileage warranty. So there, done it.Inside, the plastics are a bit brittle. We want sturdy and practical, but these surfaces feel hard and unyielding. As Thierry says: "The car needs to be softened up a bit…"The Caravan &amp; Motorhome 2013, Manchester EventCity, 17-20 January 2013The Caravan &amp; Motorhome Show, taking place from 17-20 January 2013, will be the biggest ever held in the northwest, following the huge success of last year. Returning to EventCity, Manchester, the event will showcase the latest caravans, motorhomes and accessories from over 200 exhibitors, as well as give plenty of ideas for destinations and holidays, and expects to attracts visitors exceeding last year's numbers when over 31,000 attended over the four days.A great place to plan the new season, the show will feature a host of parks and campsites offering special discounts. As well as UK tourist boards and attractions offering inspiration of where to head within the UK in 2013, there'll also be tourist boards and travel companies sharing holiday ideas and advice on holidaying in France, Spain, Greece, Cyprus and beyond. Visitors looking to check out the latest caravan and motorhome models won't be disappointed, with a huge choice from brands including Swift, Bailey, Elddis and more, displayed through premier dealerships such as Glossop Caravans and Lowdham Leisureworld.The adventure starts here: the Caravan and Motorhome show. Photograph: ObserverA great day out, children under 16 can visit free of charge and KidZone, offering activities such as face painting and balloon modelling, will be open on Friday as well as over the weekend this year. There's free parking at EventCity, and a free show guide to ensure a value for money day out, plus tickets include free entry to the Destinations: The Holiday and Travel Show, located in the same venue and packed with the UK's leading travel companies, offering inspiration on everything from short UK breaks to long haul exotic escapes.Ticket saving offer for Guardian Observer Wheels readers:Tickets cost £9 per adult on the door, with those aged 16 or under free of charge, but readers can save £2 per person through our special offer.  Log on tocaravanshows.comor call the ticket hotline number on 0844 8737349 quoting GUA1 to purchase your ticket for just £7 per person, plus a £1 transaction fee per booking.
For anyone new to the indie game scene,Ace of Spadesis best described as the answer to "what if you could shoot everything inMinecraft?" Take the charming, blocky aesthetic of the "build anything" sandbox game, strap on a bunch of online-only, team-based multiplayer elements and let rip.There are some nice ideas here, particularly the potential to blur the lines between construction and destruction as you demolish the world and, ideally, tactically rebuild. Blocks are used much like ammo, with different player classes enjoying greater or lesser stocks to work with, and the classes themselves offer a few surprises beyond the FPS norms of soldier, commando and so forth. The jetpack-enabled parachutist is tremendous fun.The problem is that it never quite works. Server problems and disconnections are chronic and not once would an attempt at playing the zombies mode successfully load.Expectations of running through a cubic playground, infecting survivors with a hunger for geometric flesh, were dashed by a series of grey screens and a weary click of the "return-to-menu" button.Ace of Spades' promise of terrain-altering group combat is tantalising – it just seems to be a promise it can't keep yet.
Mario games aren't famed for being complicated, story-driven affairs. Which is why the Paper Mario series is a bit of anomaly. It's an RPG franchise that prides itself on in-jokes, charming characters and a quirky art style akin to a pop-up book.Sticker Staris no different, filled with bizarre characters who gently mock the tropes of Mario games, while boasting visuals that look particularly impressive in 3D. Here, they tell the story of the Sticker Comet, which has been unwittingly destroyed by Bowser. The task, then, is for Mario to set about finding the pieces of the Sticker Comet, utilising the stickers to beat enemies and solve puzzles.It's certainly novel, but the puzzles – which include placing stickers on the landscape to build bridges – are largely superficial. And the turn-based battle mechanics, which involve using fire flower, jumping boot or hammer stickers to topple foes, have just removed the need for Mario to learn moves. There are no experience points to gain either, which makes fighting feel pointless and so players will just avoid confrontation most of the time.Sticker Staris by no means a bad game, and there's certainly fun to be had here, but by simplifying the RPG mechanics, it just doesn't quite match up to its deeper, more satisfying predecessors.
'It must be from a&nbsp;satellite," says my girlfriend, looking at what appears to be live&nbsp;overhead footage of the car on the dashboard screen. What, so a&nbsp;satellite has suddenly zoomed in on us, miraculously penetrating the thick December cloud cover, to help&nbsp;us park? Or, perhaps, BMW has&nbsp;strategically placed billions of cameras in high places – trees, buildings, monuments etc – all over the world, which beam pictures into the&nbsp;Bimmers below to prevent loyal&nbsp;customers scraping their alloy&nbsp;wheels against the kerb as&nbsp;they&nbsp;park?Or could it possibly be that the cameras are on the car, looking out from the sides and the back, and that the bird's-eye view of the roof of the vehicle in the middle of the screen isn't actually live footage? I mean, I do love her to bits, but she can be quite thick. They – the cameras – are useful, though, and stop us scraping the wheels –&nbsp;always&nbsp;a problem on posh cars with low-profile tyres.Anyway, that's not the important thing. The important thing about this car is that it's a hybrid. Like a&nbsp;Toyota Prius? Well, yes and no. Like a Prius in that it combines a petrol engine with an electric motor; but not like a Prius in that this one goes like the clappers.A Prius is about eking out your gallon of petrol for as long and as far as possible while showing the world how green you are. This one is more about combining internal combustion with electricity for extra vroom and va-va-voom (apols to the non-mechanically minded for the technical jargon) while pretending to the world you're a little bit green.To be fair, it can be pretty efficient if you want it to be. In eco pro mode, and with a gentle right foot, it's possible to be quite frugal. But switch into sport+ and you can actually feel a little piece of Jeremy Clarkson climbing inside of you. (Eurgh, sorry about that thought.)Sounds ideal – a car in which you can be the person you should be, as well as, occasionally, the person you shouldn't? Yes, and in many ways this hybrid is brilliant – beautifully integrated, smooth, effortless. There are 340 horses at your disposal, to get you to 60 in 5.3 seconds, but it will also give you nearly 48 miles a&nbsp;gallon and emit just 139g of CO² per kilometre. These figures – and this car – are bloody impressive.One problem: it costs 40,000 squids. Whoa! (to the 340 horses). That's an eff of a lot of money. Insane, even, especially as you can get a diesel 3 Series with similarly impressive figures (plus a bigger boot because it doesn't lose space to the battery) for about seven grand less. "Well," my girlfriend says, "it must be expensive, getting all those satellites up there."BMW 3 Series ActiveHybridPriceFrom £40,225Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph in 5.3 secondsCombined fuel consumption7.9mpgCO2 emissions139g/kmGreen rating6/10Cool rating6/10
It's a barren, tumbleweed-blown wasteland for game releases, although anyone with a smartphone or tablet will always be able to unearth plenty of fresh playthings.War Games: WOPR(iOS &amp; Android, 69p) is a match-three game, set in the world of 80s Matthew Broderick movie War Games, where you play the role of Professor Falcon's global thermonuclear war simulator.EMERGENCY(iOS, £2.49) has you controlling various sets of emergency services to attend and manage accident and disaster scenes, before saving as many casualties as you can.Vampire Season – Monster Defence(iOS &amp; Android, £1.49) pits you and an expanding range of monsters from popular fiction against waves of do-gooding vampire hunters.Best of all,MicroMiners(iOS, £1.49) has you digging tunnels to guide groups of tiny colliers to the next seam  of coal while avoiding pools of lava.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewBorrowing some of its mechanics from 90s classic The Lost Vikings, this game has you control a knight, a wizard and a thief, whose complementary skill sets let you solve the game's crafty puzzles. The knight likes chopping up monsters, the wizard conjures useful materials and uses levitation, while the thief's bow and arrow make her useful for dislodging hard-to-reach antagonists. Trine 2's most memorable feature is its scenery, the beautifully animated fantasy landscapes remaining jawdropping throughout. Yet the fact that gravity and Heath Robinson-style mechanisms underpin most puzzles means you can sometimes just muddle your way through by sheer persistence, and numerous unintended consequences, like enemies falling off ledges or getting ground up in machines, arise as a result.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewDishonored was one of the year's surprise hits: it was set in a steampunk parallel world, wasn't a sequel to anything, and steadfastly insisted you do a lot of your own thinking in its long, involved missions. So, not standard fare by any means. Rather than giving you more plot, Dunwall City Trials adds a set of one-off challenge levels, which range from a stealthy burglary job to straightforward combat with waves of enemies. The Bend Time Massacres are probably the standout, in which you must attempt to eliminate specific targets, or simply as many people as you can, from rooms full of baddies. There are low points too, but, at less than the price of a pint, its solid, thoughtful puzzles and unlockable expert levels offer an intense and interesting set of tasks – and more content is planned for 2013.
It's spawned a new dance style, parodies, copies and a fascination with things Korean – and on Friday afternoon Gangnam Style, the video by the South Korean singer Psy became the first ever to break a billion views on YouTube.The song – an ironic comment on the rich socialites living in the Gangnam area in central Seoul, the south Korean capital – also had its title added to the Collins Dictionary as one of the phrases of the year (along with omnishambles and fiscal cliff).The K-pop (Korean pop) song and particularly its video – with its "horseriding" dance – has made 34-year-old Psy an international star who has since performed with Madonna, broken a Guinness World record for the most liked video in YouTube history, and inspired flashmobs: one is scheduled for new year's eve at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin where hundreds of thousands could turn up.Described by Reuters as "chubby", the South Korean singer had released five studio albums, but had never had a hit in the west until Gangnam style was released on 15 July.Progress was slow until on 28 July, the video was shared on the social site Reddit – and remarked on by Robbie Williams on his personal blog. At that point it took off, and in late November passed Justin Bieber's Baby as the most-watched video of all time. Ranked second, Baby has a mere 813m views.
This has been probably the busiest week ever in terms of notable Android app releases, with a strong lineup of games and apps all making their way onto the Google Play store. That's why this week, the roundup is expanding to 40 apps.As ever, prices refer to the initial download: for games in particular, (Free) often means freemium, with in-app purchases. Where something is available for tablets as well as (or instead of) smartphones, I'll aim to say in the text.There's aseparate roundup for iPhone and iPad, which this week also has 40 new apps released in the last seven days. After a much-needed break over Christmas, both roundups will return early in 2013.Superbrothers Sword &amp; Sworcery (£1.25)One of the most creative, inventive iOS games of recent memory comes to Android on its own, following a recent appearance in the Android Humble Bundle collection. It's an action-adventure with beautiful pixel-art graphics, an excellent soundtrack, and a feeling of craft throughout.Flipboard (Free)Personalised news magazine Flipboard has been on Android smartphones for a while, but now it's on tablets too: just in time for a Christmas that's expected to be very big for seven-inch Android tablets. As before, you sign up to various news sources as well as your Facebook, Instagram and Twitter accounts to be presented with a flippable digital magazine of stuff to read.Pudding Monsters (Free / £0.62)Pudding Monsters is the new game from ZeptoLab, which had a couple of huge hits with Cut the Rope. This time, it's different monsters – ones who live in the fridge and can stick together to solve puzzles. It's colourful and very cute: the developer looks to have another hit on its hands. The link above is for the free version, but an"HD" £0.62 version is also available.Eufloria HD (£2.99)Eufloria HD is described as an "ambient strategy game", which means it's more relaxing than the usual fare. It sees you exploring asteroids in space, coordinating plants and creatures to beat alien opponents across 25 levels of its story mode. It looks and sounds as good as it feels.The Dandy (Free)Android appears to be getting first crack at the app for the newly-digital The Dandy comic, offering comic strips of Desperate Dan and co with added motion and sound, as well as avatars, jokes and mini-games. Issue Zero is included with this initial download for free.Tumblr (Free)As on iOS, blogging service Tumblr has just had its native smartphone app bumped up to a tablet version. You can manage multiple Tumblr blogs posting text, photos, videos, quotes and links, with a simple and efficient interface making it all easy.Where's My Holiday? (Free)Disney's Where's My Water? and Where's My Perry? games have been big app store hits in 2012. Now their heroes – Swampy and Perry – have been brought together for a Christmas sampler. The puzzle action remains the same: guiding water through a series of levels, with links to upgrade to the full versions of each game.Archos Video Player (£3.99)Archos makes its own Android devices, but now it's released its video player app for other manufacturers' smartphones and tablets. The app plays nice with lots of digital video formats, can stream from computers on your local network or external USB storage devices, and offers other clever features around the TV shows and films that you're watching.Nemo's Reef (Free)Disney has revived its famous fishy franchise for a new free-to-play game on Android (and iOS). Your job is to build Nemo and friends a reef, so this falls into the FarmVille genre of social games, just underwater. More than 50 fish can be collected to fill the world, and show off to friends.The Pyraplex is Kairosoft's latest addictive Android gameThe Pyraplex (£2.99)Japanese publisher Kairosoft makes incredibly addictive simulation games: its Game Dev Story, Dungeon Village and Mega Mall Story are highly recommended. The Pyraplex is most like the last of those, but with pyramids instead of modern shopping malls. You build a giant pyramid, run shops, discover treasure and attract traders from other nations. It looks like the usual sleep/work-ruining fun.EA Sports Football Club (Free)This is EA's official companion app to FIFA 13 on PS3, Xbox 360 and PC, tying in to its FIFA Ultimate Team mode. It's a way for players to check on their team info, read news feeds and dive into the in-game auction house to buy and sell items.eBooks by Sainsbury's (Free)UK supermarket chain Sainsbury's has its own e-books store nowadays, with this Android app providing a way for you to download the e-books you've bought from the store and read them on the go.Playmobil Pirates (Free)The famous Playmobil characters come to Android in a freemium game from Gameloft that sees you building a pirate village, sailing the high seas and looting treasure left, right and centre. It's faithful to the plastic figures, although parents should be aware of the use of in-app purchases.Gumtree (Free)British classified ads site Gumtree has launched an official Android app, providing a mobile way to browse its 1.5m ads, and call, text or email sellers from the phone. It also ties into the phone's location to find nearby ads, as you'd expect.Chuggington: A Train Set Game (Free)Apologies if you're a parent: you quite possibly have the Chuggington theme song in your head for the rest of the day. Still, if your children are fans of the TV trains, they'll enjoy this: a mixture of track-building, adventures and video clips, with more themed episode packs available in-app.Flock (Free)Photography app Flock is the work of startup Bump Technologies, which makes the Bump app. Ported from iPhone, this app is all about creating "private group albums" of photos that you take with friends when in the same location.Bitcasa (Free)This is the latest useful cloud app for Android, providing a way to access files stored on the Bitcasa "Infinite Drive", as well as automatically uploading photos to the service – if you set that option. Items in your locker can also be marked for offline storage, so you always have a copy to hand.Anomaly Korea (£2.29)Here's a good game if you like a bit more meat to your touchscreen gaming: a spin on the tower defence genre that sees you doing the attacking rather than the defending. This sequel to Anomaly Warzone Earth sees you battling an army of alien robots intent on invading Korea.Guns'n'Glory Heroes Premium (£0.81)HandyGames' latest Guns'n'Glory game is a fantasy-themed tower defence game, with more elves, dwarves and orcs than you can shake a magic wand at. There are 50 levels to play through, and a "Heroic Difficulty" mode if you fancy your chances.Rated People - Find Work (Free)Rated People has already launched an Android app to help people "Find a Tradesman" for work around the home. This app deals with the other side of that equation: tradesmen looking for work. It's a quick way to browse jobs available and contact the homeowners quickly.Wombi Airplane flies onto Android devices for childrenWombi Airplane (£2.31)One of a flurry of new children's apps on Android by Swedish developer Wombi Apps, this gets kids to build an airplane then fly it, collecting treasure boxes and avoiding birds and a nefarious skunk. Characterful and accessible fun for youngsters.Twist (Free)I know at least three people who swear by Twist as a way to neatly avoid endless "I'm about 20 minutes from the station" phone calls to loved ones. The app calculates your arrival time at a given place, then shares that with your selected contacts, so they know if you're running late.Press (Google Reader) (£1.22)The Google Reader app on Android is fine, but Press may be a good alternative to try, with an emphasis on making your RSS feeds easy to browse and manage, with attractive design and simple swiping controls.UberStrike: The FPS (Free)This is the latest deathmatching first-person shooter to hit Android, coming from Facebook where it has more than 8m people playing. The game is free-to-play at its basic level, with the promise of thousands of people online at any one time to play against.Beanstalk (Free)One cloud storage app to rule them all? Well, interface with them all: Beanstalk helps you move files between Dropbox, Box.net and Microsoft SkyDrive, or send one file to all of them at once. It works on Android smartphones and tablets.Super Mega Worm Vs Santa 2 (Free)The original Super Mega Worm remains a backbone-less treat on iOS, and having already spawned one Christmas spin-off, it's back for another festive release – with Android joining the party this time. You're a giant worm laying waste to penguins, reindeer and elves, with an "epic final battle with Santa" to look forward to.Chasing Yello (Free)Social mobile games publisher Pocket Gems is having a busy week, with this the first of three new Android games. It's an endless runner – well, swimmer if we're being accurate – that sees a goldfish called Yello trying to swim along a river avoiding enemies and obstacles.Endgame : Syria (Free)This is a game developed in two weeks by GameTheNews as part of its mission to explain current affairs through gameplay. In this case, the affairs are the civil war in Syria, with you playing as the rebel forces. It sounds a risky release, but GameTheNews says it's "gone to great lengths to be sensitive to the subject matter it covers".Tracks (Free)Tracks is another group photo-sharing app, and again one that's been available on smartphones for a while, but is freshly available as a native Android tablet app. The idea being that it intelligently aggregates photos from specific locations and relationships, while making it easy to share them on.OverLight - Alpha (£0.79)Another game, in a busy week for Android gaming. This involves directing laser beams through screens full of glass blocks, creating and chaining together explosions to rack up a decent points total. Power-ups spice up that action further.Tap Paradise Cove (Free)The second Pocket Gems game this week sees you building a village in the mysterious Paradise Cove, constructing shops and houses, and exploring the surrounding environment to find treasure. It's another freemium game, with in-app purchases funding the action.Pretty Pet Toy Store (Free)More freemium action comes with this cutesy game from the developers of the popular Pretty Pet Salon. In this case, you've swapped the salon for a chain of toy stores staffed by cartoon animals, with in-app purchases used to speed your progress towards retail nirvana.Zen Pinball HD opens up to more Android devicesZen Pinball HD (Free)Previously focused on Android devices with Tegra processors inside, Zen Pinball HD is now opening up to a wider range of smartphones and tablets. It's an engrossing pinball game with ninja ball physics and plenty of depth.VideoCast (Free)File this under "Intriguing": an app that wants to help people broadcast live video footage to individual friends, or all their Facebook mates. Aimed at a mixture of personal and business users, it's one to watch.Protect Your Videos: Vilynx (Free)Here's another video app, albeit one that aims to stop people from losing the videos they've already shot and stored on devices. It works with cloud storage services like Box.com and Dropbox, uploading footage and generating five-second summaries to help you find them later.Campus Life (Free)Finally from Pocket Gems there's this social mobile game aimed squarely at younger women. It sees you building "your own sorority house" at college, ensuring that the party keeps partying, the decorations stay glitzy and the clobber is more fashionista than frump.Wombi Detective (£2.29)Wombi Apps has been equally busy on Android this week: here's its second children's app of this roundup. Wombi Detective is a game for kids where they have to investigate a crime, noir-style. That means grilling witnesses, hunting down stolen goods and figuring out whodunnit. Stylish and fun.Small Call (£0.61)Rather than get a press release, I've had three separate contacts all email to recommend Small Call this week. It's simple: a widget that intercepts incoming calls, and helps you carry on what you're doing without a fuss, sending a text back in return if you want to be polite.Wombi Ice Cream (£2.29)One last Wombi Apps app: this gets you running an ice-cream van, mixing up icy creations, adding sprinkles and other toppings, then seeing how they go down with six cartoon customers.Sphero Nyan Cat Space Party (£0.61)People still laughing at Nyan Cat who have Android devices AND the Sphero robo-ball controller? That's a niche. That said, you don't need a Sphero to play this officially-licensed Nyan Cat app, which puts you in charge of the meme-famous feline as it flies through outer space.That's this week's selection, but what new apps have you been enjoying on your Android devices? Make your recommendations or comment on the apps above by posting a comment.
Yes, you read that headline right: 40. Four-Zero. The last week has been the craziest yet in the App Store's history for notable new releases, ahead of what's expected to be a lucrative Christmas for (some) app developers.With that in mind, this weekly roundup is expanding to 40 iOS apps and games, with 40 more Android ones available inthis week's Best Android Apps post.As ever, the prices refer to the initial download of each app: often when you see (Free) it means freemium, so there may be in-app purchases or subscriptions. With the App Store approval doors now closed for Christmas, this is the last weekly roundup of 2012. Read on...Sneak (£0.69)Every child in an iOS household needs Sneak this Christmas: it's one of the most inventive children's apps yet. You place the device in a room then get kids to retreat to a safe distance. When a cartoon monster appears, they have to sneak up silently and tap the screen to capture its photo. A joyful digital toy. The link above is for the iPhone version, buthere's the iPad version.iPhone / iPadYouTube Capture (Free)YouTube wants to become the default video-recording camera on iPhones with this app, released separately from the watch-only YouTube app that came out earlier in 2012. It offers fast shooting, editing and uploading features, supporting Google+, Facebook and Twitter as well as YouTube itself.iPhonePudding Monsters (£0.69)Pudding Monsters is the new game from ZeptoLab, which had a couple of huge hits with Cut the Rope. This time, it's different monsters – ones who live in the fridge and can stick together to solve puzzles. It's colourful and very cute: the developer looks to have another hit on its hands. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the iPad version.iPhone / iPadTumblr (Free)Blogging service Tumblr has had an iPhone app for a while now, but it's just been released as a native iPad app too. You can manage multiple Tumblr blogs posting text, photos, videos, quotes and links, with a simple and efficient interface making it all easy.iPadCinderella: Storybook Deluxe (£2.49)As you'll see lower down, Disney has been on a bit of tear in the week before Christmas, releasing a succession of apps. This is an elegant book-app based on its Cinderella animated film, with added puzzles, music and digital painting for children.iPhone / iPadRavensword: Shadowlands (£4.99)Crescent Moon's action RPG is the follow-up to Ravensword: The Fallen King, offering a meaty open-world game where you explore an enormous world fighting monsters, improving your character's skills, and generally marvelling at Elder Scrolls-style games being possible on smartphones and tablets. Next stop: an iOS equivalent to Skyrim?iPhone / iPadGary Numan (£5.49)This is interesting – well, it is if you're a Gary Numan fan – an app by Artrocker with 200 photos of Numan and his band, as well as a dozen video interviews, memorabilia from his career, and a code to download a new remix album of his Dead Son Rising album.iPadRadio Times Christmas TV Magazine (£2.99)Every year, I buy the Christmas issue of the Radio Times, grab a red pen and circle dozens of TV shows I plan to watch over the festive period. It doesn't matter if I don't watch most of them: it's the tradition that counts. Yet even this Christmas staple is going digital in 2012: a £2.99 in-app purchase gets you the digital issue of the British TV listings magazine, with trailers and other videos thrown in for good measure.iPadDigital Theatre (Free)Here's another clever idea: an app that streams footage of theatrical performances in the UK, including David Tennant and Catherine Tate in Much Ado About Nothing; David Morrissey in Macbeth; David Suchet and Zoe Wanamaker in All My Sons, and a host of other top-tier plays. It ties into the existing online Digital Theatre service in terms of paying for the content.iPadRhapsody for iPad (Free)US-based subscription music service Rhapsody has a brand new iPad app, providing a tablety way in to its 16m-song catalogue. Playlists, recommendations and all the other obvious features are present and correct, in a stylish image-heavy interface. And while Rhapsody isn't available in Europe, the company has released asimilar iPad app for its Napster subsidiaryon this side of the Atlantic.iPadFinal Fantasy IV has been spruced up for iOSFinal Fantasy IV (£10.99)Square Enix continues its strategy of bringing older games in its Final Fantasy series to iOS with this conversion of the 1991 fourth installment of the RPG. Smartened-up graphics, tweaked difficulty levels and Game Center achievements have all been added for a 2012 twist.iPhone / iPadFrom Shakespeare, with Love: Audiobook App (£2.49)Vintage storytelling from an even older era here, courtesy of Naxos AudioBooks. This app takes a series of Shakespeare's sonnets and gets the likes of David Tennant, Juliet Stevenson and Maxine Peake to read them, alongside the original texts. Everything is stored locally on the device, and there are notes to clue you in on the individual sonnets.iPhone / iPadThe John Lennon Letters (£5.99)Book publisher Hachette UK has released this app companion to its John Lennon Letters book, offering 88 of the musician's private letters with transcripts, readings by actor Christopher Eccleston, links to buy Lennon's music from iTunes, and other multimedia extras.iPadWilliam Hill (Free)From the Fab Four to, ahem, the fab 4-1 favourite in the 2.30 at Newmarket (note: needs work). Bookmaker William Hill has revamped its existing iPhone app for iPad, taking advantage of the larger screen to squeeze more information on, and thus require less navigating between screens at a pace.iPadPenny Arcade The Game: Gamers vs. Evil (£2.99)A lot of gamers are getting distinctly hot under the collar for this, the official iOS game of webcomic Penny Arcade. It's a deck-building card game starring many of the webcomic's characters: "Down your Bat Milk, clean off your Cardboard Tube and charge into battle astride your Magical Unicorn Starsong; for evil is a foot with 6 toes…"iPhone / iPadMiffy in the Snow (£2.49)Dick Bruna's cartoon bunny Miffy makes her fourth appearance in an iPad book-app, with this one being suitably seasonal. It takes the story and illustrations of the Miffy in the Snow book, then adds in the ability to record your own voice reading it, as well as snowball-fights, matching pairs and e-card creation.iPadWhere's My Holiday? (Free)Disney's Where's My Water? and Where's My Perry? games have been big app store hits in 2012. Now their heroes – Swampy and Perry – have been brought together for a Christmas sampler. The puzzle action remains the same: guiding water through a series of levels, with links to upgrade to the full versions of each game.iPhone / iPadCubasis (£34.99)This is a serious piece of music-making appage from Steinberg Media Technologies – the company behind production software Cubase. It's a way to record, edit and mix on the iPad, while then exporting products to the desktop software for fine-tuning.iPad(THRED) (Free)Endless-running game (THRED) has been released by Coca-Cola in aid of AIDS charity (RED), so it's a freemium game, but all the proceeds from its in-app purchases will go to the charity. Developer BitMonster has made a musical action game including a track from popular DJ Tiesto.iPhone / iPadEvernote Food (Free)No analyst has yet dared to venture a guess for how many photos will be taken and shared of Christmas dinners this year – my guess is at least 700m – but Evernote Food is a bit more useful than just foodbragging. Evernote's app helps you store details of meals you've cooked and/or eaten, with photos and notes for later reference. It was already out on iPhone, but the iPad version is brand new.iPadTalking Angela chats up a stormTalking Angela (Free)With 500m downloads and counting, Outfit7's Talking Friends apps are far more than just a bunch of novelty squeaky animals. Angela joins Talking Tom Cat, Talking Ginger and others on the App Store, answering back, interacting with virtual gifts, and even text-chatting. In-app purchases are used to buy gold coins. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the separate iPad version.iPhone / iPadRespawnables (Free)Many people associate Zynga with games like FarmVille, Words With Friends and Draw Something, but Respawnables is a step in a more hardcore direction: a "trigger-happy, action packed, third person shooter" that can be played online or offline. The model remains freemium, with in-app purchases boosting your progress.iPhone / iPadMonsters, Inc. Storybook Deluxe (£4.99)Another famous-movie storybook app from Disney, this tells the tale of Pixar's animated monster movie, with an additional mini-game, clips from the film, a "scare simulator training room" mini-game and other interactive features.iPhone / iPadDisney Carnival (Free)It can be difficult for even the biggest brands' apps to be discovered on the App Store. Disney's solution is a standalone app for all its stories and apps: Disney Carnival. It lets you browse apps based on all its films, with a spot of standalone puzzling and digital colouring included too.iPhone / iPadFoldify (£1.49)Foldify is very clever: an app for creating flat models of colourful characters and vehicles which can then be printed out and folded together to make 3D versions in the real world. Several designs are included, with further themed packs (Horror, Clothes etc) included as in-app purchases. You can also share your creations with the wider community, and browse those of other people.iPadTotal Recall: Movie Touch (Free)This app from Sony Pictures is a way to watch Total Recall on your iPad: the newer Colin Farrell version, not the original with Arnie. The app is free, but to watch the whole film you'll need to own the UltraViolet (physical) version at home. The app also has lots of extra content: video, 360-degree photos, a timeline of the film, and the ability to share favourite clips to Twitter and Facebook.iPadSpreaker DJ (Free)Spreaker DJ follows a separate iPhone version of this podcast creation software onto the App Store. It "transforms your iPad into a full-featured radio station", including letting you play your iTunes library while talking into the mic, and running live chats with your listeners. A podcaster's dream.iPadScanner Mini (Free)Readdle's Scanner Mini is a genuinely useful tool to have on your iOS devices, replacing the job of a desktop scanner. You take photographs of documents, Scanner Mini cleans up the results, and converts them into PDF files ready to email or store.iPhone / iPadCITIA: "Predictably Irrational" by Dan Ariely (Free)Praised as "a taxonomy of financial folly" by The New Yorker, Ariely's bestselling book has been turned into an innovative iPad book-app. Not that it looks like a book: instead it's been split into a series of "idea cards" which you can flip through on-screen in whatever order you fancy. An interesting new spin on non-fiction app design.iPadUP: My Name is Dug (£1.49)You may remember Dug as the dog from Disney-Pixar's marvellous movie UP a couple of years ago. Now he's got his own story on iPad, with a new plot but familiar voices from the film, and lots of interactivity for kids.iPadMailOnline Mini (Free)Don't snort: I don't have stats on this, but I'd be willing to bet a significant chunk of Guardian readers also find themselves browsing MailOnline's sidebar of shame several times a week. This is a brand new native iPad app for the showbiz site, which as its name implies, may just be one of the first apps to be designed with the iPad mini in mind.iPadDeepworld combines crafting and adventuringDeepworld (Free)There have been Minecraft clones on iOS before, but this isn't one of them: instead it's a real example of a developer pushing on from the ideas in Mojang's famous game. Deepworld describes itself as "a massively-multiplayer 2D crafting adventure game" that has you wandering around virtual worlds crafting items, battling monsters and seeing what other players have been building.iPadLost Treasures of Infocom (Free)It's safe to say you need to be a certain age and level of game-geekiness to be excited about Infocom text adventures being re-released for iOS devices in 2012. I amwildlyexcited. Four Zorks, Leather Goddess of Phobos, Planetfall and in total 27 text adventures from the dawn of digital adventuring. Games are sold in-app in packs of five for £1.99, or all 27 for £6.99.iPhone / iPadIron Man: Armored Avenger (Free)This is the latest Marvel app: the origin story for Iron Man meeting The Mandarin, adding a 3D mini-game, achievement badges and voice narration from Iron Man's co-creator Stan Lee. Pitched at a slightly younger audience, it's a good way to introduce children to the Marvel universe.iPhone / iPadThis Day In The Rolling Stones (£1.99)As the Stones celebrate their 50th anniversary, this app from This Day In Music Apps digs back into the band's history. It's a date-based encyclopedia with info on gigs, TV appearances, recording sessions, releases and other Stones events tied to each day of the year. Notes for 15 of the band's albums and 140+ songs are also included, and the app can play Rolling Stones songs from your iTunes library as you read.iPhone / iPadPLAY WITH Leonardo da Vinci (£2.99)This is a great idea: an app for "learning art history while having fun" aimed mainly at children. The idea: instead of merely looking at da Vinci paintings and reading dry text, kids get to play around with them through a range of interactive tools. And while some art buffs may rage at the idea of sticking a virtual red nose on the Mona Lisa, as a way to get 6-12 year-olds engaged with art, it looks great.iPadSuper Mega Worm Vs Santa 2 (£0.69)The original Super Mega Worm remains a backbone-less treat on iOS, and having already spawned one Christmas spin-off, it's back for another festive release. You're a giant worm laying waste to penguins, reindeer and elves, with an "epic final battle with Santa" to look forward to.iPhone / iPadMr. Potato Head Create &amp; Play (Free)Here's an interesting attempt to bring a very physical toy to the digital world. Released by Callaway Digital Arts, it gets children mixing and matching more than 200 virtual parts to make their own version of Mr Potato Head, then send him on mini-adventures. Most of the parts and all the adventures need to be unlocked with virtual tickets, which are bought via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadLeo Lion Band (£0.69)Animals and music make a good combination for children's apps, as anyone who's played Toca Band will know. Leo Lion Band offers up 11 cartoon animals, each playing their own instrument in renditions of popular nursery rhymes. Aseparate Christmas versionis also available.iPhone / iPadAnomaly Korea (£1.99)Here's another good game if you like a bit more meat to your touchscreen gaming: a spin on the tower defence genre that sees you doing the attacking rather than the defending. This sequel to Anomaly Warzone Earth sees you battling an army of alien robots intent on invading Korea.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection – although there was a longlist of more than 70 notable apps, so apologies to the good ones that didn't quite make the cut. But what do you think? Make your recommendations or comment on the choices above by posting a comment.
My wife and I use a Dell Latitude D600 laptop. Like us, it is somewhat aged, with a screen that's about to give up on its hinges and a battery that is useless without a permanent mains supply. We want to be prepared for what seem ominously close: the laptop's demise.As old farts, our needs are simple. We do not do games. We do not download films, or whatever. We do need to store our photographs, use email and banking and surf the web. Portability is not a particular advantage, nor a great battery life, but we do not want a bulky desktop-type machine. A 17in screen would be desirable. We have a budget of up to, say, £600.Michael GreenThe Dell Latitude D600 was launched in 2003, so yours has done well to last up to 9 years. However, it was priced and sold as a business machine, and was more robust than Dell's consumer-grade equivalent, the Inspiron 600M. Almost any new laptop should feel blindingly fast in comparison.Laptops with 17in screens are bigger and bulkier than many people expect. Since the Latitude D600 was also a bit of a hulk, you may well find the size acceptable. Either way, see if you can try some in a shop. This will give you a better idea of things like screen and keyboard quality, and you may find a model that appeals to your taste.There are plenty of cheap 17.3in laptops around if you don't need very high performance. At the moment, the ones to look at are the Samsung 350E7C and the Acer Aspire V3-771, with the Lenovo G780 as the outside choice, for reasons I'll explain later. All three will do all you need, and more.The Samsung 350E7C has a 2.4GHz Intel Core i3-3110M processor, 6GB of memory, a 750GB hard drive, DVD drive and Windows 8 for£479.94 (the current price at Amazon.co.uk). The Acer Aspire V3-771 has the same specification except the hard drive drops to 500GB, so the price falls to£438.75. The Lenovo G780 has almost the same specification as the Samsung, but with a slightly slower 2.2GHz Intel Core i3-2328M processor for£449.99.Chip geeks will know that the Core i3-3110M is the latest Ivy Bridge version of the processor, whereas the 2328M is last year's Sandy Bridge. For your purposes, it doesn't matter.You can also find the Samsung with a slower 2.3GHz Intel Pentium B970 processor (but still fast enough) for £399.99 atsaveonlaptops.co.ukandlaptopsdirect.co.uk. Search for NP350E7C-A04UK to find other examples.So, what's wrong with the Lenovo G780? Well, one advantage of having a 17in laptop is that you can get more pixels on the screen at a reasonable cost. Both the Samsung 350E7C and the Acer Aspire V3-771 offer a screen resolution of 1600 x 900 pixels, which is enough for 720p HD (high definition) movies. Strangely, the Lenovo G780 only does 1366 x 768 pixels, which is the standard on laptops with 13.3in screens.Smaller and bigger screensIf you decide to go for a Lenovo, I suggest you checking out the Lenovo Z580. This is a nice machine with a 15.6in screen but the same 1366 x 768 resolution. PC World has a version with a Core i3-2328M, 4GB of memory and 750GB hard drive for£349, which is well under your budget.Among the 15.6in laptops, theLenovo Z580's main rival at the price is theSamsung 350V5C, which is available with a range of processors (including Core i5 and Core i7) at a wide range of prices. Amazon.co.uk has a version with an Intel Core i3-3110M for£399.97.A significant step up could take you over budget, such as upgrading from a Samsung Series 3 to a Series 5. (Like Intel, it uses BMW-style naming.) For example, a Samsung 550PC5 with a Core i5 processor starts at about £630, but this is close enough to be worth considering. If you search for NP550P5C-A02UK, you may find a keener price.Alternatively, if you spend less on the laptop, you can spend the rest on a 2TB external hard drive for backups. If you use a laptop for extended periods, you should also buy a riser to lift the screen and plug in a good external keyboard. Your backs will benefit from the improved ergonomics.Laptops are easy to stow away when you're not using them, but all-in-one PCs are also worth considering. I recently answered a question about them:Wanted: an all-in-one PC to run Windows 8. Touch-screen models tend to be more expensive, but you could get a non-touchLenovo C320 20in All-in-One Desktoprunning Windows 7 for not much more than a laptop.All-in-ones offer bigger screens than laptops, typically from 20in to 27in, without the need for a bulky system box.What about Windows 8?Then there's the thorny issue of Windows 8, which has a completely different touch-oriented front end formerly known as Metro. Its "live tiles" are a significant advance on 1980s-style icons, and touch interfaces are the future. For a brief intro, go to YouTube and watch Microsoft'sLearn Windows 8 in 8 minutesand a tutorial such as theWindows 8 Beginners Guide Part 1. Obviously, these concentrate on the new language of the Start screen and Metro-style apps, not the Windows 7 desktop underneath.Many people don't like change, and Window 8 has its share of nay-sayers. A retired friend who has just bought a Z580 on my recommendation reckons Windows 8 is driving her batty and she wants to go back to Windows 7. (Note: only the Pro versions of Windows 8 come with downgrade rights.)My observation is that, in general, people like Windows 8 more after they've used it for longer. This includes me. Heavy users may well prefer it to Windows 7. This does not include me, yet, except on tablets and touch-screen laptops like theAsus S200(11.6in) and S400 (14.1in) Vivobooks.If you find you really hate Windows 8, there are several programs that change the front-end to something more palatable. For example, Thinx'sRetroUIputs a taskbar at the bottom of the Start screen and brings back a sort of Start menu for a reasonable $4.95 (after a 7-day free trial). The result is a sort of half-way house that keeps some of the look-and-feel of Windows 8 without going all the way back to Windows 7. Another alternative is Stardock'sStart8.If you buy another business laptop, you can have either 64-bit Windows 7 Pro or Windows 8 Pro installed. Dell's Latitude range starts above your target price, but a 15.6in Dell Vostro 3560 business laptop with a Core i3-2328M would come out at around £400. The Dell code for the Windows 7 version is SBN35630, and for the Windows 8 version, SBNS5631.The closest to what you have now is a 15.6in Dell Latitude E5530 Essential with a Core i3-3110M and 64-bit Windows 7 Pro (code L1155317). Even though Dell knocked £261 off the price (special offer) and offered free delivery (saving £24 inc VAT), it still came out at £622.79. Does that sound a lot? Your D600 would have cost £1,703 in 2003.
This is it – the final five games in our top 25 of 2012. We hope you've agreed with at least some of our choices so far – or even better, found a couple of games you didn't know, but will now check out.At the end, I've also included all the titles championed by our writers while compiling the list, but that didn't make it in to the final 25. For now, read on and discover that, sometimes, you just have to compromise...5.Far Cry 3(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)From the very first moments it grabs you and pulls you in; youareon the island – and there you stay. Far Cry 3 is the rarest of games: an open-world adventure that also works as a compelling narrative thrill-ride. The descent of Jason Brody, from party guy to vengeful killer, is brutal and convincing – it is the story arc of the slasher flick, grafted into a Joseph Conrad novel. But beyond the violent action is the island itself, a lush paradise, teeming with wildlife. It is a place you want to explore, not just because of the bonus items, but because you want to see what's out there. And usually what's out there is danger. It calls you from the darkness. You always answer.4.Borderlands 2(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Pandora is a planet where subtlety is extinct; it has been hounded out of existence by roaming bands of maniacs and midgets with machine guns. What remains is violence and really idiotic humour. Borderlands 2 retains the blueprint of the first game – shooting, looting and leveling up – but adds a more coherent mission structure and a skill tree the size of a giant sequoia. It is a game that lavishes rewards on very capable players; a game with a brilliant antagonist in the form of corporate madman, Handsome Jack; a game that runs and runs but never runs out of breath. And the co-op is so good it could save marriages.3.Journey(PS3)What is Journey about? Is it an allegory for life, death and rebirth? Or something more elusive? Whatever you think, for many players, thatgamecompany's three-hour adventure provided some of the most profound and emotional gaming experiences they have ever had. It's not just the beautiful surroundings, the wistful lead character, the well constructed puzzles; it is the genius of the anonymous online co-op, the fact that strangers can help or hinder each other, communicating only through movement and sound. In a world of symbol and sense, everything has to be interpreted, and players must be prepared to give themselves to it. But whatever you give, you get back. What is Journey about? That's easy. It is about how you feel when it ends.And so the top two … We argued, we thought, we argued some more, but we couldn't separate them. So for the first time, we have a joint number one.-1.XCom: Enemy Unknown(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Countless alien invasions later and still we are drawn to save the world. Our stories reflect our collective fears: the fear of not being alone in space; the fear of being alone in space. XCom is an evergreen cliche then not least in terms of its aesthetic, which chooses the unfashionable get-up and colouring of 90s sci-fi b-movies. But in play never has the strategy game seemed so vibrant, malleable, resolute. It's Advance Wars, in essence, but where line of sight, weapon choice and human fallibility all play their disruptive part. And in the opportunity to name each soldier, we have have the opportunity to name the ways our hearts break when the worst happens on the battlefield – at least till the next conscript turns up back at the base. (Simon Parkin)-1.Dishonored(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)The art team behind Dishonored spent almost four years devising and concepting Dunwall – it seems that not a moment was wasted. This is one of the most fully realised fictitious environments that gaming has ever seen, a plague-ridden Victorian hellhole of warring artistocrats, moustached gangsters and blood-vomiting paupers. Into this Dickensian nightmare strides Corvo, and assassin who is not an assassin, who doesn't need to kill; who can slink silently along the steaming pipes and slated rooftops of this festering city. The effect is Batman re-housed in industrial Britain – a game of cat-and-mouse plotting, patience, deviousness and occasional bursts of sword-swirling violence. It is an engrossing, consuming game, beautifully made, deeply cared for and swaggeringly confident. It is a joy.And the games that didn't quite make itAll of our writers had games that they made strong individual cases for, but that didn't quite make it into the Top 25. All are worth seeking out. There were passionate calls for the excellent scrolling platformer, Mark of the Ninja and sci-fi blaster Binary Domain. Nick Cowen wanted I am Alive, Max Payne 3, NBA 2K and Black Ops 2 in there, Rich Stanton wanted Resi 6. There were also arguments put forward for Witcher 2 and Crusader Kings 2. I would have liked a couple more smartphone titles in, namely Letterpress and Punch Quest, and probably would have jammed in a few more indie treats, especially The Room, To the Moon and the wonderful 30 Fights of Loving. And we overlooked Trials Evolution. Maybe we should have done a Top 50 …
Okay people who misunderstand the Mayan calendar, this is it!
