Apple's Lilliputian music player punches above its weight"It's impossibly tiny," Apple chief Steve Jobs told the world last week, as he unveiled the latest iteration of the iPod. Despite the clamour that usually accompanies new products from the stylish Californian firm, it was not all hype. The slim, sleek iPod nano - which is replacing the wildly popular iPod mini - is smaller than a credit card and less than 7mm thick.The minuscule size of the unit is hard to express, but the focus is very much on its Lilliputian dimensions and a weight so low it should be seeking doctor's advice. The Flash-based player comes in two sizes - 2GB (&pound;139) and 4GB (&pound;179) - and is available in white or glossy black. The nano is aimed at the fashion-conscious buyer and, perhaps, at encouraging further purchases from those who have bought into the brand already.Small improvements include the crystal clear colour screen and a stopwatch. Battery life is improving, though at 14 hours it still lags behind some competitors. And the finish scratches easily, meaning damage-wary users will need to fork out for a "tube" case for extra protection.In all other respects, nano is an ordinary iPod - except for the name. A legal battle with music-player rival Creative is potentially be on the cards, since it too has a "nano" branded player. Observers say a court case is unlikely, thoughWhile it has certainly attracted attention, Jobs' latest baby has worried fans of the incredibly popular iPod mini, which now demands vintage status. Others are taking Apple to task for the features the nano lacks (no radio, no voice recording) as well as those it includes, such as the lock-in between iPod and iTunes, and the digital rights mechanism on tracks downloaded from the iTunes Music Store.But while there are many players with more features, and with less restrictions, there is no doubt that iPod nano works. Small and stylish, it stays with a successful formula while turning the screws on the competition - and as a fashion player, there is nothing in the market that really compares. With one swoop, the game has changed completely: iPod may have shrunk, but the challenge for Apple's rivals seems bigger than ever.
It's a good job credit cards are tough or the Sainsbury's zapper-woman would have torn it in two. We were fighting, literally, on the latest technological front: chip and pin. Confident with this handier method of payment, I had tried to put my card in the slot. She was having none of it and grabbed it. Within seconds we were wrestling for control of the card, much to the bemusement of other shoppers.In years of sitting and waving barcodes over lasered glass, she had always taken the card, inserted it and pressed the required buttons to put the cost of shopping on it.Technology was again demeaning her. The bit of power she had, working all day for just enough to live on, was that card. Now some punter was doing it himself. She would soon be relegated to picking goods up and waving them over the glass. How long before the shopper does that, too?Some already are. Marks and Spencer now has zap-your-own booths. But people don't really like them. I join the far shorter queue, determined to learn my way out of fights with till attendants. Cartoon pictures tell you how to press buttons and insert cards as if you are an idiot. Which, faced with unfamiliar technology, you are.There is no doubt technology is destroying human interaction. But then, faced with the increasingly tedious nature of such interaction, is that a bad thing? The hideous "have a nice day" recorded message from the lips of junk-food sellers has been replaced by an interactive survey of mindless tedium. You buy a pint of milk. The item is zapped, the price appears on screen. Then it begins. "Would you like help packing?" "No thanks.""Do you have a Nectar card?" "No.""Are you collecting vouchers for schools?" "No.""Would you like ...?""Just give me the bloody change!"What is this? A plan by management to drive us all toward the DIY machines so they can downsize yet more staff? Is it a rearguard action by shop assistants intent on forcing human interaction? Or have people become dysfunctional computers?The march of the machines is inevitable. Colour screens, stupid swirling PC animations, pressing buttons, waiting for data to be sent via satellite to a computer that will recognise that last week you also bought bananas but not butter, are infuriating, even demeaning. But if it means you don't have to deal with a poor soul reduced to being a mechanical arm for eight hours a day and willing an equally miserable existence on every person that passes by, who wouldn't take the plastic and microprocessors? You never pity a machine.So the vicious circle continues. Technology makes people miserable, sparking technology to avoid the miserable people.I returned to the store a fortnight later and carefully avoided the woman. None the less, I couldn't help but notice she had given up grabbing people's cards. She had been bent to technology's will.Having placed my card in the slot, put in the pin and removed the card when told to, I glanced at the broken woman and proudly thought: "I did that." The Great Satan of technology must have roared approval.
The other day I watched an episode of Blackadder, played music, made a quick video recording, Googled around a bit and then switched on the radio before sending an email. Nothing unusual except that I was doing it all on my mobile, a Nokia 7710 that I have been using for a few months on trial. I could have drawn spreadsheets, planned presentations, played games or watched TV if I had been in an area where it was available. The unresolved problem is: how many of the 50-odd functions in mobiles do you really want to use?If the holy grail of personal technology is a single omnipotent device you can carry anywhere - your lifestyle in your pocket - then this is a vintage time to be buying. In recent weeks, a gaggle of gadgets have been released that 15 years ago might have seemed fanciful in a James Bond film. Last week's launch of the Motorola ROKR brought iTunes features to a phone, and came shortly after the launch of a Sony Ericsson Walkman phone (W800i), enabling 150 tracks to be played from a sub-100g phone with a 2 megapixel camera and the best radio I have tried on a mobile.In addition, the Vodafone Sharp 903, just released, combines music with video telephony, scanning and a very easy to use 3.2 megapixel camera. It is interesting that despite industry hype about music and cameras, the most used functions on a mobile are voice (which existed on old phones), texting (unplanned by operators) and the (non-revenue generating) alarm clock.The Nokia 7710 is heavyweight in every sense. Weighing in at 189g, almost twice the Walkman, it has one of the biggest mobile screens I have seen (8cm x 4cm). If you use it with a bespoke Opera browser - with Google as your home page - it amounts to the best mobile net access I have experienced, subject to the usual moodiness of GPRS connections. The cost on my Vodafone tariff in the UK and France was 0.977p a session to download data of less than 100kB. Depending on the contract, the price of the W800i varies from nothing to around &pound;290.The wide screen is a joy. Images from its 1 megapixel camera - which punches above its weight - can be seen in full screen mode, or you can read lots of email headings from your POP3 or web email and watch films (via memory cards). You wouldn't want to view them in sunlight but on a train with earphones, it is a different matter. The 7710 is being used for TV broadcasts in Finland, a service that will hit the UK later this year.I tried for 45 minutes to load PC Suite to transfer music to the phone only to see a message strongly urging me to stop and contact my software supplier. It may have been something to do with my (ageing) PC but it transferred tracks easily from my Mac and other phones to the 7710 by Bluetooth.Instead of a physical keyboard it has a stylus and touch-sensitive screen, flipping between a Qwerty keyboard or direct input. It was a revelation how much handwriting recognition has improved over the years so I could write a document and text or email it very easily (though sending attachments was not always successful). It was my best mobile writing experience since the demise of Psion palmtops years ago.The downside? Two things. It is not, um, very good as a phone, despite its Nokia pedigree. It is great to use with earphones in the office, but taking calls in a noisy street means going through several motions to make sure it is not upside down or that your hand is covering the (internal) aerial. Using the Bluetooth earpiece was also problematic. Second, it is heavy-ish for a phone these days, though I just about got used to having it in my pocket for a few months. But it is much much lighter than having to lug around a radio, computer, music player, typewriter and television set all the time. It is not yet the holy grail, but we are getting there.Vic.Keegan@guardian.co.uk
Welcome to the new Technology blog - which we've relaunched to accompany our brand new Technology Guardian section.Our lead story is theincredible changein Britain's attitude towards technology, but that's not all. This week's first issue also looks at a wide spread ofInnovations; from iPod nano to T-Mobile's MDA Pro phone. Invideogames,Kieron Gillen reviews Fahrenheit, andAleks Krotoskimakes the plea for grown-up gaming in the first of our weeklyGamesblogcolumns.Richard Wray guides you through theessential information on internet telephony, Victor Keegan tells ussize really does matterandMichael Crosswonders whether biometrics are really worth the hassle.And, to coincide with the relaunch, we've also created a newAsk Jack blogwhere readers can get their techno troubles soothed - or leave advice for those in need of help.Find the complete listingshere, orread the PDFs for free.
Following changes to our Online and online coverage (see above), you can now update your bookmarks tohttp://www.guardian.co.uk/technologyandhttp://blogs.guardian.co.uk/technology/.You may also want to bookmark or at least visit some (or preferably all!) of these Guardian blogs:Ask Jack,Business Insight,Culture Vulture,Editors' Blog,Gamesblog, andNewsblog. (Alphabetical order, of course.)
Argh.Microsofthas confirmed what European gamers feared to be true all along. TheXbox 360will be released in Europeafterit's released in the US. OK, it's only 10 days later (that's 2 December here versus the Thanksgiving-friendly 22 November stateside according toKotakuand theBBC), but it's the principle of the thing.Sigh. I think the UK needs some kind of post-summer/pre-Christmas excuse for retailers to get interested.Guy Fawkesdoesn't appear to be capturing their imaginations.
So I've been a dad for nearly two weeks now. And you know what? It's great. Nappies, interrupted sleep - not a problem (yet). But what has really surprised me is how it has affected my gaming. Yes, it is still happening, but in a different way. The start button is now my friend, pausing is where my gaming is at. This isn't a issue offline, unless you count losing the "flow" in something likeGod of Wara problem, but online gaming is out of the question at the moment. A screaming baby really doesn't care about a tightly fought 1-0 lead in Pro Evo on Xbox Live or a painstakingly gathered party inWoW, they just want attention. Talking of World of Warcraft, my obsession with that masterpiece is on hold now, probably for the next 18 years. So what games/systems work well with having a baby then? Any parents here care to comment how they fit games into their lives? So far these seem to work for me...Handheld gaming - the PSP and DS are perfect for stop-start action, with Zoo Keeper andLuminesmy current faves. Watching films on the PSP is less successful though - headphones and baby monitors just don't mix.Fahrenheit- the classy new adventure is a hit in our house, not just because it is a great game, but because the sound effects and music seem to send baby to sleep. Action-orientated gamers may experience the same feeling.So far that's it - hey, it's only been 10 days - but if you have any suggestions as to what games work and don't work with babies then post them below.
For years mobile phone manufacturers have been encouraging us to swap our laptops for handheld devices. Yet the handsets they have been punting haven't quite been powerful or sophisticated enough - or have been dogged by poor keypads and weak connectivity. Only Nokia, with its excellent Communicator series, has got close.There is, however, a buzz around a new handset that networks say could be the first mobile to enable its owners to shed a bit of baggage. The device is the Universal and it will be offered by almost all the major UK networks. T-Mobile, however, looks to have won the race to offer it first and has given us a sneak preview of its version - the MDA Pro.Due at the end of the month, the Pro is a high-end smartphone that features cut-down versions of Microsoft applications such as Word, Excel and Outlook. It will cost up to &pound;400, depending on the contract - but what is exciting both the networks and buyers are its three key selling points.First, it boasts a flexible design incorporating a large Qwerty keyboard that is a world away from the mini thumbpads offered by its predecessors and the majority of its rivals. This is supported by an impressively large 3.6in VGA-quality screen that can be used like a laptop with a widescreen display or, if it is twisted round and laid flat, like many traditional PDA devices.The Pro is also the first top-end smartphone to offer 3G connectivity, so users can take advantage of the faster download and web surfing speeds if in one of T-Mobile 3G areas, opt for Wi-Fi if in a wireless hot spot, or use the fall-back GPRS option with its slower connection speeds everywhere else.Finally, the MDA Pro marks the debut of the latest version (5.0) of Windows Mobile. This has one massive enhancement in that it has persistent memory to prevent data loss if the battery dies, which was a weakness of earlier versions. It also has enhanced push email options and apparently includes improved synchronisation with corporate networks.Expect it to be taken in numbers by both corporates and gadget lovers.
"It's impossibly tiny," Apple chief Steve Jobs told the world last week, as he unveiled the latest iteration of the iPod. Despite the clamour that usually accompanies new products from the stylish Californian firm, it was not all hype. The slim, sleek iPod nano - which is replacing the wildly popular iPod mini - is smaller than a credit card and less than 7mm thick.The minuscule size of the unit is hard to express, but the focus is very much on its Lilliputian dimensions and a weight so low it should be seeking doctor's advice. The Flash-based player comes in two sizes - 2GB (&pound;139) and 4GB (&pound;179) - and is available in white or glossy black. The nano is aimed at the fashion-conscious buyer and, perhaps, at encouraging further purchases from those who have bought into the brand already.Small improvements include the crystal clear colour screen and a stopwatch. Battery life is improving, though at 14 hours it still lags behind some competitors. And the finish scratches easily, meaning damage-wary users will need to fork out for a "tube" case for extra protection.In all other respects, nano is an ordinary iPod - except for the name. A legal battle with music-player rival Creative is potentially be on the cards, since it too has a "nano" branded player. Observers say a court case is unlikely, thoughWhile it has certainly attracted attention, Jobs' latest baby has worried fans of the incredibly popular iPod mini, which now demands vintage status. Others are taking Apple to task for the features the nano lacks (no radio, no voice recording) as well as those it includes, such as the lock-in between iPod and iTunes, and the digital rights mechanism on tracks downloaded from the iTunes Music Store.But while there are many players with more features, and with less restrictions, there is no doubt that iPod nano works. Small and stylish, it stays with a successful formula while turning the screws on the competition - and as a fashion player, there is nothing in the market that really compares. With one swoop, the game has changed completely: iPod may have shrunk, but the challenge for Apple's rivals seems bigger than ever.
I blame Dick Tracy. Since the comic book hero first sported his wrist walkie-talkie, generations of geeks have dreamed about watches that do far more than tell the time. Some models, such as the recent USB storage watches, have been relatively successful. Others, like NHJ's TV watch, have been just too bulky. One good idea is to integrate a personal organiser. If that sounds sensible, you are going to like the Fossil Abacus Wrist PDA, which has just gone on sale in the UK.Its British debut comes as the company that produced its operating system, PalmSource, is being bought by Access, a Japanese mobile content company. Even though Palm, the hardware maker that split from PalmSource, is still committed to using the Palm platform, it remains to be seen how pivotal it will be to a company that is already working on a Microsoft Windows smartphone.All this is a shame as somehow, Fossil and Palm have pulled off the trick of delivering a device that is small enough to be discreet yet just about usable, too. Like all Palm hardware, the easy way to get information is to key the contacts and appointments into your PC and then sync it to the device via USB.Unfortunately there are times when you will need to add phone numbers and dates while on the move, and that's where the fun starts. Entering data involves scrawling Graffiti - Palm's handwriting recognition system - on the screen. If that is too tricky there is a tiny virtual keyboard. After a while I gave up and started writing down details, which I then added via the PC when I got home. There are a few other neat features, namely a calculator and the option of being able to customise the design. You can also add other Palm third-party applications, but the watch only has 8MB of memory.The Fossil Wrist PDA is a stylish timepiece that is a useful receptacle for your phone numbers and appointments. You will enjoy its company as long as you don't try and input data on the fly.
The games industry is making moves to eradicate the word "game" from its vocabulary. The first time I heard about this was in 2003, when I was at a lunch with some industry bigwigs. One of them said the word "game" should be eliminated and another suitable name for what they did should be implemented. Did I have any suggestions? Gulp. I mumbled something about the soup .There has since been a shift in how industry pros talk. Most notably, new gadgets like the Sony handheld PSP and the forthcoming Microsoft Xbox 360 are not described as games machines but multimedia entertainment centres.The idea of games as kids' toys doesn't mesh with the grownup products coming on the market at the demand of an ageing user-base. The fact that there are 18-rated games is the first sign; that designers are required to include online gameplay and more sophisticated community elements is another. "Games" are also frivolous things, not to be taken seriously, which undermines the excellent and innovative educational and entertainment applications that come from interactive technology.Additionally, people may just be ready for convergence - the dirty word from the late 1990s. Palmtop computers, mobile phones, MP3 players and other digital lifestyle products are all starting to offer more stuff for your buck, so why shouldn't games - interactive entertainment - jump in?The recent worldwide launch of the PSP broke new ground in the handheld sector. It scored plenty of column inches dedicated to its wireless web browser, MP3 player and movie playback. Very few talked about the games, partly because they weren't as good as the other stuff on offer. That didn't stop a record number of consumers plonking down &pound;179 for one.Microsoft's Xbox 360, which will be released next month, intends to replace all that bulky stuff under your TV with one simple package. It is not a home console, they tell us: it is an internet portal, a virtual community environment, a download centre, a whole bunch of hard drive, a video conferencing system, an MP3 player, a DVD player and, oh yeah, a games machine.I have had heated debates with gamers who argue that Microsoft and Sony are shooting themselves in the foot by not focusing on games. But, if other features mean that people who wouldn't touch a game system will install one in their living rooms, I think it is fantastic. One day, the non-gaming owner of a multimedia entertainment system may just happen to pick up Halo and discover she likes it. And it doesn't matter how she got there ... another convert means more fun for all.
Searching questions over our Google-bashingI enjoyed reading about the changing image of Google (Google's soul search, September 8). Yes, sure, it is a powerful force and might already be regarded as a "bastion of corporate America", but hey, it enables us to find stuff on the internet for free, so it has surely been beneficial to most people. The launch of Google's tool for sorting out our photos - Picasa - which you publicised at the start of the year, has made it much easier for me to organise and size images for a website. And now a friend has referred me to Google Earth - as a geographer I am amazed to be able to zoom into city streets and retrace my steps along mountain ridges. And both of these are free. They are building a pretty impressive set of tools for anyone to make the most of the IT, so we shouldn't knock them just because they are successful.Andrew LlanwarneBroughty FerryOver the past few weeks you have published several articles criticising Google. I have always been a fan of Google, and have read all of these articles in case there was something I was missing that I ought to know.However, not one article has provided any justification for this hatred. All criticism has been about Google's expansion and increase in power, neither of which are a bad thing unless abused. Anyone would think you want Microsoft to maintain its monopoly on the industry.Please, could you just chill out on the Google-bashing until you have a criticism of some substance to make?Ruthe DaviesDerbyshireI fear that the advice from Daniel Brewer (Feedback, September 8) on sites that give out Gmail invitations may not be valid for long. One of the most active sites,isnoop.net/gmail, announced in June that it had to close down as a result of pressure from Google. I remain a Google enthusiast, but I wish, along with some of your experts last week, that its corporate responsibilities would allow it to turn a blind eye to minor infractions of its rules.Martin HuckerbyLondonSlow down to speed upWouldn't it be nice if the government required BT to give minimal broadband access to all before considerations of 24Mbps?Dr Colin EdenBroughton-in-FurnessGoing a bundle on AOLI suspect the dominance of AOL's IM platform in the Nielsen figures (Stat of the week, September 8) are due to the fact that AOL's IMsoftware is bundled with the ISP package. Just because there are millions of users registered for the AOL IM client doesn't mean they are using it.The same can be said for Microsoft and its MSN Messenger, as well as Yahoo Mail and the Y! client. A more accurate comparison would surely include AOL's ICQ, which is a standalone IM platform.Frank JordansLondonBlogbackAlthough perhaps overly focused on Macromedia Flash and Microsoft's Smart Client, Simon Bisson's article (Building bridges, September 8) does discuss the emergence of the new web (without ever saying "Web 2.0"), and it does so in print. Bisson ends his piece by saying "Applications aren't islands of functionality any more; they are bridges for information." Yep.Bisson's piece, along with the rest of the Guardian, is available online. If you can, though, why not buy the hard copy? I'm all for supporting those media outlets that have the guts to offer significant chunks of "paid" content for free ... by actually buying the content.paulmiller.typepad.com&#183;Write to: Letters, Technology Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, Telephone: 020 7239 9925. Fax: 020 7239 9933. Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Grim Fandango(1998)The last genuine classic to come from LucasArts, the company that helped define adventure games, Tim Schafer's noir-pastiche follows skull-faced Manny Caldera through a bureaucratic parody of the Land of the Dead. With a look that takes from both Mexican mythology and art deco, Grim Fandango is as unique an artistic statement as mainstream gaming has managed to offer. While loved by devotees, its limited sales prompted LucasArts to back away from original adventures to simply exploit franchises. Schafer went on to bring a similar dark comedy sensibility to the platform game Psychonauts, which is finally receiving a UK release before the end of this year.The Longest Journey(1999)Ragnar T&oslash;rnquist's adventure arrived in a world that had just started mumbling "the adventure is dead", a morose chorus that rumbles on to this day. It therefore took a while for anyone to notice the quality of this dual-world fantasy tale. April Ryan is one of the form's best-realised female leads - an art student who bounces between these two realms. Not afraid of adult content, yet steering well clear of anything with an exploitative tone, the game eventually secured its much-deserved audience. In fact, its standing increased over the years to the point where a sequel became commercially viable. Dreamfall is expected early next year.Omikron: The Nomad Soul(1999)Quantic Dream and David Cage's first game, the ponderously named Omikron: The Nomad Soul, was even more ambitious than Fahrenheit. As a games player sucked into an alternate dimension, you made your way through the game by possessing the bodies of various characters as each of your charges died. Drowning in weirdness for weirdness' sake, its adult themes tended towards the more exploitative and puerile. It is primarily worth recalling now as a step towards the much more interesting Fahrenheit and an answer to a gaming trivia question: "Which videogame featured both a soundtrack and an in-game appearance by David Bowie?".Shenmue(2000)Sega's detective tale set in late-80s Japan follows the hero's search for his father's killers. As well as the core task, it creates a vivid setting where the player is free to explore and even make a virtual living. While Fahrenheit ignores the larger world, Shenmue pioneered its indirect control methods for action scenes. Conceived as an epic, multipart story by creator Yu Suzuki, it is set to conclude in the forthcoming Shenmue title for the next generation of consoles. It is fondly remembered for extended scenes of accidental homoeroticism where the lead character spends hours walking around the docks, asking people where he can meet up with sailors.
Censorship is a beautiful thing. It is where live art meets the sharp edge of culture and things get snipped. As such, it acts as a signalling flare to the critical sensibilities: something is happening that someone has a problem with. It could be the latest incarnation of The New - and it is worth closer attention.Such is the case with Quantic Dream's latest adventure game, Fahrenheit. While the game is being released untouched here in Blighty, some scenes are being excised for the American market - primarily ones involving sex. It all comes in the wake of the Hot Coffee controversy, which led to the recall of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas after it emerged that an undisclosed sex subgame could be activated via some determined hacking. The result is that anything involving orifices, furtive fumbling and squelching is a little too raunchy for incipient neo-puritans.But compare Fahrenheit with Grand Theft Auto. Where GTA's treatment of sex is gleefully hyperbolic pornography - a pure ho-pleasing stud-'em-up - Fahrenheit's plays a central part in its story arc. The brief rendezvous between character Lucas Kane and his ex is a momentary reprieve from his increasing estrangement from humanity and reality, and a reminder that his life wasn't always a living hell. Grand Theft Auto is a game that, due to its content, only adults should play. Fahrenheit is a game for adults: the difference is important.Fahrenheit is the latest attempt to reinvent the adventure game for the modern times. It is a genre that has been fumbling to find a way forward since its mid-90s apex, when LucasArts' comedy games such as Monkey Island and Day of the Tentacle were wildly popular. Their slow pace and object-based puzzles had trouble translating into the PlayStation era. This makes Fahrenheit seem oddly anachronistic, and it is all the fresher for it - like an artefact from an alternate dimension that split from ours in 1997. Many of its design decisions are contrary to our accepted wisdom.Take timed puzzles, for example. It was generally decided by gaming's chattering classes that fumbling against the clock with an adventure game's lumpen control system was a horrifically bad idea. Fahrenheit snootily rejects such dogma, and the game is populated with such things. And, more importantly, it uses key insights to make them sing.Rather than making the puzzles difficult, it makes them transparently simple with naturalistic solutions. Urgency and drama are simultaneously added via split-screen technology to show exactly why you have a problem. For example, the game's opening finds you in a diner toilet having just stabbed a man during a hypnotic trance. A body lies on the floor, you are covered in blood and outside there is a cop drinking coffee who could come in any minute... what do you do?Well, you could be sensible. You could hide the body, wash your face, mop the floor and quietly leave. Or you could panic and run out the back door, smeared in viscera. Realising what to do isn't the problem: choosing what to do is.Its approach to action sequences is similar. Most games use a representative control system in an action game: press left, and you go left. Fahrenheit chooses a non-representative one, where the task you complete has no direct relation to what happens on screen. Like a dance-pad game, you have to mimic a button sequence to make the game progress.Viewers will be amazed at your prowess in onscreen combat until the moment they realise that to prompt your character to run along a wall dodging machine gun fire, you were just playing a glorified game of Simple Simon. It is strange, but in practice it means the makers are able to create anything that the plot demands. Action serves the needs of a plot, rather than the plot being an excuse to connect the minigames.And Fahrenheit is all about the plot, both in content and in the dazzling way it is told. You play Lucas Kane, a bank worker turned murderer on the run. But you also play detective Carla Valenti, who is tracking down this mysterious restroom killer. That's not all: you also play her partner in police procedure, Tyler Miles. And Kane's brother, a conflicted priest. And ... well, many others.While you primarily identify with Lucas Kane, it is not that simple. As the plot unfolds, you are asked both to successfully evade the police's pursuit and inch closer to identifying this elusive murderer. Who is the "you" in Fahrenheit? There is no easy answer. In fact, there is no answer at all, and the fact that it manages to propel itself while being compulsively involving is something of a small miracle.These artistic successes aside, it is far from perfect. From its well-observed beginnings, the plot suffers something of a hernia as it passes into the difficult final section. Extraneous elements are thrown in: global conspiracies, Mayan religion, sentient artificial intelligence, and so on and so cliched. All of these are far less interesting than, to choose a memorable example, the failing relationship between Tyler and his obviously dissatisfied girlfriend.Equally, a love affair between two of the protagonists fails to convince, coming off as disappointing melodrama after the deft hand displayed earlier. On a more technical level - and something that would be a fatal flaw in a less cerebral game - it often feels like you are controlling a fork-lift truck with a drunken driver, rather than a person. And while it encourages replaying thanks to the multiple puzzle solutions and several endings, Fahrenheit is still a relatively short game.Enough quibbling. It is far from perfect, but is still one of the most interesting games of the year. By recycling some abandoned mechanisms and attaching them to an unfashionable genre, it carries us a little closer to the future while still making the present a better place. Even better, it is a riposte to those who argue that there is a "right" way to design games, and in doing so turn the process into an engineering challenge of incremental steps towards perfection.And perfection is too small a thing when you can have art.
When auction site eBay decided to buy out internet phone company Skype earlier this week, the reaction was mixed."eBay has definitely overpaid for Skype," John Delaney, principal consultant at analysts Ovum, told the BBC. The cost of the merger could amount to $4.1bn. The deal gives eBay the leading brand in internet telephony, and technology that will let eBay users speak to each other about potential purchases. Next year, when the deal has gone through, Skype icons will appear on eBay, allowing users to call each directly."If you have lots of questions, wouldn't it be nice to click on a link?" explained eBay chief executive Meg Whitman.Calling by Skype would preserve the privacy and anonymity of eBay, but add to the level of trust in the system, she said, predicting that this would remove barriers to people buying on the site. Sales have ramped up since the company bought the PayPal technology in 2002, she added.eBay would also make money by offering direct connections to potential customers. Big companies would advertise on eBay and pay "from $2 to $12" for every Skype phone call they receive from potential buyers. Skype will also be able to introduce eBay to countries where it has little or no presence. "We have a presence in every country except North Korea, and we are the market leader in each," said Skype chief executive Nikas Zennstrom (pictured above with Whitman).Skype's core services will also be developed. "We believe Skype is a classic increasing-returns business," said Whitman. "Users come on board and invite others."eBay hopes to increase the company's tiny revenue - just $7m last year - by using the PayPal payment system to encourage people to make paying calls to landlines from their Skype accountseBay could have done a lot of this without buying Skype - perhaps with a cross-licensing deal, and allowing PayPal into Skype's service. But by buying the company, it has bought a popular brand, too.
It has no phone, no radio and and it does little that earlier devices made by the same company could not do. But few seem to care. The new Apple iPod nano, unexpectedly launched last week, has become an overnight "must have" gadget even among owners of previous models. Deservedly so. The tiny digital music player is a masterpiece of compression - up to 1,000 songs in a sleek black or white case weighing so little (42g) it has to be gripped firmly to stop it floating away. The new model - reviewed in today's Technology section - looks too thin to have anything inside and has no moving parts. It sports thumbnail colour photos of the jacket sleeves and also a stopwatch, doubtless aimed at jogging devotees.It is difficult to nail down the secret of this instant success except that, in today's language, it blends bling with gravitas and has almost instilled a sense of poetry into engineering. From Apple's view it has given back iconic status to a product that was becoming so successful it was in danger of turning itself into a commodity. Most people, doubtless, will be using it to play their favourite pop or rap music tracks but, make no mistake, this is no dumbing-down machine. It can just as well do classical music, plays, audio books or news digests. American universities are already supplying set books in iPod-ready form and for some schoolchildren it has become a clandestine way of doing homework while not appearing to do so. It fits the age like a pea in a pod.
The retailing community was buzzing last week when, two weeks after closing its e-commerce sites for an upgrade, clothing retailer Gap failed to relaunch two of them.Gap simultaneously shut down its three sites - Gap.com, Oldnavy.com, and BananaRepublic.com - in a move that surprised many. While Banana Republic relaunched successfully, Old Navy reappeared only temporarily and Gap.com remained closed.Gap said the redesign of the customer-facing component and the back-end systems was so vast it felt this was the best way to get the new sites running as efficiently as possible. It said it chose a quiet time in its sales cycle to do the work.Most e-commerce experts believe that having a site down for any period of time can be costly. The two Gap sites contributed $209m in sales in the first half of the year, about 3% of the group's total and averaging about $1m per day.So what went wrong? And how should other retailers avoid such problems?Mark Aldridge, European director at web testing and monitoring company Empirix, said there was a risk of losing customer loyalty: "If history is anything to go by, I suspect that this extended shutdown will affect Gap's customer loyalty, reputation and bottom line."But others consider that retailers often run into problems because they do not apply well-known principles of parallel testing before going ahead with an upgrade. Typically this involves running a pilot service on separate servers and testing its useability under different levels of traffic.David Oxley, managing director of e-commerce specialists Hitura, which has developed a site for electronics retailer Maplin, says Gap's downtime should have been avoided: "They will obviously lose money over this, and it's bad for the brand because it confuses the customer. They should never have upgraded three sites at the same time, and should have fully tested upgrades before closing the existing sites."He says retailers need to ensure they make full use of load balancing, so that if a server gets overloaded it can easily share its load with other servers. He also urges firms to look hard at replicating key parts of an e-commerce network so that customers are not affected by downtime of any hardware: "You need replication of servers and you need to be able to switch servers to another domain if needed."Robin Knight, the head of business development at Deloitte's Consumer Business Practice, says such problems are often caused by concerns over security: "Retailers are used to securing their stores, but they often do not allocate the same kind of resources to securing their online services. It is also clearly very important for retailers to ensure the same quality of experience online so customers are not disappointed when they compare it to visiting a store."Web experts point out that online retailing is increasingly responsible for a larger percentage of the overall revenue (3-8% is typical) for traditional retailers but that development has been haphazard. The web is also becoming a primary source to find potential customers yet has often not attracted the same level of IT discipline in other sectors of IT infrastructure."The problem is the web has grown organically with a bolt-on approach," says Dan Northover, executive creative director at Global Beach, the firm behind the development and management of Jaguar's global web offering. "This approach causes problems that gradually escalate. Eventually it gets to a point where something has to be done, but a stop-start approach to upgrading doesn't really work."Northover says that firms need to adopt a "cycle plan" of improvement so that the infrastructure and back-end development does not in any way affect the customer experience.But at least Gap isn't having to face the very public legal tangle that can occur when e-commerce partners fall out. Last week Toys R Us sued Amazon in a bid to regain control of its online sales. In a wrangle that looks set to continue, Amazon has countersued, saying it deserves $750m because Toys violated the agreement by being out of stock on its best-sellers.
For my second Japan-themed post of the night, Reuters Online has assembled a collection of industry analysts to assess whether Xbox 360 canreallycompete with PS3 in Japan. And the resultingarticleis predictably downbeat. Although the company has been on a lengthy charm offensive, recruiting top Japanese developers like Square Enix, Tecmo and Yuke's to the already glittering 360 cause (more on thishere), experts reckon the machine will remain in distant second behind Sony's contender. As the news piece puts it:"Analysts expect the Xbox 360 to sell better than its previous version, but they don't expect it to seriously challenge Sony's dominance of the gaming market in Japan."There is no way it will come close to the PlayStation," said Tokyo-based Deutsche Securities analyst Takashi Oya. "Microsoft will have done well if it gets 10 percent market share in Japan."U.S.-based research firm IDC estimates that Microsoft will sell 3.5 million Xbox 360 units in Japan by 2009, compared with 8 million PlayStation 3 units.And later, just to rub it in a bit:"It will be 'a job well done' if Microsoft can get equal market share with Nintendo in the next-generation battle, said KBC Securities analyst Hiroshi Kamide. 'It's not going to be possible to be number one,' he said."Microsoft is making all the right moves, ensuring Xbox 360 will boast plenty of games that appeal to Japanese players (unlike Xbox which was heavily geared toward the US market) and - vitally, perhaps - launchingbeforePS3. But to usurp Sony on its home ground? Of course the analysts are going to scoff. Just like they scoffed when Sony first announced its intention to enter the videogame hardware market thirteen years ago.
The teeny-weeny Game Boy Micro was released in Japan yesterday and apparently (seehere,here, andhere), it performed better than expected, although failed to match the launch day figures of the GBA SP - hardly surprising really as this is the third time Nintendo has released the GBA technology. It'll be squeezed into a mobile phone next, mark my words.The UK launch is set for November 4th and you can expect a retail price of around £60-70. You can also expect to accidentally sit on it a few hours after purchase having forgotten that you slid it into your back pocket. With your iPod nano. Forthcoming essentials like Wario Ware: Twisted, Pokemon Emerald and Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones may convince gadget fans that it's worth upgrading from SP to Micro rather than switching to DS or PSP. But admit it, how many of you are going to end up with all three?
The Search Engine Watch blog has a usefulRoundup Of Google Blog Search Commentary. If that's not enough, there are more links at the hard-to-spellTechmemeorandum. The other obvious idea is to search Google Blog Search for"google blog search". That finds 906 hits at the time of writing.....
Microsoft's co-founder and chief software architect gave a keynote speech at the company's Professional Developers Conference 2005, which is being held now in Los Angeles. There's atranscriptof the speech, or you can watch an on-demandwebcast.Also, CNet has aninterview.
Now you can play word games withL33T TILES-- there are 103 wooden tiles in the set -- and score words such as w3rd, catz, d00d, pr0n and, of course, 1337. (It looks as though shipping is to the US only.)
Sounds like a game butCodename Maxis actually a photo album-sharing application. Or, more accurately, it's a photo album-sharing technology demo ofWinFXfrom Windows Vista. Oh yes, there's also a MicrosoftMax blog.Recommended specs for those who want to play: XP with .Net Framework installed, 2.4GHz processor, 512MB memory, 200MB hard drive space, 3D graphics card ("Any high performance DX9 Pixel Shader 2.0 card will give good results.) and a Hotmail/Passport account. It will work with less....
I can still remember a time in my life when a large slice of my disposable income went on buying clothes. Lunch-hours often saw me making secretive sorties to favourite stores. The result was a wardrobe I couldn't afford, but which had some nice things in it.And most of them I still have 15 years later. But nowadays, apart from the odd pair of jeans, I hardly buy clothes at all. Instead, whatever small portion of my income still remains - after household bills and kids' expenses have wreaked their monthly financial havoc - gets spent in bike shops. I simply love them. And judging by the queues at the tills, I am not alone. Rarely a week goes by without me finding some plausible but spurious reason - the need for a new brake cable or spare inner tube - to visit one.It's a bit like the appeal of a good hardware shop. There's just all this great stuff. I won't pretend I've read much Heidegger (or any, in fact), but I'd like to think Martin had just spent a happy half-hour in Freiburg's bike shop when he was struck by "the thinginess of things". There it is, a cornucopia of exquisitely machined alloys, lustrous carbon-fibre frames, and innumerable form-fitting garments in hi-tech fabrics. Things don't much thingier than this.Once upon a time, bike shops were intimidating, lugubrious places. Only two interactions were possible. Either you would be made to feel very small by a spotty assistant ill-concealing his contempt that you did not know the name of the part you needed. Or you would be handed back a repaired bicycle by a sweaty guy who would have left black thumbprints all over your pride and joy.Times have changed: the retail revolution came late to the cycle trade but it got there in the end. Acres of high street space is now devoted to all the high-end kit - with hefty price tags attached. There's a glossy new world of "bike porn" out there. And I'm a sucker for it.And yet ... nostalgie de la boue maybe, but the perverse thing is that there is a bit of me that misses the old bike shop, with its dusty displays, maladjusted staff, and eternal bin of nonmatching nuts and bolts. Punters! There's no pleasing them.
Some of you may remember back in August when I waspart of the teamthat interviewed the potentialFrag Dolls UK, the all-laydeez team of gamer chicks who were to, controversially, beat the boys. They were also to stand up and wave the UbiSoft flag. Well, I've just seen the results (perhaps belatedly), and I'm pleased that all of my choices were picked. Hurrah!Three cheers go out toKittwho's shared the silver screen with me in computer games life past (and the honey-waves of BBC Radio Scotland where games were rarely concerned). I can personally vouch for her credentials, and the beauty of her boy Max.You all can see what they're playing at tonight at the inaugural Frag Dolls UKevent. They're taking all comers on the newly-releasedRainbow Six: Lockdown. That's a nice butch game, isn't it. Hit their website for details.Go the girls.
Microsoft has opened a blog for what it callsGadgets, which seem to be much the same as the widgets that Apple copied from (now Yahoo-owned) Konfabulator, though they also hark back to the Active Desktop idea that Microsoft tried in the 90s (it flopped) and even earlier mini-apps.These particular widgets had been expected for what was then the Longhorn Sidebar, which Microsoft showed in 2002. However, according to the Gadgets blog, they also come in two other flavours: Gadgets for Start.com (aka Web- or Server-based Gadgets); and Gadgets forWindows SideShow(aka Auxilary Display Gadgets). In the last case, the gadget runs on the PC but sends data to another screen, such as a second screen in a notebook PC lid, a PDA or a mobile phone.The extremely cool but "not officially supported"Start.comsite has been running for a while (it was going a couple of months before Google didsomething similar) and also has its ownblog.
Alright, these retro compilations can often be cynical attempts to wrestle money from gullible thirty-somethings, but this one is virtually irresistible. Taito Legends cobbles together 29 arcade classics from the last 30 years into one compilation for PS2, Xbox and PC. Here's the complete list:Space Invaders (1978), Phoenix(1980), Space Invaders Part 2 (1980), Colony 7 (1981), Electric Yoyo (1982), Jungle Hunt (1982), Zoo Keeper (1982), Elevator Action (1983), Great Swordsman (1984), Return of the Invaders (1985), Bubble Bobble (1986), Gladiator (1986), Tokio (1986), Exzisus (1987), Plump Pop (1987), Operation Wolf (1987), Rainbow Islands (1987), Rastan (1987), Super Qix (1987), The New Zealand Story (1988), Operation Thunderbolt (1988), Battle Shark (1989), Continental Circus (1989), Plotting (1989), Volfied (1989), Ninja Kids (1990), Space Gun (1990), Thunderfox (1990) Tube It (1993)Some of them are bona fide legends: Space Invaders, Bubble Bobble and Rastan, of course, along with my personal favourite Operation Wolfe, the fab light-gun shooter complete with terrible translations and awful voice acting, including the unforgettable Game Over refrain, "I'm sorry, but you are finished... (long, unnecessary pause) here". Others I've never heard of. Plump Pop anyone? Sounds like a new music genre. The collection also comes with some bonus material, "including a comprehensive history of Taito and interviews with the designers of Space Invaders, Space Invaders part 2, Bubble Bobbble, Rainbow Islands and Volfied."It's out on October 25.
Been waiting a long time forthis, of course....
The dead-tree version of Ask Jack doesn't have room for most of the queries that come in, some questions are just too obscure for a wide audience, and there are lots of questions I can't answer. I'm hoping the solution is to post them here, so readers can answer questions for other readers. Also, if you want to expand on -- or correct -- a published answer, you'll be able to do that by leaving a comment here.If you want to find earlier posts about specific topics, look on the right for a list, and click the one you want. Examples includeHome Entertainment,Internet, andWindows.Two things to remember:Questions canonlybe sent in via email to Jack.Schofield@guardian.co.ukAnything posted in a comment can be considered for publicationThe fun officially begins with the publlication of the first Technology section (formerly called Online) in The Guardian on September 15, 2005.
Mario, the be-tashed plumber who ushered in the home console revolution (and was once rumoured to be more recognisable than Jesus), celebrated the 20th anniversary of the release of his smash hitSuper Mario Brosyesterday. According toWikipedia, "the game sold approximately 40 million copies in North America alone, which still stands as a Guinness World Record."A specialJapanese Nintendo sitewas launched for the purpose, and theUK Nintendosite gave a little nod too.Gads, in 20 years I've never once been able to finish the game - not for wont of trying, mind, but because it's so darn hard! No quick saves meant it had to be completed in one sitting. Aye, back in my day games were games.Hmm. Does anyone else feel old?Here are a few Mario-related links to remind us from whence we came:A Javascript version of Super Mario BrosWikipedia's list of all Mario gamesJList's Super Mario toys page80's Tees' Super Mario Bros T-shirtsandotherclassic Nintendo stuffNintendoland's library of Mario merchandise(shampoo? cereal?!)Super Mario Bros Headquarters' Mario Trivia pagesThe ill-fated (and truly awful)Super Mario Bros. film, starring Bob HoskinsThe Super Mario Bros Super Show(and other Mario-helmed TV treats) AnMP3 of the Tokyo Philharmonicperforming the Super Mario Bros theme tune (andsheet musicfor the musical)The Mushroom Kingdom, Second Life's home of classic gamingA little bit of Mario Bros cosplay...anda suit to buyif you want to do it yourself
Nintendo has launched what it says is the smallest handheld game console in the world.Advance orders of the 10cm by 5cm Game Boy Micro, which went on sale in Japan yesterday, were better than expected, according to the company, but lagged behind those of the Game Boy Advance SP, which made its debut in 2003.Nintendo enjoys a 94% share of the handheld console market but sees the Micro's launch as an opportunity to beat off the challenge from Sony, whose PSP handheld machine had been a worldwide success. It aims to sell 4m Micros worldwide by next March.
Microsoft Corp. will try to extend the dominance of its two biggest software franchises with a set of significantly redesigned Office programs to be released in conjunction with the next Windows operating system," reports theSeattle-Post Intellingencer.Microsoft showed the next version of its widely used Office productivity software for the first time Tuesday -- revealing a new approach that abandons the standard drop-down menus in favor of a "ribbon" that presents the commands in a thick strip across the top of the window in such programs as Word and Excel.The next version of Microsoft Word sports a streamlined interface. The new version, dubbed Office 12, will be released in the second half of next year, around the same time as Windows Vista, the company said during the opening session of its Professional Developers Conference here Tuesday morning.
"One man. A World of Conflict." That is how the internet portal Yahoo! is announcing its move into the world of war reporting. Hiring one of the world's best-known war correspondents is seen as a move by Yahoo! to widen its horizons and challenge traditional media companies.Kevin Sites, the American cameraman famous for filming the shooting by a US soldier of an apparently unarmed civilian in a Falluja mosque, is the man Yahoo! has hired. His job is to report solo from every "hot zone" in the world over the coming year.Yahoo! announced the signing as part of its effort to provide "reporting for the new millennium". His style is described as "backpack journalism - narrative storytelling techniques" for the internet.Sites, 42, will visit every place listed by the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London as a site of armed conflict. The criterion will be that the conflict has been active in the past three months. The IISS lists about 50 sites but some of these (Peru, Mexico, Greece) are "dormant" and others, such as Spain and Cyprus, are unlikely to be featured.The plan is for Sites to operate alone, using translators, drivers and minders when he needs them. He will have three small video cameras, one of which has been adapted so that it can be worn on a headband like a miner's lamp. A "mission control" team will be based in the US.Sites started work as a 15-year-old photographer - he lied about his age - on the Geneva Free Press in Ohio and is now based in southern California. He is one of a breed of solo journalists or "sojos" who travel to conflict zones and offer their freelance services to established outfits.His decision to release the footage shot in Falluja last November when he was embedded with the 3rd Battalion, 1st Marine regiment made him the focus of rightwing opprobrium in the US. He has received many death threats and accusations of treason."If the truth is known then people will be able to make the responsible decisions that they need to make in a democracy," he told the Guardian in June. "And if you're burying it you're not trusting them with that responsibility, you're saying that democracy doesn't work."
Microsoft has announced the subscription charges for Xbox 360's 'XBox Live Gold' service - the full version of the machine's online community set-up, which allows users to take part in multiplayer gaming sessions. An annual subscription will be £39.99, working out at around £3 a month. Those without credit cards will be happy to know that there are alternative payment methods - as the press release explains:"Microsoft also today announced that credit cards will no longer be required to create an account on Xbox Live for Xbox 360, removing one of the biggest barriers to entry. Gamers can purchase 12-month Xbox Live subscription cards via cash or other payment methods at any participating retail store. Subscriptions will also be available for purchase by credit card in one-month, three-month and 12-month increments through the Xbox Live Dashboard."The release also takes the oppertunity to re-iterate Microsoft's plans for a pre-Christmas 360 launch in Europe - just in case you were in any doubt...So, three quid a month for next-gen HD multiplayer gaming... A bargain?
This is the best thing I've seen since I first heard about thered light districtactivitiesin the virtual city ofAlphavilleinThe Sims Online. A player in Massively Multiplayer Online GamephenomenonWorld of Warcrafthas auctioned off an hour with his/her Night Elf to "do anything, yes ANYTHING you want me to". From theeBay listing:What you are bidding on is one, in game, hour of my time. During that hour I will do anything you ask of me that is possible using emote, character control and chat interface. The winning bidder can either roll a character on my server, or I'll roll one on your server. We will set up a day and time to meet and spend our hour together. I have several sexy outfits I can wear for you and getting new ones every day. I love to dress up &lt;3. You are welcome to take screenshots and make movies of our time together. I am very photogenic!Good Luck! I can't wait to meet you!The auction ended back on the 1st September, but if the interaction was a success I anticipate more buying and selling of this sort (unless the companies involved put an end to it). Not so happy that the seller's name is "Jailbait15".What a novel way to make a few extra bucks.For more on interactive jiggery pokery, you might want to head to theSex &amp; Games SIGof theInternational Game Developers Association.
Wired.com has a briefarticlelooking into the phenomenon of the videogame novelisation. The focus is onSplinter Cellby David Michaels which has perhaps the singular boast of being a novel based on a game based on an original concept by a novelist. In it, we apparently discover some of what the game's hero, Sam Fisher, gets up to when he isn't quietly strangling terrorists:"He's 47 years old, and his hottie martial-arts instructor has a major crush on him. He lives alone in a condo and struggles to figure out how to deal with his college-age daughter. His favorite pastime is gourmet cooking. He thinks the Iraq war is a bad idea."Anyone else think this is too much information? When I'm struggling to take down a terror base I don't want the added pressure of worrying about Sam's orphaned child. And does it somehow detract from the macho mystique of the character to know that he spends his evenings alone, crafting cullinery treats for himself while fantasising over his gym mistress?The article goes on to consider other conversions - Halo, Resident Evil, Mech Warrior (Mech Warrior?!) - discussing how psychologically disorientating it feels when an author takes hold of a character we think of as an extension of ourselves and pulls them in a narrative direction beyond our control. Sam Fisher. Alone. In a condo. Stealth cooking...Anyway, as Aleks was talking about books that would make great interactive adventures yesterday, here are five videogames I think would travel well in the opposite direction...GTA: San AndreasThe obvious choice. A sprawling saga of life in the ghetto, brimming with violence, sex, fast cars and colourful hoodlums. I see a combination of Mario Puzo's Godfather with the narrative scope and eighties references of Tom Wolfe's Bonfire of the Vanities. Could come with a free 'Hot Coffee' erotic mini-story...Final Fantasy VIIThe most successful incarnation of Square's RPG behemoth would be a clash of literary worlds, merging the folkloric fantasies of Tolkien with the steam punk sci-fi of The Difference Engine and Automated Alice. Would probably run to about five chunky volumes. (Chrono Trigger, Legend of Zelda and Ico could all work in a similar way.)Half-LifeIt's a mystery why this alien conspiracy shooter hasn't been novelised already - all the ingredients are there for a rollicking goverment cover-up blockbuster. And I for one would be interested to find out exactly what Gordon actuallydidat Black Mesa - you know, before he blew it up. The similarly-themed Deus Ex would work well, too.Secret of Monkey IslandForget Guybrush for a second, who in their right mindswouldn'twant to find out more about Stan the secondhand boat salesman, Herman Toothrot the hermit or that sword-swirling minx, Carla? Swashbuckling adventure, blisteringly sharp humour and daft characters caught in hopelessly surreal situations: it's Treasure Island meets Catch 22!NintendogsAll the drama of dog rearing, from the endless hours of training to the tension of the competition events. And what intrigues lay await on the show floor? Frankly, this one has Jilly Cooper written all over it.
"Nintendo Co.'s new mobile phone-sized game console, Game Boy Micro, attracted better-than-expected orders on its debut on Tuesday, though less than Game Boy Advance SP had done, retailers said. Nintendo, known for software titles featuring characters such as Mario, Donkey Kong and Pokemon, launched what it said was the world's smallest console in Japan a week before the US launch with a price tag of 12,000 yen,"Reutersreports from Tokyo.US publications such asWired Newsare now taking a look at the new console.
CNet has an interview withMichael Robertson, who founded MP3.com and launched Lindows/Linspire.Robertson's latest target is Apple Computer, whose iPod music player and iTunes software currently dominate the digital music world nearly as successfully as Microsoft controls the PC operating system and office software markets. In midsummer, he quietly launched a site called BadFruit, which beat Apple CEO Steve Jobs to putting links to podcasts into iTunes with a piece of software called BadApple.The latest version of the BadApple software available on that site now allows people to use Apple's iTunes software to sync their music collections with non-Apple MP3 players. Robertson says he's pursuing the project--an offshoot of his MP3Tunes music store, which sells independent music in MP3 format without copy protection--in order to encourage the development of interoperability between different music platforms.
According to theL.A. Times(reg. req'd), the games industry may be a shining hope in the re-building of New Orleans and other parts of the South of the US in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. It's a rather unlikely headline in the currentlyanti-games climateof the US government, but one which is regularly repeated worldwide in between ban-this-sick-filth, as cities in need open their arms to digital entertainment to provide jobs, skills training and livelihoods in return for tax breaks.Gosh, aren't we fickle?There's a great debate going on atgamepoliticson the subject.
Skype was the brainchild of Swedish programmer Niklas Zennstr&ouml;m and Danish colleague Janus Friis. Ten years ago the two friends created a piece of simple-to-use downloadable software that enabled computers connected to the internet to swap files. It was called Kazaa and went on to be downloaded by more than 300 million people across the world.Zennstr&ouml;m maintains that he did not know when Kazaa was unleashed on the internet, exactly what types of files would be swapped by users. In fact Kazaa become one of the music industry's b&ecirc;tes noires as millions illegally swapped music. Experts reckon that four out of every five online file-swaps happen through Kazaa. Earlier this month the Australian federal court ordered that Kazaa must filter out copyrighted material from its network as part of a legal clampdown on the service. Its creators, however, sold the brand name and platform to a company called Sharman Networks in early 2002 for about half a million dollars.But the idea behind Kazaa survives in Skype: users download easy-to-use software on to their computers, which enables them to communicate with other users of the same program.Just as with Kazaa, there is no central computer or server that controls the Skype service; every computer with the Skype programme installed is able to run independently.This time, however, what they are running is completely legitimate.
The dotcom boom returned yesterday as online auction house eBay, one of the world wide web's most high profile brands, spent $4.1bn (&pound;2.25bn) on a loss-making European start-up that last year reported sales of just $7m.Since it launched in 2003, Skype, based in Luxembourg, has attracted more than 54 million users across the world for its software, which enables anyone with a broadband internet connection to make free phone calls. The deal will turn Skype's founders, Niklas Zennstr&ouml;m and colleague Janus Friis, into dollar billionaires.It also represents a mammoth return for a collection of venture capital firms including Bessemer Venture Partners, Draper Fisher Jurvetson, Index Ventures and Mangrove Capital Partners who put $24m into the business a year ago.Ten-year-old eBay, which already has 157 million registered users, is hoping that offering free calls through Skype to buyers and sellers on its site will increase the number of transactions. Already its users send 5m emails to each other every day. The group is also hoping to use Skype to enter new geographic markets and launch auctions in new categories such as holidays, new cars and real estate where frequent communication between buyer and seller plays a crucial role in sealing a deal. Skype, meanwhile, will benefit from its integration with eBay's PayPal payment service as it looks to persuade more users to move beyond calling other Skype users for free and start paying to call people outside the Skype network.Investors were sceptical about the deal and the massive valuation placed on an untried and untested business and shares in eBay dropped in New York. "It is a very, very high price," said Ian Fogg, analyst at industry specialist Jupiter Research. "It feels very like a bubble purchase, like the deals done in the late 1990s."Skype, created by the team behind file sharing software KaZaA, allows people with a computer and broadband internet connection to download a piece of free software and use the internet to talk to other Skype customers for no fee.Many believe this technology, known as voice over internet protocol or VoIP, presents a major challenge to traditional telephone providers. Industry consultants Ovum estimate that the consumer VoIP market will be worth $15.4bn by the end of 2008, up from $2.3bn at present.Investment bankers suggested last night that there could be a rival bid for Skype as it is the best known and fastest growing VoIP provider in the world, adding 150,000 users a day. This year there was talk that News Corp had approached Skype about a possible takeover and some on Wall Street suggested Yahoo! might be interested.VoIP is certainly all the rage among internet companies. Last month Google announced plans for its own VoIP service, GoogleTalk, while Microsoft's MSN portal bought VoIP start-up Teleo for a fraction of what eBay has paid for Skype."If eBay really wanted some VoIP technology it could have bought it cheaper or built it itself," according to John Delaney, principal analyst at Ovum. "If it is not paying for VoIP technology what is it paying for? The brand and the number of registered users."Mr Delaney believes the deal represents a return to the hysteria and hype that characterised the dotcom era. "The whole thing about the dotcom era was that company valuations were justified by the number of people that visited their sites not the revenues they made," he said.The deal is also the latest in a long running battle for dominance of the internet among the five major players - MSN, Yahoo!, eBay, Google and AOL.The chief financial officer of eBay, Rajiv Dutta, tried to reassure analysts yesterday, saying the company valued Skype as a standalone business but will also be able to reap significant benefits from the deal.It is paying $1.3bn in cash and $1.3bn in shares for Skype with up to a further $1.5bn payable in four years' time if the company hits certain targets for users and revenues. Skype is not expected to break even until the end of 2006, but revenues are expected to grow to $60m this year and over $200m next year. Yesterday, eBay stressed that at the same point in its life it had revenues of $5.7m.
Internet auction site eBay could be set to grab nearly half of the online Christmas shopping market, according to new research.Preparing themselves for another festive season at the expense of high street rivals, online retailers are expecting visits to grow by around 12% this year, with eBay extending the 24% share it managed last December.Based on an analysis of UK internet use over the past two years, the research predicts traffic to online sites will peak in early December, with one in every seven visits going to online retailers."This growth in online retailing is great news for retailers who are facing increasingly difficult times on the high street", said Heather Hopkins, the director of research for Hitwise UK, the online intelligence firm that compiled the report."Last Christmas was one of the best ever for online retailers and this year is shaping up to be even stronger. Firms that are well prepared stand to benefit considerably from increased consumer demand for online shopping."Last year eBay attracted nearly one in four of all online shoppers, according to the research, and is expected to increase that substantially this year. The site has already seen a 40% increase in market share of visits since last Christmas."High street retailers have in the past relied on searches for their brand for visits. To compete online, they need to expand their efforts to get visits from generic product searches", said Ms Hopkins."Woolworths is an example of a high street brand that was remarkably successful at getting visits on generic product searches for popular Christmas gifts last year.For example, Woolworths.co.uk was one of the top recipients of searches for portable DVD players and PlayStation games in December 2004."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
[Off topic] A Photoshopping contest to show what the world would be like if it wereruled by goths.Thanks toBoing Boingfor the link.
... and makes Internet history, maybe. Have a lookherethen check out theFAQwritten by Alex Tew, a 21-year-old student who lives in Wiltshire.
"Mozilla Corp has posted temporary workarounds for the most recent bug in its Firefox and Mozilla browsers that include both manual and automated fixes," reportsTechWeb News"On Friday, just hours after Mozilla released the long-awaited Beta 1 of Firefox 1.5, a researcher posted information and proof-of-concept code for a vulnerability that could let attackers gain complete control of a PC simply by enticing users to a malicious Web site."
Ubisoft has produced a clever little travel booklet to publicise forthcoming shoot-'em-up sequel, Far Cry Instincts. 'The Rough Guide to the Jacutan Archipelago' introduces the game's exotic fictional setting and provides background info on enemies, weapons and scenery - using the layout and casual traveller parlance of the genuine Rough Guide publications. You can get your own copy at the dedicated websitehere.How refreshing it is to see a videogame company actually thinking about the content of a game and coming up with an entirely appropriate and imaginative marketing concept. It would, of course, have been easier to pick the latest lad mag cover girl and pay her a fortune to drape herself over a jet ski while 'wearing' a Far Cry thong. But this is so much more classy and interesting. Like Microsoft's cleverly orchestratedOurcolonyteaser campaign for Xbox 360, or the PlayStation fanzinePilchard Teeth, it treats gamers as wily, media-literate consumers, rather than leering idiots.As we spend a lot of time criticising the rather tawdry publicity campaigns embarked upon by many videogame publishers, I thought it would be nice to point out a positive example.
...I'm completely hooked onSPRUNG, the dating simulation for the Nintendo DS (Tag line:The game where everyone scores). It's been in my handheld since I tore it out of the packaging with a distainful snort about two months ago, only briefly (30 minutes) replaced by the surprise hitNintendogs.It sounds utterly awful (fromGameSpy)...Sprung has you meeting, flirting and hooking up as you engage in a risque, daring adventure with sexy singles at Snowbird Mountain, a hip ski resort in Colorado. Be naughty or nice, as you have the freedom to say and try what you wish on one of two adventure paths -- one as a guy, one as a girl. Complete the game's 50 dating missions and deal with the drama queens and kings who you'll have to come to understand in order to woo. Colleen McGuinnes of TV's North Shore scripted the stimulating storylines and sexy characters for the game....and it is, but it's also absolutely brilliant. It's like those horribleIbiza Uncoveredprogrammes or celebrity gossip magazines that you refuse to look at, but once you've started you can't turn away. And oh you love it. And you feel so dirty.It's not just me, either! I have to wrestle the DS away from anyone else who gets hooked, male or female!Anyone else have a dirty gaming secret? A game you hate to love?
While computer games pilfer (and are pilfered for) the annals of Hollywood, there are scant few games in the vast library of interactive entertainment which take their inspiration from novels, pulp fiction, high-brow literature and other variations of the written word*. Sure, there're your Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings spin offs, but those come as much from the movie adaptations as from the great texts themselves. To my mind, the only truly excellent adaptation in a game from the printed page isAmerican McGee's Alice, which took Lewis Carroll's drug-fuelled fantasy and weaved it into a twisted and beautifully-realised game for the gothic generation.If you wanted to argue that other titles have emerged from dusty old tomes, you might say Oddworld'sOddyseeseries is based on Aldous Huxley'sBrave New World, you could note the nod of the Halo creators to Iain M. Banks' ring world inConsider Phlebas(and others) and you could point out the hugely successful Nancy Drew series by legendary girl games developersHer Interactiveand theRainbow Sixseries by Tom Clancy. Please don't mention the truly terrible 1999 version ofWar of the Worlds, a game which was more closely based on therock operaby Jeff Wayne than the magnificent fiction from H.G. Wells.The point is, it can be done and doing so doesn't require dredging up the oldludology/narratolgydebate about the relative importance of gameplay versus plot. There are - quite literally - millions of truly amazing characters out there just waiting to be put on the next generation of games consoles, the great majority of whomdothings that can be put into a game. Here are five that I'm rushing to my closest library to see:*comic books and graphic novels notwithstandingGeek Love(Katherine Dunn): Possibly one of my favourite books of all time, Geek Love is a story about a circus sideshow family, created by the parents through poisonous concoctions ingested by the mother, Lily, when she was pregnant with each of her living (and non-living) children. Siblings include a pair of Siamese twins, a telepathic child, a megalomaniacal boy named Arturo with fins for arms and legs and an Albino dwarf with an incredible voice. It's partWorld According to Garp, partFrankenweenie, and all love. In the game, the player could take each of the characters through an adventure-style plot, including the father (the amateur chemist who has to get the mixture right or the mother dies), Lily (the increasingly barmy woman who teeters in and out of reality but can reallygeek- bite the head off a chicken - like a pro), the twins (who play the piano to keep the enemy at bay), the telepathic boy (who uses his powers to steal money undetected from the wallets of strangers, and to sedate Arturo's faithful as they go through the process of increasing amputation), Arturo (whose cult following is based upon his amazing underwater performances and the power of persuasion), and the honey-voiced dwarf (who acts as ring leader and who, later, must convince her grown daughter to keep her tail). There's plenty to work with there!Perfume(Patrick Suskind): Suskind's love story about a damned perfumer whose desire to capture the purest odour drives him to kill is set in Gras, France and other stunning locations throughout Europe in the historical past. The game would play like Metal Gear Solid without the guns, as the player would make his or her way through cobbled streets in search of the victims for the gruesome distillation process. There would be a whole variety of puzzle elements, including finding the best sources and recipes, mixing the potions correctly and wearing certain scents for certain purposes (stealth, capture, falling in love, inspiring hate). It may require the player to invest in a smell-o-vision add on for the games console - but what a gimmick that would be!Emma(Jane Austen): This could be the breakthrough that kicks off the development of intelligent games that appeal to women! Like the interactive fiction gameFaçadewhich is currently sweeping accolades from all sorts of sources, Emma the game would be an interactive relationship balancing act, as the selfish main character attempts to match make for all of her friends while missing out on the goods herself. Instead of balancing budgets with in-game mana and other traditional forms of game currency, this title's economic principle would rest on reputation (both Emma's and the Socioeconomic Status of her potential matchees), positive and negative vibes levied at Emma and the success of the pairings - kinda like the principle put in place for Grand Theft Auto 2, but without the carjacking. The player would make decisions with a drop down menu of conversation choices and would have to choose her and her friends' outfits strategically. Bonus points for novel use of the flirting command with inappropriate matches for herself.Through a Scanner Darkly(Philip K. Dick): This title may actually already be in production, as theanimated movie counterpart - with Keanu Reeves - is due for release early next year. Typically Dick - and not far off from many plots of existing games - the game would place the player in the role of a cop seeking out a dealer of a hugely dangerous narcotic, unravelling the mystery using multiple media (both in the game and outside of it), in a similar way to last year's tremendousIn Memoriam. Twists and turns abound in a way not seen in interactive entertainment since the first Silent Hill.Snow Crash(Neal Stephenson): This is the big kahuna, the one which so many online games manufacturers are gunning to make. Stephenson's superb 1992 novel has captured the imagination of designers and the geek elite primarily because of his principle of the Metaverse - a vast, immersive online parallel universe in which the players have complete freedom to create and populate. It was once the vision of the Internet, and now it's becoming reality through products likeThere.comandSecond Life.
"The municipal government of Munich, Germany released a statement yesterday that the migration of its office PCs to Linux and OpenOffice.org, which was scheduled to be completed in 2005, has slipped to at least next year," reportsArs Technica. "The original plan, which involved switching all 14,000 of the city's desktop PCs from Windows NT 4 and Microsoft Office to Linux and OpenOffice.org at a cost of €30 million (US$35 million) was proposed in May 2003."Part of the reason for the delay is the need, identified by project leader Peter Hofmann, for an additional "pilot phase" to be run in the first half of 2006, where a single PC running Linux and OpenOffice.org will be placed in each department. "It became clear later in the planning phase that a pilot was more important than we first thought and should last longer," Hofmann said. Once the pilot is completed, departments plan to migrate to Open Source Software (OSS) in either one or two steps:"Some departments will start with OpenOffice on Windows, others will start with OpenOffice on Linux," Hofmann said. "It depends on their infrastructure, for example, if a department has a small number of simple (Office) macros and templates, but a large number of complex applications, it is easier to do OpenOffice on Windows first."Comment:And if you have lots of complex applicationsandlots of macros and templates....
Talking of giant takeovers, Oracle is buying another competitor, Siebel Systems, in a deal worth about $5.8 billion. However, this is a friendly deal, unlike the fight Oracle had when it swallowed PeopleSoft. According to Oracle'spress release:"In a single step, Oracle becomes the number one CRM applications company in the world," said CEO Larry Ellison. "Siebel's 4,000 applications customers and 3,400,000 CRM users strengthen our number one position in applications in North America and move us closer to the number one position in applications globally."
