A free trader's work is never done, especially in the United States. The historians of free trade in Great Britain since the repeal of the corn laws in mid-19th century have argued that politicians in strong economies embrace free trade because they expect their countries to win in the Darwinian struggle in the marketplace. But the US, despite having emerged at the end of the second world war as the top dog on the block, has repeatedly descended into paranoia on trade.The recent furore over outsourcing fits into a pattern of fear of trade with the developing countries that goes back to the fierce fights against Nafta with Mexico, and the furore over the imports of labour-intensive goods from the Far East and then China (the "yellow peril"). Now we have the outcry over the imports of (mostly) labour-intensive services online - what economists sometimes call "long distance" services where the provider and the user do not have to get together physically - from India (the "brown peril"). As always, the fear is baseless and based on bad economics.The earlier fear was that manufacturing jobs for the working class would disappear with imports; vice-president Fritz Mondale conjured up a nation of "hamburger flippers". Now the fear is that the new imports will take good jobs from the middle class, and the modern-day doomsayers imagine a nation of "grocery baggers" at the supermarkets as discharged    computer programmers et al struggle for survival at low wages in lower occupations. The fear is not just exaggerated, it is also false; though, as the Russian proverb goes, it has big eyes, and a recent poll suggests that more than a third of the American labour force is in a state of anxiety over jobs.The difficult job situation in skilled information technology-related occupations has been heavily overlaid by the dotcom bust and by the overvaluation of the dollar, both pheonomena which are being reversed. In fact, according to the bureau of labour statistics, jobs in the very recent years for IT-related occupations have risen, admittedly slowly, but they have not fallen.Moreover IT, like so much other technology but even more so, displaces unskilled workers and hence low-paying jobs; but it creates demands to maintain and support the technology, which implies new, higher-paying jobs. Vast numbers of jobs to support and service hardware (say, PCs), to maintain the software and to manage the ever-growing new variants and applications, have emerged and will grow rapidly through the next 10 years, as the BLS projections also underline quantitatively.Furthermore, many services cannot simply be provided on the wire. In particular, as the US population ages and the IT revolution gathers speed and enters senior citizens' lives, many will need not a voice from Bangalore telling them in incomprehensible technical language what to do but a technician who will come and do it for them.These optimistic assessments are clouded in the public domain by a delusion fostered by mindless commentary in the media. That is illustrated by the astonishing Lou Dobbs show on CNN which daily lists the firms that have outsourced jobs. Mr Dobbs forgets that he should also list the jobs that come in, not just those that go out.The clinching argument against interfering with outsourcing through protectionism or its variants such as tax deterrents or opprobrium is provided by the fact that the US is closely integrated in the world economy.In a world that is characterised by intense competition today, small cost disadvantages can spell the demise of a firm: hence all the clamour about "unfair trade" by your rivals on the flimsiest grounds.If US firms lose out to UK firms because the British government is not joining the protectionist chorus, then they could fold, making the job loss, and hence the worker adjustment required, manifoldly greater. An analogy, not recommended for use by politicians, is that of triage: a lifeboat with a hundred people on board will sink and drown the hundred; but if 10 are thrown overboard 90 will survive.So the fears over the job adjustment required thanks to online imports of services are unwarranted. And if they are succumbed to they will themselves create serious adjustment problems in their wake.Will the US ever learn?&#183;Jagdish Bhagwati, professor at Columbia University and senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, has just published In Defense of Globalization (Oxford)
Concerns about the probity of horse racing returned to haunt the sport yesterday after Kieren Fallon, the champion flat jockey, was caught in a newspaper sting apparently offering inside information to journalists posing as wealthy gamblers.The revelations, in the News of the World, include allegations that Fallon told reporters that one of his mounts would lose - three hours before he lost an apparently impregnable lead on the horse in controversial circumstances.Last Tuesday Fallon was 10 lengths clear on Ballinger Ridge, second favourite for a maiden race at Lingfield, when he began to slow and was beaten on the line by the favourite, Rye. Shortly before the race, the Jockey Club was notified by Betfair, an internet betting exchange, that the race had been the subject of "suspicious betting patterns". Around &#163;1.48m was traded on the race on Betfair, a significant amount for a minor event.The Jockey Club will decide today whether to impose an immediate 21-day suspension on Fallon for failing to "ride out" for first place. It will investigate whether there is any link between Fallon's tip to reporters and these suspicious bets, which are believed to relate to accounts held by two big gamblers who have been investigated in the past. It is expected to contact the jockey in the next few days.The Fallon revelations are a blow to the sport 10 days before the start of the Cheltenham Festival, the showpiece event of the jump racing season and a highlight of the racing year. They come in the wake of a Panorama investigation that led to the resignation of the Jockey Club's head of security, and will renew concerns at the potential abuse of betting exchanges by jockeys, trainers and other connections.In only three years, online exchanges have revolutionised betting, proving as popular with punters as they are unpopular with traditional bookmakers, whose share of the market has dwindled. According to some of the most powerful voices in racing, however, exchanges also represent a fundamental threat to the sport's integrity.Exchanges allow punters to place bets to win in the traditional way, but crucially also allow them to play bookmaker, "laying" bets at their chosen odds in the expectation that a horse will lose, a privilege reserved until recently for licensed bookies. The exchange "matches" the layer with a punter and charges a commission.It is the chance to lay odds, effectively to back horses to lose, which has exercised the racing industry. The opportunity such exchanges present for those who could have a material effect on the outcome of races is obvious. A trainer could see a horse was off its feed on the day of the race, lay it to lose and clean up on an exchange. Equally a corrupt jockey could deliberately hold back a horse.Peter Savill, chairman of the British Horseracing Board, recently told the joint parliamentary committee examining the gambling bill that exchanges pose "an unprecedented and substantial threat to the integrity of racing".The exchanges counter that people have always been able to abuse inside information, and that exchanges offer more transparency than ever as all transactions are traceable, unlike those placed with traditional cash bookmakers.All client accounts are monitored and "suspicious" patterns are reported to the Jockey Club.Betting banLast year the Jockey Club introduced regulations banning owners, trainers or stable staff from laying their own horses.The Jockey Club is investigating two cases that could expose the level of abuse of exchanges. Later this month Miles Rodgers, formerly the chief executive of the ownership syndicate Platinum Racing, faces a Jockey Club hearing on charges that he laid his horses to lose.Fallon is said to have passed information about a former Platinum horse already investigated by the Jockey Club to the News of the World reporters. If found guilty Mr Rodgers faces a 10-year ban. Meanwhile charges are expected imminently against Steve O'Sullivan, a black smith who made more than &#163;100,000 laying a horse that he had shod.After the Ballinger Ridge race, Fallon, a veteran of 19 seasons and champion jockey six times in the last seven years, claimed it was an honest mistake. The Jockey Club said yesterday it was not in possession of evidence that proved the horse was deliberately held back.Nevertheless his comments to the News of the World reporters will fuel the suspicions of sceptics who believe the sport operates on the margins of legitimacy. Fallon agreed to meet the reporters believing them to be wealthy Middle Eastern businessmen interested in investing in racing. He apparently offered them several tips, including the information that Ballinger Ridge would not win. "I'm actually down as the favourite, it's not very good ... Rye, that will win," he allegedly told a reporter, advising him to "go heavy" on Rye to win.Fallon apparently outlined how they could make more money on the exchanges using his information and offered to put them in touch with a professional gambler from Hong Kong. "You can have any amount of money on and nobody knows. I'll get somebody to organise it for you. It's done on a computer at home," he reportedly said.Fallon declined an offer of payment for his information, which would have put him in breach of Jockey Club rules. "If you are on this then there are no limits to the bets ... it's not illegal for you, it's illegal for us," he said.Success and scandalYesterday's allegations are not Fallon's first brush with controversy in a career that has mixed success and scandal. A recovering alcoholic, he has ridden two Derby winners and worn the Queen's colours, but was mentioned in coverage concerning the divorce of top trainer Henry Cecil from his wife.If found guilty of passing privileged information for profit, Fallon faces being warned off from the sport for years, and yesterday John Maxse, the Jockey Club's director of public relations, said the investigation into Fallon was now its "number one priority". He said Paul Scotney, head of security at Portman Square, would review the News of the World's dossier, but sounded a cautionary note."One of the key aims of the investigation is to establish if there was any correlation between the suspicious betting patterns and Fallon's failure to obtain the best possible placing," he said. "But what we have seen today falls a long way short of being evidence that this was the case."Fallon denies that the information he passed to the reporters influenced his performance on Ballinger Ridge, and was backed by Andrew Balding, the horse's trainer. "Having watched the race countless times, I still firmly believe it was an error of judgment by Kieren," he said.John Blake, the Jockeys' Association chief executive, also gave his support to Fallon, who was also accused of sleeping with prostitutes by the newspaper."I have spoken to Kieren this morning and from a private family point of view, he's very disappointed, and that's his chief concern at the moment," he said. "There is no evidence whatsoever that he has received any reward for giving his opinion on certain rides he had, and that there has been a breach of the rules of racing."How to be your own bookieOnline betting exchanges operate by "matching" clients who have opposing views on the outcome of a sporting event. For example, if you believe that Manchester United will lose to Porto in the Champions League tomorrow, you can open an account on a betting exchange and offer odds on United to lose.Your chosen odds - for example 2-1 - then appear on the betting exchange, along with the amount of money you are prepared to risk, say &#163;100. Anyone else with an account with the same exchange can now accept your bet if they believe Manchester United will win. One or more punters can bet up to &#163;100 with you that United will win.If United lose, you keep the &#163;100. If they win you would have to pay out &#163;200 to those customers who placed a bet with you.The exchanges make money by taking a commission of up to 5% from the winner. Exchanges now account for almost 5% of the industry. Betfair, which controls about 90% of the UK market, has almost 200,000 users and matches 12,000 bets a minute, a weekly turnover of around &#163;50m.
Paedophiles convicted of accessing child pornography over the internet will be automatically prevented from logging on under a new system developed by British Telecom.So-called 'dirty' phone lines will be installed at the homes of criminals that will make their phone connection so unstable that internet access will be impossible.'When modem connects to an internet service provider, like BT, the line has to be of a certain quality for the modem at one end to hear the modem at the other,' said Nick Truman, head of internet security at BT.'It there's too much random noise on the line, they can't hear each other and a connection can't be made,' he added. 'We could simply blast the phone line with excess noise so that they could just about have a telephone conversation, but internet access would be impossible.'Truman, who also created the internet Green Cross Code to combat child pornography, has been working with the police and internet consultants at the NCH Action for Children to create a system that would sever paedophiles' links with the internet without interrupting continuing any police inquiries into an offender's   activities.'We've been looking at way to give one internet name to everyone, using their social security number as an access key, or eye scan or fingerprint,' added Truman.The system has been welcomed by David Middleton, head of sex offender strategy and programmes for the National Probation Service. 'As far as safety for children goes, an internet ban would be the best option, and it's a line we're very interested in trying to pursue,' he said.Abusive images of children on the internet are growing at an exponential rate; in one four-week period earlier this year, the Copine project - Combating Paedophile Information Networks in Europe - discovered 1,350 abusive images of children, one third of which involved babies and toddlers.'This is a huge problem,' said Professor Max Taylor, director of Copine. 'The children are becoming younger and the abuse is more violent.'Although courts can ban offenders from accessing the internet, studies have shown that, unless the offenders undergo lengthy counselling programmes to tackle their behaviour, the temptation to go back to the internet will be too great to resist.
The compact disc was a great invention in its time. But that time has long gone. The CD was a solution to a simple problem created by digital technology. Once it became possible to encode music as bitstreams - torrents of ones and zeroes - the next question was how to get the bitstream from the recording studio to the player in the consumer's living room. The CD was the answer. The bitstream was 'burned' (written) on the disks, which were then sold to customers, who put them into their CD-players.This meant plastic had to be formed into disks, which were pressed, overprinted with labels, packed into plastic boxes, shipped, warehoused,   and displayed in shops. The CD, said Nicholas Negroponte, an early digital guru, involved 'shipping atoms in order to ship bits', which (he maintained) was absurd.It wasn't absurd at the beginning, but it became so as the internet evolved into a mass medium and as the speed of people's connections improved. The net is effectively a gigantic machine for transferring bits. This seems to have been lost on the music industry, which thereby lost one of the greatest commercial opportunities.This oversight had several dire consequences. First, it meant the expensive shipping of atoms continued long after it was obsolete. More impor tantly, it meant that the record business was paralysed by Napster and the file-sharing revolution it unleashed. If the industry wasn't going to use the net to ship bits, then other people would - and did.What then of the movie industry? Until recently conventional wisdom was that the volume of data (about 4.7 gigabytes) encoded on a DVD would prevent an explosion of video file-sharing. After all, it could take hours or days for a movie file to be downloaded, even in a broadband world.Most home broadband users have asymmetric bandwidth: they can download faster than they can upload. For many applications, this is the right way round. But for file-sharing - especially anything involving huge files - the upload bandwidth is important. So although the sharing of movie files is possible in theory, in practice it is   such a hassle that people will probably not bother. This did not stop the movie studios being officially paranoid about the prospect of being 'Napsterised', but the danger seemed some way off.Enter BitTorrent, a fascinating piece of software written by a young Seattle programmer, Bram Cohen. BitTorrent solves the asymmetric bandwidth problem by finding other computers that host the same file. By downloading, say, one-tenth of the file from 10 computers at the same time, BitTorrent puts your download capacity to full use. In fact, the more popular a file is, the faster it   downloads because there are more computers with copies to share the load.To ensure that the load is shared, the software implements a fiendishly simple rule: the faster you upload, the faster you are allowed to download. BitTorrent cuts up files into pieces, and as soon as a user has a piece, they immediately start uploading that to other users. So almost all of the people who are sharing a given file are simultaneously uploading and downloading pieces of the same file.The BitTorrent system makes it easy to distribute very large files to large numbers of people while placing minimal bandwidth requirements on the original 'seeder'. That is because everyone who wants the file is sharing, rather than downloading from a central source. This is interesting to those of us who have no desire to swop movie   files because BitTorrent provides us with an effective way of sharing large files quickly.What kinds of files? Well, updated versions of operating systems, for example, which otherwise have to be circulated on DVDs or require massive server and bandwidth capacity for online delivery. If you think this is science fiction, then Lindows - a cheeky firm that markets a version of Linux - announced this week that it's going to distribute its software using BitTorrent. Lindows says it can serve 1,000 or more simultaneous customers rather than the 125 its earlier system could handle.So we now have a software system that can be used for swopping movies, but has what lawyers call 'substantial non-infringing uses' giving it legal protection. Hollywood's ultimate nightmare has arrived ahead of schedule.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
Phoenix Asset Management Partners is urging other shareholders to vote against the plan next week. Phoenix argues that Psion, which has a $250 million stake in Symbian, should instead push for a potentially lucrative initial public offering of Symbian," reportsCNet.
"The venerable MP3 music format, the technology most widely associated with unrestricted file swapping, is getting a makeover aimed at blocking unauthorized copying. Thomson and Fraunhofer, the companies that license and own the patents behind the MP3 digital music technology, are in the midst of creating a new digital rights management add-on for the popular format, a Thomson executive said Tuesday," reportsCNet."Eventually, digital distribution will be a significant mass market," said Rocky Caldwell, Thomson's director of technology marketing. "We think it will be served well by (digital rights management) that is based on standards. No one else seems to be proposing that."Comment: Good news forOgg Vorbis....
Who'd be a car dealer these days? First, they were charged with ripping off the British public, then came the influx of cheap imports from abroad, now they're being undercut by a new breed of internet-based brokers. No wonder they're leaving the industry in droves.The phenomena that is pushing many over the edge is competition from a small, but growing, group of internet-based brokers that offers new cars to private buyers, at trade prices. Their simple aim is to undercut your local dealer by at least &#163;1,000 on standard cars and up to &#163;5,000 if you are buying at the top end of the market.How does it work?New car brokers aren't a new phenomenon - it's just the modus operandi that's changed. Most started out importing cars from Europe and found a new way to stay in business when a shift in the pound/euro rate made   that economically unviable. The only difference is they no longer get their cars from abroad - they now buy (often in bulk) from whichever UK dealer is prepared to offer discounts at the time.Car dealing is a murky business all but impenetrable to outsiders, but essentially broking exists because there are a few dealers happy to risk upsetting the "trade" in return for volume sales. The brokers merely pass those savings on minus their commission.Their other trick is offering what the trade calls pre-registered cars. These are vehicles that are effectively bought by the dealers to enable them to hit sales targets and claim lucrative bonuses. For example, a dealer who is six cars short of target will register them as sold, claim the bonus and then offload them to a broker at a discounted rate. The customer gets a three-month old car with "delivery" miles on it, at a discount up to 20%. Other vehicles offered include end of line models (old stock to be cleared before a new model is launched, as has just happened with the VW Golf). Others are models that manufacturers are trying to shift because of over-supply.Deal direct:The great thing from the buyer's point of view is that they are buying a UK-sourced car, often from the main dealer direct. This not only makes it safer financially, but means that any problems with the car should be easily resolved - something that rarely happened to those buying imports.Customers using one of the better-known companies, drivethedeal.com, pay their &#163;500 deposit, and the balance at the point of collection, directly to the supplying dealer. The firm takes its commission from the dealer, leaving the customer uninvolved. Other brokers own the car and sell it on in the same way as any other dealer. One downside is that few brokers will be interested in part-exchanging your old car.Discounts:Although the savings offered by brokers over local dealers vary enormously according to model and time of year, those buying a &#163;12,000 car should save the price of a good family holiday."We are able to go to dealers and get a much better discount than a person who walks in off the street because we buy in volume. We buy from a variety of dealers, both new and pre-registered, and pass on the discounts to our customers," says Kevin Overton, managing director of another big player, UK Car Broker.When asked to say exactly where he gets his cars from, he becomes a little reticent. No, he says, he has nothing to hide, but it could cause problems among his competitors."You have to understand it's all very political," says Mr Overton. "We get other dealers ringing up demanding to know how we are able to offer prices they are unable to match. We explain to each customer how their purchase will work, and we have a lot of very satisfied customers."Broker yourself a deal:For a full list of the main brokers, go tohonestjohn.co.uk- click on the week's best deals. Be aware prices change almost daily.Some brokers require a deposit; if your one does, pay it by credit card as this offers protection in case of problems that may arise in the future. Don't pay for the car until you see it.Also, don't pay a new price for a pre-registered car - it may only have 50 miles on the clock, but you will be the second owner.If the car needs to be pre-registered and you are not dealing with the main dealer, get it in writing that the car was originally supplied by a UK dealer. Remember the warranty starts on the day of registration, not when you buy it.Ask about any discounted finance or free insurance offers - most are still valid even though you are going through a broker.Only deal with established firms. An internet search should reveal any unhappy customers - if in any doubt talk to local Trading Standards who will advise of any complaints they have had.Case study: 'Deal saved me £1000'One satisfied customer is Derby-based IT consultant Brian Prosser. He bought a Golf TDI (150) last June, and his employers have now also bought a vehicle from UK Car Broker."I visited several dealers - including the one that eventually supplied the car via the broker- and the best discount I could get was about 2%. I was initially wary of using an internet firm but things went smoothly. I paid the money to the dealer, and picked up the car myself. I got the exact colour and specification I wanted and saved &#163;1,000.I have recommended brokers to friends and colleagues and a few have gone on to use one of several brokers operating in the same way."
Ater property, a car is probably the most expensive single purchase the average person makes, but while Britons are happy to haggle over the price of a car at a dealership, they habitually pay over the odds for motor finance.So say a raft of new surveys from lenders and from the AA. The latest research from the motoring organisation found that most people still take the first offer of finance they get rather than shopping around for the best deal. But with around 400,000 new '04' registered cars expected to leave the forecourts this   month, if ever there was a time to search out the best loan rates, it is now.Add to this the fact that running a car accounts for 25% of the average household's annual income, according to the latest figures from the RAC's cost of motoring Index, and the impetus to make some savings seems even more attractive.The AA's research shows that eight out of ten car buyers go straight to their bank or building society for a loan, or take up a finance deal at the car showroom. And the cost? Around &#163;1,000 of unnecessary interest payments for the average car buyer across the period of the loan. According to financial website, moneysupermarket.com, the amount being overpaid is even more, going up to &#163;3,000 for some buyers. On top of that, controversial payment protection insurance can bump up the cost to sky-high levels."People are prepared to haggle over the price of a new car," says Lloyd East, general manager of AA personal finance, "but savings made in the showroom can quickly get swallowed up by paying over the top for finance."New research by Alliance and Leicester found that 57% of people think the finance deal at their dealership was the most competitive rate, yet had they shopped around they would almost certainly have found a better deal. Richard Mason, director of personal loans at moneysupermarket.com says their research "highlights that the majority of finance deals on offer through showrooms are highly uncompetitive, often charging double the rate of interest conventional loans offer".As far as car prices go, buyers have had a good time in recent years. New car prices have fallen steadily over the past three years - in January they were on average 12% cheaper than in the same month in 2000, according to the Alliance and Leicester Car Price Index. However, the same index, which is compiled in conjunction with What? Car magazine, is now warning that the era of bargains has probably peaked, adding even more weight to the argument that consumers should be grabbing savings wherever they can.So where to look? Independent financial website, Moneyfacts (moneyfacts.co.uk) has a comprehensive list of the best unsecured loans - usually the cheapest and simplest way of borrowing for a car purchase - currently on the market. As usual, some of the best deals are available via the internet.Top of the tree are Liverpool Victoria, Cahoot and Lombard Direct, with typical rates of 5.9%. However, someone going straight to a high street bank such as HSBC or Natwest would be a lot worse off and expect to fork out an APR of over 10%.For example, someone who borrows &#163;7,500 (the approximate average borrowed to buy a car) over five years would pay back a total of &#163;12,106.92 (&#163;144.30 per month) with Cahoot at 5.9%. Yet, the same amount borrowed from HSBC would set the person back over &#163;1,500 more at &#163;13,791 (&#163;160.93 per month), at its typical rate of 11.9%. The best rates may not be around for long however. "Personal loans may be competitive at the moment but, with speculation of further increases in base rate, they may start to disappear," says Moneyfacts.There are various ways to finance a car purchase:&#183; Personal loans:The simplest route to financing a car purchase - but compare what's on offer. Avoid ads that promise low-rate, no-fee, immediate decision loans. They are generally more expensive and the loan is secured against your home. Beware of quotes advertising 'typical rates' - you could end up being charged much more depending on your credit rating. Look out for charges for early repayment; some lenders slap heavy penalties on borrowers repaying early. If you're buying a used car, the AA's free car inspection (value &#163;99) could be a winner.&#183; Deferred purchase:These plans allow you to defer payment of a percentage of the car's price (usually 30%-60%) until the loan expires. Drivers pay interest and capital for the life of the loan, which can range from one to six years, and settle the outstanding balance when it expires. These plans bring down the monthly cost by, in effect, extending the loan period.&#183; Personal contract:This works in a similar way to deferred car purchase but is usually offered by car dealers instead of traditional lenders.A deposit of at least 10% is paid and repayments are low because a minimum guaranteed future value (MGFV) is taken off the purchase price. The MGFV is what the car is worth when the deal ends, as long as the driver has not exceeded mileage limits.&#183; Hire purchase:The borrower pays a deposit of 10%-15%, makes monthly payments up to five years and does not own the car until all payments have been made.This can be among the dearest ways of buying a car.Car-share equals happy motoringWith the price of public transport on an ever upwards trajectory, no prospect of services improving any time soon, and the roads as congested as a heavy smoker's arteries, commuters are desperate for cheaper, greener alternatives.One solution is car-clubs - where a small group of people gang together and lease cars to share between them. But it is less complicated car-sharing schemes which have really taken off.They are proving attractive to people who can't stomach the idea of giving up their own car completely, and are happy to share some journeys with other people. The sharers believe they are doing something ethical while saving money in the process.Car sharing initiatives can mean splitting the cost of petrol three or four ways five days a week, as well as ruling out the stress of travelling by public transport. It is proving especially appealing to commuters. It's good news for the environment too. According to car-share website,liftshare.comif half the UK's drivers received a lift to work once a week there would be a 10% reduction in congestion and traffic jams would drop by a fifth.The schemes tend to work best as work-based initiatives where companies encourage staff to use them. They are championed by big firms such as Vodafone and Boots. British Gas, a recent but evangelical convert to the schemes, says early signs are that it is a runaway success.British Gas has set up a "dating agency" style database. Staff register key facts about themselves such as working hours and where they live, and colleagues then log on to see who matches the criteria for offering a lift.The scheme's objectives are apparent in its name: Sensible Travel Equals Parking Solutions (STEPS). To qualify for a free company parking space, a car must have a minimum of three drivers travelling in it. So far over 3,000 employees are using the scheme across three sites.Danny Ricketts, Simon Hopper, Sam Shad and Chris Gifford make a 144 mile round trip to British Gas offices in Stockley Park from Southampton in one car. Sam estimates it saves her &#163;75 a week as well as banking her a few extra hours of sleep and preventing wear and tear on her own car. "We have all saved money and the journey seems easier when there are others battling the traffic with you," she says.Mark Clare, managing director of British Gas says: "Car-sharing is just one of the steps we are taking to combat employee transport problems across the UK. We   believe that by leading by example other companies will follow suit."Liftshare.com, which was set up in 1997, is a broader scheme, acting as a huge internet-based car-sharing resource. It helps people trace others locally who regularly do the same drive, and has 50,000 people a month logging on. The site even offers a draft letter for users to send to their insurer if they are concerned there might be ramifications for their cover as a result of taking part in a scheme. It also offers advice about safety and security.Then there are schemes likeshareajourney.comwhich organises corporate membership but also aims to help with one of the main causes of rush hour congestion - the school run - by putting parents in touch with each other. The company reckons car-sharing can save people between &#163;500 and &#163;1,000 a year. However, the share-a-journey site advises sharers to agree in advance what the parameters are and how much money will change hands.Mary O'Hara
I must admit I am not a particularly frequent visitor to auction website Ebay, yet over the past couple of weeks I haven't been able to point my browser anywhere else. That's because, like hundreds of other British gadgets fans, I want to be first on the block to own a new Apple iPod mini.In case you missed the hype, the iPod mini is the smaller cousin of the company's ubiquitous MP3 hard disk-based jukebox, only it is smaller, cuter and more colourful (it comes in five different shades from green to pink).The iPod mini doesn't officially launch in the UK until April, but it appeared in US stores at the end of February. It is a good traveller too, as it comes with a worldwide battery recharger that should plug in to any UK socket. I might be wrong, but I think Apple also offers a universal guarantee on the product too, so the risk factor of buying a player outside of the UK is minimal.Short of hopping on a New York-bound plane the best place to buy one is of course Ebay. The iPod mini is a dream come true for Americans looking to make a quick buck out of European gadget lovers. They can buy one in a US store, place it on the site within a couple of hours, observe the bidding and then take the cash knowing that will have made a reasonable sum of money out of the whole process. This is because of the annoying differential between the iPod mini's UK and US prices. Sure, I could wait until April, but chances are I will be paying £200 to own a UK iPod mini. In the US they are selling for $250: given the current exchange rate, that's less than £150. So not only might I be first on the block to own a player, I could also get one on the cheap too.Actually it isn't that much cheaper - iPod minis tend to sell for between £170 to £200 on Ebay. with the blue and pink ones commanding the higher prices. Factor in postage and packaging though and you will still be around a tenner to the good.Trouble is, at the moment I still haven't managed to lay my hands on one. First, I refuse to pay more than £180 for a player, which has meant that I have been outbid on a few occasions. Secondly I want to buy a player from a dealer in the UK who actually has a model in their hands. There's no point in dealing directly with an American and then waiting weeks for the player to arrive, by which time I could pop down to Dixons and buy one. Also I don't want one from the US just in case it grabs the attention of the customs and excise people who could quite legitimately hold it for a few more weeks while I sort out my tax payments.My agony is compounded by rumours that the iPod mini has already sold out in the US. This is having a nasty effect of pushing the price up further. Maybe I will have to wait until April.Trawling through the pages of Ebay though did throw up a number of interesting items for sale, especially in the mobile phone pages.Ebay is awash with phones of all varieties, compatible with pretty much whatever network you choose. Even more interestingly, there appears to be a small number of handsets for sale that haven't even been released yet.A few days ago I noticed the mother of all bidding wars between two people desperate to own the latest incarnation of the Becks camera phone, the Sharp GX30. Quite where the bidder had got their model from is anyone's guess, as the phone doesn't reach the stores until next week. I suspect they may work for Vodafone, or they may be developing applications for the handset. Still, by the end of the auction they were the best part of £700 richer.So I decided to conduct a mini experiment. Up went an ad for my Motorola V80 - the company's latest fashion phone that won't be on sale anywhere until April. I currently have one on trial from the company, so it was a legitimate auction; sort of. How the company would feel if they found out I was selling their product at auction is another matter, so I roped in one of their PRs in to ensure they would make the winning bid.To be honest I did screw the thing up somewhat. Thoughtlessly I put up a picture of the handset taken from Motorola's website. As any seasoned Ebayer can tell you if you are auctioning something worth more than just a few pounds you need to include a shot of the item in your hand. The PR told me that the appearance of the phone had been noted on several phone-based forums but that the general feeling was that I didn't have one and was just having a laugh. By the time I realised my error, I had left the UK for a short break and the phone was out of camera-shot.Still, during the week the price of phone climbed steadily, at first clearing the £100 mark and then heading up to around £500. My little wager with the PR was that no one would ever pay more than £1,000 for a phone, even one as desirable as the V80. I was proved wrong, for with hours left to go the price of the phone rocketed eventually reaching £1,500.By this stage I was tempted to ring the PR and tell him we should split the cash, (I had a cunning plan which involved jetting to New York and buying up a load of iPod minis), but my conscience got the better of me and the PR's bid of £1,550 proved to be the winner.I have just noticed that a silver iPod mini in the UK, with guaranteed next day delivery, has just sold for £260. So, I'll see you in the queue outside Dixons in April ...
"AOL announced it would build its social network on top of the existing ICQ instant messaging service, which already serves more than eight million active members and counts more than 175 million subscribers worldwide," reportsInternetnews.com."The ISP is styling ICQ Universe as a service to enable users worldwide to link-up with friends, family and colleagues and access a dynamic view of the relationships between members. By integrating it fully with ICQ, AOL will enjoy the hook of allowing networked users to instantly communicate with contacts."
"The Church of England on Friday announced the creation of its first 'virtual parish' and invited applicants for the position of 'Web pastor'. The purpose of the Internet church, or 'i-church', according to the Web site, 'is to provide a Christian community for those who wish to explore Christian discipleship but who are not able, or do not wish, to join a local congregation'," reportsAP.
"LindowsOS [a version of GNU/Linux] is now available for $25 over P-to-P, instead of the normal $50, Lindows says. The company has established a P-to-P system, based on open source software called BitTorrent, that it says is ideal for transferring large applications with high-demand peaks," reports theIDG News Service.
The music downloads industry is about to enter the third stage of its revolution.The first phase was illegal downloads from the internet, the second was the corporate counter-revolution led by Apple with the runaway success of its 99 (54.4p) cents-a-track downloads through iTunes. This has all but killed the market for singles (though the music industry as a whole is in rude health).The third stage is the turf wars between dozens of competing devices to establish market dominance five years hence. At the moment Apple is top banana with iTunes and the justly acclaimed iPod, and looks invincible.But Apple has been here before - it dominated the computer market decades ago but later blew it - and the question is whether history will repeat itself in an eerily similar manner.Among Apple's competitors are the corporate Siamese twins Roxio, a leading provider of digital-media software, and Napster, now selling paid-for music downloads, both of which have the same chairman and chief executive, Chris Gorog.Napster, the former notorious file-sharing site, whose brand name and patents were bought by Roxio for a mere $5m, claims to have the world's largest catalogue of online music with over 500,000 tracks available. It also has a $9.99 a month subscription option (which Apple sneers at) enabling punters to sample or download a wide range of music at no extra cost.Roxio claims a competitive advantage in being compatible with Windows Media Player, installed as standard in hundreds of millions of Windows-based PCs, leverage that Apple doesn't have, even though iPods and iTunes can be used with PCs.Apple is trying to establish dominance with the quality and style of its products. It is also trying to keep customers within its own walled garden - just as it did in the early days of popular computing, with near-fatal effects.But the attraction of all this could wane if Apple's first-mover advantage evaporates and second movers offer cheaper products compatible with Windows Media Player and by extension, the majority of the world's computers.Of course this market dominance may not last much longer if the European commission, which is investigating Microsoft's Windows monopoly, insists that its Media Player must be detached from the operating system. Could this open up the possibility of Apple a greater toehold in PCs?There is a third scenario: that mobile phones will provide a cut-down but viable alternative to dedicated digital music players. There are already a number of phones - like the Sony-Ericsson P900 - that offer digital music in MP3 form.At the moment they do not have the quality or the capacity of dedicated music players. But there is an interesting comparison with phone cameras. They are getting better so quickly that analysts predict that in a few years' time most customers will use them as their main camera, removing the need for carrying around a second one.If you mentioned that about digital music players now,  you would be laughed out of court. But in five years' time?&#183;Victor Keegan is editor of Guardian Online.
The internet has torn down barriers to communication and made the sum of man's knowledge accessible to all. As such, it has proved a tremendous force for good, by, for example, enabling courageous people in Zimbabwe to expose the injustices perpetrated by Robert Mugabe's regime. However, the internet can also be a deeply corrupting influence.Scarcely a week passes without news of an appalling crime in which it has played a part. Recently, there has been the homosexual cannibal, in Germany, Armin Meiwes, who met a willing victim by placing an advertisement on the internet; the case of Graham Coutts, who murdered the teacher Jane Longhurst, after spending hours looking at images of rape and strangulation on the net; and the former US Marine Toby Studabaker, who befriended a 12-year-old girl through an internet chatroom, engineered a meeting, then abducted her.These cases are regular reminders that the net, through images and opportunities for contact, can encourage people to realise their darkest fantasies. What is becoming apparent is that there is a much broader appetite for images of the most extreme forms of sexual perversion and violence than we ever realised. Websites offering pornography are those most visited on the net, so much so that they are putting many of the top-shelf magazines out of business.It was revealed last month that 3,022 people were cautioned or charged in connection with child pornography offences in England and Wales between 1988 and 2001 - an increase of more than 33% each year. That this increase is happening now suggests a possible causal link between these offences and the proliferation of child pornography on the internet, as well as the ease with which it can be accessed. And   those caught are likely to be a fraction of those looking at this material.Research in the US has found that as many as one in three people found in possession of such images also directly abused children. But what about the remaining two-thirds? Until a year ago, I would have believed that all such individuals posed a serious risk to children. Then, a few weeks ago, my husband was sentenced for viewing child pornography on the net and is now serving a three-month prison sentence.It began in 1999, when he was employed by a national newspaper to edit its online edition. He spent hours surfing the net, both at home and at work, becoming convinced that the internet heralded a bold new future for the world.He was equally concerned about its potential to encourage all manner of evil, and began planning a book with the working title Virtual Eden. He believed there were parallels between the Garden of Eden and the internet, but in his book proposal he pointed out an essential difference."In the Garden of Eden, God told Adam and Eve that they must not eat the fruit from a certain tree. With the internet, there is no supreme being telling us what we can and cannot access. The internet is a Godless Eden. It is down to the individual's conscience what they do and do not look at and delve into. Individual nations' attempts at regulating and censoring the net will fail," he wrote.Soon his research led him to spend more time looking at indecent images than on developing his book proposal. There were depictions of sexual violence and child pornography which he later told me he found repulsive, but for the first time in his life, he found himself drawn to pictures of pubescent and pre-pubescent girls in states of undress, and started to seek them out on the internet. He thought he could stay within the law if he accessed only websites which in their small print classified their material as "art" under US law rather than pornography, or if they promised that their models were over 18. Some of the sites were Japanese, where such material appeared to be legal and a relatively mainstream taste. For four years he surfed the net, usually paying by credit card to view sites for limited periods. He did not save illegal images or communicate with anyone about them. His was a solitary occupation, usually conducted late at night in his study, often with a bottle of wine at his side.All I noticed was that he was drinking too much and not getting enough sleep. If I woke during the night, I would often find he was downstairs "working". During the day, he often appeared preoccupied and distant, both with the children and with myself. When we were around, he spent much of his free time either sleeping, reading or listening to music. This pattern of behaviour remained essentially the same over four years. It was brought to an abrupt end by a ring on the doorbell at 6.20am on a bitterly cold morning last March. Five police officers arrived with a warrant for his arrest. They searched the house and found nothing incriminating, but then took away the hard drives from our computers.My husband's arrest formed part of a major police investigation called Operation Ore. It began in 2002, when the US Postal Service seized a list of names and credit-card details of people who had accessed child pornography websites   run by a company in Texas called Landslide Productions. There were 7,272 UK-based subscribers on the list. My husband - a senior newspaper executive - was one of those named, and a police source immediately leaked news of his arrest to the press. Stories appeared the next day and he resigned from his job. We were told social services would be in touch about our children and we waited for the phone to ring.My overwhelming desire was to discover how the man I loved and thought I knew so well could have done such a thing. He did not seem to know the answer himself. Our elderly parish priest was the only person who would listen calmly and understand. He has had little to do with the internet, but the story of a man who is tempted to do evil, then falls under its control, is only too familiar to an experienced priest."Is my husband a bad man?" I recall asking my priest as I dropped him home after his first visit to our house following my husband's arrest."No, he is not a bad man. He has been weak," was his reply.Addiction to internet pornography is a morality tale for modern times. These images of depravity, both legal and illegal, had acquired an extraordinary hold on my husband. Prior to his arrest, whenever he was alone in the house, he could not resist going online. We were continually bombarded with unsolicited "spam" emails advertising child pornography websites. The same sites continually inserted themselves into our "Favorites". When I asked my husband about them he would say his email address had been sold to thousands of companies and denied that he had looked at pornography of any kind.Once, late at night, when I was working on the home computer for a change, the screen froze and, as I tried to sort out the problem, a new and unfamiliar desktop appeared. It consisted entirely of lurid icons linked to child pornography sites and gave me a terrible fright. It felt like a manifestation of pure evil. Why didn't I go upstairs to wake my husband and show him what was on the screen? I am still angry with myself when I think about it today. As it was, I left it until the morning and was only too willing to believe his denials.The police technicians recovered 6,000 images of legal adult pornography and 245 classed as child pornography. Among them were 10 images viewed between 1999 and 2000 that showed images of children being abused by adults. I agree that viewing those images is in effect "child abuse by proxy", and that those who pay to look at them are fuelling demand for such pictures and therefore indirectly contributing to further abuse of children. But it is also absolutely wrong that those 10 pictures and thousands like them can be accessed in minutes by anyone via an internet service provider (ISP), a search engine and a credit card.Within days of his arrest, my husband had begun to face up to his addiction and arranged to see a consultant psychiatrist every week for three months. The psychiatrist helped him to take responsibility for what he had done, but also to understand that stress at work, depression, insomnia and alcohol had all played a part in his addiction. My husband also came to believe that the problem of child pornography and other illegal material on the internet cannot be solved solely by arresting and punishing those who create a market for it. He hopes that he can help mobilise a campaign for the regulation of the internet. In a statement he prepared to be issued after he had been sentenced he drew an analogy with the war on illegal drugs."I became one of the addicts," he wrote, "An addict's habit is fed by dealers."The dealers in this instance are often major corporations who, in their role as ISPs, sell consumers a gateway to the internet and, through their search engines, facilitate the search for illegal material.Self-regulation by the ISPs in cooperation with the police has failed to prevent the child porn industry from expanding.No one doubts that effective strategies to trace and close down child pornography sites would be costly. But the ISPs also worry that unwelcome public attention might then switch to adult pornography. This is probably the most lucrative industry on the internet, generating billions of US dollars.In November 2002, Lord Justice Rose, vice-president of the court of appeal criminal division, said that increased access to the internet had greatly exacerbated the problem of child pornography by making it more easily accessible "and increasing the likelihood of such material being found accidentally by others who may subsequently become corrupted by it".And so it has proved. The police are struggling to deal with all those on the Operation Ore list. In January, the Home Office minister Paul Goggins said only one in 20 of them had so far been convicted. A mere 10% had ever been charged.Over the past year I have read many newspaper accounts of cases where men of previous good character have become caught up in this terrible evil. The extent of their habit varies considerably, from looking at relatively few indecent images of children, to building up huge collections of pictures and exchanging them with others.While the secular experts are right to demand more research about this phenomenon, Christianity offers an explanation that I have never understood as well as I do now; all human beings are, to a greater or lesser extent, drawn towards evil, and once we succumb it is hard to break free. But there is the hope of redemption and a new beginning. In our own case, it felt entirely appropriate that we should ask our priest to bless the house again after what had happened, and that we should renew our marriage vows on our 20th wedding anniversary. There is something to celebrate when my husband returns home next month. He is free in more senses than one.&#183;This article first appeared in the Tablet. The Lucy Faithfull Foundation runs Stop it Now - a helpline for adults who are worried about their own or others' behaviour towards children. The number is 0808 1000900. There is also a website:www.stopitnow.org.uk.
The Church of England is to create its first 'virtual parish' and is advertising in today's Church Times for a 'web pastor'.The Diocese of Oxford is inviting applicants for the post, which will involve building and overseeing a groundbreaking internet parish community.The advert reads: "We are looking for a dynamic, confident Christian (lay or ordained) who is able to build this new community, lead its core members and be available to visitors to the site."You will need excellent communication skills and the ability to work creatively in a new and untested environment."The purpose of the internet church or 'i-church', according to its website, "is to provide a Christian community for those who wish to explore Christian discipleship but who are not able, or do not wish, to join a local congregation".The idea is part of the ministry's Cutting Edge programme and is the brainchild of the diocese's director of communication, the Reverend Richard Thomas, author of a recently published book, Counting People In."The Church of England is rightly proud of its commitment to the whole community, he said, "As the internet is a growing part of that community, we would be failing in our mission if we didn't provide a spiritual community for people who relate with each other primarily through the Internet."Funding for the initiative comes from the church commissioners, who gave each diocese a sum of money for pioneering projects. The successful applicant will answer to the Bishop of Oxford.A basic website is already up and running ati-church.org.
Eidos, the computer games company behind digital heroine Lara Croft, yesterday announced the acquisition of a Danish competitor but ruled out deals between the sector's big players.Eidos has agreed to buy IO Interactive, the creator of the successful Hitman game, in a deal worth up to &#163;28m.The game, based on a vengeful assassin, could follow Tomb Raider, the Eidos product that launched Lara Croft and spawned two Hollywood films. Eidos chief executive Mike McGarvey said the company was close to signing a production deal.He added that consolidation between the seven big games publishers was unlikely. Eidos nearly lost its independence in 2000, when it held takeover talks with France's Infogrames; two years later Ubi Soft expressed interest but no bid materialised."A lot of deals look great at 30,000 feet but as you look at the structures, the personalities, they all fall apart."After years of being described as a target for predators, Eidos was in a strong enough position to become a consolidator, Mr McGarvey said. The company has been cited as a takeover candidate since 2000 following a series of profit warnings and management departures.Eidos announced the acquisition of IO Interactive alongside an 11% fall in first-half revenues, which it blamed on the weak US dollar, lower than expected console sales in the US and poor take-up of two new games, Commandos 3 and Legacy of Kain.Those factors pushed down turnover for the six months to December 31 to &#163;78.7m. Pre-tax profits rose from &#163;6.7m for the same period in 2002 to &#163;7.8m as margins benefited from the sale of internally developed titles and PC-based games.
Michael Dell, one of the most familiar names in corporate America, yesterday gave up the chief executive role at Dell Computer, the company he founded 20 years ago.The company said he would remain as chairman of the business, which is second only to Hewlett Packard in the personal computer market. Current chief operating officer and president Kevin Rollins will step up to chief executive.A company spokesman said the changes reflected the roles of the two executives. "Michael's emphasis has been on customer trends and research and development while Kevin's leanings are strongly to development and execution of strategy. The titles to a certain degree are catching up with that." He said Mr Dell would "remain deeply involved in the company's day-to-day business."Mr Dell follows the lead of other high profile technology bosses who have given up the chief executive's role. Bill Gates at Microsoft passed the title to Steve Ballmer in 2000 and Intel's Andrew Grove handed the job to Craig Barrett in 1998.Mr Dell still owns around 10.6% of the company, a stake worth roughly $9bn. Shares in Dell fell modestly on the announcement dropping 12 cents to $33.01 on Wall Street. Analysts said there was little cause for concern.Mr Dell started the company in his college dorm room and built it into a market leader by pioneering the model of selling to consumers directly over the telephone and more recently the internet.
Allan Leighton yesterday rejected suggestions that he is overstretched by his numerous directorships and hit out at corporate governance specialists who have criticised his chairmanship of Lastminute.com.He also warned at the internet retailer's annual meeting that it will be hard for companies to hire non-executive directors if the trend of media attention and shareholder activism continues.Corporate governance adviser Pension Investment and Research Consultants (Pirc) advised shareholders to vote against Mr Leighton's re-appointment because of his activities elsewhere, which include chairing struggling Royal Mail and retailer Bhs, being a director of BSkyB and Cannons health clubs, and trying to raise funding for Leeds United. The workload is a deliberate "going plural" strategy following his role in the rescue of supermarket chain Asda.One shareholder voiced concern at yesterday's meeting about the number of positions he held, and "the risk of straining and overreaching yourself in addition to taking on the problems of Royal Mail". Mr Leighton defended his role and won 97% of the shareholder vote for his re-election."I'm non-executive chairman of these companies," he said. "The executives run the companies on a day to day basis. My task is to get good people to run the companies; if you do that, you get good performance."I have no contracts, no one will pay me &#163;15m to go. If I felt extended, I wouldn't do it."Pirc also criticised a new share option plan and the ex ecutive remuneration at Lastminute.com, complaining that the targets were not demanding enough. But Mr Leighton criticised the shareholder group and said it was not interested in creating shareholder value."I get slightly irritated by people trying to create headlines for themselves," he told shareholders. He said directors were on an equal footing with shareholders.The amount of directors' personal cash injected into the company was "exceptionally high".About 6% of shareholders voted against the new scheme.Mr Leighton said he had had a "week of grief" over Pirc's criticisms of Lastminute.com, and warned that it would be "easier to say no" when he was asked to be a non-executive chairman because of the pressures from corporate governance, the media and possible legal liabilities."Why would anyone want to be a non-executive chairman of anything in the current environment unless you really like doing it and are prepared to take the ups and downs?"It's becoming more and more difficult to get people to take things on, the environment is getting tougher. I do it because I enjoy and like the companies I work for ... but it is easier to say no."
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!&gt;connecting to server ...Current host:Chris2Current topic:The lord chief justice has attacked plans for a supreme court and the new asylum bill, which would prevent courts from hearing asylum cases. Is Labour undermining the independence of the judiciary? What do you think?capitalistpiglet:the rule of law applies to everyonePashmina:amen to thatnameless:EVERYONE BRITISHPashmina:amen to thatBronco:amen to wotdoggerL has entered the NewsRoomPashmina:sorry I clicked send twice!!Pashmina:sorry I clicked send twice!!doggerL:hello, my permachatting friends!/Let's hope the chatting never endsHost_Christ2:welcome to the NewsRoom doggerL. Any thoughts on clause 11?Pashmina:me mouse is playin upPashmina:me mouse is playin updoggerL:to cast out the asylum seeker,/will make the rule of law much weakercapitalistpiglet:good pointnameless:NO IT ISNTBronco:u fix yr mouse pashHost_Christ2:what about plans for a supreme court?Pashmina:yes they was a tic tac in itdoggerL:pashmina, now that all is well/pray tell me - what's your a/s/l?Pashmina:I don't talk to sick doggersBronco:doggerL do u go 2 that layby on the m5Host_Christ2:I think his name refers to "doggerel", not dogging.Pashmina:same thingdoggerL:alas, my lass, my only crime:/a tendency to speak in rhymePashmina:pervertBronco:do u tap yr brake lights twice or wotdoggerL:consider it a hopeless curse/ committing all my thoughts to verse!nameless:MAKE HIM STOPPashmina:the door's that way perv&gt;&gt;&gt;capitalistpiglet:can we go back to my earlier point abt jury trials?doggerL:I'm sorry if I have offended/it was not what I intendedPashmina:Chris2 kick him out!!!Host_Christ2:he's not doing anything wrongdoggerL:let's not speak of trial by jury,/sex in cars or Lord Woolf's fury./Let's allow our hearts to soar/over mountain, hill and moor!doggerL has been kicked out of the NewsRoomBronco:nice 1Host_Christ2:sometimes you have to bend rules to get rid of undesirablesPashmina:amen to that&gt;connection to server has been terminated ...
The UK's £62m e-learning university is being scrapped in its present form after it failed to recruit enough students or attract sufficient private investment in its first year of operation.The funding council Hefce is holding "immediate talks" with the e-University - known as UKeU - on restructuring its activities and services. This could lead to the break-up of the venture launched in 2000 at the height of the dotcom boom by the then education secretary, David Blunkett, as a worldwide 21st century successor to the Open University.As a series of universities around the world have discovered, there is less demand for online study than enthusiasts predicted and UKeU looks like becoming the latest to get its fingers burned financially by investing in online learning.Instead of selling online degrees abroad, the aim will now be to use what remains of the taxpayers' funding to support e-learning programmes at individual universities and colleges for home and overseas students. The funding council said that universities were more interested in "blended" learning involving a mixture of IT, traditional, work-based and distance learning to meet the diverse needs of students - rather than concentrating on wholly e-based learning.The Hefce board said that it was reviewing which activities should be maintained and which could possibly be transferred to other organisations. Following a review of UKeU's performance, which found that only 900 students had been recruited - far fewer than the target which is believed to be over 5,000 - the board ordered a restucturing.A statement blamed "changes in the financial market" but UKeU has been criticised for pouring money into its operating "platform" for online learning rather than the content of courses.The direction of the e-university, headed by John Beaumont, also appears to be under scrutiny. "The new arrangements will place greater emphasis on public good rather than commercial objectives," said the funding council.Sir Howard Newby, the chief executive of Hefce, said: "A main concern is that the new arrangements should protect the interests of existing students. We are also keen to ensure that the many successful collaborative programmes of e-learning in the UK and overseas should continue."A UKeU statement said the company was discussing a restructuring plan to be considered by the Hefce board in April."UKeU's service and operations are not immediately affected and the company will continue its activities, pending the conclusions of the discussions on restructuring. UKeU remains committed to ensuring around-the-clock service and support to students, UK universities and partners globally," it added.UKeU was established in May 2001, but it was not until March 2003 that the first courses went live online after almost two years of technical work on a "learning platform" for degree students to access.UKeU has business managers in nine countries and has 26 local partners in 16 countries who help market its degrees and provide premises and support for students. By November last year 16 UK universities were offering courses via UKeU, mainly in business and management, environmental studies, science and technology.But universities complained privately that UKeU was charging too much for retailing their degrees abroad when they were developing the courses themselves. These complaints, and the evidence that pure undiluted online learning doesn't work except for the most committed students, have prompted a Hefce's change of direction.The massive increase in the numbers of overseas students coming to the UK to be taught face to face - particularly from China - seem to have upset the UKeU's calculations.The funding council is keen to preserve what has been achieved on the technical side and programmes such as the e-China project. "E-learning has a vital and exciting role to play in higher education because it empowers learners, enables teaching to be more creative and innovative, and enables students to develop skills of value in the workplace."Much has been learnt through the e-Universities project - both by the company, and by the participating universities and colleges and students. It is essential to capitalise on this experience as higher education institutions further develop their e-learning programmes. The project has also provided many important lessons about the potential use of new technologies in higher education," said a Hefce statement.
Novels in 25 words"Brevity," wrote William Shakespeare, "is the soul of wit". But what would the Bard make of the new thread on the I Love Everything messaging board asking readers to summarise famous novels in 25 words or less? There are already more than 100 entries, ranging from sacrilegious reductions of the Bible to compressed versions of Dickens, Austin and F Scott Fitzgerald. Douglas Coupland's Generation X has been boiled down to "yuppies whine about how tough their lives are", and the 1,034 pages of Lord of the Rings becomes "little guys go to a lot of trouble to get rid of stolen jewellery".http://masl.to/?L23912297http://ilx.wh3rd.netLondon callingTraffic Island Discs is an online radio programme about "music, people and spaces". Instead of inviting celebrities to name their favourite pieces of music, Mikey Weinkove and Saul Albert (who brought us the brilliant Talkaoke) roam the streets of London, looking for people wearing headphones. The resulting interviews are spliced together with the music that people are listening to on their personal stereos and made into a half-hour radio show. It began as a slot on London's Resonance FM, but the show now has its own website and archive, which you can download as an MP3 file.www.traffic-island.co.ukwww.resonancefm.comwww.talkaoke.comThe Mao of Pooh"The Turtle has long been concerned with the education of our junior comrades," proclaims the statement on the holding page. "Disappointed with the bourgeois drivel that passes for children's fiction these days, a Turtle Collective has formed to combat the indoctrination of our youth with a series of heart-warming tales involving a bear, his best friend Christopher Robin, and socialism with Chinese characteristics." The Voice of the Turtle is a witty, transatlantic online free-for-all of leftwing politics. Equally irreverent and militant, it has recently subverted Benjamin Hoff's The Tao of Pooh - a subversion of AA Milne's children's classic - into a Maoist text. What might sound like a children's book from indoctrination central translates to a witty example of fan fiction and a glorious satire of the children's book in the spirit of Animal Farm.www.voiceoftheturtle.org/maowww.just-pooh.com/taoStudy tripLast month, the Tate launched an online study course. The course leads you through a series of key themes and important 20th century artists, including Andy Warhol, Cornelia Parker and Pablo Picasso. The first level is free. Level 2, to be made available in October, will cost &#163;95 (&#163;45 concession). The carefully balanced site should appeal to both aficionados and people who know next to nothing.www.tate.org.uk/itawww.tate.org.uk/learningGet your kicksUntil recently, World66.com was just another travel portal to have grown out of the dotcom boom. But in September, it took the radical step of going "open content" and allowed users to edit the site. So if you don't like the image decorating, say, the Tokyo page, you can upload one of your own. If a restaurant review is incorrect or out of date, you can rewrite it. What's more, World66 is published under the Creative Commons licence, which means other parties can use the information freely. The site is only in beta, but already has more than 40,000 user-generated reviews and covers 10,000 destinations. It also has a wonderful map generator that invites you to make a record of where you have been. Tick the countries you have visited and it automagically generates a map highlighting those countries. You can email the results to friends or link it to your blog.www.world66.comhttp://masl.to/?U2E912297http://thorntree.lonelyplanet.comhttp://creativecommons.orgCrufty stuffToday is the start of Crufts, but if you can't make it to the NEC Birmingham, the Kennel Club has launched a handsome website to make up for it. Alongside essays on responsible dog ownership, the site contains useful information about the show, timetables, judges, and a picture gallery. There is also an online ticket booth.www.crufts.org.ukNew &amp; notedClassic World Cup highlightswww.pureworldcup.comNo nonsense advicewww.worriedneed2talk.org.ukAudio books for 15pwww.telltaleweekly.comSix of the best: Formula 1Official sitewww.formula1.comTV sitewww.itv-f1.comI hate Michael Schumacherhttp://masl.to/?J30B12297Murray Walker quoteswww.worldmotorsport.com/murrayInformation pit stopwww.autosport.comBritish Grand Prixwww.silverstonemotorsport.co.ukUnlimitedhttp://sport.guardian.co.uk/formulaone
"Online search engine Ask Jeeves Inc is paying $343 million for a family of popular Web sites that includes Excite.com and iWon.com, bulking up the company as it vies to wrest market share away from industry leaders Google Inc and Yahoo! Inc," reportsAP."Launched in 1999, Interactive Search's best-known properties are the sweepstakes site iWon, which gives away $10,000 per day to attract traffic, and Excite, which was bought for $10 million in 2001 when the site was auctioned off in bankruptcy court. The company's other sites include Myway.com, which waged an anti-Yahoo marketing campaign in late 2002."
"The message in RealNetworks' antitrust case against Microsoft is clear: 'Predatory conduct' by Microsoft is responsible for lost business that could exceed $1 billion in damages to the digital-media company," reportsCNet."Regardless of the lawsuit's merits, however, Microsoft's opposition is only one of a remarkable string of hardships faced by RealNetworks. The Seattle-based Internet pioneer has endured years of internal and external challenges, including new technologies, strategic mistakes and old-fashioned bad luck, that weren't caused by its crosstown rival."Comment: The US lawsuit is based on the same arguments as the EU one. What's amusing is the reminder, in the accompanying timeline, that RealVideo wasn't launched until 1997, long after Microsoft had built Windows Media Player into Windows 95 (though of course Video For Windows ran in 3.1). Real's founder Bob Glaser spent a decade as one of Bill Gates's senior lieutenants, and RealNetworks is based in Seattle, and Microsoft used to own 10% of RealNetworks, so I guess there's an outside chance somebody at Real also noticed this.....
A packed conference hall, extra space hurriedly provided with monitors for overspill delegates and an air of expectancy signalled the opening of RSA Security's 13th annual conference in San Francisco. It was not just the growing popularity of IT security that accounted for a 30% increase in attendees over last year, more the promise of a keynote speech from Microsoft chairman and chief software architect Bill Gates. In a circus, it would have been the equivalent of a man putting his head in the lion's mouth.The morning kicked off with a troupe of Chinese performers acting out a suitable tableau. This was followed by ABC presenter Cokie Roberts giving an unsuitable talk about US politics and politicians. Then came the annual RSA Awards presentations, and the announcement of a lifetime award to mark the retirement of Jim Bidzos, RSA's chairman and the first man to sell a digital certificate back in 1986.The assembled throng was beginning to fidget when the announcer hailed the arrival of Redmond's finest, saying: "Combine the vision of the general with the spirit of the lion, and you're pretty close to summing up Bill Gates."This is the first time Gates has faced a distinguished audience of security specialists in the two years since Microsoft launched its Trustworthy Computing initiative, known disrespectfully as Let's Debug Windows. A nervous-looking Gates shambled on with his hands clasped in front of his chest like a Praying Mantis ready to strike. And strike he did.Suddenly, the RSA conference turned into a Microsoft marketing meeting as Gates launched into the hype for Service Pack 2 for Windows XP. Never has a service pack been hailed with such vigour and spectacle.Eventually, he got to the meat of his presentation. "Now, our approach, of course, has two main buckets," he said. "The work we're doing at the technical level, both on our own and around industry standards, and then the work we're doing in terms of education and awareness and working with governmental entities. There are lots of policy issues here to make sure that when people are doing malicious things, the law is very clear that that's inappropriate, and having the sophistication to track down and make sure that it's very evident to people that these things are literally crimes that should not be repeated."Windows XP SP2 will help: it almost entirely addresses security issues. With its release, Gates promised to put virus writers, worm developers and spam distributors out of business. Perhaps he should have realised that the inclusion of a better firewall and improved spam filtering was also putting half his audience out of business. This probably accounts for the fact that the only burst of thunderous applause and American whoops and hollers was when he held up one of RSA's SecureID cards that he had been twisting between his fingers throughout the presentation. The RSA crowd went wild. Well, the RSA staff did.The security measures in SP2 will be turned on by default, so the fire wall will shut out all but Microsoft-sanctioned activity from the day it is installed. Other connections to the internet will have to be sanctioned by the user through pop-ups that appear when XP detects an attempt to make a new connection. This requires some savvy on the user's part, and there are bound to be some who just say yes to everything.With SP2 already being tested by some Microsoft customers, much of the detail is public knowledge. However, Gates had held back one gem from his treasure trove: the Active Protection Technology (APT). An addition to the Internet Security and Acceleration Server, this is Microsoft's attempt to stop worms dead in their tracks. APT will police the Windows environment looking for unusual activity and use behaviour blocking to stop it happening. For example, the Blaster worm caused a Windows service to open a back door to let the hacker download malicious code despite any security in place. Behaviour blocking would have recognised this unusual activity and stopped it.Ant Allan, a research director at Gartner, says he is pleased that Microsoft is addressing security more actively. He believes what Microsoft is doing will help reduce the severity of virus attacks. This is because home users often do not know how to protect their systems, adding to the number of sites that malware can infect. Improving the firewall and spam recognition in Windows XP can only do good - assuming that home users download the service pack.Gates left the stage not to the customary standing ovation but a polite round of applause. Perhaps because his parting shot was a bit of a Freudian slip. The official record reads that he should have said: "We look forward to working with you as these advances come forward." What he actually said was: "We look forward to working on you as these advances come forth."
How does the net measure up to the net you helped establish 30 years ago?It's different in many respects. I don't think we had a clear sense for what would happen if the public had access. We were all engineers and could see significant uses. We were excited about email and could see the business utility of it, but still had trouble convincing the business community that email was valuable. I remember rolling out MCI mail in 1983 and having a tough time selling it. They all said: "Well we've got fax, phone and overnight postal services, why would we need this email stuff?" The other thing that hadn't been invented was Sir Tim Berners-Lee's World Wide Web.Some of the concepts were in place before the internet ... there was theoNLine system, which Douglas Engelbart invented. It used a mouse and did hyper-linking but every machine was time-shared: everyone who was sharing information had to have an account on that computer. Sir Tim's design distributed that and incorporated richness, video, imagery, sound etc. It also encouraged the creation of an enormous amount of content and that's probably the most stunning aspect of the internet now.Are we seeing a move toward more sites charging for content?As the network gets bigger, there will be an increasing number of sites charging. There are many people very interested in intellectual property management/digital rights management. There's also continuing academic interest in the net. The coin of the realm is information: you share information to get information from others. I don't see that going away. I see some interesting intellectual property experiments - the Apple iTunes being a good example. iTunes has worked out relatively well and addresses a problem that's been a source of annoyance to customers. They were forced to buy a CD or DVD with multiple songs on them, even if they were only interested in one or two tunes. The question will be whether there's abusive redistribution. I don't think we're done with the debates but more effort will be made to provide this kind of content for a fee. I don't think the academic use of the net or the sharing of information is going to diminish - it's too convenient.Can we retain intellectual property in this digital age?I hope we find a way through. The eBook has turned into a frustrating example. I'm a big fan of eBooks: I like reading them on my laptop but I've discovered that after it has been downloaded, I can't transfer it to anyone. This is a problem, especially if you switch computers. Suddenly it's very hard to transfer that content over to the new computer. I've already paid for it, I'm not trying to make copies of it ... I just want to put it on my laptop. There may be a way to do it but it's annoying and time consuming.Is peer-to-peer the net's killer app?The protocols on the network were designed to work peer-to-peer. Much attention was paid to this at transport control protocol (TCP) level in particular. There's a particular part of the protocol design which says that if there are simultaneous parties initiating a connection with each other, they will discover that this has been happening and then only a single connection will be formed - as opposed to two separate connections, which is what sometimes happens when two people call each other on the phone at the same time. We've been conscious of the peer-to-peer power from the beginning.How effective has the Can Spam Act been in the US?All the attempts to try to reduce spam have not been very successful. The one possibility is that if you have legislation that says it's illegal to do certain things and the parties who are doing these activities are in business to do it, then you would think they would be traceable. Not by trying to track their email but simply trying to find them with a "sting"-like operation. These courses of action will probably prove more effective. At the moment, my best friend is my Delete key.Are Radio Frequency IDs poised to become more ubiquitous?I believe so. They're successful in toll road applications. We're hearing some interesting problems. There's a US company called Tyson Foods (www.tysonfoodsinc.com) that is a large shipper of poultry, pork and beef. They told us they'd tried some experiments with reading these RFID chips linked to chickens. Each individual chicken was readable but when they put all the chickens in a container, they couldn't get back all the individual RFID information. Some of the signal has to pass through the chickens and, as chickens are about 80% water, the radio signal doesn't propagate through water very well. This is a serious problem if we want to tag the food in our stores so it doesn't go over its shelf-life.Would a weblog be a good addition to Cerfs Up?I get some help withCerfs Upand I try to put in book reports and bring up topics I think would be useful. As for weblogging, I haven't got there yet. As chairman of the board ofICann, my opinions on some issues ought to be carefully expressed. Weblogging is almost a reflexive reaction, where you think of something then write it into your blog. I just want to be a little careful about how informal communications such as weblogging might be received.Are open source and Linux more in keeping with the libertarian roots of the net?In many respects they are, although I have mixed reactions to them. Having more eyes looking at software and finding bugs is a wonderful thing. In fact, theInterplanetary Networkactivity has just released its source code so people could try it. At the same time, though, if you want a piece of software to rely on, you may want to pay for it so you have some place to go when there's a problem. Hoping someone will fix a bug in an open source version is not something you can make any demands about. If you pay, then you have a reasonable argument to get some service. When I'm confronted with the option of picking up the free source code versus a paid version, I'll often choose the paid version . For years, I ran the paid version ofEudoraso that if there was a problem, I could call them in San Diego and get help with it.So it is correct to characterise this as consistent with the more or less libertarian roots of the net, but even in the case ofLinux, there's also a fair amount of paid Linux software that people choose to have because of the expectation of customer service.Any thoughts on the recent leaks of the Windows source code?I was dismayed. It is like the recent Boeing voting-machines software leaks (www.byte.com/art/9512/sec6/art1.htm). In a sense I was glad to see that happen because it caused some scrutiny of a very critical system. So you could make a similar argument with regard to Microsoft except for the fact that Microsoft is not an open source operation. One could argue that "well it was a good thing as we got to see what the source code looked like so, if there are bugs maybe we could help find them". There are bugs in everybody's software. I am concerned about the security of all the software that runs on the edge of the net ... whether that's in the mainframe server or in the PDAs or personal computers. We have more work to do to protect these systems from vulnerabilities and from deliberate attacks. Putting any kind of pressure on the suppliers of software is a good thing.How is your work on developing an interplanetary protocol progressing?Quite well. We've gone through four iterations of the design and we're pretty much stabilised now. We released the source code version (www.ipnsig.org) for people who want to experiment with it. The lower two layers of the protocol are in operation on the Mars Landers (http://masl.to/?R54521697) so we're getting space-qualified experience with the lowest two levels. We're hoping we'll have the more interesting stuff, the third and fourth layers, in place for about 2009 when there's an orbiter planned to go around Mars for telecommunications support.Have you been following the developments with Internet2?I'm on the technology advisory board.Internet2is an interesting project as it really isn't internet 2 as the internet is continually evolving with V.1, V.2.1 etc. However, I think they've been pretty active in pursuing mostly high-bandwidth applications. The most recent initiative was theNational Light Railidea where people are using optical switching as the principal transmission medium and that's pretty exciting. I have been encouraging them to pay as much attention to functionality as they do to bandwidth. Many of the most interesting things we can do with networks have little or nothing to do with speed but have a great deal to do with how software interacts and the standardisation of various interfaces - the things that Tim Berners-Lee is trying to do withSemantic Web. I'm more concerned about application space than about just running fast.Which of the emerging technologies most fires your imagination?Wireless access to the internet of various kinds, whether it's 802.11 or 802.16 - I haven't seen as much support for 802.20.Bluetoothis almost an unknown in this dimension. I've been speculating on Bluetooth combined with IP-capable devices for control purposes. So, instead of having a typical infrared remote control you can imagine it being a Bluetooth-enabled device. Instead of a control device being unique to one particular piece of equipment I would love to see them all IP-enabled so all you really need to know would be the domain name of a particular device or even its IP address in order to control it. I have swept under the rug the strong authentication requirements so that you don't control equipment in your next-door neighbour's house! We can joke about that but it is an issue and a fundamental requirement. The idea that you could remotely control a great many household, or business office, devices no matter where you are is very interesting. You would only need one of these controls because you'd simply use the IP address or domain name as the target as a way to refer to it. You don't have to be in the same room and you're no longer bound to one controller device for one controlled device.Present company excepted, who do you think has most helped forge the internet as we recognise it today?This is always a tough task. There are now tens of thousands of people who have contributed. Some who are most visible areRobert Kahn, the other half of the initial TCP/IP design and Sir Tim deserves a lot of credit along with his colleague Robert Cailliau who doesn't get nearly as much attention as he ought to.Bob Metcalfeand David Boggs are another combination where Metcalfe gets most of the credit but Boggs deserves his share. Others who have been less visible includeDavid Clarkat MIT who has long been head of Internet Architecture Board.Jonathan Postelsadly passed away in 1998. Any enterprise of this magnitude has to have an enormous number of people committed to it.Is there life in the desktop?I carry a laptop and use it for all my work. I have a Macintosh desktop at home, which my wife uses, and that has a lot of my personal finance stuff that might not be appropriate on my corporate computer. I don't see the desktop as going away but as the prices come down on laptops and the sizes of the screens increase, I don't find there's anything compelling about the desktop.What are you working on?The interplanetary stuff continues to occupy part of my time. I'm also interested in extending the security services thatMCIcan offer because that is an important area to help serve our customers better. I'm also interested in gettingEnumoff the ground, which is accommodating the inter-linking of the Public Switched Telephone Network and the internet.I'm also exploring ways that we can make use ofMPLSarchitecture or technology to simultaneously accommodate virtual private networks and the public internet on the same underlying substrate. So you can imagine having a traffic engineering multi-protocol labelled switching (MPLS) sub-structure then a bunch of virtual private networks on top of that using stacked labels. One of those stacked label VPNs could be the public internet. We're also working intensely onVoice over IPand applications that rely on it, including conferencing techniques and collaborative work. The last thing to observe is that there's now a substantial interest in using the internet for interactive gaming, so we're pursuing that with companies such asSony Online Entertainment.Visit:http://global.mci.com/us/enterprise/insight/cerfs_up/andwww.ibiblio.org/pioneers/cerf.htmlLinksVint Cerf's bookmarkswww.google.comGoogle homepagewww.nasa.govFor tracking Marswww.si.eduAmerican Smithsonianwww.amazon.comwww.1800flowers.comIt has saved my butt many times
Before long you will be able to tune in to your favourite breakfast programmes not just while getting ready for work - but after you have left. Mobile phones that can receive digital television and radio broadcasts are starting to appear.Some mobiles have analogue FM radios, but even these are being souped up. Nokia, the Finnish mobile phone maker, is offering what it calls visual radio with Kiss FM of Finland.Nokia demonstrated its 7700 media phone at the 3GSM World Congress, an annual mobile-fest held in Cannes last week. Using this handset, listeners will be able to see the name of the song being played and get the name and photo of the singer."They will also be able to vote on which song they want to hear, participate in quizzes, or pose questions for studio guests," says Pekka Koponen, a director of Starcut, a Finnish company working on content with radio stations and Nokia.The radio part of the service uses FM technology, while the visual part is provided through a parallel channel that uses GPRS (general packet radio service) or Edge, ways of delivering data at high speed over mobile networks.Mikko M&#228;kip&#228;&#228;, a senior manager at Nokia's Nmedia division, says the 7700 will be available in the second quarter of this year and will cost between &euro;500 (&#163;334) and &euro;800 (&#163;535), depending on the features included.Reidar Wasenius, senior project manager in the Nmedia division, says: "Stations offering visual radio will see a graph showing how many mobile-phone listeners they have and how many have the visual element switched on. The visual data will be useful for listeners who want to know who is speaking, or whether it is Maria Ewing singing Carmen."Broadcasters will also know when to spice up a programme that is causing listeners to switch off," he adds.Advertisers will be able to communicate better because they could display a picture of their product at the time their advert is broadcast. They will be able to add an interactive element, such as a button, saying "click here to request a brochure".The idea for visual radio came out of a Nokia research centre project to find cross-media services.The company is believed to be in discussions with several UK radio stations. Plans to add the latest generation of digital TV and radio technology to mobiles are also underway.At the 3GSM show, Frontier Silicon announced it has co-developed a miniature low-power digital audio broadcasting (DAB) receiver that measures just 30mm by 38mm and is only 2.5mm high. The receivers will be in mass production by the third quarter of this year and are expected to be included in some Samsung phones by the end of the year. Radioscape - whose receiver design is included in digital radios, such as those from Intempo Digital and Roberts - is also talking to mobile phone manufacturers.With digital radio, you don't have to hunt for a precise frequency, just scroll through the names of stations for the one you want. Extra data, such as programme times, can be viewed alongside. Moreover, Nick Oakley, marketing manager at Radioscape, says: "By next summer, if you receive a mobile phone call while listening to one of our digital radio receivers, you will be able to pause the programme you are listening to for up to 10 minutes.DAB can also be used to transmit large files, and Navigon and T-Systems are running a trial in Germany that uses data broadcasting for filecasting, where files of information or web pages can be broadcast cheaply on a one-to-many basis.Nokia's 7700 can be used for digital TV, too, with the addition of a set-top box that slots into the back of the phone. A huge amount of programming already exists in the digital video broadcast - terrestrial (DVB-T) format for broadcasting to homes and in the related DVB-C (cable) and DVB-S (satellite) formats.DVB-H for broadcasting to handheld devices is based on DVB-T, but instead of continuously streaming video images, it sends about four to five seconds' worth at a time into the mobile's buffer for storage. This means the mobile's digital TV receiver does not have to be on all the time. Also, large amounts of data do not need to be sent because each programme will only be displayed on a small screen. The end result, at 12 frames a second in the media phone prototype, is not quite fixed-TV quality but still good enough to make watching on the move worthwhile.The first mobiles that can receive digital TV should start to appear around the end of the year, and a Nokia TV pilot starts in Helsinki in the autumn. Real TV content will be offered as the first consumer test of DVB-H.But do people want to watch TV on tiny phones? John Moroney, director of Octegra, a UK consultancy specialising in broadcast media, says: "The potential is huge. It depends on price, but there are lots of possible applications, such as keeping the kids quiet in the car." In fact, operators and content providers are hoping mobile users will subscribe to a particular TV channel or group of channels in the way they do for cable TV or satellite.Digital broadcasting could even provide competition for the third generation (3G) networks. It is a cheaper way of transmitting information because fewer transmission sites than 3G base stations are required to reach most of the population, and you only have to transmit the information once for it to reach many mobiles.By contrast, if 10,000 3G users were to request a clip of David Beckham scoring a goal, it would have to be transmitted 10,000 times.Meanwhile, music videos could soon be delivered to mobiles. Intel, the chip maker, has collaborated with Sony Music Entertainment and software company Emuzed to deliver PC-quality video at 30 frames a second on its XScale processor.Linkswww.visualradio.comwww.nokia.comwww.radioscape.com
Taking the PIFThe anti-virus companies are warning of a fast-growing worm called Netsky-D, which is the fourth version of Netsky. Graham Cluley from Sophos says: "The early signs point towards this becoming one of the most prevalent worms of the year." The Netsky-D worm arrives in a 25K email with 25 possible headings (Re: Approved, Re: Details, Re: Document, Re: Your letter, Re: Your picture etc). The 17K attachment has 21 possible file names (all_document.pif, application.pif, document.pif, your_letter.pif, your_product.pif). The virus installs itself in the Windows directory using the name winlogon.exe. This is a good time to update your anti-virus software. And while it is never a good idea to run unsolicited attachments, make sure you don't double-click any .pif files.Bin itI have just got - in the post - an important looking fake renewal/invoice letter for my domain name from EU Registry Services, Unit 255, 48 Regent Street, Cambridge CB2 1FD. I think they must be sending out thousands of these, and their prices are many times more than the company I used.Gianni RaineriJack Schofield replies:EU Registry Services runs a website (www.registereu.com) that solicits registrations for the European domain names due in November. A complaint has already been upheld against it by the Advertising Standards Authority. Cambridgeshire Police has also issued a warning about an unnamed firm soliciting domain name renewals, so you could leave your contact details with Cambridgeshire police on 01480 456111 for the attention of Detective Constable Faro. The Unit 255 address is reportedly a mail drop. Also see The Times Online article athttp://masl.to/?N24612597.KaZaA wormI have a virus called backdoor.solbot. Windows says it cannot be removed as it is in use. The file is at D:\windows\system32\system32.exe.BKDR Ramdfam.aHarry HarperJS:This is the server program dropped by the worm_xms.a Trojan, which spreads via the KaZaA file-sharing system. Trend Micro has published removal instructions athttp://masl.to/?H46623597. This page has a link to Trend's free online virus checker,Housecall. You should run that first.Modem speedsMy modem usually connects to my ISP at about 48kbps but only ever seems to give download rates up to a maximum of about 4 or 5K. Will a 512k broadband connection give me rates approaching 512k?Ben WheelerJS:Communications speeds are generally quoted in kilobits per second (kbps), but file downloads are often measured in kilobytes per second (KBps). There are 8 bits in a byte and 1,024 bytes in a kilobyte, so there are 8,192 bits in 1K, not 1,000. Assuming no extra start bits and stop bits, that would make the maximum speed of a 48kbps connection about 5.9K (kilobytes per second). In real life, 4.5K seems to be typical.Most internet connections are "contended", which means the bandwidth is being shared by many people. The real speed will therefore depend on the contention ratio - which might be 50 to 1 on broadband - and the number of people online competing for the available bandwidth. This will vary over time. However, I'd expect a 512k broadband line to be at least 10 times faster than dial-up, and you could get speeds of about 53K to 58K. Peak times and cheap services could be slower.More spamI travel a lot and use Tesco Webmail to keep in touch. At home, I have spam filters and use Outlook, but can I do anything with Webmail?Mike ClarkJS:Spam blockers filter spam between your mailbox (on the server) and Outlook's Inbox (on your PC). With web-based mail, you are seeing your mailbox directly, so you cannot filter it. Most web-based mail services, such as Hotmail and Yahoo, will filter spam into a separate folder. If your ISP does not do this, the only obvious option is to use a challenge-response system such asMailblocks. This stops spam from reaching your mailbox, not just your inbox.Backchat&#183;Wendy Tyrrell had problems getting her personal email at work because access to Yahoo was blocked. Roland Young suggests tryinghttp://mail.btinternet.com/bti/instead ofhttp://bt.yahoo.com. Mike Broad points out that "there is a good reason many employers restrict external mail access: it is the easiest way for a virus or Trojan to get into a corporate network. Circumventing restrictions on web access may end up with disciplinary action taken against the employee."&#183;Denis C Udall says: "Your question of disposing of laptop batteries reminded me that replacements for laptop batteries are often expensive, and frequently unobtainable for older machines. I know of one company that rebuilds rechargeable batteries, and is very reasonable:www.re-cell.co.uk.
The trouble with entering contact details on to a computer is that it needs keeping up to date. If you have a few friends, this isn't a problem; if you're into the hundreds or thousands, then the task can be overwhelming. This is why a number of enterprising types have set up software and online services that allow people to update their addresses, phone numbers and other details automatically. You join Plaxo, Cardfile.org, CardScan's AccuCard or a similar service, and mail all of your contacts, who can update their details at leisure.Unless, of course, they won't play, either because they get too many requests or are not sure what will happen to the data they provide. This is where what could become a substantial market appears to be stalling. Security consultant Robert Schifreen, author of website Securitysavvy.com, sums it up well: "You get an obviously system-generated message, and if I reply to that with my details, I don't know how many other people are going to get them."Like a lot of people, Schifreen uses the phrase "Big Brother-ish", and has reservations about taking his time to do something that will only benefit the sender, not him.In fact, many of the data security undertakings made by Plaxo and others are rigorous. Plaxo's president, Sean Parker, denies that the company sells data, and confirms that, contractually, any business that acquires the company will be bound by the same strictures. Independent observers agree. "Plaxo talks a good game," says Simon Halberstam, partner and head of e-commerce law at solicitors Sprecher Grier Halberstam LLP &amp; Weblaw. "If they do everything &#91;their terms and conditions&#93; say they do, they have a pretty decent privacy policy."It therefore seems there are no rational objections, until you remember that most of the organisations offering these services are based in the US. Emma Shipp, partner at Halbertsam's company, explains: "European data law is much stronger than in the US. In the UK, for example, we have a data protection registrar; there is no equivalent in America." In other words, the undertakings around privacy expressed by Plaxo are contractual rather than legal, and if an issue arose, enforcing them could be tricky.This objection would presumably be overcome if a company were to start up subject to UK laws. It is into this area that fledgling contact management company Midentity will be launched later this month. Like the competition, it overlays some software on to Microsoft Outlook and updates your contact details to the people you wish to share them with, sending a standard vCard (virtual business card) and requesting that the recipient updates their details. Non-Microsoft customers will be offered a web-based version as the product develops.Midentity founder Simon Grice believes there is much in the product for people who are responsible for their own IT, although he freely concedes that elements of resistance are inevitable. "There is always resistance to any new technology or service," he says. But he believes his company will do better in the UK than some of the competition, because of its transparency. "We believe this is a valuable service and we will charge for it," he says. The charges will be low - around &#163;3 a month - but the system gets around some of the reservations expressed by some about Plaxo.One correspondent put her fears clearly: "I looked at Plaxo as more and more of my contacts seem to be using it. I was a bit sceptical about filling in my details as I feel sure they will be used to make up some sort of mailing list to sell on. Otherwise why would Plaxo do this for free?" In fact, they don't hold the data. Unless someone joins up and registers their details, the updated information is cached only until the Plaxo member has picked it up.Parker is clear that what's in it for the company is the opportunity to sell premium versions of the service from the second quarter of this year. "Small business customers, in particular, want branded versions. At the moment, everything has Plaxo branding, but they want their own identities on it. Others want elements of social networking."There remain pockets of uncertainty. Professor Roger Clark, principal of Xanax Consultancy in Canberra, has written a paper querying whether the companies offering the services fully appreciate the issues surrounding personal data and the networks being set up. And while many potential participants' objections may seem more emotional than rational - Schifreen happily concedes that if he got into it, he could find the services useful - they will still tend to ignore requests to update people's information for them.Grice, meanwhile, believes a configurable service that lets you share what information you want with whom you choose will reflect the way people want to communicate in future. Whether enough users are ready to trust both the technology and the suppliers to make this a mainstream technology remains to be seen.LinksPlaxowww.plaxo.comCardfilehttp://cardfile.orgAccuCardwww.corex.com/accucard_main.aspMidentitywww.midentity.comVery Black "Little Black Books"www.anu.edu.au/people/Roger.Clarke/DV/ContactPITs.html
The government has a new web brand name. Directgov, unveiled this week by Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy, is supposed to replace the ukonline portal as first port of call to 2,500 government websites.Pinder describes Directgov as a world beater. Unlike most other government portals, it carries its own material, designed around users' needs, rather than merely directing visitors to sites belonging to departments or agencies.However Directgov falls a long way short of the "online government store" previously trailed by the e-envoy. Citizens will still need to go to individual agencies' sites for "transactions", such as filing tax returns online. Directgov's relationship with local government, which is responsible for most regular contacts with officialdom, is also unclear.Directgov is the third generation of British government portal. The first, open.gov.uk, was a pure directory. UK Online, launched at the end of 2000, was a slicker production, with information grouped into "life episodes", as well as a news section promptly nicknamed Pravda.com. In January, ukonline had 800,000 unique visitors, which Pinder describes as a "respectable turnout".However research suggests that most people still find government difficult to find on the web. In January, the Phillis review into government communications called for the creation of a single government e-delivery brand.Pinder says that Directgov will greatly simplify contacts with government. The difference is between a travel agent and an airline: "UK Online acted like a travel agent, and suggested a holiday to you. Directgov should take you to the destination. We want to try to answer about 90% of queries within the site."The site's new content is produced by government departments acting as "franchises" in topics of wide interest. The first three franchises are motoring, disabled people and parents. Information is grouped according to guesswork of what will be of interest: people looking for information about parenting are presumed to be concerned about road safety and drugs.In a breakthrough for Whitehall, the franchises cross departmental boundaries. Pinder says that 18 government departments are already involved. "We think it's a world first in the depth of content and consistency," Pinder says. External links are labelled as such, to warn users of a change in look and feel.A new search engine will search "the whole of government, not just the site". The engine is based on technology from the US-based specialist Verity. Its context-sensitive search engine was originally developed for the CIA (it is also used by the Guardian's website). The site as a whole runs on a content-management system called DotP, developed by the Office of the e-Envoy.Directgov is mainly about central government. However, most of the specific things that people want are handled by local authorities, over which Pinder's office has no control. A "home and community" franchise, including information from local authorities, will be run by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (ODPM), Pinder says, but there is no date for local information going on the site.Another challenge is to promote the name. The UK Online brand was launched with enormous publicity in September 2000 to cover a whole raft of digital initiatives. "It is a very strong brand, but stretched," Pinder says. To confuse matters, the current website will live on.The Directgov name is reminiscent of the first e-government initiative, Government.direct, launched in the final months of John Major's government. In development, the project was known as the Online Government Store (OGS), creating the impression of a place where citizens would interact with government.In a submission to the Phillis review last year, Pinder said the store "will provide consumers with a truly integrated online offering. They may receive a leaflet through the door and visit the OGS website to carry out the transaction or register their details." The OGS would be one step towards a customer-relationship management system of the type used by private business, he said at the time.Pinder says that it is a work in progress - "Disneyland with just the first few rides" - but that there are no plans for the site to host end-to-end transactions. For example customers wanting to book a driving test online have to switch to the Driving Standards Agency's site.Pinder blames the complexities of joining up systems at the "back end" of government. However political caution may also be to blame. Pinder's immediate political boss, the Cabinet Office minister Douglas Alexander, is understood to be highly averse to taking risks with IT.&#183;Direct.gov.uk
Civil servants could work securely from the offices of another part of the state sector, or even from home, under the new version of the government secure intranet (GSi) currently being installed.The first GSi, provided by Cable &amp; Wireless, opened in 1997: previously, departments wanting secure links for email and other data needed to establish dedicated connections. The first GSi replaced these with a common system, primarily for secure email.The contract ran to 2002, but was extended by a year following the terrorist attacks on the US of September 2001. "We decided it wasn't a good time," says Chris Illman, head of the GSi at the Office of Government Commerce (OGC) Buying Solutions agency, which buys goods and services for the state sector.Last year, however, the contract for the old system finally ended, and OGC procured a new version from Energis, a UK provider of network facilities to large companies and ISPs including Freeserve. GSi covers 140 organisations and nearly 300,000 civil servants, including Whitehall departments, most Scottish local authorities and a wide range of other public sector organisations.The new network went live on January 13, and the first users will be switched across this month. "We expect to finish by the end of the first quarter 2005," says Illman. "We hope end-users won't notice anything when they migrate."At least, not initially, but they might notice GSi's new features if their employer chooses them, such as the chance to work remotely. The old system requires dedicated fixed lines, whereas the new one can share a connection, use DSL broadband or even a dial-up connection. Illman says that remote working can provide a better quality of life for employees by reducing travel."That's the theory, but the cultural issues may be more difficult to solve than the technology ones," he concedes. Home working is not currently allowed on GSi, but Illman says organisations are asking for this restriction to be lifted. He says some security issues can be solved by using a home personal computer as a terminal, keeping all files and software on central computers, and giving access to a "virtual desktop" through a web browser. That leaves problems of physical security at home - such as whether screens can be overlooked - and health and safety issues. Even so, before now, remote working was not even an option for GSi users, and it may be boosted by the new system allowing video-conferencing from any connection, given the appropriate equipment.The new GSi also offers users a range of quality levels, as well as location. Organisations choose from voice - the best service, as a poor quality voice connection is of little use - gold, silver and bronze, the last being for the least urgent data. Customers can change their bandwidth requirements online at 24 hours' notice as long as no physical work is required, and their mix of quality levels within 72 hours.MessageLabs, which was subcontracted to provide anti-virus protection for the old GSi, will add filtering services including anti-spam and anti-pornography for the new GSi. (Energis also subcontracts managed hosting services to Fujitsu.) Other new applications will include a directory of all users, and a search facility.There are also options that could help join up government. Closed user groups will allow virtual private networks within GSi, linking, for example, solicitors in different organisations. Another option, due by the end of this year, is shared access to documents and whiteboards, the computer-generated equivalent of a blackboard where a touch-sensitive board allows users to "draw" on what is displayed on it by a projector."We're looking at people having the same view of a document, editing it online," says Illman. "With whiteboarding, people could scribble on a screen, and share it anywhere in the public sector. It lets people collaborate much more closely - they could have virtual meetings across the UK without leaving their offices."OGC is not prepared to discuss the software and hardware used within the new network, although it is all independently assessed against BS7799, the British standard for computer security, and the government information assurance policy by the pan-government accreditor. GSi contains several security levels, with the highest - known as xGSI - used by about 20 organisations including the Home Office, handling the most sensitive state data classified as confidential.The second tier, for organisations routinely handling restricted data, is known (confusingly) as GSI. A third tier, for those using some restricted data, is called GSX.New GSi adds a fourth level of GSU (government secure unrestricted). "It's for &#91;state-sector&#93; organisations who aren't able to handle protectively-marked information, but want to use GSi because it has good levels of security," says Illman. GSE (government supplier extranet) is a new service for commercial organisations with which the government exchanges information securely, such as payroll data.OGC reckons that an organisation taking exactly the same services from new GSi will save 10% compared with the old one. However, Illman says the first customers are actually spending more, buying more bandwidth and services. Energis' five-year contract, extendible to seven, is valued entirely by what users spend. It is usually stated as being worth &#163;40m, or &#163;8m each year, but "it could be twice that by year five, quite easily," Illman says.
Delay to e-headAndrew Pinder has offered to stay on as Britain's e-envoy for an extra three months while a head of e-government is appointed. Pinder revealed this week that the new appointee, scheduled to take over in April, would probably not be in the post before June or July. An advertisement for the new post, which will replace the e-envoy, appeared in newspapers at the weekend. It describes the role as "analogues &#91;sic&#93; to that of a CIO in a very large and diverse conglomerate". The slippage in timetable may be deliberate, as the appointment will now coincide with the summer's spending review. It will also strengthen rumours that the strongest internal candidate, NHS IT chief Richard Granger, is being lined up for the job.Spam bopperA small British company has launched BopSpam, a spam filtering service, which works with any POP3 mailbox. Users can take a 30-day free trial, after which they can sign up for a "lite" or full account at &#163;29.99 or &#163;49.99 a year, depending on the amount of traffic.www.bopspam.co.ukPicture risksDoctors are being told to think twice before using camera phones and picture messaging. The Medical Defence Union, the mutual legal defence fund for health professionals, has warned its members that photos can easily be sent to the wrong number, and says that patients must give consent before pictures are taken. It adds that images are part of the medical record. Fife Fire &amp; Rescue is using phones to send pictures to the local accident and emergency unit, to allow doctors to make a preliminary diagnosis. The technology is also being used to forward X-rays and pictures of skin conditions to consultants.www.the-mdu.comRFID offMetro Group, the German retail giant, has announced it will stop putting RFID (radio frequency identification) tags on customer loyalty cards, as reported here on February 19 (http://masl.to/?E53A11597). Metro spokesman Albrecht von Truchsess told AP: "With such an emotional debate going on, we said it's just not worth it."http://masl.to/?J54A22597Opening Java?IBM has written an open letter challenging Sun Microsystems to make the Java development environment open source. Rob Smith, IBM's president of emerging technology, claimed the move would "further enhance Java's position in the industry by spurring growth of new applications and encouraging new innovation in the Java platform". IBM is the leading backer of the Eclipse open source Java development platform which competes with Sun's NetBeans.http://masl.to/?L22153697Diet of wormsA plague of worms has been assailing users this week, with numerous variants of Bagle making their appearance. Bagle.C, D, E, F, G, H and I are all thought to be produced using developer kits designed to alter worm signatures to evade recognition by anti-virus software. A new variant dubbed Netsky.D also made an appearance. Anti-virus company F-Secure was horrified to find that Netsky.B had invaded its virus bulletin mailing list. A DTI report out next month will show that half of British companies, and 68% of large companies, have suffered from malware infection or denial of service attacks over the past year, with Blaster being by far the worst culprit.www.us-cert.gov/current/Workabout timePsion Teklogix is adding the Workabout Pro to its successful line of rugged handheld computers. The "highly customisable" machine comes in two versions, an entry-level monochrome model and one with a colour screen. The Workabout Pro runs Microsoft Windows CE.net on an Intel XScale processor and supports standard wireless technologies such as GSM/GPRS, Bluetooth and 802.11b Wi-Fi. It is designed for use in harsh environments and can withstand drops from four feet on to concrete. Systems should be available in June.http://masl.to/?T2A932597Taxed onlineDouble the number of taxpayers used the Inland Revenue's online tax-filing system for the 2002/3 tax year compared with the previous year, according to figures released last week. The Revenue received 689,264 tax returns online by this year's January 31 deadline - about one in seven of those who completed self-assessment forms. The number has increased from 324,710 for 2001/2, and 75,449 for 2000/01. The Revenue also accepted 390,034 online returns from tax accountants.
Say goodbye to unsightly politicians. New e-governance gets rid of liars, fixers and other known stains. This, more or less, was the selling point of e-politics.Just as the web would "disintermediate" the need for travel agents, journalists and estate agents, it would create a direct channel between citizens and public bodies. No more sordid deals: armed with facts, the public would choose policies of such rationality as to leave no room for argument.Well, politicians are still here. Some see this as a bad thing. The well-meaning but dangerous YourParty, for example, plans to field candidates who must obey outcomes of electronic referenda.Another point of view is that we should celebrate the survival of politics - and use e-tools to encourage it. According to a pamphlet published this week by the New Local Government Network, the place to start is local government.This is interesting. On the surface, local councils would be a good place to begin the abolition of politics. After all, only a minority of voters turn out in elections, and then mainly to blow a mid-term raspberry at Westminster. Technocrats and neo-liberals have long suggested that the only reason we need councils is to sign contracts to run public services. And doesn't the very word "government" sound ridiculous when coupled with Chipping Sodbury, or even Birmingham?Yet the pamphlet's author, Dr Perri 6, finds the Blair government still committed to local democracy. And, he says, you can't have democratic policy making without politics. "Community governance is not and never will be a sweet and sunny affair, in which everyone trusts everyone else, all information is shared. Policy-making is politics all the way down."And the name of the game is information. "A measure of distrust, secrecy, manipulation, proprietary control of information and the means of analysing it, and bargaining behind closed doors are essential to the process." The pamphlet examines digital tools available to help politicians stay ahead of the game. (Luckily for a report sponsored by Ordnance Survey, there is much evidence of the value of geographical information systems.)To date, such technology hasn't had much priority in councils' e-government efforts, which are mostly about putting services on the web by the 2005 deadline.Predictably, politicians in the US are more switched on. Dr 6 cites the CompStat policing intelligence system put to good use by New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani. A development of the system, CitiStat, collects standard format data to allow politicians to put non-performing officials on the spot.Dr 6 suggests our elected representatives should be unashamed about following suit. In defence of politics, he cites an argument as old as Aristotle but still relevant in the digital age: that politics is a recognition that different communities exist, and that differences between them can be resolved without violence. Grubby, but preferable to the alternatives.
The war on spam is hotting up. A flurry of announcements in the past 10 days from some of the wired world's biggest names - including Microsoft, Yahoo, HP and Sun - has raised the prospect that we may now see a fightback against junk mail.A variety of new schemes aim to reduce the amount of spam being sent, not by arming end users with more tools to filter it out, but by hampering spam's progress across the networks that make up the internet.At the moment, spam travels towards your inbox unchallenged until it meets your internet service provider's computers. Once there, it might be spotted and removed, if your ISP has appropriate, and effective, software. Otherwise, you download it and - unless you have a mail package capable of weeding out the rogue emails - it appears in your inbox.Even those of us hiding behind filtering systems see some splashes of the vast amounts of spam washing around the net. Spamhaus, a leading anti-spam organisation, claims to block around 9bn spams a day around the world. According to Microsoft, Hotmail - by itself - catches 3.5bn messages, and still some creep through.Even as filters become better, and more widely used, the sheer volume of spam ensures some breakthrough. Estimates suggest between 50 and 70% of all email - the exact amount depends on which part of the world you live in, with the US suffering most - is now junk.The new plan is to make the early part of spam's journey across the internet more testing. The rationale is that even a marginal increase in the hassle factor for spammers will make sending junk email much less attractive. Greg Olson, vice president of email software company Sendmail, explains: "As long as it is so cheap to propagate to a million people, and even though your message is of low quality, you're still going to find a few suckers. If it becomes very costly to propagate to a million people ... these things will all cost a lot. Getting three or four suckers won't pay for this any more."Sendmail is the company behind software that handles 70% of email sent across the internet, and it joined with Microsoft last week to announce an attempt to make email more secure. Olson says now is the time to act against spam at a fundamental level."Filtering, if you can get &#91;the success rate&#93; up to around 95%, is pretty good today," he says. "But spam is doubling in Europe every eight to 12 weeks, and with that kind of curve it isn't long before 95% just isn't good enough, because we'll still be getting 100 spams in our inboxes every day."The problem, he says, is that the internet's method for sending emails to their destination - called Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) - is too trusting. "Anyone who connects can send mail and the system trusts where it comes from," says Olson. "That was fine when the internet was primarily a research community, but it has become a much tougher neighbourhood since then."The big names' answer is to make SMTP less na&#239;ve. Sendmail, Microsoft, Yahoo and the others hope to do this by adding software on top of SMTP that forces emails to prove where they have come from. If they lie about their origins - using the "spoofing" method where a false From address is added to emails to mask the true identity of the sender - they can likely be dismissed as spam. And if they tell the truth, and that reveals they originate from a known spammer, a similar fate awaits them."Once we know, reliably, where mail is coming from, we can apply other measures to decide which mail we want to look at," says Sendmail's Olson. "So &#91;the concept of&#93; reputation is now useful."Spam is, to some degree, an individual definition - if you're interested in some kind of area, you might want to get commercial messages about that area. But other people might consider that spam. But if you know where it's coming from, you have the ability now not to accept."Although sharing similar technical characteristics, the new methods have a variety of names - "caller ID for email" in Microsoft's case, Domainkeys in Yahoo's, Sender Permitted From (SPF) in AOL's. As a common standard gains popularity, email systems will gradually switch to insisting, rather than merely asking, that email identify its origins.But will they work? Matt Whittingham, head of information services at MSN UK, is cautiously optimistic. "To use a Churchillian phrase," he says, "I think this is the beginning of the end. We will probably see the volume of spam continue to increase for the next six months, and then it may start to plateau as the technology becomes more sophisticated, and consumers become more aware. We should then start to see a decline in spam - a very big reduction - in around two years, but it will take a while for all of these measures to take effect."Enrique Salem, chief executive of the spam filtering company Brightmail, also hopes for improvement over a similar timescale, saying that a combination of the new measures, coupled with existing technologies such as his company's filtering system, will begin to bite. "We will make this go away in two years", he says.Some observers, however, are less confident. Steve Linford, who helps run Spamhaus, sees the recent flurry of announcements merely as moves by large corporations to protect their brands. "They're all based on the same thing, and it isn't a solution to stop spam, although it is often billed as that," he says. "All it stops is Hotmail, Yahoo, AOL's and other large domains being hijacked."When one of these systems is widely accepted - and the best system will be widely accepted - you won't get so much email claiming it's coming from MSN or Yahoo. You'll get spam purporting to be from much more obscure domains, so nothing will change."It's like telling thieves they can't come and raid your house in a Tommy Hilfiger T-shirt, because Tommy Hilfiger won't allow it any more, so if they want to raid your house they'll have to wear ordinary T-shirts."In particular, Linford is scathing about Microsoft's patented "caller ID for email" system, which he says bears only small technical   details from other, non-proprietary, anti spam systems. It will, he says, work with Microsoft Exchange email servers - but those servers have come under fire for being particularly vulnerable to hijacking from spammers.More broadly, says Linford, the real solution to spam will come when Microsoft makes its software more secure, and less vulnerable to the spammers' ruses. "All of the spam that you get, from virus infected machines, from open proxies and from exploits, all of it is coming from Windows machines," he says. "None of it ever comes at you from an Apple, or a Linux, or a Sun or any type of Unix. There is such a deep security problem in Windows, you can basically tell Windows what you want it to do, and it'll do it. You can send it an email saying 'trash your disk' and it'll happily do it."Microsoft is expected to launch a significantly more secure version of Windows in around two years and then, says Linford, "we will see a significant change in spam, because spam won't be able to use all these exploits. The whole world will be much more secure."But he warns that, even then, Windows users in the developing world will be unlikely to upgrade to the new system for some time. Spammers will continue to look for vulnerable machines in those countries, and keep their businesses going for years to come.Microsoft says it is responding to its well-publicised security woes. That major revision of Windows - codenamed Longhorn - is expected to be substantially more secure, including hardware security elements that are not possible today. And the company's chairman, Bill Gates, outlined a series of research projects to a security conference last week which have emerged from the company's Trustworthy Computing Initiative. "Over the past two years, we have made a lot of progress," he told the RSA conference in San Francisco.Stuart Okin, Microsoft UK's chief security officer, also points out that not all security problems are related to flaws in Microsoft's software. "If you take MyDoom as the classic example, it did not use any vulnerabilities in a Microsoft product. It was purely a human, social engineering technique - ie, you received an email, you thought was from a friend, you opened it, it ran a program and did all sorts of nasty things."And he says users can do a lot to improve the security of their machines, even using today's technology. "The message for consumers is very simple. When vulnerabilities are identified within Microsoft, or any products, because this is an industry-wide concern, it's vital their machine is kept up to date. Second, have a firewall installed and turned on. And the third part is having an anti-virus program installed."Linford, however, still sees Microsoft at the heart of the spam - and computer security - crisis. "We're really waiting for Microsoft to fix its operating system - that's the breakthrough," he says. "Everything else is marketing, pretending that it's being done for the good of users. It's really being done because the industry is screaming at Microsoft."
BroadbandBudget offersMajor broadband providers BT and Telewest have this week announced budget services targeted at light internet users. BT's &#163;19.99 per month Broadband Basic service offers download speeds at the standard 512kbps rate. However, it limits users to up to one gigabyte of data (or 200 MP3 tracks) per month. If users exceed that limit, they are charged &#163;4 extra for the next three gigabytes and another &#163;4 if they go over four gigabytes. Cable company Telewest is also debuting an inexpensive broadband service. Its 256kbps offering, which costs &#163;17.99 per month. Like BT's new service, it has a cap, although Telewest's ceiling of 750MB per day is significantly more generous. ISP PlusNet already offers its Home Surf 512kbps service for &#163;18.99 per month.http://www.telewest.co.ukwww.btopenworld.comNTL trialsNTL is testing broadband technologies that could eventually lead to connections running at a higher rate for a few hours or during certain times of the day. The firm is also testing technology that could charge by the amount of data downloaded. The cable firm says these are technology infrastructure trials to see how such options would integrate with its network, and there are no plans to introduce these facilities to customers. The story first appeared on &lt;A HREF="http://www.nthellworld.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.nthellworld.co.uk, an independent site on NTL. The firm has a policy of warning broadband users who repeatedly transfer more than 1GB of data a day, but has no formal cap on usage.Voiceover IPInternet service provider Tiscali is set to roll out a new series of services to its broadband subscribers including Voice over IP - a phone system that enables users to make calls via the net. The company claims that calls made using VoIP will work out significantly cheaper than those made via traditional phone networks. The service will debut in Italy in late summer, with a UK launch planned for the end of the year. Tiscali also hopes to offer its customers a video-on-demand service delivering movies and programmes over its broadband internet connections.www.tiscali.co.ukSmart PhonesEnter the faster messengerThe Sierra Wireless Voq Professional phone, a Microsoft Windows Mobile-based handset (so it features Pocket Internet Explorer, Outlook, Windows Media player etc), is to go on sale in the next few months. At first it looks like a traditional, if rather large, phone. Yet flip open its number pad and there's a Qwerty keyboard. Users are unlikely to smash the 30 words a minute barrier, but the domed keypads proved sturdy enough to halve the time it took this novice to bash out an email.The Voq's other trump card is its My Voq software, which fires up each time the keypad is opened. As soon as the user types a couple of keystrokes, the system offers access to a range of contacts, applications and even websites sharing those letters. Despite this, the phone is too chunky for the consumer market. However, the keypad, software and compatibility with both virtual private networks and enterprise email systems such as Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Notes should make it a hit with business users.www.voq.comMini marvelPanasonic is to launch what it is billing as the smallest smartphone to reach the market so far. Due in autumn, the X700 features the Symbian operating system (like the Sony Ericsson P900 and Nokia 6600) and the Series 60 interface, yet sports a clamshell design similar in size to the company's existing camera phones. The handset also features a 65k colour screen, VGA camera, POP3 email, Java and Bluetooth. The company says that the reduction in size has been achieved due to the phone featuring the new mini Secure Digital (SD) card slot, rather than the standard size SD slot found on rival handsets.www.panasonic.co.uk3G plus threeIn its biggest handset overhaul since its launch, UK 3G network 3 is to ship a trio of new phones. All boast the company's signature features of person-to-person video calling and video downloading/streaming. Retailing for up to &#163;199.99 with a contract, the NEC 616 is a replacement for 3's long-standing NEC e606.The clamshell-style model has all the facilities of its predecessor plus Bluetooth, GPS and a re-written user interface. The &#163;199.99 Motorola A925 is an updated version of the A920 phone that 3 made available at the end of last year. The new handset has a very similar set of features to the A920, including the Symbian operating system, yet features a slightly more contemporary design.Aimed at customers of 3's newly launched pay-as-you go market, the NEC e313 is a small handset with fewer facilities than previous 3 phones. It is expected to retail for around &#163;99.www.three.co.ukSoftwareOpenwave and MSNOpenwave, which provides software for more than half a billion mobile phones, is teaming up with MSN to offer Microsoft services on handsets. When Openwave's V7 software ships later this year, phone manufacturers will be able to integrate MSN features such as Hotmail and MSN Messenger into the new mobiles. Once users have logged into MSN services, they will instantly be able to see which of their friends and colleagues have their phones switched on via MSN Messenger, send and receive Hotmail email, or receive the latest sports and news via MSN alerts. Openwave claims that as many as seven of the top 10 phone manufacturers will deliver handsets featuring its V7 software this year.www.openwave.comwww.msn.comMP3sAiwa plays the fieldAiwa is to take on Apple and its forthcoming iPod mini MP3 player with a pair of smallish hard disk players - the HZ-WS2000 and the HS-DS2000. The pair both feature 2GB hard disks - enough for 36 hours of music - which is half the capacity of the iPod mini. The key difference between the two Aiwa players is that while the WS2000 is stylish and very thin for a hard disk-based player, the DS2000 features a rubberised edge and is aimed at sports enthusiasts. Aiwa has also unveiled a unique showerproof radio that can also play MP3s. All models will be in the stores next month.www.aiwa.co.ukHardwareEnhanced chipsServers and multimedia applications will run faster with the introduction of DDR2 (Double Data Rate) memory chips, an enhancement to the current generation. The new chips increase speeds from the current 400MHz to 533MHz and higher by producing a clearer signal at high speeds. DDR2 will not provide a memory upgrade for current systems because the technology requires a new chipset. DDR2 chips are already available but the supporting chipsets are not expected until the second quarter of this year.http://masl.to/?U17452697Stat of the week: Google remains a firm favourite in EuropeGoogle, the world's favourite search engine, is still keeping ahead of the pack despite all the Google-busting stories doing the rounds. Nielsen's ratings for January show Google had an audience of 55.6m in Europe - well ahead of MSN Search on 27.1m and Yahoo! Search on 12.6m. Google claimed 52 page visits per person against 12 for MSN.
Microsoft is now expected to produce Windows XP Reloaded, an interim version of Windows XP, by the end of this year. But the chances are that it will be a sort of do-it-yourself job, rather than a proper new release like, say, Windows 98 SE (Second Edition).It is also unlikely that the Matrix-inspired name will survive. Reloaded is just the project name inside Microsoft.Microsoft has previously denied that it will produce a new version of the standard XP operating system, but it does have a problem. Anyone who buys a new copy of Windows XP still gets the 1991 version, which is long out of date. XP handles this problem by offering to download updates even before you have installed it, but this is unlikely to impress the average buyer. Well, if you buy a new copy of XP, why should you have to download multiple megabytes of updates?This problem will become even bigger once Microsoft has released the massive Service Pack 2 (SP2) for XP, which is currently being tested for release this summer.There is, of course, a reason. When Microsoft releases a retail package, this has to be tested against millions of old PCs, many of them built without any consultation with Microsoft. Producing a system that copes with millions of cheap and sometimes barely compatible clones is a challenge. It requires a beta test involving hundreds of thousands of users. This takes a long time and is very, very expensive. It is not something you do if you can avoid it.There are no such problems with the OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) release of the XP code, which is shipped to manufacturers such as Dell, IBM and Toshiba. This is updated as Microsoft "slipstreams" improvements, bug fixes and patches to plug holes exploited by virus writers. But it doesn't have to run on millions of old machines, only on new ones.So, Microsoft's options are limited. The low-risk solution is to ship the 1991 version of XP, or something like it, with a separate CD that provides both SP2 and some new programs, such as Windows Media Player 10. This is likely to work correctly, and will save users heavy downloads, but will not be as simple to install.The high-risk option would be to ship the current OEM version without running a public beta test, and hope that there are not too many disasters.The Windows Reloaded team has to decide between these two options, or come up with a compromise that maintains XP's simple installation routine while incorporating as many bug fixes and/or new functionality as possible.Either way, bear in mind that this whole operation is not of much significance. With something like 150m PCs being sold per year, the OEM version of XP must be shipping more than 100m copies a year. By contrast, I would not expect XP Reloaded to ship more than about 5m copies a year. That is a big number by audio CD standards, but insignificant compared to XP's OEM sales.
Final Fantasy X-2PlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Square Enix/Electronic Arts&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The Final Fantasy series of role-playing games (RPG) is about as huge and epic as anything in the industry. So the arrival of a new game is always a big deal. There was scepticism from purists, as it departs from usual practice by being a continuation, two years on, of the Final Fantasy X story (which seemed to be conclusively finished).Again, you play as 19-year-old Yuna, but she has morphed into a scantily clad girl-band-babe. Accompanied by sidekicks Paine and Rikku, plus various members of the self-styled Gullwings, she flies around in an airship looking for spheres, which contain grainy videos.This bizarre-sounding plot (which makes perfect sense in the context of an FF game), enables the gameplay to be much less linear than predecessors. From the airship, you can choose from a huge number of missions, which involve exploration, puzzle-solving and frequent bouts of turn-based yet satisfying combat. The combat system is more understandable and responsive than ever.The latest FF boasts some of the best graphics seen on the PlayStation 2. The diversity of missions is breathtaking, and you even come across mini-games. The overall tone is much lighter: Yuna, Paine and Rikku engage in great banter with each other and those of the gloriously bizarre enemies and monsters that can talk.The game is large and will provide an enormously long gameplay experience. An essential purchase if you own a PS2 and enjoy RPGs.Steve BoxerEtherlords2PC, &#163;29.99 Nival/Dreamcatcher&#42;&#42;&#42;Turn-based card-collecting games like Magic the Gathering have always been a law unto themselves, but Etherlords made a brave stab at bringing them into the 20th century. Suddenly we had flashy graphics, pseudo-realtime battles and a sense of a complete single player game - rather than a tacked-on introduction to the multi-player experience.However, time has passed and what once felt flashy now looks mundane. Etherlords' graphics are often laughable - especially the way you lumber across the land riding crab-like monsters. You spy a battle in the distance, wobble closer, do a quick calculation to see if you have the right bag of spells to defeat him - only, suddenly the mega-crab is nowhere to be seen.Yet get into the action itself (the battles) and the game is as absorbing as ever. Buy and discover new spells and allies, and play them in different order to turn inferiority to victory. Games can and do last for hours. And, of course, there's still the multi-player game - huge and infinitely more entertaining.However, after the likes of Final Fantasy X-2, Etherlords2 is old news. Given the promise of the first game, it disappoints by merely being adequate. There is a lot to play but the formula looks tired and illogical. Pity.Mike AnderieszSpy Hunter 2PS2, Xbox, &#163;29.99, Midway&#42;&#42;A sequel to a remake of an 80s game, Spy Hunter 2 gives you the keys to the GT-8155 Interceptor. Although the average family would probably appreciate its ability to transform from super car to snowmobile to 4-wheel drive off-roader, this baby is strictly virtual. And initially at least, the action matches the hardware. It's all explosions and noise as you pilot your craft on tarmac and water.But sadly the baggage is brought along, too, namely repetitive tedium and limited longevity. The initial thrill of blasting baddies soon gives way to boredom. This is partly down to the bland level design and erratic difficulty curve, and partly due to the lifeless visuals.The water sections are particularly weak. Targeting enemies is unnecessarily hard, although there is satisfaction to be had when multiple shots hit home. The multiplayer options are limp, especially the drive and shoot choice. The addition of a female secret agent adds interest but Spy Hunter 2 is a deeply average title.Greg Howson
Imagine a world where a company was allowed to patent a crotchet or semi-breve, so no Mozart, no Beatles unless they paid the "owner" to use "their notes". Want to write a book, Shakespeare? Sorry, you will have to check all the words to see if they are owned by somebody else. Passed that hurdle, how about checking "phrases that depict loss or sorrow"?     No, that has been patented.Too silly for words? Quite right. This is why patenting software is illegal under European Law. But that has not stopped the European Patent Office (EPO) issuing 30,000 patents by using the weasel words "a computer implemented invention" that makes "a technical contribution in its inventive step".So, that's all right then, back to literature. Let's patent "phrases that depict loss or sorrow, printed with lead type using a Caxton press" - still daft, but it would pass an EPO-style test.But, why get excited? Computer programming is hardly music or literature even if the analogy is useful. There are many mundane reasons to: patenting gives power to multinationals to maximise profits, restricts innovation, increases cost to customers and stifles the nascent open source movement.In addition, there are clear risks associated with our rights and freedoms. A software industry, dominated by a small number of companies protected by a wall of patents permeating every aspect of our lives, will not be answerable to governments, let alone individual customers.Before starting a diatribe against Europe, the biggest supporter of software patenting is the UK Patent Office (UKPO), ably supported by the government. The UKPO and its patent lawyer friends have one interest - their profit - which they disguise by claiming to be supporting innovation and protecting Europe from the US.Who would be naive enough to fall for that one? Why, our New Labour government, working with UK personnel in the European Commission to ensure the gravy train continues.A UKPO consultation in 2000/1 that showed 80% of respondents against patenting was "re-interpreted". A petition - currently over 300,000 signatures representing thousands of companies - and lobbying by respected economists had no effect. Even a report by the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) saying patenting software stifles innovation was ignored. Arlene McCarthy MEP, the rapporteur for this directive, was deaf to all appeals and tried to characterise this mass opposition as extremists.However, when the directive reached the European Parliament last September, non-UK MEP's (with the UK Greens) pushed through a raft of amendments that made software patenting illegal.The Council of Ministers was immediately lobbied (the UK again) to reject the decision and send back a directive that is even more rooted in patenting software. If successful, the UKPO will have defeated the will of the European Parliament.
Ahead of our timeSean Dodson (Tailored Television, February 26) says that viewers begin to "time shift" programmes. Begin? I've been doing this for more than 20 years - hasn't everybody? As Mike McLoughlin says (Feedback, February 26), a (VHS) video cassette recorder (VCR) is good enough. It already lets you set the timer for repeated weekly or daily episodes, with Programme Delivery Control (PDC) taking care of late starts or finishes. And with an E300 tape I can record 10 hours on each VCR when I go away - not 20 hours, but, again, good enough. I shall not be paying through the nose for the marginal advantages of a digital recorder any time soon - and certainly not until the assorted formats have shaken out. Years ago, just think, I might have bought a Betamax or even a Philips-system VCR!Ian LeslieLudlowIn complete controlMike McLoughlin missed the point. If the shiny new boxes did simply do what his VCR does, he'd be right. But they don't. His VCR will tape up to three hours of a programme he has manually set it to record. My TiVo creates a virtual channel containing around 60 hours of programming created automatically from general instructions I give it ("Record everything with Phil Jupitus in it"; "Record any brand new episodes of The Simpsons"; "Make sure you always have at least one episode of Father Ted available at all times").Whenever I sit down in front of the TV, I have a choice of dozens of programmes that I know I will enjoy. I suspect McLoughlin simply uses his VCR to tape things while he is out. If you can live with the picture quality of VHS, that's fine. But PVR users are doing something different: they are taking control of the TV schedule - and eliminating ads - from their viewing. Well worth the money.Stuart AndertonShepton MalletAnalogue answerThe praise for PVRs fails to answer some important questions. I frequently find that programmes of interest come in clusters, typically three or four, with timings wholly or partly overlapping. Analogue allows the use of multiple video recorders. Is there a simple way that digital PVRs using terrestrial channels can overcome this? I am not impressed with my experience of terrestrial digital channels. The lack of PDC creates many difficulties and the design of digital text pages is a mixed blessing.R G SilsonTring, HertsDisconnectedStuart Maconie (Talk Time, February 26) insists that he used to edit the Q Magazine internet column, and considers himself an "early adopter" and indeed a "tech enthusiast". In the same article he explains that he cannot link his Airport Base Station to his laptop, does not seem to be aware that the Apple Music Store is not yet available to users outside North America, and, bizarrely, is unable to delete email from his mail application. I am aware he claims to be a comedian, but surely this is going too far.Andrew ConnellBounce irritantDamian Jennings (Feedback, February 26) seems to think that anti-virus bouncebacks are non-commercial and hence should not be referred to as spam. In fact, bouncebacks are de facto commercial since they state "&#91;this commercial AV program&#93; has detected a virus in your email, please consider upgrading your AV program &#91;nudge, hint&#93;". Seems to me that since bouncebacks almost always go to the wrong recipient (a spoofed email address), they are also unsolicited and therefore meet all the requirements for the definition of spam. It's about time AV vendors realised they are adding to the mass-mailer virus problem rather than solving it.Mike HaleLeedsTrain translationThe German railways' travel planner is also available in English athttp://reiseauskunft.bahn.de/bin/query.exe/en, or seewww.bahn.de/pv/view/int_guest/services/french_italian.shtmlfor the links to the French and Italian versions. Why does it only seem to be those in Europe who remember that not everyone speaks their own language?Elliot HermanPoor soundRyan Taylor (Feedback, February 26) makes a good point about re-ripping protected Windows Media Audio (WMA) files as MP3s for the iPod. Thing is, it also produces a noticeable drop in sound quality - an unfortunate side effect of re-encoding digital music. The WMA files that Coke Music (and all the other OD2 sites sell) are not great quality in the first place, so by re-ripping WMA, you really are going a long way from cherished "near-CD quality".Adam VaughanLondon W1Sky plugs BeebI thought I had got rid of pop-up ads using Safari under Mac OS X, but now I find that Google is placing ads down the side of the Sky News website. One is even for BBC News!Tom MorrisLondon SE18
"The SCO Group has filed suit against Memphis-based auto parts chain AutoZone for violating SCO's Unix copyrights through its use of Linux," reports theIDG News Service.
Moscow-based anti-virus company Kaspersky Labs has pointed outherethat the recent rush of variants of the Bagle, MyDoom and Netsky viruses include messages aimed at each other:"Netsky.C" we are the skynet - you can't hide yourself! - we kill malware writers (they have no chance!) - [LaMeRz--&gt;]MyDoom.F is a thief of our idea! - -&lt; SkyNet AV vs. Malware &gt;- -&gt;-&gt;"Netsky.F" Skynet AntiVirus - Bagle - you are a looser!!!!And in the answering shots:"Mydoom.F" to netsky's creator(s): imho, skynet is a decentralized peer-to-peer neural network. we have seen P2P in Slapper in Sinit only. they may be called skynets, but not your shitty app."Bagle.I" Hey, NetSky, fuck off you bitch, don't ruine our bussiness, wanna start a war ?"Bagle.J" Hey, NetSky, fu** off you bitch!Eugene Kaspersky, Head of Anti-Virus Research at Kaspersky Labs, says: "It's hard to imagine a more comical situation: a handful of virus writers are playing unpunished with the Internet, and not one member of the Internet community can take decisive action to stop to this lawlessness. The problem is not that no-one wants to change the situation, but that the current architecture of the Internet is completely inconsistent with information security."
"Back in August of 2002 I helped found Gizmodo, the gadgets weblog. It was a labor of love, but never intended as more than a part-time freelance job. After nineteen months I've decided to take a risk and launch a new site that will let me do what I want: Blog about gadgets full-time. In partnership with The Weblogs Inc Network (WIN), I've launched Engadget(www.engadget.com), where I'm already posting obsessively about everything exciting on gadgets and personal technology."
An accounts clerk was jailed for five years yesterday for amassing and obsessively filing and categorising Britain's largest known collection of child pornography.Andrew Tatam, 34, downloaded almost half a million "vile" images as compulsively as a train spotter, according to his own defence lawyer at Lincoln crown court.Tatam, of Moulton, near Spalding, Lincolnshire, admitted collecting 495,524 indecent images of children as part of a huge pornographic database. Denying that Tatam was a paedophile, his barrister Alexander Milne said in mitigation that the pictures made up only a tiny fraction of the database."He vacuumed up porn month in, month out, over a period of years," said Mr Milne, estimating that up to 20m images had been stored on Tatam's two computers at work and in the house he shared with his girlfriend."His attitude is almost that of a train spotter. But he is not a man who poses a menace to those around him. He has been vilified in the press. He has no interest in sex with children."But Judge Michael Heath told Tatam: "Plainly, you had an interest in child pornography and it was downloaded intentionally. I cannot fail to take notice of the phenomenal number of images in this case. Those images were utterly vile and horrendously exploitative of children."Tatam began collecting the images in late 1997. Police raided his home in 2002 after his credit card details were found on a US website.Detectives taking part in the national Operation Ore search for internet paedophiles said that the cache was the largest collection yet unearthed.The pictures included images of babies involved in sex acts with adults, said Jonathan Kirk, prosecuting. Other pictures were found on a bedside table at Tatam's home.He was ordered to sign the sex offenders' register.
The May 2000 deal to rescue the Rover car plant at Longbridge was hailed as saving thousands of jobs in the Midlands. The new owners, a consortium named Phoenix, paid BMW a symbolic &#163;10, for which it received the Longbridge plant and assets worth around &#163;1bn, including 40,000 unsold cars, cash and a huge interest-free loan. The quartet of executives behind Phoenix - John Towers, Nick Stephenson, John Edwards and Peter Beale - were praised by both government and the unions involved, especially for their scheme to distribute shares in the new company, MG Rover, to its workers and car dealers.But the optimism of four years ago has long disappeared. The deal now appears to have been a dire fudge. Designed to extract BMW and the government from a public relations nightmare of mass redundancies, the result so far has enriched the executives, known as the "Phoenix four". Since the takeover in May 2000, the company's directors have awarded themselves &#163;31m in pay and benefits, while at the same time erecting a complex structure of holding companies and share ownership that makes a mockery of good corporate governance. In doing so, the valuable and profitable parts of Rover - including a castle in Warwickshire - have been ringfenced off from the loss-making car manufacturing operation, creating a solvent private empire, as an investigation by the Guardian has revealed. This showed the Phoenix four could be richer by &#163;70m if the car plant was to close.In the heady days of 2000, Mr Towers pledged that the car-maker would be in profit within two years. Yet, two years further on, profits are still nowhere to be seen, while MG Rover car sales plummet and industry analysts begin to doubt if the company will ever be able to build a new model at Longbridge.True, the Phoenix four did distribute shares to the 5,000 workers at Longbridge and the network of car dealers responsible for selling Rovers to the public. But that gift horse had no teeth. Phoenix created four classes of shares, and distributed A, B and C class shares to the workers, dealers and other managers respectively. Yet, while these make up 60% of the total equity, they hold no rights. Their owners cannot even attend the company's annual meetings or vote for directors. Instead, 100% of the power belongs to the class D shares, which are exclusively held by Messrs Towers, Stephenson, Edwards and Beale. Further, the second-class shares will only pay a dividend if MG Rover itself shows a profit. Sadly, the financial re-engineering the Phoenix four have undertaken all but ensures that will never happen.The Phoenix four say the restructuring has taken place to benefit the whole company. If they are sincere, then they could remove all doubt by granting the A, B and C class shares the same rights and powers as their own shares, and allow elections for independent directors to the board. That would settle any suspicions about whose interests any financial gerrymandering has taken place.But assuming that does not happen, the buck is passed to the institutions that allowed Phoenix's sweetheart deal. The Transport and General Workers Union must seek to protect the jobs at Longbridge, by making a legal challenge on behalf of its disenfranchised members. BMW, which is desperate to stay out of the spotlight, should examine the terms of the &#163;427m interest-free loan it gifted the company, and consider withdrawing it. The Department of Trade and Industry must get actively involved, to ensure that the events at Longbridge do not jeopardise the government's investment in both the region and the industry. Finally, the other senior managers at MG Rover, especially chief executive Kevin Howe, should stop holding their noses and start holding their bosses to account.
Consumer electronics group Psion yesterday promised a return to the dividend list this year if the controversial &#163;136m sale of its stake in mobile phone software maker Symbian goes through.Psion said last month it was planning to sell its 31% holding in Symbian to Finnish group Nokia, which already has 30%. Other Symbian shareholders, however, including rivals to Nokia in the handset market, have expressed concern about the deal, which must have approval from both shareholders and regulators.Psion said pre-tax losses had fallen to &#163;4.6m last year, against &#163;14.8m the year before. Turnover from continuing businesses rose 4.5% to &#163;129m. The group did suffer from the weakness of the US dollar but the economic background was improving. Psion is expected to receive the first tranche of cash for the Symbian stake -some &#163;93.5m - this summer."Assuming the Symbian disposal is completed, the board intends to resume the payment of dividends in the 2004 financial year," Psion said.
"When I picked that thing up I knew it was a dog -- it just feels stupid," said [John Riccitiello, president and chief operating officer of Electronic Arts Inc] in an interview at the Reuters Technology, Media and Telecommunications Summit in New York. He then mimicked how a person playing a game would have trouble answering a phone call with the bulky taco-shaped device."Electronics Arts, the world's biggest video games maker, offers around five game titles for the N-Gage, but Riccitiello said unit shipments have been 'non-meaningful'," reportsReuters.
"The XBOX 2 SDK has been seeded to developers on dual Apple Power Mac G5 systems running a custom Windows NT kernel. The Apple Power Mac G5 is based upon two of IBM's 64-bit Power PC processors and features ATi RADEON 9800 Pro (R350) graphics. However the R350 is believed to be an interim solution and will, in due course, be superseded by the forthcoming ATI R420," saysThe Inquirer.Comment: Next questions: will the Xbox hackers be able to take a $299 console and run OS X on it, and will it be faster than a $2,500 Mac?
Meet thepPod....
The biggest publishers of scientific journals last night defended their huge profits, in front of MPs, against the rising challenge of new "open access" internet publishing.Crispin Davies, chief executive of Reed Elsevier; Robert Campbell, president of Blackwell Publishing; Richard Charkin of Nature Publishing and Dr John Jarvis, senior vice president of Wiley, Europe, all claimed that academic institutions would suffer if the system was changed.They were facing critical questions from the Commons science and technology committee under Dr Ian Gibson, Labour MP for Norwich North, about overcharging for journals and having a monopoly over publications. MPs were also pressing them about the challenge from free articles available on the internet - which are paid for by the authors.Mr Davies described as "absolute rubbish" the idea that he did not want an inquiry "pushed by embittered academics" by MPs into this new form of publishing.He told MPs that his company was making a gross profit of 34% and putting up prices by only between 6 and 7.5% every year.But he said his real profit was nearer 17% - and that he was putting &#163;100m a year into the development of Science Direct - a new internet subscription site - that allowed academics to access the latest results.All the publishers warned that if the system changed it would mean lower standards, the end of peer review and scientists having to rely on patronage from their universities - since it could cost up to &#163;30,000 to publish each paper. Mr Campbell and Mr Davies said that institutions such as Oxford, Yale, Stanford and Imperial College, London, would be faced with huge bills to subsidise their staff so they could publish their work.Mr Davies also defended the editor of the Lancet over his decision to publish the controversial paper on the MMR vaccine - saying he received written assurances from Dr Andrew Wakefield, its author, that he had no conflict of interest over the link between the vaccine and autism. He revealed the Lancet was considering withdrawing the article altogether.
A revolutionary new radio service that allows listeners to download music they hear at the click of a button is about to be launched by the owners of Classic FM.Listeners will be able to download to a CD burner or a portable player such as the Apple iPod as part of the new "hear it, buy it, burn it" service.All listeners have to do is tune into their GWR station - either Classic or any of their local stations - via a digital set or the internet and register for the service. They then click on a button marked "buy" and legally download a CD-quality copy of the track.Music tracks can then be saved to a computer hard drive, burned onto a CD or transferred to a portable MP3 player.The move is just the latest in a series of developments that are transferring the power to consumers who have been bypassing retailers for years through illegal services such as Napster - now legal - and more recent services set up by the record labels whose profits are now facing a major threat from the internet.It is being developed by Creation, the programming division of GWR, which has teamed up with OD2, the digital music download service founded by former Genesis frontman Peter Gabriel, to develop the new service.The company plans to share the technology with other radio stations and Creation's digital content manager, Nick Piggot, said it was already in negotiations with rival stations to sub-license the technology."We want to demonstrate a certain level of demand to persuade digital radio manufacturers that this is a viable business model. This should appeal to any radio station that wanted to capitalise on the ability for radio to capture impulse purchasing," said Mr Piggot.Emap and Capital, in particular, are likely to be interested in taking up the technology for stations aimed at younger audiences.The idea will also tie in with record company moves to release songs as downloads as soon as they begin to be played on the radio as part of a campaign to reinvigorate the singles charts.Mr Piggot said that, although the idea was in its infancy, it offered record companies struggling to cope with an avalanche of illegal download services and plummeting sales the chance to promote their records directly to the buying public.And it would also offer direction to consumers bewildered by the choice available through online download services, he claimed."We're delighted to be working with GWR on this groundbreaking new project. Providing radio listeners with the ability to download their favourite songs as they hear them is a big step forward," added Charles Grimsdale, who co-founded OD2 with Gabriel.Record companies and technology firms are increasingly working on ways to deliver music directly to customers in an effort to attract users away from unreliable illegal download services.Mobile company O2 recently launched a mobile phone capable of downloading tracks to an inbuilt player, while BSkyB is also believed to be looking at ways of allowing subscribers to download songs to their set-top box and transfer them to digital players while watching music channels.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Almost half of office staff have sent an email to the wrong person by mistake, often with disastrous consequences, according to a report out today. One young woman sent a highly explicit message meant for her boyfriend to her line manager, while another forwarded a rant against a company boss to the man himself instead of to a friend.Research among 500 office staff by recruitment firm Pertemps also showed that two out of three had copied people into an email message list by mistake.Workers were urged to check their emails in a bid to avoid calamities such as those in the survey, including a new business co-ordinator who attached the wrong file to a group email of more than 80 new business prospects. Rather than the corporate video she had intended, a film showing two rabbits mating was sent instead.Others who accidentally clicked the sent button too soon included a job-seeker who sent an email boasting about the elaborate lies on his CV - to the HR director of the company he had just applied to, and an office worker who sent an email outlining the finer details of a decadent weekend to her entire department, instead of the friend she had meant it to go to.Tim Jones, of Pertemps, said: "There's no doubt that email has made business communications quicker and easier, but carelessness can turn it into an office worker's worst nightmare."There is ample scope to cause a lot of embarrassment and even damage your reputation, so it pays to think before you press the send key."
