Founded:2006Staff:6Funding:£500,000 from HowzatTrustedPlaces combines the prerequisite Web 2.0 features of recommendation, ranking and mapping with interesting twists such as a venue guide. The result is a far more usable and social version of similar ideas that went before.Founders Sokratis Papafloratos and Walid Al Saqqaf are regulars on the London tech part scene, but their dedication to their work has already cost them both their girlfriends.The site started in May 2006 and officially launched last September, securing half a million pounds in venture money and expanding to a full-time team of six. The success of the site lies in its simplicity: easy to search, easy to contribute to and easy to scale up – which is exactly what they plan to do.Jemima KissVisit:TrustedPlaces.com
Founded: 1999Staff: 70Backing:Undisclosed funding from Balderton CapitalTouch Local is trying to bring two of the oldest tools in commerce - word of mouth recommendation and local business directories - together with one of the hottest online trends, social networking.The company, spun out of business to business publisher Touch Group and backed by Bebo financier Balderton Capital (formerly Benchmark) has been producing online directories in UK towns and cities for eight years. From its origins in Nottingham, Touch Local now covers 114 cities and expects sales of about £8m this year.But the interesting part of the company's plan is its new beta site Touch Life. In look at feel it is like any other social networking site, but its aim is to allow users to recommend local shops and services.Recommendation sites have been tried before by companies such as dooyoo, but it is the localised element of Touch Local plus its revenue model that makes this one to watch. It makes its money from the businesses in its directories - and also helps them with search engine optimisation - rather than by plastering its site with adverts. In theory, Touch Life's users should also generate leads for the classified sales team through their recommendations.There are plenty of challenges to the company: Yell could expand its Yell.com site into a community, or Google could open up its Maps service so search results carry more than just reviews published elsewhere on the web. Either could squash Touch Life. It also needs to get a large enough user base to make Touch Life viable. But it is definitely one to watch.Visit:TouchLocal.com
Founded:2006Staff:5Funding:Undisclosed private investmentA property search engine, OnOneMap uses a simple-to-use interface on top of the Google Maps engine to create a versatile and intuitive way of finding houses for sale or rent.While there are a number of similar players in the market – such as Nestoria.com and London property search Zoomf.com – it is OnOneMap's easy approach that makes it stand out.The map-based property searching is fast, allowing to quickly focus in on a particular suburb, neighbourhood - or even an individual street. It is also being continually updated with widgets that let you see where the local schools, supermarkets and mobile phone masts are.Put together by serial entrepreneur and PR man Philip Sheldrake, the service has had rave reviews from users and plenty of good will: a run-in with the Environment Agency over flood data also garnered a mention in the Guardian's Free Our Data campaign.Visit:OnOneMap.com
Founded:2003Staff:18Funding:$10m from Accel Partners, Index Ventures and NewMedia SparkThe oldest company on our list at the venerable age of four, MindCandy is one of a select new wave of London tech companies to attract significant venture funding, pulling in $10m since it started.MindCandy's first property was Perplex City, an intricate and innovative treasure hunt that crossed from the web to print to real life. Building on the success of TV programmes such as Lost, which have been supported by extensive "alternative reality" conspiracy games online, the company hopes to make an impact in a fast-growing area.Chief executive Michael Smith, 35, now heads a company of 18 full-timers with an increasing reputation for excellence. Its second web-based virtual world launches this September, aimed at 7-12 year olds and described as Club Penguin meets Tamagotchi.Visit:MindCandy.com
Founded:2005Staff:15Backing:£9m funding from 3i and Doughty Hanson, plus private investmentThe idea of an online identity company might not be as sexy as some of the other startups on the list, but with privacy one of the online topics du jour, there is a certain allure about two-year-old Garlik.The website allows web surfers to manage their identities, keep track of their online activities and watch their credit rating. It is fast becoming a one-stop shop for the information that people often know exists, but don't know how to access.The time may be ripe for such a concept: Britain's privacy watchdog, the Office of the Information Commissioner, has been on the warpath regarding lax privacy practices around the commercial world, and online banking security is an industry ripe for change.Not only that, but chairman and founder Mike Harris has a CV packed to the brim with revolutionary businesses: he also founded internet bank Egg, telephone banking service First Direct and telecoms firm Mercury, which was among the first to challenge BT's monopoly.The company's list of advisers reads like a who's who of Britain's identity and web experts: Sir Tim Berners-Lee, British Computer Society chief Nigel Shadbolt and Privacy International lobbyist Simon Davies among them.Visit:Garlik.com
Founded:2006Staff:6Backing:Undisclosed private investmentThe market for property search engines is starting to get crowded, as new Web 2.0 sites try to PropertyFinder and Rightmove. But a few companies stand out from the morass, including London-based Extate.Built by two PhD candidates at Imperial College, Russian-born Artemi Krymski and Douglas de Jager, Extate bills itself as a search engine that understands property.Like Google, which crawls the web for information rather than waiting for it to be pushed in its direction, Extate uses search technology that actively patrols estate agent websites and brings the information back. Krymski believes he has a highly intelligent system that can drill deeper into the web than most search engines; and hopes that he can soon spread it out beyond property and on to the rest of the web.Right now the site covers listings in UK and South Africa, and the duo have brought in a sequence of Imperial bods to bolster the team and spread their wings even further.Visit:Extate.com
Founded:2007Staff:5Backing:Undisclosed private investmentIt started as a tool for a small number of friends who spent a lot of time on the road, but now Dopplr is billing itself as a full social networking site for frequent travellers.The service lets you keep track of your friends and colleagues and find out where they will be and when – perfect for international jet setters and people who spend a lot of time on the road. Still nascent (it's currently in an invitiation-only beta trial) Dopplr's creators have a lot of plans in mind: hooking in to travel websites, carbon offsetting programmes and white labelling could all be on the cards.Although the brainchild of Finnish designer Marko Ahtisaari (who now works for another startup, mobile advertising network Blyk) the site has strong British credentials, with former BBC web wunderkinds Matt Jones and Matt Biddulph also among the founders.The team are aware that they are in danger of being crushed by larger sites – and so are happy to push Dopplr's systems out into other heavyweight services like Facebook – but with travel and social networking two of the web's hottest and most profitable properties, investors may soon be scrabbling to get a piece of the action.Visit:Dopplr.com
Experts have warned that the new breed of TV download services may leave some web surfers struggling to cope with slow internet connections.Services such as Channel 4's 4oD, the BBC iPlayer and Sky Anytime allow users to download TV programmes and watch them on their computers. But many consumers are unaware that the system continues to send files to and from a computer even when the program appears to have been closed.Ian Fogg, a broadband analyst with Jupiter Media, said this could drastically reduce the speed of some viewers' internet connections. When testing the BBC iPlayer software, for example, his colleagues found that their web surfing slowed to a crawl - even though they had closed the application."It's coming across quite underhand, and the consumer has no visible way of switching it off," he said. "Many will notice that their internet connections may be running slower, but will not necessarily know why."Mr Fogg said the issue could also affect users who have limits on the amount of material they can send and receive each month. Some users may incur financial penalties from their internet service provider for breaking the terms and conditions for using their broadband connection."It is interesting that other peer-to-peer programs such as Skype and Joost - which do not behave in this way - have come from people who understand how the internet works," he said. "These guys are broadcasters, and they don't necessarily have the same understanding."While it is normal for peer-to-peer applications to upload material from a host computer as well as to download to it, most enable users to close down transmissions from their machine. So-called "leeching" is not possible on iPlayer, 4oD or Anytime, however. All three systems use a piece of legal filesharing software called Kontiki.Channel 4 has admitted that its 4oD system continues to distribute content even when the program appears to have been closed down. The company said the 4oD website makes it clear how the system works."4oD relies on the concept of 'background download' to deliver content, which means the user can be doing other things, perhaps away from the PC, while the download occurs. The reason we do not close the program completely when the visible part of 4oD is closed is to allow any active downloads to complete without interruption.A spokesperson for Sky said the platform was the most effective way of providing consumers with content within a model that makes the service widely accessible, and said the company had received "little negative feedback" over the issue.A spokeswoman for the BBC said users did not have the option to switch the iPlayer's upload service off."This is a fundamental component of the BBC iPlayer's peer-to-peer functionality, the most effective large-scale distribution technology that delivers programmes quickly to your computer."Mr Fogg admitted that such download services were early in their development and breaking new ground, but said the issue could be resolved."The good thing is that this is a very easy fix. There just needs to be some way to disable it fully."
Drax power station. Photograph: John Giles/PAOn the main site today, we're looking at somenew technologies which could help reduce the impact of carbon emissions- so called 'carbon scrubbing' systems which purify the air and could counteract the rise in CO2.The article details two systems which, if they could be further developed, might win Richard Branson's $25m Virgin Earth Challenge and potentially save the planet. Fromthe story:David Keith, an environmental scientist at the University of Calgary, has built a prototype device which does precisely this; sucking air into one end of a five-metre high vertical tower and pumping it out at the other end with 30% less CO2 in it.Inside the tower the air is sprayed with droplets of a sodium hydroxide solution, which absorbs CO2 gas. This produces a solution of sodium bicarbonate, or baking soda. By adding calcium oxide - also known as lime - the sodium hydroxide can be recovered for reuse. This lime is then also recovered, again for reuse, by heating the resulting calcium carbonate - which finally leaves just the CO2.The concept is fairly straightforward chemistry - and it's appealing if, like me, you are sceptical of the impact of carbon offsetting. The idea could even mean that a handful of nations could work unilaterally to clean up the atmosphere, bypassing some of the politics that dog the issues surrounding climate change.But the challenge, of course, is not just to create - but to make it work on a large scale. Is there a way to make it work on a global scale? Or are these just pipe dreams?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
The boom is back. In Britain, the internet doldrums took a long time to disappear – but in recent years the startup buzz is back in the air and fresh ideas are starting to blossom.Driven by the surge of Web 2.0 sites and the widespread penetration of broadband, Britain's dot economy is growing fast and – for now at least – there are no real signs of a bust on the horizon.While analysts are quick to note Britain's dot economy resurgence, it is clear they are being more conservative than in the late 1990s.According to a recent report from industry intelligence analysts, Library House, €1.8bn (£1.2bn) was invested by venture groups in software and IT companies across Europe in 2006, with the lion's share of 31% - €558m – going to British groups. The figures are expected to be marginally lower in 2007, as investors try to avoid an overheated market.But things are looking good. Earlier this summer, Last.fm the pioneering music service, sold itself to American radio network CBS for $240m. The deal netted founders Richard Jones, Martin Stiksel and Felix Miller a cool £19m each and underlined the value of British internet business in a way that the country's internet entrepreneurs hadn't seen for a long time."It's a much healthier environment now than 10 years ago, when people often didn't consider business models at all," says Stiksel. "I think innovation is a basic requirement, and you have to keep it up – but business is important. Because we never had funding to start off with, we have to make a business case from the beginning with everything we did."Britain's dotcom scene is also interesting for its distinct lack of "me-too" websites – copycats of successful services (often from Silicon Valley) that spring up looking for cash. Whereas continental entrepreneurship is littered with imitations of American services (translating an existing concept into German) businesses in the UK are fully aware that rip-offs don't cut the mustard when you already speak the same language.Stiksel advises companies to follow their own path, even if they're aware of what copycats may be doing or are drawn towards the latest fads."You tend to be derivative if you spend too much time looking at the competition. You just end up adding the latest thing to your site," he says. "In fact, the UK is the perfect place for this, because you're a bit further outside… you can stay focused on what you need to do."So what are Britain's best dotcoms? We took some time to look at the independent internet companies making a noise in the UK, and came up with a list of 10 that points to where things are headed. Some of them you may have heard of already, while others may be new to you.Drawing up the list was difficult. After all, what determines if something is a dotcom? In these days of multimedia convergence, it doesn't need to be solely based on the web, and the history of internet startups conjures up the idea of a labour of love run on a shoestring budget in a garage or bedroom. But, as we discovered, some of the most interesting operations on the scene are put together by industry veterans on their third or fourth company.Wherever the line in the sand was drawn, we tried to find services that might hit the big time in the next year or two, and kept away from the massive names that have already been covered in depth. That's why, for example, companies like Joost - the internet video player started by Skype founders Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis - wasn't included.Of course, no list is definitive and there will always be new surprises. Indeed, there is a new generation of fresh companies working in areas like identity, profile management and finance that we could not include; time will tell which ones will stick and which will disappear.But all of the companies on the list have one thing in common: they are establishing themselves as innovative or interesting in their respective fields.Our top 10 (in alphabetical order)DopplrSocial networking for frequent travellers.ExtateIntelligent search of property websites.GarlikOnline identity management.MindCandyAlternate reality gaming.MooPrint on demand: cards, notes and stickers.OnOneMapMap-based property search.Touch LocalLocal directory services.Trusted PlacesUser-created local information.ZopaPeer to peer lending.ZubkaRecruitment 2.0.What do you think? Did we forget a startup you love? Are there others you would have added to the list?Tell us who your tips for the topare on the Guardian'sTechnology Blog.
Facebook isn't the world's biggest social networking website, but it already has 30 million users and is signing up 150,000 new ones every day. And, for once, they are almost all real people, operating under their real names.Stupidity is usually the norm online - because people are anonymous, their presence is transitory and they have nothing to lose. On Facebook, though, your actions are visible to your friends, colleagues and the members of your network. And they are permanent: there is no practical way to delete your involvement, and Facebook won't do it for you. So you need to act smarter and be nicer than you really are.Social networking has been around for a while with sites such as Friendster, LinkedIn and Google's Orkut. Facebook works the same way. First, you sign up and create a profile page with personal details, likes and dislikes, contact information and a photo. Then you start adding friends by finding people you know.Most people also join a network, which initially would have been a university or college (Facebook started at Harvard). These days it could be a company or organisation, a city or a region. Microsoft's network, for example, has more than 17,000 members, and you must have a Microsoft email address to join. London recently eclipsed Toronto as the biggest city, with more than 730,000 members. There are also thousands of topic groups that anyone can start and anyone can join.You keep in touch with what your friends are doing by reading the News Feed on your profile. Its mostly trivial stuff - what Alice wrote on Bill's page, which group Colin joined, the movie Debbie added to her list of favourites, the application Eric installed, the photo Fred uploaded, and so on. But it can be useful.Facebook makes it easy to find people and communicate with them. It ranks people by proximity (friends, friends of friends, people in the same network or region and so on). It has a messaging inbox that works like a cross between email and instant messaging, which is easy to use and spam free. It lets you publish notes and import posts from your blog, and there's a rudimentary free classified advertising service, too.Facebook also lets you tag and share photographs - and it's biggr than Flickr, the pioneering photo sharing site. According to Facebook, it has 1.7 billion photos, and more than 60 million are added every week.So, think of it as a useful combination of Friends Reunited, a people-finder, contacts book, mail, messaging, conferencing, blogging, Flickr, and a potential Craigslist, all in one place.And it's going to get better. In May, Facebook opened up an interface that enables other people to develop applications. There are already more than 2,000. Most are simple widgets, such as cartoons, famous quotations, local weather and mini-games, but more powerful ones are on the way.Social networking sites tend to rise and fall with the vagaries of fashion. Facebook probably has enough practical value to survive. With one or two "killer apps," its power could eventually rival Google's.
It is a technology which may just save the planet: a machine capable of scrubbing carbon dioxide from the air, potentially halting global warming and returning the atmosphere to its former glory.The prize for creating such a machine is not only worldwide fame, but also vast wealth - thanks in part to a $25m bounty put up by Sir Richard Branson. But with engineers around the world scrambling to build a planetary-sized air purifier, several researchers think they may already have the answer.David Keith, an environmental scientist at the University of Calgary, has built a prototype device which does precisely this; sucking air into one end of a five-metre high vertical tower and pumping it out at the other end with 30% less CO2 in it.Inside the tower the air is sprayed with droplets of a sodium hydroxide solution, which absorbs CO2 gas. This produces a solution of sodium bicarbonate, or baking soda. By adding calcium oxide - also known as lime - the sodium hydroxide can be recovered for reuse. This lime is then also recovered, again for reuse, by heating the resulting calcium carbonate - which finally leaves just the CO2. There is nothing magic about it, says Dr Keith; a similar reaction has been used by the paper industry for many years to chemically pulp wood.One of the advantages of air capture is that you don't have to capture the carbon near its source, says Dr Keith. So the CO2 emissions being produced by traffic in Beijing can be captured from the atmosphere by machines in Bogotá. From a geopolitical perspective this is a huge bonus because it allows some nations to take action even if others are dragging their heels.And unlike the carbon capture and storage processes used at power plants - where CO2 is captured from smoke stacks - air capture units can be built over the oil wells or deep aquifers where the CO2 would eventually be stored, so there is no need to produce more emissions transporting it. Alternatively it could also be used to make carbon neutral biofuels. Either way, it finally provides a means of reducing the amount of CO2 in our atmosphere, which is currently about 30% higher than pre-industrial levels and increasing by 25bn tonnes each year.Earlier this year, Sir Richard Branson launched the Virgin Earth Challenge, a hefty reward for anyone that could develop a technology to reverse global warming. To collect this cash, however, contenders have to convince a panel of judges - including environmental heavyweights such as Al Gore and James Lovelock - that their technology is commercially viable.This is where things get tricky. For Dr Keith's system to have any chance of making this happen at least tens of thousands of these structures would be needed, each hundreds of metres in diameter and more than a hundred metres high. And here's the catch. Building on this scale has a serious impact on how much it will cost, which is crucial if air capture is to take off. Taking all costs into consideration, he says that his process would operate for less than $100 per ton of CO2 captured, considerably more than $60 per ton it currently costs using smoke stack capture.But one company believes it can do better. Global Research Technologies (GRT) in Tucson, Arizona, recently demonstrated a prototype based on the work of Klaus Lackner at Columbia University, in New York. This uses a proprietary material to absorb the CO2, which is then removed by washing it with a solution of sodium carbonate. "Chemically and energetically it's much easier than using sodium hydroxide," says Dr Lackner.According to Allen Wright, president of GRT, a single device measuring 10 metres square could capture 1,000 tons of CO2 each year. On this scale, 1m devices would be needed to extract a billion tons of carbon from the atmosphere in a single year. Given current trends, this would be enough to start significantly reducing the CO2 in the atmosphere, he says. What's more, GRT believes that when they scale up their prototype it will be able to this at a competitive price.But the race is far from won. "It is one thing to be doing research on a topic, but entirely another to have something that works at a practical cost," says James Hansen, one of the six Virgin Earth judges. Indeed Dr Keith describes Dr Lackner's solution as "ingenious", but questions whether the figures really add up.Both Dr Keith and the GRT group accept that with the vast coal reserves this planet still has to offer, there is a potential for this technology to backfire by encouraging an increased use of fossil fuels. But they argue that all solutions to global warming face this problem. "In the absence of this technology we are going to burn that coal anyhow," says Mr Wright.According to Dr Hansen, who is also head of Nasa Goddard Institute for Space Studies and an environmental scientist at Columbia University, in New York, the way to avert this is to set a tax on coal use that is equal to the cost of getting the CO2 out of the air.Whether this works remains to be seen. In the meantime GRT is now planning on submitting to the Virgin Earth Challenge, but Dr Keith says he has no interest in following suit. "It's not very much money," he says. The costs of just demonstrating that the technology is cost-effective would dwarf the prize money, he says.
Scientists have invented a roadside camera that can count the number of people inside a moving vehicle. The technology could be used to catch lone motorists who abuse congestion-easing car-share lanes.These lanes give priority to vehicles carrying at least one passenger, but can be misused by solo drivers who hope they will not be seen. Some even place human-like dummies in the seat beside them to create the illusion of a passenger.The new Dtect system, which rapidly projects an infrared scan through a vehicle's windscreen, can distinguish human skin from mannequins, dogs or other diversions. Its inventors hope it will be in use before the end of the year.However, motoring organisations have dismissed the technology, arguing that Britain's roads do not have enough room for priority lanes and that it would be a long time before the reliability of such a device could be satisfactorily proved.The demand for an automated system has existed since 1998, when Leeds City Council created a car-sharing lane on the A647. Its scheme is enforced by council officers and police, who pull over suspected offenders and fine those who are guilty. But now experts at Loughborough University believe they have invented a more efficient system.Loughborough's Dr John Tyrer - who is a director of Vehicle Occupancy, a company set up by the university to commercialise the invention - said: 'The problem with a policeman in a bright yellow coat is that you'll see him from afar, pull out of the priority lane, and then go back in later. You could stick a photo or dress a mannequin in the passenger seat, so CCTV is easily fooled. We couldn't use thermal images because they don't work through glass.'Tyrer and his team turned to multi-spectral imaging, which can capture light from frequencies invisible to the human eye, such as infra-red. Blood, hair and water content give human skin its own unique signature, distinct from car furniture, pets and anything else that might be in view.Last year the Department for Transport announced plans for the first car-share lane on a motorway, allowing qualifying vehicles to bypass congestion on the M62 near Bradford, where the Highway Agency found that 84 per cent of vehicles were carrying one occupant during peak times.But Dtect met with a cool reception from motoring groups. Nigel Humphries, spokesman for the Association of British Drivers, said: 'We haven't got enough road space in this country for multiple occupants, buses, cyclists and three-legged dwarfs. You'd actually be prioritising school-run mums, and I thought we didn't want to prioritise them. 'Paul Watters, head of roads policy at the AA, said: 'It's been recognised that [car-share lanes] are only enforced effectively by a police presence. We'd need assurance of reliability. We've seen with speed cameras and number-plate thefts that people will find a way around things. The criminal end of motoring is very adept at that.'
Every week we get moreletters and blog pingbacksthan we have room for in print; here's the full text of those we chose from. There's a lot of ways to get train timetables...ONLINE MUSIC&gt;&gt; Of course, since the music industry is trying to kill audio on the web (and commit industrial hara-kiri in the process), this service [Seeqpod] will probably be shut down by a-hole lawyers in a few months. So enjoy it while you can.Eat your heart out Napster&gt;&gt; I'm all for The Artists getting paid .. but small stations (much like local college radio) allowed me to experience some of the bands that I like today. I sure as hell never heard my Lords of acid or beloved Juno Reactor on my Vanilla roboted Car radio (98% stations owned by Evergreen Media) ohh.. don't get me started on all my other ska bands .... errrrrrgghhh!Rant of the DayPS3 PRICINGI'm impressed. The Sony spokesman managed a long justification of their pricing policy without once mentioning "rip-off Britain", or referring to the UK as "Treasure Island". Malcolm Woodward, Chorley&gt;&gt; So they are going to drop prices - presumably before Christmas - but little David can't tell us because he'd be told off, presumably by head office in Japan What could the answer be? Could the answer be that they're being money grabbing and taking advantage of Rip-Off Britain perhaps? Or perhaps it's just plain arrogance.Sony excuses for maintaining the PS3 price&gt;&gt; ..until they announce something similar for the UK, they can forget it. If the US price is ~£244, I'm not paying £400 for one - especially since I believe the European PS3 is missing a few features that the US model has.More New ToysONLINE CRIMEYesterday's (19/07/07) page 3 article in technologyguardian stated that 'British industry leaders have called for urgent government intervention over the failure to deal with escalating internet crime'. We at the Federation of Small Businesses agree. There is no central report mechanism for cyber-crime, not just for the industry leaders' and big businesses but for all businesses. We're talking about the one man band and the small to medium-sized business that also continue to suffer from cyber-crime, but which are often overlooked as too insignificant, yet our figures report that up to 20% of SMEs are deterred from online trading due to the risks, perceived or otherwise, of cyber fraud. Too often issues such as this are reported synonymously with big business. SMEs also figure. The CBI are quoted as calling for a 'national debate' on cyber-crime, but again, any debate has to include all business, regardless of size. National debates such as this are too frequently hi-jacked by big business and so any policies made as a result of these debates are frequently in their interests. This leaves much more work later on for organisations such as ours to speak on behalf of the micro and small to medium-sized business, which account for 99% of all UK business. Any National Information Security Strategy that deals with 'all aspects of e-crime' should begin by dealing with all aspects of business. And any article that reports on cyber-crime should also be inclusive of this much-ignored majority.John Walker, Policy Chairman, Federation of Small Businesses, LondonNEW ZEALAND STATISTICSIt was good to read about New Zealand removing charges from a raft of statistics (Technology Guardian 19 July). But it was a little surprising to see no mention of the mass of 2001 UK Census results freely available through Census Access (National Statistics: Census Access) part funded by the Treasury Invest to Save scheme with a key objective of boosting the UK knowledge economy through public and commercial use. There is a singleentry point for all the statistics available. The package includes digital boundaries partly derived from Ordnance Survey material, although the agreement for this runs out in 2013, and renewal for this key component is an issue.The Census statistics are very widely used, and an example of the type of product which is in the public domain is the Output Area Classification, now with its own user grouphttp://www.areaclassification.org.uk/to help support anyone using this 'open geodemography.' I am of course entirely supportive of your campaign. Chris Denham (Formerly Head of Census Output and Geography, ONS) (no post town given)3D TVWhere is the content? Sports and Porn.Both genres are constantly producing huge volumes of footage, and both audiences desire more sense of being in the action, which 3d would create.Michael Crumpton, Miami Beach, FloridaI am unable to see 3D due to a weak eye; instead I have perpetual double vision. My brain never learned to focus the two images. Not that uncommon, although many people get away with partial double vision. It does make me a little uneasy to think that some time in the future, all screen presentation might be 3d. You're probably right that it will remain a niche just as 3d films were, but there are some human rights issues if and when 3d graphic presentation becomes the norm. I once sat through an evening of 3d slides - wearing the stupid glasses at least allowed me to look away - but even the glimpses of the screen I had were enough to give me a headache. Might be interesting to examine the subject from this perspective. Although I guess there are blind people who would say, I don't see your point.Neil Cockburn, StuttgartPREDICTIVE SOFTWARE&gt;&gt; Almost every day I have a discussion with patients about risks and choices. I always emphasise that the statistical predictions are based on groups and averages and that there is absolutely no way of knowing to what extent they are relevant to this individual. We are all different. Nobody, but nobody, can tell an individual what their future holds and to pretend they can on the basis of statistical modelling which isn't up to the job is potentially very harmful.Why your uniqueness matters&gt;&gt; Although models can attempt to paint a picture of how people will behave on the aggregate (as a group), they can't say much about the actual individuals that comprise the group -- human behaviour is simply too variable to be reduced to an average or a smooth bell curve. What's more, decision makers don't know how to use or understand the data that they receive, which further compounds the problem. Predictive technology will remain an interesting area of further study, but it's foolish to think we're getting to the point that we can see the future.Predicting the future is still really toughSTARTUP WOES&gt;&gt; From my experience it is true that dot-coms in the Europe generally have a bit of a moan that they don't have the support infrastructure that dot-coms in the USA have. Johnson uses the article to explore this and highlights various points such as the fact Broadband is a lot more prevalent in Europe than in the USA as is the mobile phone network and technology.10 Yetis Gushes about Bobbie Johnson Start ups Article in GuardianTRAIN TIMESBill Harvey of Exeter may not be able to get a timetable fromthetrainline.combut if he travels over to National Rail Enquiries, the "Official source for rail information, UK train times and timetables," (http://www.nationalrail.co.uk) he can build and download a PDF file of his own "pocket timetable". Michael Kenward, StaplefieldIf you want a train timetable then try this site from the boys behindmysociety:http://www.traintimes.org.uk/. There is also a vaguely live map of train times here:http://www.traintimes.org.uk/map/Francis Bacon, LondonIf Bill Harvey is after a rail timetable he should tryDeutsche BahnCrazy that the German Railways timetable does UK trains better than Railtrack's, but it does. Never defeated it with an enquiry. Justin Krish, LondonFrustratingly,thetrainline.comalso does not support station codes (eg SRC for Streatham Common, etc) butnationalrail.co.ukdoes! Michael Banbrook, LondonFor Bill Harvey (Letters and blogs, July 19) train timetables are available in (very large) PDF files. Seehttp://nationalrail.co.uk/times_fares/nrt_updates.htmBrian Flint, NottinghamBill Harvey (Letters and blogs, July 19) mentions he need a railway timetable (as opposed to a journey planner). He can find one athttp://www.networkrail.co.uk/aspx/3828.aspx— not exactly a memorable URL but it has PDF files of all the current rail services timetables. Since the May 2007 national timetable is the last to have a printed version, I hope this site becomes more well known. Phil Molyneux, LondonTV DOWNLOADS (CONT'D)Rather than just airing opinions about Apple (and Linux) OS systems being unable to download films and programmes from TV companies; the thing to do is complain. Complain to the ASA that all the promotions that promise their entire audience that they "never need miss a programme" or "you can download this film" are lies by omission and therefore contrary to the regulations governing such promotions. My contention that they are lies by omission is soundly based on the fact that film and programme downloads are available only to Windows XP; not Windows Vista, nor Apple nor Linux. The only browser able to be used is Outlook Express; not Firefox, Mozilla or Safari. By ASA regulations, I suggest, the promotions should either list all non-compatible systems, or state clearly that the service is available only to older Windows XP systems using Outlook Express. It won't stop the BBC calling their system the iPlayer when you can't download via iTunes to iPods, but it might make them, and the other channels, tell the whole truth. As a Mac user, I have complained to the ASA - all aggrieved parties, Mac, Linux and Vista users alike - should do the same. Paul Cloutman, LondonIf the BBC, Channel 4 and Sky don't make their on demand services available to me on a Mac, then I just continue to use sites such as DivX'swww.stage6.comand the excellentwww.veoh.com. They're very handy to catch up on missed Doctor Who, Life on Mars and Heroes (the nerdier the show the more likely it is to be on these sites). Channel 4 and Sky have an excuse for dragging their heels, but come on BBC; I pay my licence fee, why should I need Windows XP to watch your programmes when I want to? Matt Woolner, Berkhamsted
The last sanctuary for refugees from Facebook, YouTube and all other internet crazes is about to fall. The airline Qantas is to offer web access and email for all passengers on its new aircraft next year.The days of switching off by reading or dozing on a long flight will be numbered when the airline's new Airbus A380s are delivered from August 2008. The plane's hi-tech inflight entertainment system will offer in-seat access to email and the internet, relayed by satellite, in every class. There will also be fast wi-fi connectivity for laptop users.John Borghetti, executive general manager of Australian-based Qantas, said: 'There has never been anything like this on board a commercial aircraft.' Widescreen digital monitors will offer more than 100 on-demand movies, 350 television selections, 500 audio CDs, 30 PC-style games and a selection of audio books and radio channels.Other airlines seem likely to follow suit, although a spokesman for British Airways said it had no plans to introduce internet access on its planes without evidence of customer demand.
Online storage and back-up comes up regularly, and Mashable has published a useful list of more than80 file hosting and sharing sites, split into three categories. Many are free. By all means comment here if you have found one you like.
Steve Ballmer showed a slide of new products for fiscal 2008.This week, Microsoft had its annual Financial Analyst Meeting, and senior staff gave a pretty good run-down of everything that's happening in the company. Start from theagendaand you can then access transcripts of speeches by Bill Gates, Steve Ballmer, Jeff Raikes, Robbie Bach, Ray Ozzie, and so on. If you want to spend all day on it, you can download the PowerPoint presentations and watch webcasts of the speeches.Kevin Turnergave the spiel on Windows Vista, announcing "60 million units sold to date" since the consumer launch. He said: "over 2,000 applications have earned the Works with Windows Vista or the Certified for Windows Vista logo. That's up from 650 at launch." Also, "over 2.1 million devices are now supported -- that's up from 1.5 million."Ray Ozzietalked about building up the Live platform and offering software as a service. He said:But we're in a very unique position because we can offer them a choice, actually three choices. Number one, on-premises servers, which will give enterprises the ultimate in customization and control and dealing with regulatory issues, compliance. Number two, partner-hosted services, where customers can take advantage of any given partner's unique vertical expertise or vertical solution. And number three, in Microsoft's own services in the cloud, in our datacenters, where our services will likely be much more horizontal in nature and where we'll take a platform approach to it and offer the lowest, lowest possible cost that we can.Ozzie got the Silverlight demo, which was given on stage by Forest Key.Robbie Bachcovered the Xbox, Zune, Windows Mobile, Mediaroom etc, and commented on the Xbox problem. He said:Since somebody will ask in the audience, I'll just answer the question, you know, "Tell me about the specific component that failed that caused you to have to do the warranty reserve." And I will tell you that it would have been easier for me from a questioning perspective to tell you that it was a specific component, but it's not. It's a design challenge that we've had to work around and create a new design to solve that problem, and for the interaction of a variety of different components. And so that's a Microsoft design question, not some component manufacturer's problem or our manufacturing partner's problems. It's something we've had to work on. We know we have a much better design in the market now. We verified that. We feel very good about the quality going forward, and we think we're going to be able to deliver on our goals for the year.Barron's Online was one of many sites withanalyst comments, but Microsoft could be suitably depressed about the ending: "Today, Microsoft shares are slouching toward the weekend, off 1% at $29.64."
The European Commission's competition authority is an attraction for American companies looking for help with their anti-trust concerns. It has already acted on behalf of such well-loved companies as RealNetworks, while trousering a useful $613 million from Microsoft. AMD filed an anti-trust complaintagainst Intel in the US in 2005, following an earlier success in Japan, and now it is looking for a piece of the European action. The EC not actually knowing what CPU stands for is unlikely to be a problem.TheEC's press releasesays: "The European Commission can confirm that it has sent a Statement of Objections (SO) to Intel on 26th July 2007. The SO outlines the Commission's preliminary view that Intel has infringed the EC Treaty rules on abuse of a dominant position (Article 82) with the aim of excluding its main rival, AMD, from the x86 Computer Processing Units (CPU) market."The complaints are as follows:First, Intel has provided substantial rebates to various Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) conditional on them obtaining all or the great majority of their CPU requirements from Intel. Secondly, in a number of instances, Intel made payments in order to induce an OEM to either delay or cancel the launch of a product line incorporating an AMD-based CPU. Thirdly, in the context of bids against AMD-based products for strategic customers in the server segment of the market, Intel has offered CPUs on average below cost.All of these look like monopoly abuse, says the EC, and all three together "reinforce each other and are part of a single overall anti-competitive strategy."The first point is something that Microsoft has long been prevented from doing, following a US anti-trust case brought by Janet Reno in the mid-90s. The second and third points are things I'm not aware of Microsoft doing, but I think the third would generally be considered to carry some risk of being accused of monopoly abuse. So while I'm not a lawyer, I'd guess the odds are against Intel, at least in the EC case.Intel'sbrief responseis that its "conduct has been lawful, pro-competitive, and beneficial to consumers." Also, it points out that: "The case is based on complaints from a direct competitor rather than customers or consumers."It would be more interesting to see Intel's responses to thespecific pointsraised in the US case, and presumably repeated in the European case.
Neil Thurman from City University in London has published a paper,The globalization of journalism online, pointing out that we cater to a global audience. His abstract says: "At the British news websites studied, Americans made up an average of 36 per cent of the total audience with up to another 39 per cent of readers from countries other than the USA."Unfortunately you have to subscribe to Journalism Online to get it, and that costs $25 for a day.Update: my colleague Bobbie Johnson points out that you can download a free PDF pre-print fromhttp://tinyurl.com/23d7cyHowever,PaidContent.orghas more details. One bit of news is the following comment:ThankDrudge. Amongst a clutch of "unlikely dependencies", The Drugde Report is the biggest single referrer of U.S. traffic to U.K. news sites at 25 percent, with Fark coming second at three percent. In fact, Drudge refers more than three times as many people to U.K. news sites as Google does, the study claims, and also more than Google News and Yahoo News.PaidContent had already noted someBritish moves into the US market.This isn't altruism. Serving US readers costs money and ultimately, as traffic grows, UK sites will need to get American advertisers to help pay for it.
&middot;The catchiestad jingle ever is atbazookajoe.com&middot;The Top 5most extreme method actors alive todaytinyurl.com/36m4wn&middot;Japan hasgone kit-kat remix crazytinyurl.com/2z64gs&middot;Where to goin Brucevilletinyurl.com/37pkjg&middot;The bestman-boobsuber.com/moobs&middot;The psychologyof fruit machinestinyurl.com/2ypkaw&middot;What the Beatleswould have looked like as a 1980s hair metal bandtinyurl.com/325o2m&middot;Linda Evangelistais Bart Simpson's favourite modeltinyurl.com/2ywzlg&middot;What celebritieswe look likefindmycelebritylookalike.com&middot;The wonderof daft handstinyurl.com/ysa59l&middot;Drunk monkeyscommand more respect than drunk humanstinyurl.com/2o9nb7&middot;How one suffersfrom a midlife motorcycle crisismm-crisis.blogspot.com&middot;R Kellyis going back into the closet (...the closet... the closet)tinyurl.com/2zb7h3
For the past week's posts on one page, clickhereHighlights include:How big is Apple's tax on iPhone users?Facebook and the integer overflow..One iPod, one chargerWelcome to our new-look siteTest driving the iPlayer
Where Are The Joneses is an interactive online sit-com put together by viewers and Baby Cow, Steve Coogan and Henry Normal's production company whose credits include Nighty Night. It follows the travels of Dawn (Emma Fryer from Ideal), who discovers from her dying mother that her father was a sperm donor and that she has 27 sibblings scattered across Europe. From the archive, go to June 15 for the first of the snappy two-minute episodes following her quest to meet them all. Don't miss episode five, where we meet Ian, Dawn's new brother and travelling companion whose many phobias include "the sound of women's laughter if I don't know where it's coming from". Better than any current TV sit-com.
"I don't know what an office is, but Angie says it's a bad place where monsters eat people," writes "Brad Pitt" on one of the hundred or so celebrity blogs housed here. That they're all spoofs doesn't matter, as it's all wickedly accurate stuff that could pass as real. Here, Keith Richards imagines an interesting death for Harry Potter ("maybe he gets his tongue stuck in the pencil sharpener") and Bob Dylan attempting to blog on a typewriter ("the ribbon smells like a newsroom I visited once"). As well as the thoughts of Paris Hilton, politicians and pop stars are the those of the Dalai Lama, who is dismayed at the lack of kick-ass rap on the current Linkin Park album. Fair point.
They're doing it in bed, in the bath and in the back of cars. America's CrackBerry addiction has got worse.A survey by AOL and Opinion Research of 4,025 Americans over the age of 13 found that almost six out of 10 used their mobile email gadgets in bed. Four out of 10 said they kept them nearby as they slept so they could hear incoming mail. A similar proportion said they had replied to emails in the middle of the night. A further 37% responded to emails when they were driving.But the figure that will cause most alarm in this God-fearing country is that 12% admitted to sneaking a look at their BlackBerrys while sitting in a church or synagogue.BlackBerrys and other handheld email devices have taken the US by storm. The AOL survey suggests that one in five people are using the gadgets, double the figure of a similar survey in 2004.Addictive monitoring of emails extended into holidays, with 83% checking for messages while on vacation.One positive piece of news is that as the problem grows so does self-awareness, a crucial first step in seeking help. One in six said they had accepted they were addicted to BlackBerrys, with more women (16%) than men (13%) facing up to it.As awareness grows, so does understanding of the solutions. A useful technique is to count exchanges of email. If you find yourself emailing back and forth with an individual more than three times a day, it's time to pick up the phone.
You're at the watercooler one morning, and everyone's talking about last night's Top Gear. You missed it? No problem - because now you can just nip back to your desk, download it, catch up, then come back to some serious Top Gear chat!You can do this thanks to iPlayer, a new service from the BBC. Basically, you can see stuff you missed by downloading it to your PC (the guys in the white coats are working on a Mac version). You then have 30 days to watch it before the file eats itself. It's a bit like having a DVD rental shop in your computer, except this one doesn't do Hollywood, just BBC shows from the past week.So, if that's the future, let's go there. I've got my login and password. What would I like to see? Top Gear, why not - I missed the polar special on Wednesday, when Clarkson drove a fat truck to the north pole, sticking a big two fingers up at our poor planet. Here goes ...Oh, Internet Explorer is not able to open this site. Phillip on the helpline is helpful but can't help. It's probably because the Guardian's network won't allow anyone to install anything willy-nilly. It's probably the same in your office too. And internet cafes, Phillip says. iPlayer is more of a home thing, it seems. Do some work anyway! And to be fair, that watercooler chat probably didn't happen - event TV is on the wane, and iPlayer is going to help kill it. If we can get it to work.The Guardian IT crew get on the case, and almost an hour after starting, we're back in business. Top Gear: download!One per cent ... 1% ... 1% ... come on, hurry, the ice cap is melting ...  Two per cent! And then things speed up and the one-hour show is in my "library" in 20 minutes. And here's Wednesday's Top Gear, on my PC, on Friday. Please let Jeremy and his truck fall through the ice.When it fills the screen, the picture's not TV standard, but it's fine when it's smaller. I'm not getting the hang of fast forward at all though - far too quick. Whoa, he's there already (that's not the real north pole by the way, Jeremy).Right, let's see yesterday's weather forecast, to see if they got it right. Oh ... there's no weather, or news, in the News and Weather section. But why would you want old news? I can watch Songs of Praise, the Book Quiz, Casualty, Natural World. An episode of EastEnders downloads in about a minute.I think I'll just relive Padraig Harrington's victory in the golf from last Sunday. Oh ... there's no sport either, and that's more serious. This has to do with rights. Luckily I Sky Plussed the golf.iPlayer is not hard to use. But nor is it simple - like Sky Plus is. TV should be about putting your feet up, not passwords and helplines. iPlayer may be the future, but it's not quite here yet. Hurry though, before Jeremy kills the planet.
Blog roll Cult TVUgly Bettywatchinguglybetty.comVictoria Beckham slated for series two, the real life inspiration and the truth about Bradford Meade.Doctor Whobehindthesofa.org.ukReichenbach balls, the cyberman invasion of Brighton and the latest on Torchwood.Mitchell & Webbtmwl.project76.tvObsessed with all things Mitchel & Webb shaped including Peep Show and the apple ads.24blogs4bauer.blogspot.com24 ways Jack Bauer is carbon neutral, 24 Simpsonised and your random Kelly fix.Heroesheroesrevealed.comWhat's planned for season two plus all the Heroes comics collected.Star Trekbadspock.blogspot.comA site dedicated to lots and lots of very bad drawings of Spock.
Everything we thought we knew about the Ford Mondeo has been wrong since Daniel Craig was seen driving one in the Bahamas during Casino Royale. For the occasion of its third reissue, middle England's favourite, unequivocally mainstream saloon had apparently evolved, unpredictably, into a part-time, fireball-evading Bond-mobile.True, by the time the action reached Montenegro, our hard-bodied hero had ditched the Ford and acquired a more traditional and less rep-friendly Aston Martin DBS V12 - a plot twist that has led Bond aficionados to conclude, even in the absence of shots of 007 queueing at the Hertz desk, that the Mondeo in the earlier sequence must have been a rental. Without a booking. In a very busy period.Even so, the very fact that a Mondeo could - however briefly and wherever it was sourced - be deemed fit transport for James Bond speaks volumes for the transformation that this car's image has undergone - or, at any rate, for the shattering sum (allegedly &pound;14m) that Ford was prepared to stump up for what was, by any standards, an extremely cute piece of product placement.Something has changed, though. Later generation Mondeos have been so middle-of-the-road that it was a surprise to find that you could use the steering wheel to hold them on one side or the other of the white line. But the new one wears bodywork with a decidedly classy cut. Close your eyes to the badge on the nose, and who is to say the Audi A4 has greater style or presence?What's more, the Mondeo drives with refinement, is comfortable to spend time in, shares components with Volvos, comes loaded with more gear than the last lot of models did (an electronic stability programme, controls for the hi-fi, etc, mounted on the steering wheel, a special airbag to protect the driver's knees, among other things) and is marginally cheaper. Everyone ought to have one, and everyone probably will.Obviously, even in the era of the Ford "Bondeo", the ejector seat remains a special-order item. Ford does, however, innovatively invite us to say farewell to "wrong pump" misery with the Ford EasyFuel system - some cunning resculpting in the area of the fuel cap that makes it impossible to get a diesel nozzle into a petrol model's tank, or a petrol nozzle into a diesel model's tank.The system is foolproof. Even if you pulled out the pump's pipe to its fullest extent and then ran at the fuel cap carrying the nozzle like a spear, prior to ramming it into the aperture using everything available to you in the way of upper-body strength, it would not admit you.Big deal, you might say, but never underestimate the challenge involved in choosing the correct fuel pump for your car on the busy, white-knuckle-pressure forecourts of 2007. According to Ford, "accidental mis-fuelling affects more than 150,000 UK drivers every year". Whether Bond is one - and whether, in fact, in Casino Royale he was obliged to take the Mondeo because the Aston Martin was in the garage, being drained of misapplied diesel - is another matter.
MondayGamesblog WikiGame update: Week 3Not enough innovation at E3, says LucasArtsKatamari creator in GameCityTuesdayChore Wars takes housework to a new levelMetal Gear partyWednesdayWoW South Park goes to the EmmysThursdayDevelop awardsRelaying for LifeRockstar chap says 'buy a 360'industry cash reportUbisoft finds Lost and calls in HeroesFridayLost and Resi 5 trailersPSP goes TVNo online co-op for Halo 3
We've been waiting a long, long time for theBBC iPlayer- Auntie's online, on-demand downloading system - and today's the day when it arrives.I looked briefly at setting the system up on my Windows box at home last night (a few of us were given slightly early access), but without any success. So today in the office the job was farmed out to our IT department, who didn't find it easy at all. Thanks to the highly specific demands of the player - for a start it's only compatible with Windows XP and Internet Explorer - it took them a good portion of the morning to set it up. But eventually we were up and running.So what is it like? Carry on reading to find out.Finding showsVisiting the iPlayer website, you're presented with a login screen. Get through that and you have to browse the catalogue and find a programme that you want to watch. There's not a huge amount there - the entire drama category, for example, contained 30 episodes of about a dozen shows, and there's almost nothing in the news section. Most of the shows listed have been broadcast in the past week, but there are a few extras in there such as Doctor Who.You can search by day of broadcast (eg "I missed that thing on Wednesday night", or by category (factual, drama, entertainment and so on) or look at an A-Z list. You do have the option to browse by BBC channel - but only when you've already narrowed the list down: you can't simply click to say "I want to see what I missed on BBC2 last night".The softwareWith a black and pink interface, it's stylish and clean. But navigation, awkwardly, switches between several different windows: the web pages for browsing the catalogue and downloading, your desktop-based library for looking through the programmes you've downloaded and a pop-up window when you actually watch.Once you've overcome the fact that you must createanotherlogin to actually download the shows (the first one simply let me access the iPlayer website) downloading was pretty fast - but then we have a huge pipeline here at Guardian towers. An hour-long show weighed in at around 200MB, so if you know your broadband speed you can probably work out how long it will take you to fetch it. You can't start watching until the download is complete.Picture and sound quality was good: the same as your TV screen (and you can also switch subtitles on, which is handy). A word of warning, though - if you press the "full screen" button on the player it probably won't look that great; the chances are that your computer monitor has a much higher resolution than a telly screen.Shows stay on the website list for seven days after broadcast - once you choose to download it, the programme stays in your library for a maximum of 30 days. But once you actually start watching, its lifespan is reduced to a week.First impressionsGiven that the software is still in development, it's slightly difficult to judge whether it's a success or not. Using it the software isn't too tough and there's plenty that is right... but there are also some missed opportunities, and it's far too finnicky and awkward to set up in the first place. If the average person on the street wants to use it, they're going to need to make some changes.The beta version is now open, so you should be ableto go to the websiteand apply to test it. Let us know if you try it, and what you think.
For some time, Microsft Research Cambridge has been working on a peer-to-peer "file swarming" system for protected content, under the code-nameAvalanche. It's now been given a lame Microsoft-style name, sadly: Microsoft Secure Content Distribution (MSCD). But at least you can give it a go. Microsoft says:MCSD includes strong security to provide for unique identification of content providers, and to prevent unauthorized parties from offering content for downloads. Through this technology, Microsoft intends to protect IP, which will positively impact economic growth, technological innovation, and most importantly, the confidence of customers who count on the integrity and quality of their products.For the next month,this linkshould enable you to download something really exciting like, oh,Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 Beta 2.For more details, seeJohn L Miller's blogandthis MSR article: Microsoft Research Cambridge Puts Visual Studio Beta on Fast Track.It's not going to rival BitTorrent any time soon, but it's probably just a matter of time before one of the TV networks or movie studios gives it a go.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Rumours about a possible online cooperative mode for the forthcoming Halo 3 Xbox game have been quashed by developers Bungie in an interview withEGM. It was hoped that the third instalment of the game would take its existing offline cooperative gameplay into the online realm, so players in different parts of the world could work together to defeat the evil Horde.However, it seems the technical requirements for such a feat are beyond the possibilities at this stage in development. Explained Frank O'Connor,I think the biggest problem for us for online co-op is that we have a situation where you can be in a Warthog with five troops, almost a mile away from the other player. That's a significant challenge. And there's lots of design things you could do to prevent that from happening, but they would make it not feel like Halo any more. If we can make it happen in a way that works well, we will - and if it works badly, we won't.Fair enough.Cooperative play revolutionised my gaming experience. The first time I played Perfect Dark on the N64 with another person and shewasn'ttrying to kill me, I had an epiphany which has kept me playing since. But it seems that online modes in console entertainment are at the moment limited to two options: competition or cooperation. Thinking ofChris Crawford'semphasis ongame design as verbs, what else might players be able to do using the online facilities that doesn't already exist? Here are a few I thought of:Double-CrossWithin the array of human interactions - most of which are viable via internet interaction, where's the double-crossing in games? Part collaboration, part competition and all human. Use your assets, folks.ManipulateNot far flung from the double-cross, this one. Used purely for the purposes of the person doing the manipulating, and the result of the manipulation doesn't necessarily require a loss on the part of the manipulated. Moreso, it's not as severe as the double-cross because the manipulatee need never know they were manipulated. Everyone can win. The perfect crime.DelegateMany online games - even on the consoles - handle several players, rather than just two. Delegation can be seen as an extension of cooperation, but it could also be done in conjunction with manipulation; you could get that irritating teenager out of your hair by delegating him or her to a task that's, well, over there.AdviseThis is closely related to delegation, but advising suggests a status role in terms of knowledge and delegation uses a potential surplus of assets. A feature attempted in the design of Star Wars Galaxies, advisers received experience points for themselves by proffering help to new characters. So it's possible.Other thoughts? Go on, it's Friday.
The technology industry has a history of churning out young geeks tipped for huge success, but few have been as feted in recent years as American dotcom entrepreneur Mark Zuckerberg.Zuckerberg, who is 23, and his company, Facebook, are rarely out of the headlines. If it isn't about the huge success of the site - which, with more than 30 million users, is one of the most rapidly expanding social networking sites on the web - then it is coverage of a court case in which he is accused of stealing the idea.Earlier this week, the case, which is being heard in Massachusetts, was adjourned until August - but it is being closely watched throughout Silicon Valley and across the world. The arguments hinge around a lawsuit brought by the founders of a similar website called  ConnectU, which alleges that Zuckerberg stole his concept and execution when he was in fact supposed to be working for them.In 2002 Divya Narendra and twins Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss asked Zuckerberg to program some parts of the nascent online service. But instead of helping them, they claim, he stole their ideas and turned them into Facebook. Zuckerberg's lawyers filed a counterclaim that it was just an attempt to hijack the site's success. There is plenty at stake - some investors in Facebook are pinning the company's value at $10bn (&pound;489m). Despite the publicity, Zuckerberg remains relatively aloof.The laid-back college dropout - famous for his dishevelled appearance and dress code of T-shirt and sandals - is focused on his work at the company's headquarters in Palo Alto, California.His life started on the other side of the US in Westchester County, New York. He attended state schools before being sent to the exclusive Phillips Exeter Academy boarding school, fictionalised by the novelist John Irving in some of his most famous books.It was at Harvard, where he enrolled in 2002, that things really started to come together. After becoming interested in computer programming, he tried a handful of attempts to create networking software for the college population (including one that saw him reprimanded for hacking into the official student database). Then he came up with The Facebook - a website that allowed users to share information and keep in touch with friends; a virtual meeting place.In a fortnight, half of the student body had signed up, and before long there were Facebooks at colleges all over the north-eastern United States.Things galloped onwards and he quickly moved to California, inspired by another Harvard dropout, Bill Gates, and the Ivy League college's policy of allowing students to take indefinite leave.Friends and acquaintances say he remains down to earth and slightly awkward, in the fashion typical of technologists. Yet underneath the shyness, there is a confidence that has many in awe."I sense that he doesn't get impressed by new surroundings," says Jeff Jarvis, the blogger and Guardian columnist, who has met Zuckerberg several times. "Some people think it's hubristic, but I think it's just him being himself."His confidence and success have brought attention from media moguls such as Rupert Murdoch, but Zuckerberg remains adamant that Facebook is a software company and not a media operation (although he does say that it is the biggest publisher of news in the world, thanks to the way it publishes the actions of all its members). This sets him apart from rivals such as Tom Anderson and Chris DeWolfe, the co-founders of Murdoch's MySpace website, who specifically set out to create a site that would be attractive to advertisers. Still, it doesn't stop old media bosses looking for advice when they meet him.There are continuing rumours about the company's future, including potential interest from Murdoch and his News Corporation empire - the businessman has even joked about Facebook overtaking his MySpace site. Indeed, Jarvis recounts one occasion when the owner of the Times and Fox News was locked in conversation with Zuckerberg over dinner - and as soon as the 23-year-old got up, his place was filled by DeWolfe, who seemed keen to regain the affections of his boss. But while the rumours about a potential buyout continue, Zuckerberg seems unlikely to be tempted - he is said to have turned down offers of $750m from Viacom and $1bn from Yahoo!.The youngster's belief in the future of his company is critical, according to Peter Thiel, a co-founder of online payments service PayPal, who was one of the venture capitalists who invested early in Facebook. "It will remain a standalone business for a while, because the gap is enormous between what Mark and the rest of the board thinks the company is worth, and what the outside world thinks," he says.Sometimes, the confidence appears to stretch towards a kind of arrogance. Zuckerberg refuses to call Facebook a social networking site. Instead he says it is a "social utility", making the sort of hair's-breadth distinction that is prone to lead to accusations of hubris.But those who look for signs of an inflated ego fail to find much to grab hold of. Nick Denton, founder of dotcom gossip website Valleywag, calls him "the new internet prince". Denton delights in puncturing the Silicon Valley bubble whenever he can, but despite the attempts to draw out Zuckerberg's personality, there seems to be little scandal on the cards. Indeed, his only vice appears to be an addiction to open-toed Adidas sport sandals.Still, there are signs that, with success and influence, Zuckerberg may be starting to change. After all, he recently admitted to wearing a proper pair of shoes at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.The CVBornMay 14 1984 in Dobbs Ferry, New YorkEducationPhillips Exeter Academy, New Hampshire (2000-2002); psychology and computer science at Harvard University (dropped out)CareerDeveloped CourseMatch, which allowed Harvard students to see who was signed up for the same courses. Founder of Facebook.com in 2004
They didn't blink. They didn't tell. Even after Polaris took the second round, the Unabomber and his accomplice stuck to their game. Finally, deep into the night, after four rounds of Texas hold 'em, Polaris folded once and for all. The game was over. The humans had beaten the machine. Just.Far away from the kitsch glamour of Las Vegas, with not a showgirl or a hustler in sight, two professional poker players from Los Angeles took on a computer program in a hotel in Vancouver on Monday and Tuesday. Billed as the "First Man-Machine Poker Championship", the event staged at the annual meeting of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence offered prize money of $50,000 (&pound;25,000) to the winner of four hands of poker.For Ali Eslami and Phil "the Unabomber" Laak - so named because he wears a hooded sweatshirt and sunglasses - the money was small change, but the stakes were high."I literally felt the same feeling that you would have if you beat 500 people in a tournament and won a million dollars," Laak said after the game, which ended to the sound of whoops and cheers from the watching crowd of hundreds as the humans vanquished the computer. "We won, not by a significant amount, and the bots are closing in."Playing against the computer was more exhausting than any other game he had played, Eslami said. "I really am happy it's over. I'm surprised we won ... it's already so good it will be tough to beat in future."Polaris has been 16 years in development at the University of Alberta in Canada. While computers have previously mastered humans at games such as chess and draughts - chess world champion Gary Kasparov was no match for IBM's Deep Blue a decade ago - researchers have been keen to develop poker software in the belief that it might be more applicable in other fields."I contend that poker is harder than chess for computers, and the research results that come out of the work on poker will be much more generally applicable than what came out of the chess research," Jonathan Schaeffer, the lead scientist behind the programme, told the New York Times. His team won the world draughts championships in 1994 and said earlier this month that they had developed a program that could not lose at draughts.But poker is altogether more sophisticated. The computer, like its human counterparts, knows how to bluff. And unlike its chess and draughts counterparts, which require an enormous memory to consider every potential move, Polaris runs for weeks before a game, creating 10 different "bots" which have their own playing style.Organisers of the event attempted to remove the element of luck by putting the human players in separate rooms. The computer played both humans simultaneously, with one human and the computer dealt identical hands. If Eslami was dealt a royal flush in one room, Polaris would have a royal flush in its game against Laak.The separation also eliminated one of the most important aspects of poker, the "tell" or giveaway signal when a facial tic or restlessness can reveal a player's strategy.The first round - each round consists of about 500 hands - ended in a draw, although the computer's winnings were marginally higher than those of the humans. But Polaris won the second round heavily, leading Eslami to comment that "Polaris was beating me like a drum".But on the second day things changed, and a strategic gamble by the computer's human handlers may well have cost Polaris its $50,000.For the first two rounds Dr Schaeffer's team ran a single bot. But for the third round they substituted a more sophisticated program that was supposed to add a level of "learning", deploying different bots as necessary.The strategy backfired. The humans easily won the third round, levelling the contest.In the final round, although Polaris won a sizeable pot of $240 with a royal flush beating Eslami's three-of-a-kind, the humans again prevailed, winning $570.Darse Billings, a scientist on the Polaris team and a former professional poker player, thought the humans had played "brilliantly".But he had a prediction from the future: "I wouldn't be surprised if we can beat them tomorrow," he said.
While we've been too busy in the UK looking at TV pictures of floodwaters rising around the power station that might - or might not - have provided power to the government's eavesdropping centre, GCHQ in Cheltenham, as well as the odd half-million people, San Francisco suffered ahuge power outagethat knocked a number of important websites, such as the blog hosts Six Apart, and Craigslist, Yelp, and Technorati offline - as well as 51,000 people.The cause? The city's growing power demands, which are expanding more quickly than the electricity grid can cope. I'm intrigued by the way everyone outside governments and power companies seem to assume that electricity supply will continue to grow according to demand.The reality is that at some point, even if there is enough generating capacity, the power distribution grid just cannot cope - and that holds more true in the US, where thelower voltages used mean greater power losses.As Nick Carr, one of our regular columnists,points out, the signs of this problem were clear last December, when a number of companiesrevealedthey were developing plans to move their servers out of Silicon Valley. What's the point, after all, in having servers close by, when you can control them from anywhere in the world using the internet?And if your end goes down, you can head somewhere that has a connection, and see if that works. If the other end goes down - well, your server's offline.But this means that where servers are located will gradually become a geopolitical decision. Google has invested huge amounts building server farms in South Colorado and in Oregon, where it can rely - for now - on hydroelectric power from the rivers nearby. (Microsoft has built a server farm in Washington State near Google's Oregon one. Imagine if it started corralling the water that Google needed to power its systems...)As power prices rise in the US, will Google, Microsoft and Yahoo begin to look for cheaper places for their servers? Or will they begin to push more and more of the work out to us, storing local caches on our machines (rather as Skype and Joost use up your CPU time to create a network-less network?)California facedrolling blackoutsback at the start of 2001, though that seems to have been partly due to Enron havingmanipulated the energy marketthere so it would be able to charge more (as in, billions of dollars) by constraining demand.Now though, the problem is the simple increase in demand. All that might hold it back is the constantly rising price of fossil fuels - which for oil at least is heading for a historic high (see thisgraph of adjusted prices since 1869).As more and more of us use virtual worlds, and more and more servers labour over recording our connectivity details with people we might never have met in the real world (the one where your house can get flooded and your feet get wet), it's inevitable that we're going to hit a time when we can't meet our energy demands through current means.Which leaves me constantly looking around, wondering how the world will work without a constant, reliable supply of energy.Which is why, although we're on the fifth floor, I always take the stairs. After all, when was the last time you heard about someone being stuck on the stairs for hours at a time, unable to go up or down?&bullet; Meanwhile, when the electricity is back on, if you've found that email attachments sent to or from a Hotmail address have disappeared, you'll find agreement - via ascientific, if small-scale, experiment carried out by Hal Licino. He created 100 emails and sent them between Hotmail accounts, between ISP emails, and back and forth from the ISPs and Hotmail. The results? The ISP-to-ISP emails hardly ever lost an attachment. But if Hotmail was on either or both ends of the transaction, only about a third to a quarter of the attachments got there. That's not what you'd call encouraging.
Thenewsthat Sony has teamed up with Sky to offer video on demand for PSP owners isn't a major shock. There are strong rumours that a similar announcement regarding the PS3 and Freeview will be made at the Leipzig Games Conference in August. Details on the Sky deal will be unveiled at Leipzig too, but the pricing will be essential. Movies/TV generally look fantastic on the PSP but most people watch their own content rather than buying expensive UMD discs. The Sky deal will have to be hugely attractive - maybe including some footy - to stop people continuing to rip their DVDs or content from their PVRs. The potential Freeview adapter for the PS3 could be interesting though, especially if you don't have a PVR, but is this really why you splashed out 400-odd pounds? What PS3 owners really want is a something new and decent to play on their pricey consoles. Roll on Singstar.
Here's that trailer of Ubisoft's Lost game, shown for the first time last night atComic Con. It doesn't tell us much, merely confirming details from the press release that this will be a third-person action adventure in which you help your character learn the secrets of the island, seek redemption for previous sins and escape.Several characters from the show are briefly glimpsed including Sawyer, Locke and Hurley. The press release indicates that you'll be playing a flight 815 survivor, but not one of the TV cast - however, the lead character in the trailer bears more than a passing resemblence to Jack.I suppose the main problem with the game, currently in development at Ubisoft Montreal, is going to be building on, or around, the mysteries in the series without giving anything away or adding yetmoresuperfluous information and/or mythology.Anyway, for those of you who've given up on Lost, or never even started on it, here's the new extended trailer of Resident Evil 5, adding to footage shown at E3. It is apparently available on Marketplace and PSN right now and, quite frankly, is a corker.What we get then is the kind of action previously enjoyed in Resi 4 - large groups of fast-moving, weapon-lobbing hostiles, intelligently working together to surround and attack you.The ostensibly African setting is fascinating - we've heard in the past that the team may have been inspired by Black Hawk Down (see IGNhere), although Haiti has been named as another possible venue. The trailer action, though, seems to feed off fears of both contagion and civil unrest, bringing to mind the skewed images of Africa that flood our news channels every night. The sight of downed characters bleeding from their eyes is surely a reference to the ebola virus, playing on our dread of out of control pandemics brewing in unknowable jungles.Meanwhile, the flailing, angry crowd scenes draw on news footage that's been coming to us from Nigeria, Somalia and the Central African Republic for the last decade. Whatever, Capcom may well find itself embroiled in a racial debate, the white western cop blasting gangs of zombified savages.One thing the trailer does extremely well is communicate the intense heat of the game's setting. We've previously heard that body temperature is going to play a key role in the game with Chris Redfield's shooting abilities affected by prolonged exposure to the baking sun. Fascinating stuff.
Ubisoft has revealed the first details of its tie-in with hit series Lost, due out on Xbox 360, PC and PS3 in Q1 2008. The deal with ABC Studios was struck ages ago, but then Ubisoft suddenly stopped talking about it, as though silenced by The Others. Today, however, we've discovered that players will take on the role of a Flight 815 passenger who survives the crash (good start) and must work with characters from the TV show to unravel the island's mysteries. Helene Juguet, US senior director of marketing for Ubisoft, says:"Ubisoft has worked closely with ABC Studios and the show's producers to create a compelling storyline that has the same mystery, adventure and intensity fans of the show have come to expect from the 'Lost' brand."You'll also have to confront dark secrets from your character's past - mirroring the flashback formula used throughout the TV programme. Naturally, there are puzzles to solve, smoke monsters to vanquish and familiar environments to explore. Ubisoft is releasing a trailer later tonight.Ubisoft has also revealed a deal to create the inevitable game version of NBC's Lost rival, Heroes. It will be a, yes, third-person action adventure, featuring all the key characters. Interestingly, co-executive producer Jesse Alexandertold Hollywood Reporter, "From Day 1 we've all been thinking about the game... All along we've been writing some of our stories in ways they can tie into the eventual video game."It's an indication of how relationships are shifting within the entertainment industry. It used to be movies that coyly inserted sequences specifically designed for the videogame conversion, now TV execs are at it, knowing that game tie-ins don't just bring in raw cash - they also help to build and cement the brand community. At the same time, with the growing cultural importance of TV shows like Lost, Battlestar Galactica and Heroes, game publishers are likely to seek the same sort of deals they used to ink with the film studios.On top of this, there's also a growingcreativesynergy between the videogame and TV industries. A lot of key players behind the big TV series' are gamers - they've grown up with videogame themes and conventions and have clearly been influenced by game culture. Lost is a clear example.Ubisoft isn't too nu-school to reject movies entirely though. Earlier this week, James Cameron announced that he'd chosen the French company to produce a videogame version of his sci-fi movie, Avatar, due out in 2009. Here's another example of videogame conventions inspiring other forms of entertainment. AsHollywood Reporter explains:"Avatar, Cameron's first feature film in more than a decade, tells the story of Jake (Sam Worthington), an ex-Marine who persists in an alien world as an avatar, a human mind in an alien body. The concept is similar to many video games where a player creates a virtual manifestation of themselves, often referred to as an avatar."Two other interesting facts from the report: the performance capture data and 3D CGI effects from the movie will feed directly into the game - a familiar tactic with special effects blockbusters these days, but set to be more extensive in this case. Also, Ubisoft boss Yves Guillemot reckons that game tie-ins, "will generate at least 50% of a blockbuster film's global boxoffice tally".But back to Lost and Heroes - what would you like to see from the videogame conversions?
Lots of first-quarter results are coming in, so for fans of videogaming finance, here's a quick round-up of 'the action'.According to number-crunching research agency NPD, Activision was the highest grossing third-party publisher for the first half of 2007, knocking EA from its long-held perch. "Our record performance was fuelled by strong sales of our proven franchises Guitar Hero II, Spider-Man 3 and Shrek The Third, as well as our new intellectual property Transformers: The Game," said Robert Kotick, Activision's chairman and CEO, seemingly determined not to use the dirty word 'game' until absolutely compelled to by the title of his Transformers tie-in.Apparently, Activision has increased its market share by 5.1 per cent to a record 13.7 per cent, thanks mostly to Guitar Hero. With Sony soon to launch SingStar PS3 and EA prepping its Rock Band challenger it seems the rhythm action genre is set to play an unexpectedly important role in industry fortunes this year. Well, it makes a refreshing change from sports sims, WWII shooters and movie tie-ins.Meanwhile, Ubisoft has announced first quarter sales of 134 million euros (89.78 million pounds), representing an increase of 90.5 percent on the same period last year. PlayStation 3 titles contributed 21 percent of these sales with Nintendo DS games stumping up 16 percent. Key titles have been Rainbow Six Vegas, Call of Juarez and Oblivion as well as tie-ins like Surf's Up (I've reviewed it in Official PlayStation Magazine this month - it's pretty much what you'd expect from an animated movie license) and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. More infohere.Finally, Nintendo has increased its full-year profit forecast by a meaty 40 percent thanks to strong fiscal first quarter figures. Net profits for April to June stand at 80.3 billion yen (about 326 million pounds). This contrasts quite staggeringly with the fortunes of Nintendo's console-building rivals. Sony's games division posted first quarter operating losses of 237 million dollars (although profits for the whole Sony group are dramatically up - morehere), while Microsoft's entertainment division saw an operating loss of 315 million dollars for the first quarter of 2007, though president Robbie Bach expects to make a profit next year - more on that interesting theoryhere.And that's the end of today's financial report. Go games industry!
Typing the movie title Bourne Ultimatum into Google brings up an enticing promotional offer as the first result. Join in the Ultimate Search for Bourne, it demands. This is an alternative reality game, or ARG, developed by media company Big Spaceship for Google and Universal Pictures. ARGs are platform-agnostic interactive experiences that use websites as well as text messages, phone calls and other media extensions to engage players in a sort of virtual scavenger hunt.Participants use services such as Google Maps, Google Translation and YouTube to decode clues and enter sweepstakes to win glamorous prizes tied in with the movie. Not only does the game promote the film (and Google gets a product placement in the flick), but it also pushes visitors toward the search company's lesser-used products. Everybody's happy.Or are they? Whereas previous promotional ARGs, such as The Beast for the Spielberg movie AI or Microsoft's imaginative I Love Bees campaign for Halo 2 have garnered widespread praise, The Ultimate Search for Bourne drew immediate criticism from Google-watchers. Is the game offer an ad? In which case, by ensuring that it appears at the top of all relevant searches, hasn't Google broken its pledge not to manipulate search results for its own ends?Google says no. The company says: "The Bourne Ultimatum promotion is not an ad, but one of the many tests we run to provide users with opportunities to access Google products ... This is a collaboration to develop a new, more engaging form of movie promotion."This sort of conflict is going to become much more common as large corporations increasingly employ ARG content to break through consumer cynicism and apathy. ARGs turn a market into a community - and community is the most valuable commodity there is in the digital age. When players engage in a game like I Love Bees, they do so cooperatively, sharing information and expertise, setting up dedicated forums, pulling friends into the experience. And while individual consumers are flighty and capricious, communities stick.But ARGs operate between reality and fiction and as they become more common, companies will need to go to greater lengths to both engage consumers. Microsoft's Iris ARG, designed to publicise Halo 3, has so far been much less successful that its I Love Bees predecessor. Apathy is creeping back.We're too clever, too tired of being told what to think and do. But advertisers aren't going to give up. In the coming advertising environment it won't be you playing the game, it will be the game playing you.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
By now you have probably visited the newTechnology sectionon Guardian Unlimited, which switched to the new GU design scheme earlier today. This includes an excellent alphabetical page,All technology keywords, which I hope you will find useful enough to bookmark. For many more details, seeWelcome to our new look siteon the Technology blog.The site is still under development, and will get tweaked over the next few weeks. Ask Jack is one of the parts still being worked on, so bear this in mind before complaining that you can no longer find things.There is, in fact a useful page athttp://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/series/askjackwhich will give you immediate access to all the Ask Jack entries over the past two or more weeks.This will save me publishing a link to the latest page each week, among other things ;-)However, all the queries are also repeated on the blog, which provides a way for you to add comments, suggestions and corrections.In passing, some tweaks have now been implemented on this blog. For example, you should now see some white space down the left hand side of the page, and there's a working link for Read more.
Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign has been invited by the government to help set up a channel through which the public can say what public data they want to access, and how.The invitation, which marks significant ministerial recognition for the case being made by the campaign, came from Michael Wills, the new minister for information, who personally convened a meeting with Guardian Technology.In it he described the campaign's case for making public sector data available for free as compelling: "The whole issue of data is, I think, tremendously exciting ... it's part of the infrastructure now of our society and our economy, and it's going to become more so with what's happening with data-mashing. The extraordinary intellectual and creative energy that's being unleashed is something that, as a government, we have to respond to."Wills, who is a close political confidante of prime minister Gordon Brown, set up the meeting within days of being appointed to his new role as part of Brown's reshuffle. "Personally I'm very excited about this area. I asked to do this as part of my portfolio," he said.Wills said that it was time to re-examine the trading fund model used by organisations such as Ordnance Survey, the UK Hydrographic Agency and others, under which they receive no direct tax funding but cover costs by charging for data and services. "The world has changed dramatically since the 1970s [when trading funds were first set up; Ordnance Survey became a trading fund in 1999] and we have to re-examine it, that's absolutely clear."Clearly defined tasksAn independent study commissioned by the government will report to Wills by December on the effectiveness and efficiency of the trading fund model, which will be used to decide whether it should still be applied to various public-sector organisations. Among the findings that Wills expects is a clear definition of the public task of Ordnance Survey: "[I hope] we do get clarity of purpose from the OS. It's important if we want these [commercial] markets to flourish, and we do, and we want creativity and innovation to flourish, we have to know what the rules of the game are."The comment is significant because both private-sector and public-sector organisations have complained that OS's licensing and royalties model makes it difficult for them to generate and share data. Intelligent Addressing complained last year to the Office of Public Sector Information, while the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) complained that OS's rules "can constrain our ability to share this information" in a submission to the select committee investigating OS's role (publications.parliament.uk).The meeting came less than 18 months after Guardian Technology launched its campaign, which argues that impersonal public-sector data collected by the government should be made available for unlimited free reuse and resale, because it would spur the creation of information businesses that would generate tax revenues, offseting lost revenues from charging for data at source. Examples include the Global Positioning System, provided for free by the US government and used for satellite navigation around the world, which generates millions of pounds of business in the UK alone."It's a compelling pitch," Wills said of the campaign. "As a broad approach, we are very sympathetic to that." He cautioned, though, that government would not leap to a decision: "We have to be sure that what we do is going to work, is going to be effective, is going to be cost-effective."The decision on how to fund public sector data organisations was essential to get right, Wills emphasised. This left the impression that he is excited by the potential that free reuse of data offers to entrepreneurial organisations - he compared it to the explosion of independent TV production companies in the 1980s and 1990s, which he was directly involved in, following the deregulation of the TV sector - but that he is also understandably wary of being the minister who approves a change that in the worst case might turn out to have destroyed the huge value that resides in organisations like Ordnance Survey. "We have to be very clear that we're setting up a model that is going to be sustainable," he said."The worst thing that we could do right now would be to set up a model that we would have to tear up and do again in two years because that doesn't provide the stability. If we're looking at economic benefit, the one crucial thing is that the model has to be sustainable. Otherwise you won't get the investment, you won't get the energy; people are, investors particularly, always wondering if this [business] is going to be sustainable. As we know from other areas in this world, if you get creative risk-taking venture capital involved then that is a crucial fact in unleashing creativity, so we have to have a sustainable model, and that means we have to take Whitehall as a whole with us."Getting involvedOPSI is now setting up a web-based channel to gather and assess requests for public-sector information, Wills said: "And we would like you [at Guardian Technology] to become involved in shaping how we develop that."This puts the ball into our court: we welcome your input on what public data that is not already available should be, and by what channels you think it should be provided - such as a constantly updated XML feed, PDF document or web page. Less important is the potential use of the data. As Wills notes: "The presumption is that you let people follow their own instincts, let them make some money; if it works, great. That's the way you're going to get the creativity and the energy. If you start saying what should happen, you won't get something wonderful."&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Just in case you hadn't noticed, things have changed around here a little. Not only have our blogs had a facelift, but the entireTechnology Guardian sitehas undergone a massive change.If you're a regular visitor, then things will look a bit different: you might want to take some time to explore the site and get used to the new look and feel. If you're new - well... hello and thank you for joining us.What you're seeing on the Guardian's Technology news pages is the result of a lot of hard work. It is also part of a wider change across Guardian Unlimited, moving millions of articles from 10 years on the web on to a new system and simultaneously redesigning the look of the site.The result is that we can better showcase our work and point you to the stories that matter - but the changes aren't just cosmetic.More news, more commentary... more usefulAs part of the relaunch, every day we'll bring you more of what you've come to expect of us: news, opinion and insight.The fresh look will incorporate several new columns, starting with existing Guardian regulars Charles Arthur, editor of the Technology Guardian supplement, writing every Friday and computer editor Jack Schofield on Mondays.We've also got a couple of new voices joining in the mix, and you'll be seeing more in-depth features, specials and interactive features over the coming weeks.Aside from that there are a number of other benefits - including that every article is now supported by a new, easy-to-read subject page (see the full list here) which makes it a cinch to keep up with the topics you're interested in.Those of you who use RSS and web feeds will find the new design caters for your every whim. You can subscribe to feeds of the Technology Guardian main page, of every single subject page - or dip your toes into the stream of every piece of news or commentary that we publish.The blogs, too, have had a facelift and remain the space for conversation and debate about the issues of the day. Check in toGamesblog,Technology blogorAsk Jack.Under the bonnetPlenty has shifted behind the scenes too. Our chief technical strategist, Stephen Dunn, explained the mammoth project that's behind the changes and what's driving Guardian Unlimited's thinking right now."This is really two separate projects - there's a rebuild of the backend and a rollout of the new design. Rather than develop it over 18 months with a big bang at the end, we're doing it step by step."Moving away from the system that has run Guardian Unlimited for the best part of a decade is being done slowly. The Guardian Unlimited front page and Travel section have already been switched over to the new system - and now the Technology,ScienceandEnvironmentpages have joined in."Essentially we were Web 1.5 before - it was a database-backed system with some separation between content and presentation," he said. "Now we've separated it fully and rather than a system that effectively presses web pages onto a disk, we've got a system that can deliver all sorts of content dynamically."The new platform usesSpring MVCto provide a Java-based web framework. The mainly open source products - Java,Apache, Linux,Resinand database toolHibernate. One of the tools we use to develop new releases of the site,dbdeployhas been released as an open source package by a developer who is working on the project.The team - which has expanded to around 40 for the rollout - uses agile development, includingpair programmingandtest driven development. They usedomain driven designtechniques to ensure that that new features can easily added in the future. A new release is rolled out every fortnight, but the code base iscontinuously integratedusingCruiseControl, which means that developers can quickly make changes in safety without worrying that they have broken anything.The client-side team, meanwhile are using XHTML and CSS to make things more flexible and readable than ever. They useVelocity templatingfor control, and have worked with consultants theShaw Trustto ensure the site is accessible."The hardest part has been getting the process right with so many people," says Dunn. Getting things right also involved choosing to build a new system from scratch, instead of using an off-the-shelf solution."We want to be able to control our destiny, and we don't want to be tied to somebody else's development. We have an idea of what we want, and we believe it will give us a competitive advantage in the long run."Tell us what you thinkOf course, we won't get everything right straight away. The system is a continuous work in progress, and there are a number of other improvements on the way.But if you're having problems viewing the site, have any questions or suggestions of what you'd like to see, let us know by leaving a comment below.
This one's going through the Xbox fanboy community like an under-cooked chicken jalfrezi. Rockstar Games US spokesman Hosi Simon hastoldGamesRadar that if you want the most complete GTA IV experience, "you should buy the 360" - a reference, of course, to that version's exclusive downloadable episodes.He's earlier quoted as saying, "They're identical games... We're not hardware makers, and we're not like a pawn between these companies, we try not to be as much as we can. We make great games for people to enjoy on whichever system they want."But this spirit of objectivity is rather undermined by the whole 'complete experience' angle. It also raises interesting questions about the future of downloadable content - at what point does an optional extra become a mandatory addition? Are we facing a retail model where gamers fork out for a full-price product only to get an ad for therealfinal level at the close of the game?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Microsoft has a giant presence on Facebook, with over 17,000 employees (out of 70,000 worldwide) joining their Facebook network. Since you need a Microsoft email address to get it, it's highly unlikely these are anything but real Microsofties, and the large number means Facebook is becoming a pretty important means of communication inside MS," according to theInside Microsoftblog.The real Bill Gates has only 57 friends, it says. There are also plenty of fake Bill Gates entries, of course, but Facebook has no shortage of fake people.
Today's Guardian reports yet anotherdouble-blind studywhere people who say they suffer from electrosensitivity were unable to tell whether simulated 2G and 3G phone masts were switched on or off. You can argue about it on our new Science blog,Phone masts in the clear.BBC News has also covered the story,Phone mast allergy 'in the mind'.
"Apple raced by Wall Street expectations for its third-quarter revenues and profits, mainly on sales of its Mac computers and iPod music players. The iPhone added only $5m (£2.4m) to the top line as it was in stores for only 30 hours before the company's quarter closed on June 30," reportsGuardian Unlimited.Apple shipped a record number of 1.764m computers, beating the previous company record for quarterly Mac shipments by over 150,000. That number was more than 33% more than last year. In total, computers and related services represented 60% of Apple's third-quarter revenues.Apple shipped 9,815,000 iPods during the quarter, representing 21% growth year-on-year, and accounting for $1.57bn in revenue. The company said it still held more than 70% of the music player market.This means the Mac has grown to 2.9% of the worldwide PC market, on Gartner figures, or 3.0% on IDCs. This puts it behind Toshiba (3.9%/4.1%), which came 5th inthe latest Top Fivewith 2.4m PCs sold in the quarter.
There is a sadness when ideas are not rewarded. The inventor of the modern spreadsheet, Dan Bricklin, has to make money from lecturing nowadays, because he never patented his idea of laying out information on a grid, and his spreadsheet, Visicalc, was overtaken by later programs which ran on faster PCs, such as Lotus 123. Lotus 123, which ran on MS-Dos, was replaced by Microsoft Excel which ran on Microsoft Windows. But its makers, like Mitch Kapor, walked away with a huge pile of money, much of which he has devoted to good causes.It is sadder still when good ideas are just forgotten. The spreadsheet transformed the world, I think, in ways we don't understand, and almost always for the worse. But you can lay out more information on a flexible grid than just numbers or words, and about 15 years ago a couple of ex-Apple Mac people decided to do just that. Bob Perez was a Harvard-trained lawyer who had worked as a programmer, and then as a salesman (the job title was "evangelist") for Apple in the 1980s; Pete Polash was a programmer who had sold an early Mac presentation graphics program to Aldus.Between them, they came up with the idea of Ecco Pro, an organiser that would work like an outliner: you could put stuff in, then move the items around in a hierarchy. What sort of stuff? Anything you wanted. This was 1993, so there was a limited choice, but the program would take pictures, web pages and text: it came with a wonderful little tool, the "shooter", which let you clip things and send them to Ecco, or to other programs.Ecco was not a tremendous outliner. The real originality lay in the area next to the outlined text, where there was normally a kind of spreadsheet grid. The rows were paragraphs of text - anything else in your outline - and the columns were, well anything you wanted them to be.What we would now call "tags" were known in Ecco as "checkmark folders" - you just invented any category you wanted, and then decided how to apply it to the entries. Just as with any tagging system, you could apply lots of tags, and sort and filter the results.I know you can do this with all sorts of other systems: it's just that the spreadsheet grid that Ecco used was more useful and intuitive than anything else I have ever found. The thing about tags, or thought categories generally, is that they come in contexts, and this is what a grid most effectively represents. If I am making a radio programme, for example, I will end up with 20 or 30 sound clips. Each of them will have some physical characteristics - who is talking, whether their voice is high or low, attractive or merely informative, what kind of accent they have. But they will also have their logical - or at least non-physical - characteristics: what is being talked about, what is being said. Only the spreadsheet layout lets me place the related tags on different axes, and then push everything around until it fits more or less right.So what happened to the paragon of a program? The market killed it. First it was sold to a much larger company, Netmanage; presumably doing this made the original programmers a lot of money. Then Netmanage panicked when Microsoft Outlook came along as a "free" part of the Office suite, and killed development on the program. That was 10 years ago, and I still haven't found anything half as good for the organisation and storage of complex material. You can still get it, legitimately, and for free, for download (seecompusol.org/ecco), and it still mostly works even under the most modern versions of Windows. But it has never been released to open source - the company wanted a rumoured $1m for the code - and the profound and brilliant insight that spreadsheet grids combined with outlining offers the best way to understand complex information has never been followed up.This story doesn't really have any particular villains, except perhaps the people at Netmanage who drove the product into the ground. But it is puzzling that in an age when bad ideas spread round the world like wildfire, such a very good, unpatented idea should never have been picked up.&#183;thewormbook.com/helmintholog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
