Microsoft has just announced the "release to manufacturing" of the next version of its Windows operating system. This is the last stage of the process that will end with general availability on October 22. From that point, it will be sold pre-installed on computers in shops, and as a retail package for use on existing PCs loaded with previous versions such as Windows XP and Vista.In a conference call, Rich Reynolds, general manager of Windows, said Microsoft had delivered on its promise to release Windows 7 within thee years of Vista, and was  "incredibly gratified" by the response to the code during its beta testing stage. More than 10 million people have used or are using Windows 7, and the company had captured more than 400m user sessions for analysis.Reynolds said there were "no major changes" between the RC (release candidate) version most recently tested and the RTM version.Microsoft is hoping to avoid the problems with third-party applications and software drivers that afflicted its last launch. Reynolds said Microsoft had learned from the Vista experience and done "a very broad outreach to partners". Since the core architecture of Windows 7 is the same as Vista, Reynolds said Vista drivers should work. Also, the XP Mode in some versions of Windows 7 would provide compatibility with some programs based on the old XP architecture.Ben Perrins, consumer business development manager at HP in the UK, said he expected take-up of Windows 7 to be "very high" among consumers and small businesses. "I think Microsoft is going to do a very good job of telling them why it's good. And it is."Jim Ginger, director of services at Dell, said customers were "looking to make the transition" from Windows XP to "what I consider the best operating system ever".The launch of Windows 7 presents HP and Dell, the world's largest PC suppliers, with a significant marketing opportunity. Sales will boom if users are persuaded to replace their old PCs with new models running Windows 7.Both HP and Dell said they planned to ship Windows 7 on netbooks, with Dell anticipating "very high take-up". Netbooks form the growth segment of a market that is generally depressed. According to analysis from research companies Gartner and IDC, the PC market in this year's latest quarter is down by 3-5% compared with the same quarter last year, though the decline was smaller than they had predicted.For HP, Perrins said touch operation was a very big part of Windows 7, and enabled the company to reach people who were not comfortable using a keyboard and mouse. "I think Windows 7 is going to make touch available to a much wider audience," he said.Globally, Microsoft has already sold millions of copies of Windows 7 via cut-price offers at Amazon and other stores. Most users who buy a PC running Vista before the October launch now qualify for a free copy of Windows 7, subject to shipping charges. In the US, Microsoft will also release a family pack to make it cheaper for users with multiple PCs to upgrade. However, Reynolds said he couldn't confirm whether that was going to be available in Europe.In Europe, Microsoft is shipping boxed copies of Windows 7 without the Internet Explorer browser, after the European Commission complained about it including IE. "Obviously, this was a hard decision, and our goal is absolutely to comply with the European Commision," said Reynolds. Microsoft will offer "at retail, a free Internet pack" for those who want the browser. It will also offer a "migration tool" for data, to make it easier for users to switch to Windows 7.Microsoft's revenues from the client version of Windows fell from $4.0bn to $3.4bn in the quarter ending 31 March, partly or mainly because Microsoft charges much less for a copy of Windows XP on a netbook than it does for Vista. Microsoft hopes Windows 7 will reverse that trend. It will be bad news if it doesn't.
Hewlett-Packard's dv2 is described as an ultrathin notebook, and like PCs based on Intel's CULV (Consumer Ultra Low Voltage) processors, it falls into the gap between netbooks and notebooks. Where it differs is that it's the first system to use AMD's rival Athlon Neo MV-40 single-core processor running at 1.6GHz. This is quicker than an Intel Atom N270, but consumes more power.You'd never mistake the dv2 for a netbook, or for one of the new CULV ultrathins, such as the MSI X-340 and the Asus UX30, which are closer to the MacBook Air. The HP dv2 is, in fact, bigger than my old IBM X31 ThinkPad, launched in 2003. Although both have 12.1in screens, the dv2's widescreen makes it noticeably broader. At 1.7kg it is also slightly heavier.The dv2 ships with Windows Vista Home Premium, and the graphics performance is helped by the ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3410 chip, with its own 512MB of memory. On the Windows Experience Index, it scores 4.1 for gaming graphics, but the final score is brought down to 3.4 by the processor.The attractive points about the dv2 are that it feels sturdy, and the glossy espresso (black) finish looks terrific. The 92% keyboard and glossy 1280 x 800 pixel LED screen are good quality, though I didn't much like the shiny - and slippery - metal touchpad. Still, it does have an on-off button and vertical "scroll zone" strip.Like most thin-and-light portables, the dv2 doesn't have a built-in optical disc drive. But, unusually, it comes bundled with an external 8x DVD read/write USB drive.The dv2's achilles heel is the battery life. HP doesn't even provide a figure in its specifications, and you may only get about two hours out of it. This depends on whether you are using Wi-Fi and/or Bluetooth- but it is not sustainable when rivals are claiming five to eight hours or more.HP's answer is a new model, the dv2z, which roughly doubles the battery life to a claimed 4 hours 45 minutes with a 6-cell battery (4-cell is standard). US buyers can also opt to have a new Neo X2 dual-core chip ($75 extra) instead of the single-core chip in the review sample. But, when fully upgraded, it's a much more expensive machine.There's a lot to like about the HP dv2 hardware, and the Neo MV-40 is faster than an Atom. However, at the UK price of &pound;599, the limited battery life makes the dv2 less attractive than a netbook. (The US price is $650 at Amazon.com.) If it arrives here, the dv2z should be more competitive with an Acer Timeline, depending on the price.Pros:sturdy design; high-quality keyboard and screenCons:poor battery life; not compact by notebook standardshp.com/uk
Should postcodes and their match to a particular longitude and latitude – even if that's approximate – be free? Royal Mail, which owns the copyright to the Postcode Address File (PAF), would point out that it is not: the PAF, in its many forms, generates millions of pounds of revenue for it. (In 2006 it generated £1.58m of profits on revenues of £18.36m, of which £14.9m was from PAF resellers.)But to a number of web developers, the licensing issues surrounding the PAF and its licensing are beyond endurance. So they have set up a site that hovers on the borders of legality, using the name of Ernest Marples who, as Postmaster General, introduced the postcode in 1959. Marples probably never considered that the postcode could be a source of revenue.In Marples's day it was simply useful. Which is what the developers behindernestmarples.comare looking to do: make the postcode free to use once more. But this time, with some added information – the longitude and latitude.A simple command-line call to ernestmarples.com will provide a long/lat pair for any of the 1.7m full postcodes (such as N1 9GU, for the Guardian). Those of coursearen't precise; a single postcode can cover 100 delivery points (the average is 15). The long/lat pair given for the Guardian is at least a hundred yards away from the building.Richard Pope and Harry Metcalfe, the developers behind it – and behindplanningalerts.com(which tells you about planning applications near you) andjobcentreproplus.com(on job vacancies near you) – insist they have the interests of everyone at heart."Postcodes are really useful, but the powers that be keep them closed, unless you have loads of money to pay for them. Which makes it hard to build useful websites (and that makes Ernest [Marples] sad)," they say on the site. "So we are setting them free and using them to run Planning Alerts and Jobcentre ProPlus. We're doing the same as everyone's being doing for years, but just being open about it."Hopefully, the government and Royal Mail will realise the value of this service and license us to offer it officially and for free. If not, and this website gets shut down, we'll close the websites we've made that make use of this site's lookup service. Permanently."The site is on the edge of legality, they say. "We're not actually sure how illegal it really is, as all we are doing is acting as a proxy for information contained in webpages. We do not cache the information at any point, so are not imposition of a full or partial copy of the postcode database." This is definitely a grey area, and comes down to this: is it illegal to transfer the long/lat information outside of that webpage in any form? Would it be illegal if your browser realised it was looking at a mapping page and acted on the information contained in the HTML (via a microformat or whatever)? Or if the mapping service offered the capacity to 'send this location to my phone or GPS device'?" Google does that in the US, they note."If you take this to an extreme logical conclusion, and assume for the moment that it is illegal for postcode-geocoded data to be transferred out of a webpage (of a company with a postcode licence) to any other device or service, we could end up in a situation where everybody in the country needs a license to use their phones."It's a strange conclusion which could mean that, just as "ripping" songs from CDs is technically illegal but never prosecuted, the same may be done for building a database of long/lat information postcode data. The benefits are clear, the loss to  Royal Mail zero – since those developers using a free long/lat service would never pay for one themselves.•Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog
So, that's it sorted, then. We cancel big government IT projects, kick out the consultancies and bring in Google, and let citizens manage their own data. Result: more responsive services, less public spending on computers and more privacy for citizens. And a final goodbye to the long, painful saga of public sector IT fiascos.This, roughly, is the picture of the future of government IT emerging from the Conservative party and associated thinktanks. Labour's identity card and the NHS care records service in England have long been Tory hate targets. David Cameron seems to have added the whole IT-based transformational government programme to his little list. Last week, shadow immigration minister Damian Green described the programme's ambition for shared databases as "highly sinister".Green's assertion that transformational government is "toxic to our basic freedoms" will be challenged by those who say there is a basic freedom in the right of disadvantaged individuals to access public services without having to become experts in bureaucracy.Philosophers will recognise in this debate a contest between negative and positive liberty, with the government trying to enforce freedoms, such as automatic enrollment for free school meals, whether we want them or not. Such a debate about transformational government's underlying philosophy is welcome. It's also long overdue - as Green tacitly admitted in his speech, the Tories initially missed the significance of the programme "which has understandably not grabbed the tabloid headlines" in the four years since its launch.Also welcome is the need to end what Green calls "the dominance of suppliers which has led to the plethora of big government IT schemes". Instead, as this column has long argued, we should be more creative and open-minded about how we provide public sector technology, looking to what Green calls "localist and individualist solutions".However, one such solution to emerge from Tory circles (via the Centre for Policy Studies thinktank) is not well thought-through. This is for personal electronic health records, held on free web services such as Google Health and Microsoft HealthVault, to replace the NHS electronic-care record service.While I have doubts about the Google and Microsoft offerings, which raise questions of confidentiality, the idea of individuals taking control of health data is a fine one. But any hope that personal records can replace the need for NHS computers is moonshine. NHS professionals and institutions must keep their own detailed records for legal and auditing reasons. The NHS has a legitimate claim on anonymised data for planning and clinical research. All these would be imperilled by fragmentation.Green remarks critically that the Department for Work and Pensions' Customer Information System is one of the largest databases in Europe. Short of dismantling the welfare state, what's the alternative? Is he proposing to split it into county-sized systems?Actually, there could be something in that idea. The Conservatives run many local authorities, including England's largest, Birmingham, which was several years into its own IT-based transformational government scheme when they took control. Glyn Evans, corporate director for business change, says the city's plan to create a joined-up view of citizens' data is compatible with Tory philosophy because people will be asked first if they want to take part. That seems a good model for transformers of all political colours to follow.
Definitely – although not necessarily for very long. Whether it's Nigerian scammers, dodgy Viagra salesmen or stock market pump-and-dumpers, spam remains an eternal plague on our inboxes. Even if the vast majority of it never reaches your inbox, guarding against the billions of messages shuttling around the internet takes up a vast amount of time and energy.That's why so many experts were excited last autumn, when action was taken to shut down McColo, a server-hosting company based in California that had become a haven for spammers.McColo was notorious for offering to protect its customers from complaints, putting it in the crosshairs of anti-spam campaigners who estimated, at the time, that services it hosted were responsible for as much as two-thirds of all the spam on the net. So when McColo was cut off by providers further up the stream on 11 November last year - effectively disconnecting it from the internet - they hoped for a significant reduction in spam.The impact was immediate, though the estimates of precisely how big it was varied wildly. Thankfully, a paper given to the Conference on Email and Anti-Spam last week sheds a little more light on exactly how effective the McColo strike was.Cambridge University computer scientist Richard Clayton examined the spam flow experienced by a medium-sized British internet provider (one with around 150,000 customers). By analysing patterns of spam activity before and after the 11 November strike, he was able to determine what impact, if any, it had.The answer? Significant."An immediate worldwide drop in email spam occurred because the command and control systems of six major botnets were no longer in contact with the machines they controlled, preventing any more spam from being sent," he wrote.On a given day, the ISP processed more than 1m genuine emails - but received up to six times this in spam. The day before McColo was closed, more than 2.5m spam messages were received - as soon as McColo was shut down volume dropped to around 1.5m. It continued to decrease."The disconnection of McColo was obviously a Good Thing because of the substantial, albeit temporary, reduction in spam," he wrote.And there's the rub: it would be nice to think shutting one notorious provider would crush spam permanently, but the big picture suggests that the respite was not permanent.Earlier this year Postini, the email security service Google acquired in 2007, said spam levels were now more or less back to where they were before the strike - and "spammers have clearly rallied following the McColo takedown". At least some temporary relief is better than none at all.
Last week, the city where I live was overrun by the British games industry. To be fair, the per capita population of Brighton is disproportionately digital; Black Rock Studio, Zoë Mode, Relentless, Littleloud and many other top-quality development studios are located there, plus several games news sources have set up shop within spitting distance of the pier. But when theDevelop Conferenceplops itself into the city centre in the middle of July, things get a bit silly. Yet this year there were definitely fewer geeks in the bars and clubs of West Street talking about their latest AAA game projects; it seems the crunch is finally taking its toll.Now, full disclosure: despite my ridiculously close proximity to the conference happenings, I was strapped to my computer working on the last 385 years of my thesis. My gamesblog colleagues Keith Stuart and Greg Howson took the event and covered it like there was a massive going-out-of-business event at a duvet factory. It's all overguardian.co.ukand you can hear Keith's barrage of interviews with an impressive number of the top British developers onTech Weekly, the Guardian's technology podcast.However, what emerged is indeed the story that the industry has been too afraid to publish: the recession looms large, even in the entertainment sector. In the week of the conference and in the days since the closing night party, several British studios have announced substantial layoffs, no doubt inspiring an innovation-busting stay-put mentality in the minds of the workers who remain in employment.The keywords from this year's conference were Facebook and iPhone – not Sony, not Microsoft, not even mainstream casual industry leader Nintendo. The companies that are riding the economic undertow on sturdy surfboards are the ones that have put aside their anti-web prejudices and are embarking on the calmer seas of the casual market. They're making waves on social networking platforms. And although they may not be rolling in dough, they're a lot less prone to the peaks and troughs of the market.It's time for the stick-in-the-mud studios that have been strapping themselves to the flotsam of the AAA sinking ship to re-think their survival plans. Even the big three publishers have substantially invested in portfolios that are aimed at invigorating their business models: party games, web connectivity and retro releases for knock-down prices are the treasure troves now, not the epic, graphic-laden behemoths that demand wallet-busting trips to the pay point.Brighton has a rich history of alternative thinking. It seems only appropriate that the games industry finally started thinking outside the Xbox&nbsp;when it spent a dirty week by the&nbsp;seaside.
Shortly after its 2006 launch,Scribd.comstumbled across an easy way to explain what it did: it called itself "YouTube for documents". The phrase sounded snappy enough, and even if was a little confusing, at least it had the virtue of being easy to use in elevator pitches.These days, however, Trip Adler - the company's fresh-faced chief executive - seems a little ashamed by the idea."In a startup, in the early days, it can be hard to explain what you do," he says, trying to excuse youthful transgressions. "It worked in the first few weeks. We got a lot of buzz ... people didn't know our name, but they knew that's what we were."Since YouTube is one of the world's most popular sites, such a bashful attitude could seem misplaced. But the reason for Adler's embarrassment is straightforward: three years after those early fumblings, Scribd is getting enough traction to stand on its own two feet.Documenting successThe site now ranks as one of the world's top 100 websites and, with more than 35bn words in its system, it is increasingly the place to go for documents of all sorts. It contains everything from academic papers and PowerPoint presentations to recipes and electronic books: all searchable and shareable for the site's estimated user base of 50 million. Adler may not like the analogies, but there is a truth in the comparison: what YouTube is for video, or Flickr is for photography, Scribd is fast becoming for the written word.Not bad for something that started out as an offshoot of an entirely different project. The site came about after Adler and his college friend Jared Friedman (now Scribd's chief technologist) applied to join the Y Combinator programme in 2006 - a scheme that offers a small amount of money and extensive mentoring to young entrepreneurs in exchange for equity.After a summer spent plugging away on unsuccessful ideas (including a transportation website and a classified advertising site for students) the duo joined forces with a third inductee, Tikhon Bernstam, and came up with a new concept."I was talking to my dad, who's a neurosurgeon," says Adler. "He had this academic paper he wanted to publish. Journals take about 18 months to publish a paper and he just wanted to get things up there.""That inspired the idea of a website that would let him share the files easily ... but we realised it was much bigger than that, and could apply not just to academic papers, but to books people write, short stories, PowerPoint presentations, recipes, sheet music and anything people want to publish online."The site operates today by opening that concept up to the world. Users can scan in documents of any sort, before they are converted into a Flash-based reading format (they call it iPaper) or made available to download or share online.The company itself looks like a standard startup - it has just shifted to a large, loft-style office in the middle of San Francisco where the staff can blow off steam by riding scooters and go-karts between their desks. There's one startup cliche that Scribd is avoiding, however. "We're probably one of the few startups in Silicon Valley that's profitable at this stage," he chuckles.Indeed, he says the company is making enough cash to cover its technology costs and the salaries of 28 employees - unusual for a venture-backed startup, let alone one that raised $9m of financing last December. While the team's plan for aggressive expansion may eat into that - and there are a lot of empty desks waiting to be filled - it's still a surprise to hear mention of profit.Adler thinks the reason why the site makes money is straightforward: it's got something people want. "The reason we make money is because we have a few different business models," he says. "One is ads: we get incredibly high click rates because most people on Scribd are searching the site for something, or they came from a search engine and they're looking for something specific.""Then," he adds with understatement, "we also have the Scribd store." The store has become the site's hottest feature, and the one that is getting attention with mainstream publishers, authors and the public. It's a simple idea: that anyone can charge a fee to get access to their documents online, giving a percentage to Scribd for hosting the service. It offers a range of options for content owners to choose what they are selling - and it's delivering results.Going socialLast month, the site signed a deal to sell 5,000 ebooks from publisher Simon &amp; Schuster - bringing bestselling writers including Stephen King and Dan Brown to the platform. Other recent converts include Harvard University Press, while for a limited time Wired's editor-in-chief Chris Anderson is giving away his new book, Free, on the site.With such interest, the move has proved instantly profitable. Scribd takes 20% of the cover price, and the remaining 80% goes to the publisher. That split remains the same across the board: even Simon &amp; Schuster did not get a sweetheart deal to tempt them in, says Adler.But despite courting the notoriously stuffy publishing industry, the site hasn't entirely dispensed with its web 2.0 roots. Adler is keen to stress that professional content is just one aspect of what the site does - and that allowing people to share documents they have created themselves "democratises" publishing. The site also has plans to launch what it calls Project Social in the near future, which will let users follow their favourite authors and publishers to see what they put online."The goal is to become the central hub of publishing, where we have all the written material - user-generated and professional," he says. "We want to be the place where people can publish instantly to their audiences ... and to get there, it's just about doing things step by step."By the book5,000Number of ebooks Simon &amp; Schuster deal will bring to the Scribd.com site35bnWords in the Scribd.com system - users can search for shareable documents20%Share of the cover price taken from documents sold on the site
Robust laptop requiredI want a robust netbook that I can take on my travels. I'll be using a cycle, motorbike and public transport, sometimes in developing countries.Paul JeffcuttJS:The machine that immediately springs to mind is the OLPC (One Laptop Per Child) XO-1, which is designed for children in the third world. It has its own idiosyncratic Linux-based operating system called Sugar.I suggest you read the instructions first, then try running it on a PCusing a LiveCD. This lets you try it without actually buying an OLPC. An alternative is an Intel Classmate PC. The original design, made by many small companies across the world, is intended to be more rugged than consumer netbooks, which are not particularly robust. Classmates are usually available running Microsoft Windows XP. Examples include the Zoostorm FizzBook Bang, and the forthcoming Archos Classmate, which looks the same. A chip-based SSD (Solid State Drive) should be more robust than a conventional hard drive, even when shock-protection is included. This could be important when travelling by motorcycle, where the vibration levels will be very high. You can use your body as a shock absorber by carrying the PC in a well-cushioned backpack, not in a pannier, but it's still risky.There is a big market for "ruggedised" notebooks for public services and military services, and there are Mil-Spec standards to cover them. Panasonic is perhaps the best known vendor, with its Toughbook range. In fact,it has five classes of Toughbookfrom "business-rugged" through "fully-rugged" to "ultra-mobile-rugged" designed using MIL-STD-810F. Ruggedness obviously comes at a price. TheWikipedia entry for Rugged computeralso has some useful information.Waterproof callingCan you recommend an utterly reliable, waterproof mobile phone? I work in remote areas for the avalanche service in Scotland in the winter and modern "waterproof", "rugged" phones seem flimsy by comparison to the Motorola 8000 "brick" that I used to have.Tom RuparJS:There's clearly a need for rugged mobile phones for emergency services and military uses, and perhaps a much bigger potential market among outdoor enthusiasts who want to take their phones climbing, skiing, sailing and so on. One example is the Sonim XP1,which was promoted as the world's toughest phone. This was also sold as the JCB Toughphone. Sonim now offers the XP3 and some more consumer-oriented models such as LM801. Rivals include the Samsung M110 and Samsung B2700 rugged phones: see rugged-phone.co.uk for details. With phones you can check the IP number. For example, a phone rated IP57 is rated 5 for resistance to dust and 7 for resistance to water. Bigger numbers are better.Do I need .Net?I've been given a secondhand IBM ThinkPad running Windows XP Professional, and I'm getting a lot of updates for the Microsoft .Net Framework. I only use the PC for browsing with Firefox and IE 8, plus accessing my email on Yahoo. Do I need it?Ron ShawJS:Microsoft launched .Net a decade ago to provide a simpler way of creating Windows programs.Quoting Wikipedia: "The framework's Base Class Library provides a large range of features including user interface, data and data access, database connectivity, cryptography, web application development, numeric algorithms, and network communications". It's also through .Net that Microsoft has retrofitted Windows XP with new technologies developed for Windows Vista. This includes Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), the new graphics subsystem used by, for example, Silverlight. Although .Net doesn't appear to do anything, an increasing number of programs won't work without it.USB blockingI would like to set up a restriction so that a guest user cannot use any of the USB ports on my PC.Mweni ChibwaJS:Usually, this kind of facility is provided via an Active Directory (AD) server and Group Policies, but home versions of Windows don't support Group Policies.Microsoft Knowledge Base article 823732has a workaround for Windows XP that involves editing the registry. However, searching for "USB blocker" will turn up examples of utilities that will do the job,including NetWrix USB blocker, which is free. There's alsouHook USB Disk Security v2.2, which provides more comprehensive data-theft defences, and, it says, "is designed keeping in mind the requirement of a home PC user". It costs £13.74, but there's a trial version.Backchat• Frank Teasdale and others asked why I still used dial-up. My laptop travels the world and there are plenty of places that don't have broadband. Also, it provides a fallback in the UK, though not one I've used for several years.
It takes a lot of imagination to turn the concept of barcodes into something sexy. Yet they are the nearest thing on the net to a revolution that hasn't happened. We are so used to thinking of those ubiquitous static barcodes that appear on everything from the Guardian to a can of baked beans that we haven't cottoned on to the potential of the new generation of two-dimensional (2D) "dynamic" codes. They can turn any space on which they appear – a tree, an advertisement or photo in a magazine – into a direct link to the web. Once the software is loaded onto your mobile (from sites such asget.beetagg.com) the phone can read the 3,000 odd squares on the barcode and take you straight to a website. The quickest way to grasp this is to type a URL – say,guardian.co.uk– into a free barcode generator such asquikqr.comorsnappr.net. You can put your own photo in the code if you want – they are reckoned to have 30% to 40% design flexibility so can be played around with a bit. The barcode created can then be placed on anything from a business card to an advertisement (zazzle.com) to provide a direct link to a website.While businesses have been slow to move into this fascinating space, creative people have been showing the way. Artist Scott Blake (barcodeart.com) has used Photoshop for nearly a decade to make innovative barcode art.Flickr.comhas hundreds of examples and there is a street game in Spain where participants drop out when a rival snaps the barcode on their T-shirts. For other uses seethe Fluid Forms blog.As part of Audi's centenary celebrations, some bright spark gathered 130 staff from its Japanese subsidiary, each with a placard, to produce a QR (quick response) code (the standard that has gone ballistic in Japan) of 159 sq m, claimed to be the biggest in the world. Once football fans cotton onto this we may see them producing giant barcodes in the stands that can be read by phones at home.Why have barcodes taken off in Japan but not here? It is partly the fax machine syndrome. One is useless; ubiquity is nirvana. Japan had everything going for it – they were early adopters of high-quality smartphones with web access and they agreed on a freely available standard, QR. And the software was mainly pre-loaded into the phones so there was no need for any downloading.Could it happen here? There are definite signs of change, particularly in Germany, Holland and Spain, even though Nokia, the world's biggest phone manufacturer, seems curiously to be backing away from pre-loading the software in its phones. It is not in the new N86, Nokia's most powerful cameraphone.Once again the iPhone is leading the way by making it easy to access the web from a mobile, especially through its treasure trove of apps (that hardly anyone mentioned when it launched). There are various downloadable barcode apps on the iPhone for consumers. But developers may find that barcodes left in public places (from posters to T-shirts) could provide a direct route to selling their apps rather than being lost among the thousands of others in the App Store.Barcodes are something of a marketer's dream. This is not only because mobile phones, unlike the web, are a mecca for micropayments but, as Michael Bhaskar, co-founder of&nbsp;Quik Communications, has&nbsp;pointed out, this is "pull" marketing, getting people to come to you directly, rather than "push" – using a scattergun and hoping something will stick.In Japan there are newspapers and books consisting almost entirely of barcodes. There is huge scope for tourism, paperless ticketing, identification, self-branding, affiliate marketing and numerous applications as yet unknown. Is it too much to ask that our operators and manufacturers do two things: first, agree on a barcode standard and, second, preload the software into all smartphones? If that happened barcodes could play a major creative role in the era of mobile web browsing that is only just beginning.Twitter.com/vickeegan
George Orwell always had a fine ear for hypocrisy. Even so, quite what he would have made of last week's Kindle debacle, in which Amazon was accused of tactics reminiscent of Big Brother, is unclear. When it emerged that the company had secretly deleted copies of Orwell's novels from people's Kindle ebook readers because of a legal issue, the irony was too delicious to ignore: the writer who best charted authoritarian attitudes in 1984 and Animal Farm had become the victim of a sort of eerie censorship.It turned out to be a copyright issue – MobileReference, the company that sold the copies, did not have the rights to use Orwell's work; the ebooks had slipped through the net and Amazon was trying to erase its mistake.The removal was enough to set off angry customers and, despite the company's efforts to try and explain the mix-up, the outrage continued."Being able to pull the books out of your paid-for and legal library doesn't sound right," wrote one puzzled user on theKindle Boards website. "Once it's sold, they no longer own the rights to that copy, or at least, that's what I thought."Others verged on the splenetic."Amazon offered a product, which I legally purchased, and had in my possession until their electronic burglar stole it from me," said another affected user. "Amazon has no right to go into my Kindle's memory and delete something without my knowledge or permission."Why were people so offended? Customers weren't really angry about the gadget, or the legality of the booksin question – they were furious with the sleight of hand Amazon performed by secretly removing them from their machines. They were aggrieved because they thought they had bought the books when in fact, it turned out, they were merely renting them."We have long been concerned that digital rights management is essentially tricking people," says Cindy Cohn, legal director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the campaign group based in San Francisco. "It's creating a situation where people think they've purchased something – in the way you might purchase a pair of shoes, for example. But from the perspective of the seller, and often from the perspective of the law, it's quite a lot less."Digital wrongsNo wonder Amazon customers were so annoyed: it's as if they walked into a bookshop to pick up a new best-seller, only to discover later that the shop was actually a library and they had to give it back.In the past, arguments over these sorts of issues have focused heavily on the use of digital rights management (DRM), the copy protection software that makes it difficult to rip DVDs to your computer, for example, even for personal use.But the Kindle debacle is more than just book-banning or copyright infringement. There is something even more pernicious going on: not only do these systems restrict your ability to do what you want with your media – they  also change the basic DNA of the thing you're purchasing.So what exactly are we buying into these days?"If you think of a book as a piece of data, the idea that you own it but then it can be zapped or taken away at any time – I think that's extremely counter-intuitive," says Jonathan Zittrain, professor of internet law at Harvard Law School, who has been watching the situation closely. "Yet it's the way the architecture can work, unless we build in protections."In his 2008 book The Future of the Internet and How to Stop It, Zittrain warned that devices to store data and code are increasingly becoming information appliances that arecontrolled by the manufacturer, not the user – precisely the situation the Kindle has presented."Imagine a toaster that is cloud-enabled in the way that a Kindle or an iPhone is," he suggests. "One day it says 'congratulations, we've just updated your toaster and you now have three slots instead of two'. Later you come back and it says 'sorry, there was a bug and we've reverted back to two slots and some of your toast was crushed'."In that case, they're trying to help you and they want to do the right thing by you, but it's very different from what you buy, you own. Everything becomes a relationship with a service provider, and I'm concerned about that."This is a major change in digital business and online culture. Although the Kindle incident is the latest high-water mark in the war between customers and companies, the conflict has been bubbling for some time. Last year, for example, iPhone owners suddenly started worrying after it emerged that the handset had a built-in "kill switch" that allowed Apple to remotely block, ban or delete applications.The idea, company executives said, was to have a back door that allowed them to squash a malicious program if it ever appeared. "Hopefully we never have to pull that lever, but we would be irresponsible not to have a lever like that to pull," said Steve Jobs at the time.The threat may have worked – after all, we have yet to see a malicious application emerge on the iPhone. But the underlying message – it is Apple that controls, and therefore owns, your phone – plays directly into the conflict between the rights of users and the interests of companies.Clouding the issueIn other areas, too, the gap between what we think we are getting and the service we actually receive is growing.Two years ago, Google terminated the pay-to-download business for its Google Video service. Customers were told that not only would they no longer be able to buy videos online, they would also lose the ability to watch any videos they had ever bought from the site. A short series of protests followed (muted because Google Video had never become particularly popular) and the company eventually agreed to refund affected customers.Nowhere is the growing conflict clearer, however, than in the world of cloud computing – keeping your data online, rather than on your own machine. The hundreds of millions of people who use web-based email services or store photographs, videos and documents online all labour under the assumption that they are better off outsourcing this tricky task to somebody else. But instead of offering greater fidelity or better long-term protection, the cloud's biggest companies have a habit of proving that keeping your information forever is not at the top of their priorities.Last week, for example, Microsoft announced that it was going to close down its Popfly online mashup service – killing off thousands of pieces of code thrown together by users. With just a month's notice the company announced that not only would the website close, but all the information stored via Popfly would be lost as "all sites, references, and resources will be taken down".Elsewhere, Yahoo has said it will close GeoCities – the website where millions of people created personal homepages. The news sparked off a huge community-led effort to copy the billions of files stored on the GeoCities servers which, if not saved, would simply vanish. But what if nobody had stepped into the breach? Yahoo remained distressingly quiet about the issue.Buy to rent?Understanding what it is we are buying into is a subject that is becoming increasingly important and increasingly convoluted. The small print distances us further from our traditional relationship with products — you only have to look at the sub-prime mortgage crisis or the mysterious world of financial derivatives to see things can run out of control once you're buying something that exists several steps away from reality.Ed Felten, professor of computer science at Princeton University, says the problem is a "lack of transparency"."If customers had known this sort of thing were possible, they would have spoken up against it,"he wrote on his blog, Freedom to Tinker. "But Amazon had not disclosed it and does not offer clear descriptions of how the product works or what kinds of control the company retains over users' devices."Zittrain says protections should be built in at the core of new technologies – not argued over in the license agreement. "You could have whatever the terms are be more public, and have people be able to better understand the risks they might encounter," he says. "But I think the deeper problem is no matter what the terms say, however balanced they may appear to be, they can be revised later — especially by a regulatory authority. That's why I'm interested in having the technology itself better reflect the balances we want to strike, rather than just relying on promises to do it."Whatever the case, it is clear our relationship with digital information is changing and – with or without our knowledge – we are rapidly moving from a world of consumers and owners to one of subscribers and renters. Whether we are ready for that transition remains to be seen."I think it's a fundamental question, and it shows a big disconnect between what the lawyers inside some of these companies think they're doing and what the purchasers of these products think they're buying," says the EFF's Cindy Cohn. "Our view is that, to the extent that we're going to harmonise it, we need to harmonise it in favour of people's expectations – and not of a lawyer's tricky legal drafting game."
Medical researchers have unveiled a new gadget that could be used by doctors in the developing world to diagnose diseases such as tuberculosis and malaria.The device, which attaches to a mobile phone, allows physicians to create a portable microscope that can be used to examine blood samples in the field and help spot some of the world's deadliest diseases.Researchers at the University of California Berkeleysay they hope the gadget would be deployed in areas where the cost of equipment and training currently prevents access to basic diagnostic tests.While advanced medical imaging systems and computerised medical equipment remain the privilege of the rich, mobile phones are now ubiquitous – withrecent figuressuggesting that more there are more than 4bn mobile connections worldwide.The CellScope microscope attachment clips on to an ordinary mobile phone and uses the built-in camera to process the images, allowing doctors to quickly screen for diseases including TB and sickle-cell. Doctors can perform complex high-resolution light microscopy on a blood or sputum sample placed on a slide.In a paperpublished in the journal PLoS One, the team said that, although some of the tests would be more accurate or complete with higher-powered technology, they still proved adequate when performed on a standard Nokia N73 handset, which comes with a 3.2 megapixel camera."Sample evaluation could potentially be performed in real time while a patient is still in the presence of a healthcare worker, rather than requiring days or weeks," the paper says."Since we are developing a technology that makes the current and long-standing internationally accepted standards for disease screening in developing countries more portable, we anticipate that a relatively fast time to adoption by clinicians and health workers may be possible."The team also suggest that extra features built into many mobile phones,  such as GPS location data and internet connectivity, could be used to enhance the findings and make it easier for medics to spot outbreaks and coordinate their responses.
Here's a mystery for you: why did Research in Motion, the maker of the insanely popular BlackBerry handset, have to issue a patch for a software update in the United Arab Emirates?On the surface, the details appear straightforward: part of a software update issued by Etisalat, one of the UAE's major telecoms companies, included spyware that could potentially allow somebody to keep tabs on BlackBerry users. RIM took action to close the loophole last week and a number of news outlets, including the BBC have nowreported the story."Independent sources have concluded that the Etisalat update is not designed to improve performance of your BlackBerry Handheld, but rather to send received messages back to a central server," said the Canadian mobile company in a statement.But although the fix has now been issued, and around 145,000 users have been saved from having their activities watched, the question remains: why did Etisalat issue this patch in the first place?The Abu Dhabi-based company has said it was a "slight technical fault" with an upgrade that was "required for service enhancements" but other than has remained unresponsive.It's worth looking at this action in context of the news in recent months about internet censorship – and we've certainly seen a lot of that, thanks to events in China and Iran.But, clearly, those are different countries. So what's going on in the UAE?Although some parts of the emirates have gained a reputation for openness, the situation on the ground is still restrictive. According to theOpenNet Initiative, internet filtering in the UAE is "substantial", with the country's internet providers taking a strict line against data that is "against the moral values" of the nation. That includes pornography and politically dangerous material – and Etisalat, as one of the country's two major ISPs, is a major part of that filtering effort.While it's far from clear that the company is complicit in a fresh attempt at censorship by the government (and the other major telco in the emirates, Du, has not deployed a similar update), it is certainly not beyond the authorities in the UAE to crack down on online behaviour or monitor people's communications.It's easy to think that the repression of information is just about closing newspapers, shutting down TV stations, throttling the internet and blocking websites. Sometimes, though, control is exercised by invisible – and dangerous – means.
It will be three months before Windows 7 hits the shelves preloaded on PCs, but the vast ecosystem that supports Windows will, we hope, be in action long before that. The RTM or Release To Manufacturing version -- official announcement expected shortly -- should be the cue for the industry to get down to some serious preparation.According to theWindows Team Blog, "ISV (Independent software vendor) and IHV (Independent hardware vendor) Partners will be able to download Windows 7 RTM from Microsoft Connect or MSDN on August 6th". This gives them some time to test and qualify how their software and hardware works with the release version of the new operating system, though most of the work should already have been done using betas.Microsoft has aReady Set. 7site to help.IT Professionals with TechNet Subscriptions will also be able to download Windows 7 RTM in English on the same day, with help at Springboard (http://www.microsoft.com/springboard). Others will get the code later. The blog post says:Microsoft Partner Program Gold/Certified Members will be able to download Windows 7 RTM in English through the Microsoft Partner Network (MPN) Portal on August 16th. By October 1st, the remaining languages will become available to download.Microsoft Action Pack Subscribers will be about to download Windows 7 RTM in English starting August 23rd. By October 1st, the remaining languages will become available to download.Beta testers don't get a free copy of Windows 7, but Microsoft reckons more than  40% of them are IT Professionals, and they'll be able to get an evaluation copy from Springboard.You can expect Microsoft to put a lot of energy into priming its vast ecosystem -- more than 640,000 partners -- following the problems with Windows Vista at its launch. Even with several years to prepare, many had not adapted their software to work correctly with User Account Control (leading to too many useless popups) or write decent drivers or figure out how to install it properly. (When correctly installed. Vista boots in about 40 seconds -- and with Quickboot and a ReadyDrive, it can be done in 24 seconds.) Microsoft, of course, takes the blame.If the Vista lessons have been learned then, with Windows 7, things should go a bit more smoothly.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Will the Pirate Bay sale fall through? The deal by Swedish company Global Gaming Factory X to buy the notorious torrent tracker is looking under pressure. Firstannounced in a cloud of confusionlast month, the has now told a Dutch court that it will only complete the dealif it can turn the Pirate Bay into a "legitimate business", reports theAssociated Press.&bull; Equally difficult is life at Shiny Media, the UK blog network,  afterreports that the company had gone into administration. According to our friends atPaidContent, the assets have been sold to a new concern run by its co-founders in an attempt to resurrect the struggling group of websites.&bull; And a special mention for a new addition to the family - after several months spent working on the special project, our very ownJemima Kisshas given birth to ababy boy. Congratulations Jemima!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
After spending recent months fighting off questions about the health of chief executive Steve Jobs, iPod maker Apple today shrugged off its critics by announcing some of the best financial results in its history.Despite the economic gloom, the Californian technology giant reported revenues for the three months to the end of June of $8.34bn - up almost 12% from the same time last year. That generated profits of $1.23bn, a 15% increase on this time in 2008, and a record amount for the company outside of the Christmas season.The success was achieved largely thanks to the launch of the new iPhone 3GS, which went on sale in June - as well as renewed interest in the company's Macintosh computers. Sales of iPods were down year-on-year, although the company hinted that more models were on the way later this year."We're proud to report the best June quarter for both revenue and earnings in Apple's history,"  Jobs, who returned to work a few weeks ago after undergoing life-saving liver transplant surgery, said in a statement."We set a new record for Mac sales, we think we have a real winner with our new iPhone, and we're busy finishing several more wonderful new products to launch in the coming months."During a six-month leave of absence, the company was run by chief operating officer Tim Cook, whose successful command underscores the view of many that he is set to be Jobs's successor.But Apple's fortunes contrasted sharply with those of Yahoo, which reported another disappointing quarter.Revenues for the past three months dwindled to $1.573bn, down 13% year on year, while profits dropped to $76m - a 25% fall from the same period in 2008.The company said  it had been hit heavily by currency fluctuations, which accounted for nearly 5% of the fall in revenue, but insisted that the figures represented a "solid quarter" in the face of wider economic turmoil."I'm pleased with our results this past quarter," said chief executive Carol Bartz. "We established a clear, simple vision to be the centre of people's lives online, and we're backing that vision with important initiatives to create 'wow' experiences for our users."The company was keen to point to the recent relaunch of its homepage, one of the web's most popular portals - but those words seem foolhardy just days after Yahoo's main rival posted results that bucked the downturn entirely. Although Google's overall revenues were flat for the last quarter, the company eked out efficiencies to post an 18% increase in profit year on year.That will not have gone unnoticed at Yahoo, where the company's inexorable slide has been taking place for several years - ending the rule of a succession of executives who were unable to prevent the rot from taking hold as Yahoo. Most recently co-founder Jerry Yang stepped aside as CEO in January to be replaced by tough-talking technology veteran Bartz. However, despite attempting to streamline and reorganise the company, she has yet to make a noticeable impact on the bottom line.The numbers will also make intriguing reading for executives at Microsoft, after reports last week that the Seattle technology giant was close to signing a deal with its Silicon Valley rival.The two companies have had a testy relationship ever since Microsoft launched a $45bn takeover bid for Yahoo last year - but even so, they are believed to be closing in on a deal that could see Microsoft take control of Yahoo's search engine for around $3bn.Microsoft is desperate to take on Google and gain more traction in the lucrative search advertising market - but Martin McNulty, director of search marketing specialist Trafficbroker, said that the raised more questions than it answered."The results are really just a sideshow to the main event right now, and that's the potential deal with Microsoft," he said. "It's unclear why Yahoo can't stand on its own two feet, as it still commands a significant market share in search queries and advertising revenues globally.""Even if the deal does go ahead," he added, "A Microsoft-Yahoo collaboration is unlikely to offer an increased threat to Google, which, brand and technology-wise, is in a league of its own."
Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
For the last few weeks, Sega has been teasing about this forthcoming title, and now here's a video. It's Super Monkey Ball Step &amp; Roll, due out on Wii next year. As the title suggests, it's using the Balance Board as a means of controlling the ball-inhabiting primates as they whiz through another series of technicolour mazes. Looks rather cute, and the balance element is such a natural fit.Let's have Marble Madness and Spindizzy after this...
Unless you've stumbled onto this blog by mistake from one of the Guardian's more frivolous sections - say,here- you'll know thatMonster Hunteris a full-blown cultural phenomenon in Japan, where the latest version, Freedom Unit, has sold over 3.5m copies. And this is despite the fact that the series - which combines gameplay elements of Pokemon and World of Warcraft - is now exclusive to the only modestly successful Sony PSP.These days, Japanese children can attend Monster Hunter summer camps, there are people going on holiday to places they know that keen gamers gather (it's got a wonderful co-op mode), and if you go to a public park in one of the country's major cities you will inevitably spot a group of Monster Hunter fanatics, huddled together... hunting monsters.Anyway, Freedom Unite was released in the UK last month and has been mentioned rather a lot on Chatterbox recently. So I asked Capcom's UK PR Manager and raving Monster Hunter expert, Leo Tan, to compile a list of tips for dedicated players. He very quickly obliged...Leo has also told me that if any readers have specific Monster Hunter questions/problems, leave them in the comments section below, or you can email them to us at gamesblog + at + Googlemail + com. I'll forward them on. Happy hunting!1. Ignore the training! It is quite long-winded and whilst explaining everything in the game it can take quite a while to get through. When starting out it'll ask you, "are you a beginner?" You should answer "no". You can always go back and do it later. Just head to your bedroom, put all your armour on, equip the Bone and go speak to the village elder by the fire - he dishes out the easier missions.2. Absolutely, positively, definitely do the data install. It all-but-completely removes the loading times, which is important if you're fitting your missions into a short commute.3. When you're training your fighting Felyne, set his training to the one that makes him more fond of you. The fonder he is, the more likely he is to set traps/heal/blow his horn.4. Eat before every mission! A hearty meal can increase your attack power, health bar or defensive capabilities. But be sure to eat the right combination of food or you might find yourself with food poisoning.5. We, ahem, messed up the translation of some elements. So in the Training School you'll find sections called Solo Training and Group Training. In here you'll find (as you unlock them) a series of ROCK HARD challenges. These should have been called Sparta Challenges. Don't be disheartened when these monsters smash through the inferior equipment the game gives you for these fights.6. Bulldrome is one of the first difficult monsters you fight. When facing Bulldrome you can quite easily block his charge if you have the right weapon. If not, be sure to be facing him the moment he's run past so that you're in a position to run after him and hit him as he turns, and then roll to the side before he charges again.7. Yian Kut Ku is the other difficult monster you face first. The trick with him when you're starting out is to understand that he only ever does the rotating tail whip in one direction. So hang around on his left slashing away and then roll away when he starts this attack. He'll fall in no time.8. When you're building armour sets, be sure to make to make sure it's a matching set. This is because the skills don't activate until you hit at least 10. So +9 Artisan will do nothing for you, but +10 Artisan will give you a significant sharpness bonus (and hence damage bonus).9. Plesioth can be fished out of the water with frogs, which will cause him to thrash about and let you get some free hits in. If he's already alert to your presence he'll be too busy attacking you from the water to eat the frog, which is when most people use Sonic Bombs to blow him out of the water. What you can do, though, is instead use Large Barrel Bombs. Since he always comes up just where he goes down you'll have plenty of time to run to the spot, lay down a bomb, move away and then use a paintball to explode the barrel. Hey presto! One blasted Plesioth.10. High level play involves controlling the camera with the d-pad by hooking your index finger over. This is known as 'The Claw'. It's not necessary, though, and many players opt to simply hit the left bumper button a lot.
Following on from the recent – and excellent – Tales of Monkey Island comes the game that started it all. The Secret of Monkey Island was released in 1990 and fast became the pinnacle of the hugely popular point-and-click adventure genre. Characters you cared about, puzzles that actually required some thought and a script that was actually funny were the primary reasons.The Caribbean setting – as rare in gaming then as it is now – also helped to make Monkey Island so enjoyable at the time and so fondly remembered now. So this Special Edition has certainly had the fans waiting – and luckily, the wait was worth it. This is a nostalgia feast from the off with the music – this time live band rather than midi – probably enough to make many 30-somethings shed Amiga-sized tears. And the warm feelings continue as you hook up with hapless pirate Guybrush Threepwood and enter the SCUMM inn.Once you get playing, Monkey Island reminds you how hard gaming was then. Hints have been added to the Special Edition, but the original left you on your own. Older fans needn't worry though. Nothing has been added to make the game easier. In fact, the controls on the 360 version make it harder to do some of the timed challenges needed throughout the game. Actually, the controls on the 360 version probably work about as well as could be expected. The smooth simplicity of the mouse is lost but the gain in page real estate is worth it.The most obvious difference to the original is the graphics. The cartoony elements of the unfairly maligned Monkey Island 3 are melded with the original to give the whole game an HD upgrade which feels right. The border around the screen is a shame though. Best of all, you can flick back to the original graphics at the press of a button. his is a perfect example of how to update a game while respecting the original. Some 360 owners, unused to the slow pace and the lack of handholding, may wonder what the fuss is all about before heading back to Halo 3 or Modern Warfare. Let them. For everyone else, whether you played the original or not, The Secret of Monkey Island is must-buy.
If you think you recognise the screenshots, think again. Hysteria Hospital may look and feel a lot like Bullfrog's Theme Hospital, but once you start playing you'll notice the difference.The premise is pretty much the same: you are the sole controllable nurse tasked with wrestling an emergency ward back to some kind of order, according to how many patients you can treat and your balance sheet at the end of each level. Also like the original 1997 hit is the fact that you get regular warnings as to what kind of epidemic or disaster you can expect, giving you time to ensure adequate treatments are in stock and the right equipment available. These range from simple diagnostic tables and beds to x-ray machines, scanners and steamers (yes, steamers). Normally, you can work out what needs to be done from the original briefing and regular intercom announcements, but you can also follow the thought bubbles of patients and doctors for more specific advice.The trouble is, all this turns formulaic very quickly, with the same characters, animations and generally lame jokes regardless of which level, ward or hospital you're in. And compared to Theme Hospital's (literally) sick humour about vomiting patients and head-stretching machines, HH seems to go about its business in almost robotic fashion. Once you've conquered the first few levels, there's almost no reason to persevere with the full 60, as you can expect only more of the same, albeit harder and faster.Admittedly, this is pretty much true of all sim games but the best examples at least sprinkle new elements more evenly throughout the game. However, the real medical malpractice on display is the interface, which revolves round using the "A" button to drag and drop equipment or place patients in the right beds and wards, starting with ER and soon extending to six different areas of the hospital.Unfortunately, this reduces the game to a lot of frustrating Wiimote wiggling to ensure it recognises what you're pointing at and where it needs to be placed to function correctly. Undoubtedly, Hysteria Hospital would be a lot easier to play on DS or PC, but it's the Wii version we looked at and the diagnosis isn't promising. If you were expecting a cross between The Sims and Scrubs, prepare to be disappointed.
Cricket games have never captured the public imagination like, say, football games, mainly because a more complex sport is bound to breed a less-easily-grasped video game.But Codemasters' Brian Lara-branded games of yore consistently outshone their rivals, and finally, the Britsoft publisher has acquired the plum cricketing licence: the Ashes. It's a big shame that Ashes Cricket 2009 didn't make it to the crease in time for the first Test in Cardiff, but at least it's a classy and thoroughly playable effort.Just what those who reckon they could set better fields than Andrew Strauss, would never play those occasional silly shots if they were Kevin Pietersen and dream of running out Ricky Ponting have been waiting for. Past cricket games have suffered from being lopsided, with either batting or bowling – but not both – being enjoyable. Ashes 2009 satisfactorily addresses that fundamental flaw, although it is a good idea to work through the tutorials for its control systems before you take on the baggy green cap-wearers (naturally, you can play as Australia, too).When bowling, you can switch between three broad types of delivery – swing, cutters or reverse swing (unavailable until the ball is old), then pick swing direction or slower ball by hitting the appropriate button. This launches a timing meter, requiring you to press that button again. It sounds fiddly, but works nicely, and the same principles apply when you control a spinner.Batting is similar to previous cricket games, except there is a clever mechanism for picking your shot: when the indicator shows you roughly where the ball will pitch, you select the V in which you want to hit it from a mini-overlay of the ground, and the game selects the appropriate shot. Different buttons govern whether you play a defensive, attacking or lofted shot, and you can move around the crease or charge down the wicket. The game takes a new approach to catches, too: it shows you a fielder's eye, and when a halo around the ball changes from red or orange to green, you have to stab a button. Which works well once you get used to it.The Wii version lets you wave the Wii Remote around like a bat and even use it to polish the ball, but it always feels as though it is taking decisions for you. The next-gen versions are definitely the most impressive, with crisp, HD-style graphics. Although the virtual players look comically unlike their real-life counterparts. They do play in a startlingly realistic manner, though: Andrew Flintoff's 94mph inswinging yorkers are devastating, if you can pull them off, and Phillip Hughes will flay anything outside off-stump to the boundary, but is susceptible to being caught if you pack the gully and cover regions.With the ability to play the whole Ashes series, plus Twenty20, 50-over and five-over exhibition matches, Ashes Cricket 2009 is the perfect thing to have ready for those inevitable English summertime rain-breaks.
Tired of me-too space marine shooters on the 360 and PS3? Love the Wii but can't stand tedious mini-game collections? Think you can do better? Gabe Newell from PC developer Valvethinks there could be a modelfor getting fans involved in funding a game that may have been ignored by a traditional publisher."What I think would be much better would be if the community could finance the games. In other words, 'Hey, I really like this idea you have. I'll be an early investor in that and, as a result, at a later point I may make a return on that product, but I'll also get a copy of that game.'"In practical terms there would obviously be problems. How would the designers on, say, Half Life 3 ever get anything done if there was a rabid, and financially committed, community giving feedback every second. But maybe this potential model could work for a smaller download game?What do you think then? Willing to stump up to get the game you want? Or happy to let the professionals deliver?
We all know that Apple's a tricksy, secretive company that likes to play its own game - and that even comes down to the company's financial results. Later today it is announcing its latest quarterly figures, and the pundits are already hard at work trying to divine what they are going to be.Apple has a history of aiming low with its predictions of income, presumably so that it can smash through them when the deadline rolls around every three months (here's avery handy chart from Silicon Alley Insider that shows it off)The general consensus is that, unsurprisingly, Apple will beat expected earnings of something over $8bn - which would mark growth of around 10% sincethis time last year. That might not excite the suits on Wall Street too much, but it will be a significant boost over the rest of theshrinking PC business- largely thanks to the iPhone and Mac (iPod sales are expected to be down).Oh, and will there be a special surprise when the company makes its statements at 10pm UK time? He doesn't do it often, but Steve Jobs has turned up at the quarterly announcements before - and with Apple keen to stress that he's back to work, could we be about to hear his first public statement since returning from his liver transplant?
It sounded like something pulled straight from a grisly scene in Terminator: an unstoppable military robot that powered itself by devouring everything in its path – including trees, grass and even, according to reports, dead bodies.But after a string of headlines that labelled the machine a "corpse eater", the robot's creators have gone on a public relations offensive to extinguish the rumour that their invention will feed on human or animal flesh.The machine's inventors say the Energetically Autonomous Tactical Robot – known as Eatr for short – does indeed power its "biomass engine" by digesting organic material, but that it is not intended to chomp its way through battlefields of fallen soldiers."We completely understand the public's concern about futuristic robots feeding on the human population, but that is not our mission," said Harry Schoell, the chief executive of Cyclone Power Technologies, one of the companies behind the machine."We are focused on demonstrating that our engines can create usable, green power from plentiful, renewable plant matter. The commercial applications alone for this earth-friendly energy solution are enormous."The publicity drive is in reaction to the buzz the project created when it emerged that it was already in the testing phase, thanks to funding from the Pentagon.The concept was originally put forward in 2003, and has been pushed forward with money from the US military's Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa), a successor to the organisation that funded early development of the internet.US officials hope the steam-powered engine can be used by the military to create a self-sufficient robot that could survive on its own for months at a time.The early version of Eatr runs on twigs, wood chips and other plant-based material. This is fed into an engine that burns it and uses it to create propulsion.Another of the robot's inventors, Dr Robert Finkelstein of Robotic Technology Inc (RTI), said that Eatr had built-in systems that would help it determine whether material that it ingested was animal, vegetable or mineral."If it's not on the menu, it's not going to eat it," Finkelstein told Fox News.Eatr can also use more conventional fuels, such as petrol, diesel or cooking oil, to keep going. But the group reiterated that it would be illegal to create a robot that used dead bodies for energy.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
It was described variously asgod-angering,pigs flyingandhell freezing over. Pick your hyperbole, but the bottom line is the same: Microsoft has released 20,000 lines of code for inclusion in the Linux tree.The news, announced atOSCon in San Josewas approached with great understatement by Microsoft - which called it "a break from the ordinary".While I have reservations about getting excited that the code is being released under the GPL - license arguments are, I think, often overcome by zealotry and rarely generate more light than heat - and let's be honest, it's still just some down-the-line driver stuff, it's still a remarkable shift by the company famous for calling Linux a "cancer that attaches itself in an intellectual property sense to everything it touches".It looks like a sign of a pragmatism that the company has often avoided in the past -after all, Microsoft might attack the "fraudulent perception of free" but it's clear that free has benefits (giving Windows away for nothing in China, for example, oh, and there was something about including a free web browser)Is this the beginning of a long-term shift for Microsoft? Or am I missing something?
&bull; Have the iPhone and the BlackBerry beaten the rest of the mobile industry into a corner? One Deutsche Bank analysis, reported in theWall Street Journal, suggests thatbetween them the two companies are responsible for 35% of profit in the mobile phone industry. That's despite only registering 3% of worldwide sales - proof that there is a lot of money at the high-end of the market and very little at the bottom.&bull; This month'sWiredmagazine has a big piece about possible moves from the Obama White House toexamine Google's growing influence. I didn't spot anything revelatory, but it's a good read and clearly an important subject.&bull; I can't get enough of this post fromDangerous Mindsfeaturing ahypnotic music video from 1977- the handiwork of French band Droids, and apparently inspired by Star Wars. As we remember the incredible feat of Apollo 9, it's clear that space is where all the fun happens.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
You may have noticed, despite ardent efforts to the contrary, that Michael Bay's Transformers 2 has been a gigantic hit. The movie raked in over $200m in its first five days in the US, and has just become the most successful movie ever in the burgeoning Chinese market.At the same time, however, it has attracted reviews of such relentless vitriol they could melt the wing nuts from Optimus Prime's bulky chassis. Rotten Tomatoes lists the movie's overall score at just 20%. Has there ever been such a disparity between a film's financial success and its critical reception? Sadly the answer is almost certainly yes. In the current UK box office top ten, only two of the pictures has a Metacritic rating of over 70% - most are much lower.But things are very different over in videogame land. If you look at the UK top twenty, only two of the titles have a Metacritic rating oflessthat 75%, and ironically, both of those are movie tie-ins: Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and Transformers 2, and the rating for the latter is significantly higher than for its cinematic inspiration.Why is this?Well, most obviously, it could be argued that gameshaveto be better than movies because consumers demand more from something that costs around four times the price of a quick trip to the multiplex. But I don't think that's a definitive answer, because there's rather a large gap between understanding customer requirements and having the ability to meet them.No, I think the difference lies partly in the contrasting structures and creative climates of the two industries. Although there are notable exceptions, the videogame sector is essentially a meritocracy; in terms of development, the people at the top are there, not because they're the most beautiful, the most assertive or the most charismatic, but because they're the best at what they do. Look at industry legends like Shigeru Miyamoto, Dave Jones and John Carmack – they're not garrulous fireballs of charismatic energy, but they're successful, they're rich and they have legions of fans.Even the great self-publicists of the industry – Peter Molyneux. Mark Rein, David Jaffe – these guys are listened to and respected because they have delivered, and continue to deliver – remarkable products. With videogames, the right people have the power – and they generally use it wisely. On a wider scale, the best studios in the world – Blizzard, Rockstar North, Ubisoft Montreal, Infinity Ward - all have passionate creative veterans at the helm; and these people want to make great, intelligent, innovative games. They don't always manage it, but, heck, that's at least what they're aiming for.In contrast the major Hollywood studios are often governed by businessmen with little or no film making experience, and only a cursory interest in releasing critically revered material. It's all about hitting a mainstream audience with whatever nonsense that's currently in demand. The problem is, contemporary Hollywood is going through something of a crisis of confidence – recent big star vehicles like Year One, Land of the Lost and State of Play have flopped catastrophically; reliable actors aren't opening movies anymore. It's like William Goldman said, nobody knows anything. And right now, no-one knows anything like never before.This isn't really about incompetence though, it's more about the vagaries of the medium. The standard Hollywood three-act structure is the 3D engine of movies, but it is much less reliable as a basis for an effective product. There is a science to basic game design, there are elements such as jump distance, bullet velocity and collision detection, which are quantifiable and can be rigorously tested and refined. But an effective screenplay is centered around such ungraspable commodities as sympathetic characters, compelling dialogue and dramatic tension. Both movies and games contain artandscience, but the latter can get much further toward perfection on sheer technical competency alone.There's something else: community. The best videogame studios in the world maintain very close relationships with their fans. They don't just get you to sign up to a spurious mailing list then spam you with adverts and trailers until you're genuinely afraid to boot up your email client. They hire affable community managers, create forums and engage in a running dialogue with their most passionate devotees. On many occasions, this interplay has led to the creation of far better games; it's standard practice now to run public beta tests on new titles, or at least to release demos onto services like Xbox Live Arcade – the ensuing feedback is generally analysed and incorporated into the design process. And then you've got products like Counter Strike and Day of Defeat that were created by Valve fanatics, who were then seamlessly integrated into the development system. Game design is also democratic.But there is no equivalent system in the mainstream movie industry – films aren't beta tested. They may be shown off to focus groups when it's too late to do much more than a couple of re-shoots, but you rarely get a director actively facilitating a dialogue with consumers from the outset. It's no coincidence that the filmmakers who have forged the closest links with their fan base – the likes of JJ Abrams, Zack Snyder and Peter Jackson – are the one's who have grown up as videogame fans.But really, beyond the differing business infrastructures is a reoccurring and more important possibility – could it be that people are just naturally more demanding when it comes to games? The financial element is important, but it's not defining – look at the top performing games on Xbox Live or PSN or App Store and they're invariably the ones that do well critically. The biggest XBLA titles last year weren't big franchise spin-offs – they were Castle Crashers, Geometry Wars 2, Braid and A Kingdom for Keflings, each one of them a critical success.It is maybe something to do with interactivity, the fact that games engage us in different – and some would argue more numerous – ways. Videogames are, after all,games- they demand participation. As well as audio-visual stimulation there is hand-eye co-ordination, dexterity, logic, learning, analysis… As enjoyable as a Michael Bay movie may be for two hours on a Friday night, there is one thing it will never do; it will never challenge you.
Everyone knows that the modern mobile phone is set up to do so much more than make a simple call. From checking emails tolocating friends, there seems little the latest generation of handsets can't do.However – even in this tech-savvy age – the latest offering iniPhone appshas caused a stir.For just $2.99 Apple is offering customers a service that allows them to find local marijuana suppliers. The news has created a buzzonline, as the world's stoners contemplate carrying out online price comparisons between dealers in their local areas.But before bongs are fired up in celebration it should be noted the new service actually aims to help people locate legal medical suppliers in the US, rather than the best place to get hold of a quarter of Moroccan black in the neighbourhood.According toMashablethe app is a location-based service that takes the known locations of medical collectives, doctors, clinics, and organisations from three sources and aggregates them on aGoogle Map. When activated it finds the nearest source of legal cannabis. But even if you live in the right area of the US you need a licence allowing you to buy cannabis for medical reasons before you can take advantage.However, for those not medically qualified to get their hands on marijuana the app offers an additional service, pointing users to the nearest pro-cannabis organisations, so they can join the campaign to promote reform of the drugs laws.As Mashable says, the app's current features aren't revolutionary, but it does promise news updates, videos, and reviews in the future. So it looks like smokers everywhere may finally have an app they can rally behind.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Assuming you weren't caught up in the golf or the rollercoaster that was the Ashes 2nd Test then you may have found some time for some gaming. I did. Most of it was spent on The Secret of Monkey Island: Special Edition. The review should be up later today but - occasionally clunky controls aside - this is an excellent remake and a lovely slice of nosalgia.Less positive was my time spent on 1 vs 100. The quiz itself is fine - though I did have some issues hearing the host - but getting on the leaderboards, and so in with a chance of winning the big prizes,  seems to be more about your reflexes in spamming the pad rather than any general knoweledge. Yes, this is still a beta but if Microsoft are planning on using 1 vs 100 to broaden the appeal of the 360 then they will have to sort this. If not, any non-gamers tempted in by the appeal of an interactive TV gameshow will soon retreat back to the Wii or TV when they realise they can't beat the button bashers.Anyway, what do you play this weekend?
&bull; Carl Icahn, the investor who buys his way into companies and agitates for them to sell until he gets his way, says hewants Yahoo to deal with Microsoft, according toReuters. Why does that matter? Because Icahnforced his way onto Yahoo's board of directorsthis time last year.&bull; Icahn may fancy reading this weekend's debate, sparked by theWall Street Journal, about whether or not the internet is dead for investors. James Altucher, writing in the Journal,says yes. Venture capitalist Fred Wilson, unsurprisingly,says no.&bull; Say hello to your new Monday morning internet addiction:PingWire, a site that grabs a constantly updating feed of pictures uploaded to a number of services including yfrog and Twitpic. It's like a window into the strangest places in people's brains (and possibly NSFW).You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
It sounded like something pulled straight from a grisly scene in Terminator: an unstoppable military robot that powered itself by devouring everything in its path - including trees, grass and even, according to reports, dead bodies.But after astringofheadlinesthat labelled the machine a "corpse eater" and "creepy", the robot's creators have gone on a PR offensive to extinguish the rumour that their invention will feed on human or animal flesh.The machine's inventors say that the Energetically Autonomous Tactical Robot – known as Eatr for short – does indeed power its "biomass engine" by digesting organic material, but that it is not intended to chomp its way through battlefields of fallen soldiers."We completely understand the public's concern about futuristic robots feeding on the human population, but that is not our mission," said Harry Schoell, the chief executive of Cyclone Power Technologies, one of the companies behind the machine."We are focused on demonstrating that our engines can create usable, green power from plentiful, renewable plant matter. The commercial applications alone for this earth-friendly energy solution are enormous."The remarkable move is in reaction to the buzz the project created when it emerged that it was already in the testing phase, thanks to funding from the Pentagon.The concept was originally put forward in 2003, and has been pushed forward with money from the US military's Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency, Darpa, a successor to the organisation that funded early development of the internet.US officials hope that the steam-powered engine can be used by the military to create a self-sufficient robot that could survive on its own for months at a time. Possible uses put forward by the team include a battlefield ambulance or mobile gun turret.The early version of Eatr runs on twigs, wood chips and other plant based material, fed into an engine that burns the material and uses it to propel itself around.Another of the robot's inventors, Dr Robert Finkelstein of Robotic Technology Inc (RTI), said that Eatr had built-in systems that would help it determine whether material that it ingested was animal, vegetable or mineral."If it's not on the menu, it's not going to eat it," hetold Fox News. "There are certain signatures form different kinds of materials that would distinguish vegetative biomass from other material."It can also use more conventional fuels, such as petrol, diesel or cooking oil, to keep going. But in a statement put out by the group, it reiterated that it would be illegal to create a robot that used dead bodies as an energy source."Descration of the dead is a war crime under Article 15 of the Geneva Conventions, and it is certainly not something sanctioned by Darpa, Cyclone or RTI."
Mini Cooper S&pound;18,995Miles per gallon: 44.1C02 per kilometre: 153 gramsGood for: city slickersBad for: salt lickersIt is 50 years since the very first Mini (finished in Old English White with the registration number 621 AOK and costing &pound;496) rolled off the production line at Cowley, Oxford. Almost 5m classic Minis were built, before BMW took over in 2001, and just last week another milestone was reached with the arrival of the 1,500,000th new Mini. And it is a testament to BMW's clever redesign, and to Sir Alec Issigonis's original masterpiece, that there isn't a small car with a bigger following anywhere in the world.Mind you, the original wasn't perfect. If you pressed the windscreen washer, water squirted all over your trousers, the door sills and window seals sprouted moss quicker than a tray of alfalfa, and if you switched the heater to "cold air" it meant keeping your fingers crossed that the radiator wouldn't explode. Keeping up the tradition, the new model also isn't perfect. The Convertible Cooper S, launched to coincide with the 50th celebrations, has back seats which are only comfortable if you've had an epidural, rear visibility bordering on zero, and a tacky grey dashboard which wouldn't look out of place on a Tonka toy - a bonus if you are under five, but not if you are 45.But these are small grumbles. The technical gremlins that blighted the first-generation Mini have been ironed out and the car's dipsomania has been improved with a raft of clever economy measures, including a gear indicator, brake-energy recovery system, low-resistance tyres and emission-slashing stop/start technology. More importantly, the car is a hoot to drive. It is energetic and engaging and its tiny wheels make its handling of obstacles direct and immediate - John Prescott would approve.But a great drive combined with the ability to fold itself into unpromising parking spaces does not turn a car into an icon. There are hundreds of vehicles on the road which are fit-for-purpose, but precious few have the vim, vigour and verve to see them through to 50. So what is it that makes Minis so special? One reason is that for all of us, they come loaded with memories - drive a Mini and the first turning is always down Memory Lane.Everyone has their personal "Mini memories", but here are three of my own:1) Creeping into an old barn while on a family holiday to watch the farm cat climb into an abandoned Mini to give birth to a litter of kittens on the back seat. It was white - the Mini, that is - and had a red-leather interior. I can't recall how many kittens she had, but we definitely named one Minnie.2) My dad buying a car for my mum as a secret Christmas present before my five-year-old brother let it slip. When I told him he'd spoilt the surprise, he protested: "But I didn't tell her it was going to be a Mini!"3) My wife learning to drive in her grandmother's turquoise-coloured Mini. As she struggled with the gears, Gran passed on a technical nugget of no-frills driving: "Don't bother with first, my dear - there isn't anything you can't do just as well in second!".martin.love@observer.co.uk
"I've gone a bit rogue on the format," admitted Beard of Bees when he emailed in this week's compilation of Chatterbox nuggets. And sure enough, the first-timer has done away with all the usual subsections and lists, opting for a denser narrative style. The quality of material hasn't changed though, with discussion points such as Hollywood, public transport and the operation of local councils competing and usually winning, against anything resembling videogame-related discourse.We wouldn't have it any other way.This week's photograph has been submitted by Lemuel. It's the Club Sega arcade in Akihabara, Tokyo. If you have any videogame-related photos that you'd like to see on here, please email them to gamesblog + at + googlemail + com. They'll need to be in landscape format, and large enough to comfortably display in 460 x 276 pixels.Anyway, dive in, but don't get too close to the screen - Beard of Bees claims to have been suffering from swine flu as he wrote. Get well soon, Beardy!Monday morning kicked off as it always does; whilst the regular denizens of the Gamesblog yawned their way into gear and slowly brought themselves up to full operational speed after the excesses of the weekend, a chipper few found themselves full of beans (coffee beans perhaps) and posed bright and early. The chat kicked off with the weekend's gaming, and a few words were shared about the Crysis franchise — the consensus seeming to be that, although it gets the Chatterbox thumbs-up, most of us are not insane enough to have bought computers good enough to play it.Shewrog2 made the proud announcement that his other half was expecting again, which was met with both some words of congratulation and this from TonyHayers:"...the old bill paid us a visit on Saturday night. Big fancy dress/bbq at a mates that got quite lively. Some bloke turned up with a pack of huge rockets. We experimented with tethering these to the floor with string, and snapping the sticks off. Explosive."This tangential outburst reassured all of the  'boxers — who may have been sobered by these thoughts of familial commitment — that the average maturity of the Gamesblog continues forwards (backwards?) on an even keel. Aside from outright condemnation of critics and radio presenters (Kermode and Whiley are still reeling), this then set the tone for the rest of the day until CunningStunt dropped this bombshell:"Finally got my dungeon big enough to attract the Otter Wizard. With all my anti-water armour I managed to dispatch him first time, although once again the girl was knocked out. Still, the mayor was happy and I got some more olive oil for the shovel. Think he has 25MP now."... and there was no saving Monday after that.As we wheeled into Tuesday it was clear that the theme of the day was to be outright vitriol. Starting with films; Transformers 2, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, and The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor were all denounced by the masses. Even CraggyIsland admitted that he'd turned Watchmen off half way through due to boredom. Luckily, Cameroon95 was fighting a lone campaign to cheer up the blog and inject some enthusiasm into the proceedings with a positive review. His one line summary of Requiem for a Dream: "While an excellent film, it is utterly depressing."Talk of poor films soon dominated, with those petitioning for a higher standard of cinema pitted against those standing up for the right to enjoy a bit of rubbish every now and then.  It was all fun and games until Piratejuice confessed that he'd been to see both Alien Vs Predator films at the cinema, revealing at once the appropriate target for the scorn of anyone bemoaning the output of Hollywood these days.As mid-week lazily rolled up, a change in the waters could be detected. After months of talk about Xbox 360s and Playstation 3s, some Chatterboxers found themselves reaching down to waggle something most hadn't used in a very long time: a wiimote. Grand Slam Tennis, with the shiny new wii motionplus attachment, is here and apparently meeting with rising murmurs of approval.Ever the cheeriest of communities, the Gamesblog then embraced with gusto a significant discussion of serious medical conditions suffered by readers and their loved ones. In these moments of sombre reflection, however, somebody saw fit to bring up the topic of the TV programme Deadliest Warrior (after Charlie Brooker's flirtation with the material) and soon energy levels were restored as titanic questions such as who would win in a fight between a pirate and a knight were squabbled over furiously.As we limped into the last portion of the week, there was only one question on everyone's lips: is there a better way of running our local authorities and what exactly do we pay council tax for anyway?  Luckily Henrypootle was straight out of the blocks with the definitive answer: "bins and sh*t". With that matter resolved, the afternoon's chat was ripe and full of potential to progress.The important issues of the day would not go without a fight though, and topics such as the NHS, privatisation of public services, the works of Ayn Rand, and the availability of 'legal highs' in the U.K were danced around for a short while by those with the energy remaining to debate them. One was CBPodge, who was the only 'boxer man enough to take up Crispycrumb's challenge to name a decent railway, anywhere in the world, that is not state owned: "The Monorail at Alton Towers," he confirmed with knowing authority, "is excellent."And so into Friday, where CunningStunt attempted to kick off the day with a piece of fashionable lingo: "Feeling a bit Crunchie about tomorrow," he enthused, before having to explain, upon questioning, that it was, you know, from that old advert. For the chocolate bar.As with all Fridays, the general lack of joie de vivre amongst the tired and downtrodden was relieved by the discussion of potential gaming purchases for the weekend.  Grand Slam Tennis was talked about again, as was Sacred 2 — both in slightly hushed tones as if the Gamesbloggers felt just a little dirty about the thought of picking these titles up.As the weekend approached, the only things more pressing than games chat would of course be the carefully planned regime of alcohol abuse and sleep deprivation planned by the bloggers for the forthcoming weekend. After some back and forth, we can all now be confident that we know why energy drinks are bad for you, whether there's any difference between a White Russian and a 'Caucasian', and what the best science fiction TV shows ever made are. That last one admittedly derailing the afternoon's conversation somewhat.Finally, a die-hard cadre of the Chatterbox's finest took it upon themselves to see the comments hit ten pages before Friday was out. In a shocking display of discourtesy towards the selfless heroes who condense the comments into a 'Best-of' each week, item after item was poured forth onto the page without restraint. An effort deserving of mention? Yes. But that was all it will get.See you next week, Gamesbloggers.Quote of the week"I'm so depressed today I might buy Spongebob Squarepants season 1 &amp; 2. He always makes me laugh."Without that second sentence, Shadowmind's desperate outburst might have been taken as the most bizarre suicide note ever.
A controversial service which allows connection to millions of mobile phone numbers in an online directory has been suspended, just weeks after it was launched. The 118 800 service, which charges up to £1 to put people in touch with a mobile number from its list, went live in June. Since then it has been deluged with people trying to remove their details from the system.The site had caused concerns about privacy after it emerged it was making available details of 15m mobile phone numbers it had bought from market researchers and list brokers.Consumers who wanted their numbers removed from the site were told they needed to log on and apply to be ex-directory.Those who tried to do so late last week were unable to access the site. Visitors are now told the service is unavailable online and by phone while "major developments" are undertaken "to improve the experience for our customers".The message says: "All ex-directory requests made by people in our directory to date are being processed. There will be no need to resend these requests."And we will take further ex-directory requests when the service resumes. We will not be taking ex-directory requests by phone or text whilst the service is not operational."Last week the office of the Information Commissioner said it wanted to talk to Connectivity, the site behind the 118 800 service, to find out how it planned to protect consumers against having their numbers included against their will.However, a spokeswoman for 118 800 said the site's owners had earlier talked to the Commissioner and ensured the site did comply with UK laws. She said the suspension of the site and phone directory service were a result of "technical glitches" that meant parts of the site needed rebuilding and that the suspension would be temporary.In a statement, 188 800 said: "The high number of queries 118 800 has received since launching have highlighted some technical glitches in the system. To ensure 118 800 provides faultless customer service the decision has been made to temporarily suspend the service allowing for technical work to be completed."All requests to be made 'ex directory' that have been sent to the service, via the website or text message, are being dealt with and these numbers will be made ex-directory. There will be no need to resend these requests to 118 800. 118 800 will begin taking further ex-directory requests as soon as the service is resumed."118 800 apologies for any inconvenience this has caused callers and will release a further statement once the service is up and running at full capacity."The landline directory service at 118 800 is still operational.
Owners of Amazon's Kindle electronic book reader have received a nasty surprise, after discovering that copies of books by George Orwell had been deleted from their gadgets without their knowledge.The books - downloaded from Amazon.com by American Kindle users - were remotely deleted after what the US company now says was a rights issue regarding the publisher, MobileReference.com."These books were added to our catalog using our self-service platform by a third-party who did not have the rights to the books," spokesman Drew Herdener told the Guardian. "When we were notified of this by the rights holder, we removed the illegal copies from our systems and from customers' devices, and refunded customers."Amazon refunded the cost of the books, but told affected customers they could no longer read the books and that the titles were "no longer available for purchase".In an ironic twist, one of the titles in question was Orwell's classic dystopian novel 1984 - the book that introduced the concept of Big Brother. The story, considered a modern classic, has become synonymous with political spin and remote surveillance - and many Kindle owners could not help but see the juxtaposition as amusing."Sounds ironically like Big Brother is monitoring our Kindle content," said one user.Others were simply angered or annoyed by the sudden move, which they felt treated them unfairly simply for having bought the book in the first place."It's like having Barnes &amp; Noble sell you a book, charge your Visa and then 3 months later change their mind, credit your card and demand their book be returned," said a disgruntled readeron the Amazon website."I was in the middle of reading the book on my Kindle," said another.Initially Amazon customer service representatives had said the book had been withdrawn at the request of the publisher - a move it said was "a rarity [but] publishers can decide to pull their content from the Kindle store".However Herdener said the company would be altering its policy so that it could block illegal copies, but not take back copies innocently downloaded by customers."We are changing our systems so that in the future we will not remove books from customers' devices in these circumstances," he said.MobileReference did not respond to the Guardian's request for comment.It is not the first time that Amazon has removed titles that were produced in breach of copyright and sold illegally through its store. Examples include pirated copies of Twilight books by Stephanie Meyer, Harry Potter books and the works of novelist Ayn Rand.Although the work of Orwell - who died in 1950 - has entered the public domain in some countries, it is not yet free of copyright restrictions in the United States or Europe.Although Amazon is believed to be in negotiations with a number of European mobile manufacturers to support the Kindle, the device has only gone in sale in the US. This means that any copy produced for it would need to have been officially licensed by the Orwell Estate - which has been careful to protect its rights in the past.
Gartner and IDC have released preliminary numbers for PC sales in the second quarter of 2009, and while sales are down, the market didn't fall as much as had been predicted.Gartner reckons that worldwide PC shipments were 68.1 million units, which is 5% lower than the second quarter of 2008. However, it had forecast a decline of 9.8%. Rival analysts atIDC put shipments at 66.3m units(excluding x86 servers), down by 3.1%, against an expected decline of 6.3%. IDC said:All regions either met or surpassed expectations. Although the global downturn is still making its effects felt in the PC industry, the slump has been mitigated by a PC market which has seen the computing experience evolve to be more personal, portable, and cost-oriented rather than performance-driven. Portable PCs continue to be the primary driver of volume and growth with all regions seeing strong Portable shipments.But there was no good news for Dell, the former world market leader. Hewlett-Packard led the way, shipping 13.4m units (up 2.8%) while Dell only managed 9.3m (down 17%), according to Gartner. It's now just a whisker ahead of Acer (9.2m units, up 34.2%), with Lenovo (5.8m units, up 3.2%) and Toshiba (4.4m units, up 10%) making up the world's top five. IDC had different numbers but the same result.It's pretty clear that the market has moved towards low-cost low-powered portables sold at retail (such as netbooks) and away from the higher-end desktop PCs bought by businesses -- that is to say, away from Dell's strongest and most profitable lines. I'll bet Mike has his fingers crossed for Windows 7 kicking off a corporate PC refresh cycle next year.In the US market, Garter put total shipments at 16.4m units (down 1.2%) while IDC registered 15.9m units (down 3%). Dell, very narrowly, took the top spot with 4.25m units (down 18.7%), against HP's 4.21m units (up 1.2%), according to Gartner. Acer rocketed into third place with 2.32m units (up 74.2%), ahead of Apple (1.42m, up 2.5%) and Toshiba (1.12m, up 22.5%).For some reason, IDC used a smaller number for Apple's US shipments -- 1.21m units, down 12.4% -- and this dropped Apple to fifth place behind Toshiba. Since Apple publishes its numbers, they'll eventually agree. And I'll be surprised if IDC's comes out closest.In the much larger European (EMEA) market -- 26m units, down 10.9% -- Acer is clearly heading for first place. Gartner put HP first with 4.3m shipments (down 2.2%), a sliver ahead of Acer's 4.2m units (up 21.6%). The top five places were completed by Dell (2.1m units, down 23.4%), Toshiba (1.1m units, down 19.7%) and Asus (1.0m units, down 26.2%). Gartner comments:Overall, Central Eastern Europe pulled the overall performance of the EMEA market down with declines of more than 30% as Russian and Baltic countries showed little sign of renewed demand. The performances in the Middle East and African markets remained weak.Asus suffered, compared to the same quarter a year ago, because of competition from rival netbook manufacturers, especially Acer and Samsung. They "took over some of its retail contracts and continued presence in the telecom retail segment," says Gartner.Gartner also says that:* In Asia/Pacific, PC shipments came to 20.5m units, up 2.3%.* In Latin America, PC shipments came to 5.8m units, down 16.6%.* In Japan, PC shipments came to 3.4m units, down 3.2%.
Are you excited by the Apollo moon landing – more precisely, the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the takeoff and successful landing and return of the Apollo 11 mission and its crew? There's been no shortage of places to watch and follow it, fromwechoosethemoon(named after Kennedy's famous phrase from his speech in September 1962) toCAPCOM(the person talking to the astronauts from the Canaveral Space Centre) on Twitter. There's an astronauts' get-together (though it seems Neil Armstrong isn't prepared to take even one small step out of his house to go there.) It's complete immersion. And we'recertainly not immune here at the Guardian.What more could you want? Yet I suspect that what many of the people oohing and aahing over the achievements of 40 years ago really want is something unachievable: to be able to be transported back to that time as we imagine it. To live once more in a world where we hadn't gone yet to the moon; where the rare beauty of the Earth wasn't so clear; where the environmental problems weren't piling up so quickly that we barely dared to look around; where our financial straits didn't seem to bind us endlessly; where the twin pressures of feeding the world and making its vehicles run didn't work against each other.Well, tough. You can't go back to that time. And though it might sound cruel to say so, hankering for the lost days of moon-claiming is the nearest thing to crawling under the duvet and sticking your fingers in your ears that you can do while not actually doing that.What have the past 40 years brought us? Yes, lots of problems. But perhaps that's partly because we can now see our problems more clearly.And if you're really asking what those years have brought, let's detail a few:• microminiaturisation that enables you to read this on a computer millions of times more powerful than was available in 1969;• a communications network (call it the internet, whose first beginnings were October 1969) that gives us access instantly to more knowledge than individuals have ever been able to access ever before;• the commonplace use of lasers and masers and the mass-production of fibre-optic cables, ensuring that making a phone call has become cheaper, in real terms, than ever before;• the advent of mobile phones, for which there are now 4bn connections (compare that to roughly 6 billion people in the world) enabling you to make calls from nearly anywhere;• space satellites that have mapped our world in more detail and shown us more about what we're doing to it than we ever knew before;• a constellation of satellites, with atomic clocks so accurate that they have toaccount for the effects of relativity, which we can use to determine our position on the Earth to an accuracy of a few metres;And in the field of medicine there's:• magnetic resonance imaging (the idea wasn't even published until 1971, and the firstnot built until 1977);• the CAT scan (computed axial tomography)not until 1972(by a Briton), and• cochlear implants (a subjectclose to my heart), which were barely functional in 1969.Perhaps we don't like knowing so much about how extensively we've failed to grapple with the problems we're creating on this world; our self-knowledge, and capacity to enlarge that knowledge, runs far ahead of our ability to act sensibly on that knowledge. If we could see the world in the round, as those astronauts did, perhaps we would stop razing the rain forests, reduce our energy use, stop overfeeding ourselves while we overfish the seas. We know that if we really look at the distance from here to 1969, we'd suffer more existenstial angst than we do already. So we prefer just to look at that date, and what was done then. Fine: but what comes next? Reliving the succeeding missions? That will peter out. Reliving Richard Nixon's announcement – intended to mirror Kennedy's choosing of the moon as a grand target –that cancer would be conquered? That one didn't go so well. Not all grand schemes succeed. Apollo was the exception, not the rule.The trouble with nostalgia is that it's never more comfortable to indulge in than when it's cold outside. I, for one, won't be following the Apollo celebrations. I've met Buzz Aldrin, and he's an excellent ambassador for astronauts; the problem is that space has better ambassadors than it deserves, since it's a big, empty, lonely, deadly place. I'll be thinking about the things we need to fix on the planet now.Apart from anything, it's a lot more likely to make a difference …
Seeing Microsoft's latest attempt to take a chunk out of Yahoo - this time, to in effect take over its search advertising business - I'm reminded of one of Bob Monkhouse's lines: "Everyone laughed when I said I wanted to be a comedian. Well, they're not laughing now."Everyone did indeed laugh whenMicrosoft made its $44.6bn bid for Yahoo in February 2008; principally inside Yahoo, where they had financial projections which suggested that the company would be worth far more within a short period of time.Unfortunately, as anyone outside Yahoo could have told them, the projections were nonsense - made when the credit crunch had barely begun to bite, and when people assumed that online advertising would continue to grow without end, swallowing up all the money being spent on TV, radio, print and other outlets until it was the only form. Jerry Yang, then head of Yahoo, turned the deal down, and despite Microsoft's chief executive Steve Ballmer repeatedly trying to talk some financial sense into him (although whether the deal would have made corporate sense is a different question entirely), it didn't happen.Well, reality intruded. Yang was unceremoniously dumped, ousted by carpetbagging shareholders who'd hoped to make a pile from Microsoft's money. Carol Bartz is now in, and she's a pragmatist - allied to the fact that Yahoo's profits have slumped seriously.Nobody's laughing, especially at Yahoo, and although Yahoo is still a bigger referrer than Microsoft's newly-rebranded search engine Bing - for the Guardian Technology site, for example, Yahoo generates about 30% more referrers than Bing, though both are almost one-tenth the size of Google as a referrer - the momentum is with Microsoft.The deal being considered would mean Microsoft takes over the search advertising for Yahoo, and pays back a guaranteed amount each year. This is a bit like sale-and-lease-back on a commercial building: Yahoo gives up one of its most valuable properties, but hopes to get a guaranteed amount from it.For Yahoo, that's an admission of defeat in the search market: one of the most-visited properties online deciding that it can't cut it, and that search and search advertising are something that others do better.In the physical world, sale-and-lease-back always makes accountancy sense (it reduces your static assets and increases your flexibility) but it cuts you off from what you used to be tied to: the organisation becomes rootless.Taking control of Yahoo's search business would give Microsoft 30% of the US search business. But the effects will be less on Microsoft, and more on Yahoo.Bartz and Ballmerdiscussed the failed dealat the AllthingsD conference in May, and all the signs are that that is where they began to get the discussion back on track. Microsoft's track, that is.Yahoo is due to announce its past quarter's results next week, and Bartz will be keen to have something to offer to Wall Street analysts, who will be seeking evidence that her hard-as-nails approach is bearing fruit.The problem for Yahoo is that after all these years it's still trying to decide what it'sfor. Is it a search engine? Is it where you get your email? Your news? Your TV? Bartz hasn't, as far as we can tell, given any indication to the troops of what the company's real mission is. Google's is "to organise the world's information and make it accessible". (And sell adverts against it.) Microsoft's is to "get a computer on every desk, running Windows." (And run Windows on anything that can run an operating system.) What's Yahoo's?If the deal is inked - and Kara Swisher of AllthingsD, who has followed its ups and downs perhaps the closest of all the reporters out theresays it's "down to the short strokes"- then Microsoft will begin to look like a worthy adversary for Google.But Yahoo, despite its size, will start looking like a rump. Analystsexpectit to earn about $104m profit on revenues of $1.14bn, compared to $131m on revenues of $1.8bn a year ago. That's not good either.In short, this deal with Microsoft - should it come off - will be good for Microsoft. But it still leaves Yahoo searching for an identity it lost some time in 2000. What nobody has yet answered, but Bartz needs to, is: what is Yahoofor?
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Thinking about it, my favourite would be the Theremin. I was given it as a birthday present. They're wonderful, I just love them – it's the greatest musical instrument because you stand there waving your arms around in front of it. It looks ridiculous, but it sounds great. They are truly analogue; it's almost tactile, but you can't touch it.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I use it every single gig, as much as the other musicians will allow.What additional features would you add if you could?I'd add a tuner so that as well as just waving your arms around, you could play it in tune.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?That's the great thing about it – this one's been going since the 1930s, so I reckon it will outlast every other electronic instrument on the market.What always frustrates you about technology in general?What I find frustrating now is that you can't take things apart and fiddle with them any more, the way you used to be able to.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Don't take it apart!Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm definitely on the nerd side, unless luddites include people with soldering irons. But I'm definitely a bit geeky.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My first Apple Mac. What I did was buy it on hire purchase, so it cost me nearly twice as much as anyone else.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. I had an Amstrad word processor once, then moved very briefly onto a PC and hated it. Then I bought a Mac, and loved it.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?DVDs, but I tend to download music. The last purchase was, I think, was a DVD of The Old Rope String band – I wanted to do some research on the Theremin.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I would prefer robot roadies – they're far more useful.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A 3GS iPhone. I got the first iPhone when it came out, but I haven't upgraded yet.•John Otway(and his Theremin) are touring the UK
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
After almost 18 months of increasingly bitter negotiations, Microsoft is said to be closing in on a deal to buy technology rival Yahoo's web search business.Several reports emerged late on Thursday suggesting that late-stage talks were under way between the two companies, opening up the distinct possibility that Microsoft could finally take control of Yahoo's search engine division.An analyst with institutional investor ThinkEquity was quoted byinvestment website 24/7 Wall Streetas saying a deal was "imminent", while sources told influential Silicon Valley blog All Things Digital thatan agreement was close to being completed.It is not clear what the precise terms of the deal on offer are, but according to 24/7 Wall Street, it could see Microsoft shell out around $3bn (£1.8bn) to take over Yahoo's search advertising operation. The deal, it suggests, would also see Microsoft agree to share revenue from the search business with Yahoo for several years.Such a pact would bring to an end the tortured negotiations between the two companies, but it would be an incredible climbdown for Yahoo – which turned down the possibility of far more money whenMicrosoft launched an unsolicited $45bn bid to buy Yahoo in its entiretylast February.That offer was largely seen as an attempt by Microsoft to gain control of its rival's search business, since the Seattle software giant has been desperate to increase its share of the lucrative search advertising market for several years. But Yahoo rejected it, saying that it believed it was worth far more money.In the interim, relations between the two companies have been cool – and both sides have rejected rumours of reported negotiations.However, with the two companies' chief rival, Google, appearing not only increasingly powerful but alsoapparently immune to the worst effects of the recession, things could be changing once again. Microsoft's attempt to claw back market share with its relaunched search engine – now called Bing – has failed to make immediate inroads, leaving the Windows giant still looking for a way to make its mark in the industry.Taking control of Yahoo's search business would give Microsoft almost 30% of the American market, more than trebling its sphere of influence.According to figures from ComScore, Google controls around 65% of the search market in the US, with Yahoo 19.5% and Microsoft trailing in third with a little over 8%. Internationally, Google is even stronger.Such a deal would be a further hammer blow to the reputation of Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang, who led the charge against Microsoft and sparked a war of words with rival CEO Steve Ballmer.Since the negotiations between the two collapsed late last year, however, Yahoo has brought in a new CEO, Carol Bartz – who may take a more pragmatic view of the situation given Yahoo's financial struggles.The company is due to release its latest quarterly results next week, and may be hoping that any agreement with Microsoft could take the edge off a disappointing fiscal period.
If the recent re-release of Secret of Monkey Island wasn't enough to remind you of gaming in the early 90s thenyesterday's news should help. Yes, Activision are planning to charge 54.99 UKP for Modern Warfare 2. Not since the days of pricey SNES and Mega Drive carts have we seen this much charged for a single game.Oh,  go on then. It's Friday.Donkey Kong Countryon the SNES? Limited edtion Halo 2? What is the most you have ever spent on a new game?
&bull; Another blow to the myth of the recession proof gaming industry: salesfell by 31% in the past three months, whichReuterssays is the largest decline since 2000.&bull; The saga of documents stolen from Twitter is remains ongoing.TechCrunchsays it has finished posting its material - but the real row continues to be about the ethics and legality of the move. TechCrunch editor Eric Schonfeld said "we have been given the green light by Twitter to post this information" - but that characterisation has beenroundly rejected by the company, which says "we absolutely did not give permission for these documents to be shared".&bull; Oh Friday, has it really been a week since we last frolicked with you? How shall we spend our weekends?Reminiscing about Jennicam? Watch afan-created remake of Star Wars? Any other tantalising choices?You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Last weekI met up with Twitter co-founder Biz Stoneto discuss life at the company, and to find out what things are like inside the most talked-about startup in the world.This is an edited transcript of the interview: in previous posts we have discussed theculture inside Twitterandresponding to criticism. Today, in the final section, we hear about the crucial moments that have kept Twitter going, and - including the revelation that the site may only ever be 'a company of hundreds'.What have the real turning points been?Biz Stone:I think there's been a lot of those - they just keep happening.ObviouslySXSW 2007, when we realised that we had something that groups of people could use to coordinate and communicate and move as one in real time. Then subsequent earthquakes, wild fires and other dramatic disasters - where people were then helping each other with the tool - were eye-opening.When we made theacquisition of the Summize teamit was funny, because we loved what they were doing and we had to go and meet with them in person to make sure that they were going to work culturally with is if we bought the company. Within about five or 10 minutes of talking to these guys, I leaned back and told Ev "These guys are really smart - we could be the jerks here".We'd gone to evaluate them, but we had to make sure we were on our best behaviour because they were really great guys - they weren't just smart; we couldn't wait to have them join us. They plugged right into Twitter and got right to work - they were influential, especially Greg [Pass] our director of engineering, navigating us through those technical challenges and getting us to a place where we are able to handle world event after world event; the US elections, recently the passing of Michael Jackson was a global event.We saw instantly more than two times the number of tweets per second being both created and sent out. Instantly. A huge test of the system that was completely unexpected, and that's what you have to be prepared for - and that's what these guys set us on the path to doing.And it's not just Greg, it's the other wonderful engineers likeEvan Weaver[infrastructure and performance], Nick [Nick Kallen, engineer] and the other guys - smart guy after smart guy attracted to us, and attracted to our problems, which is wonderful to have.Twitter has grown significantly - from around 20 employees last year, you now have more than 50. Do you intent to keep growing? And for how long?BS:For the next year, yes. We may even double in size. We're picking out a new office down the street, which is a shame because we spent all the time painting birds on the walls... but we're going to move to a bigger office, hire more people.But we're still innovating on what it means to be a company - do we need to be a company of thousands? Maybe not. Maybe we can be a company of hundreds and still bring Twitter to a huge number of people around the world.When do you know it's enough? When do you think Twitter will have reached your objectives?The day we decide we've figured it all out and that we know everything is the day we've closed the door to a lot of wonderful opportunities. "We're clever, we've figured it all out, we're geniuses".Wasn't there a scientist in the 17 or 1800s who said we've discovered everything there is to discover, and his peers all agreed with him? How crazy does that sound? For Twitter to sit and say 'we've figured that all out'? It just sounds crazy.You've been involved in startups before. Does this feel different?Yeah, it's just much faster. Everything about Twitter goes faster. I often joke with Ev and often say any decision you think we're going to need to make two years from now, we'll probably have to make it tomorrow.Everything's been faster; it's grown faster, we move faster. It's funny, because it's almost not unique to Twitter - we've just entered an era where things are happening faster... and as a result we need tools to help us make decisions faster.Those decisions can't be sloppy, they need to be smart, so we need tools to help us operate and Twitter is one of those tools. So it's almost like it's feeding itself. We live in a world where we need things like Twitter in order to make smart decisions on the fly, and in order to move like a flock of birds around an object in flight.But isn't Twitter helping to create a world that requires instant decisions?Maybe it is. It's hard to tell. But doesn't it feel like everything in your life is suddenly moving faster than it did before too?
It seems facial recognition is all the rage these days. At his Develop Conference keynote today, Kish Hirani, the Head of developer services at Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, revealed that the PSeye camera has similar capabilities to Microsoft's Natal technology: it can recognise the player, detecting facial features and even calculating elements such as gender and age.Apparently, Sony has already created a range of libraries for developers who wish to implement the technology.Hirani alsospoke aboutthe PS3 motion controller, due to launch next spring, which uses a combination of camera tracking and built-in accelerometers to ensure seamless, lag-free movement detection even when you have it behind your back. Interesting stuff - although the timing of the facial recognition unveiling, so soon after Microsoft's arguably triumphant E3 showing is somewhat suspect.Anyway, while I was at Develop yesterday, the most intriguing possibilities for this whole technological sector were mentioned to me by Andrew Oliver ofBlitz Games.He's been heavily involved with the company's revolutionarystereoscopic 3D graphics enginefor the Xbox 360 and PS3 consoles. He was saying that a key problem with 3D at the moment is that the technology fools you into thinking you're seeing a three dimensional object, but when you try to look walk around the image to see it from a different angle you can't, because of course, it's really sitting on a 2D screen.However, with motion tracking camera technology like Natal and now, perhaps, the PSEye, the game will be able to trace the player's movement and alter the onscreen image accordingly. In effect, you'll have objects that you can wander around and seemingly view at different angles. Apologies if this is all old hat to you true 3D experts - it's a possibilityI'dnot considered before.And I know the Olivers - they wouldn't tell me that if they weren't already working on it.
Internet giant Google continued to shrug off the worst effects of the recession, announcing today that it had seen an 18% increase in profits for its last financial quarter.In its latest financial results, the Californian technology giant posted net profits of $1.48bn (£901m) for the three months to the end of June, on the back of revenues of $5.52bn (£3.36bn). While that marks just a 3% increase in revenues on the same period of 2008, net profit rocketed by 18% - up from $1.25bn for the second quarter of last year.The increases, achieved through what it called "responsible efforts to manage expenses", marked a surprise boost for the company which has so far managed to ride through the depths of the worldwide economic crisis."Google had a very good quarter, especially given the continued macro-economic downturn," said chief executive Eric Schmidt in a statement. "We remain focused on investing in technical innovation to drive growth."Over the last two years the company has started diversifying its business away from pure web search and advertising - stretching into mobile phones, computer software and productivity applications - but most of its income remains driven by search advertising.The worldwide market is becoming increasingly important to the company, with international revenues constituting $2.91bn in the last three months, more than half of the total figure. At the same time, however, Google is becoming increasingly reliant on its own sites to generate cash: two thirds of revenues were generated on Google-owned properties, with the remaining third generated by the company's extensive network of advertising partners.Revenues from the UK were down 8% year-on-year, said chief financial officer Patrick Pichette, in part due to the collapse of the pound over the past year. The company said that foreign exchange fluctuations had cost it approximately $500m in lost profits, but that the loss "was partially offset by revenues from our hedging programme".The Californian company has grown wildly since it hit the stock market in 2004, but despite rude financial health it has not emerged from the recession entirely unscathed. Earlier this year the company said it wasscaling back on some projects and cutting jobsas a result of the need to focus more closely on its core businesses.Those manoeuvres have resulted in the company's headcount shrinking over the past three months, from 20,164 full-time employees in March to 19,786 at the end of June.However, despite the insistence that it was reducing its wide scope, the company has continued to expand its ambitions in a number of areas - including the announcement last week that it plans to create anew computer operating system based on its Chrome web browser.And last week Schmidt said he remained optimistic that YouTube - which is currently burning hundreds of millions of dollars each year - would eventually become a "strong revenue business".The company also said that it was continuing to build up its substantial cash pile, which now stands at $19.3bn.
