It's Wednesday, and I'm currently writing up the Guardian's top 20 games of the year. This is going to be a thankless task.
Twitter-using Tottenham fans have been mixing up cyclist Chris Hoy and referee Chris Foy – and sending the Olympic champion abuse meant for the latter, following controversial decisions during Spurs' defeat to Stoke City at the weekend. Here's how to tell the two apart:• Hoy's thighs could have been painted by Rubens; Foy's by LS Lowry.• "On your bike" is Hoy's daily mantra; it's the only publishable thing said to Foy by Tottenham manager Harry&nbsp;Redknapp.• Hoy punches the air in celebration; Foy points an accusatory finger.• Hoy dresses like Neneh Cherry; Foy&nbsp;dresses like a schoolboy Johnny&nbsp;Cash.• Hoy takes a&nbsp;picture of Prince William to the barber's; Foy takes a picture of Dame Judi Dench.
On this week's podcast, Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur pick apart a metric tonne of handheld news: from the decision of HP to "open source" its WebOS to the Android marketplace store serving 10bn apps to the ongoing epic legal battle between Samsung and Apple.Charles interviewsBlackBerrymaker RIM about its Playbook and what the future holds for development on its various OSs, he looks that the business end from a marketing point of view as advertising delivery companyAdgentdiscusses its HTML5 mobile ad solution, and he finds out what it all means for developers fromalwaysonmessageandBlueVia.Next week we record our annual Christmas special, and as well as playing our bloopers and mistakes from the year, we'd like to hear your thoughts about what we should include in our 2011 roundup. Send your ideas intotechweekly@guardian.co.uk, add your comment to the bottom of the page, tweet us@guardiantwor write on our wall atfacebook.com/techweekly
The European Commission has hit the "pause" button on Google's proposed $12.5bn (£7.8bn) takeover of mobile phone company Motorola Mobility, and asked for more feedback from rivals and users who would be affected by the deal.Among key questions that it has already tried to tease out are whether Google would favour Motorola over other handware manufacturers which license Google's Android software for mobile phones and tablets. Google has repeatedly insisted that it would not.Although Google worked closely with Motorola to produce two "reference" devices for the first versions of some Android software – for the Droid phone and Xoom tablet – it has also worked with others, including HTC and most recently Samsung, on others.The EC had been due to complete its deliberations by 10 January, but Amelia Torres, spokeswoman for the commission's competition unit, announced that "The deadline is suspended because the (European) Commission needs from Google certain documents that are essential to its evaluation of the transaction."She added that "once the commission has all the necessary information, it will re-start the clock and publish a new phase one deadline on the website."Google, which announced the $12.5bn deal in August, is looking to boost its patent portfolio and compete better with rivals such as Apple, which is in a series of court battles with makers of Android products. Microsoft has also persuaded several Android mobile handset makers to pay it a royalty on each one made, on the basis that they infringe a number of Microsoft patents.US antitrust regulators are also reviewing the deal, which Google began negotiating soon after it missed out on araft of patentsauctioned in July from the bankruptcy of Canadian communications company Nortel. Sanjay Jha, head of Motorola Mobility,persuaded Google to lift its original bid by 33%, financial filings showed.A Google spokesperson said: "The European Commission has asked for more information, which is routine, while they review our Motorola Mobility acquisition. We're confident the commission will conclude that this acquisition is good for competition and we'll be working closely and cooperatively with them as they continue their review."The EC is also investigating whether Google's dominance of search and search advertising in Europe is being implemented in a way which would lead it to formally object to the way that the search engine does business in the single market. If it is found guilty there could be fines or instructions to change methods of working.
Voice-over-internet companies complaining that mobile and landline internet providers penalise the smooth functioning of their services got backing from EU ministers on Tuesday, who called for the European Commission and regulators to check on telecom operators that do so.The move gives leverage to complaints about mobile carriers around the world that have blocked internet telephony services such as Skype.Areportby the Voice on the Net (VON) coalition,VON Europe, whose members include both Google and Skype-owner Microsoft, says Vodafone Group restricts access to web-based calls on pay-as-you-go deals, while some mobile providers do not allow VoIP at all, including France Telecom's Orange, Bouygues, Germany's E-Plus and its parent group, Dutch provider KPN.It points to the example of the French operator SFR which sells "internet access" packages for Apple's iPad which specifically ban voice-over-internet (VoIP) and peer-to-peer use, while labelling it "unlimited". In the UK, only Three and O2 allow VoIP-based use of the iPad on their mobile internet packages."In other words, ISPs do have incentives to discriminate between players operating at the application and content layers," notes VON Europe's report. "Internet service providers can act as monopolists by shaping traffic in a way that departs from the application providers', content/service providers' or users' interests."Ministers urged the pan-European regulator and the European Commission to monitor mobile companies' traffic management to ensure they do not hamper "net neutrality", meaning that all services are treated equally.The regulator, BEREC, says infringements of "net neutrality" – in which some internet traffic such as voice calls is blocked in favour of other data – are infrequent, but ministers are concerned that some services are being throttled.That in turn could stifle the development of brand new services because carriers and telecoms companies would defend older models, but put Europe at a disadvantage compared with countries that better implement net neutrality.In the US, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) recommended a number of rules to enforce net neutrality on fixed, though not mobile, companies at the end of 2010. But mobile carrier Verizon Communicationschallenged even that weak approachin October.BEREC will publish a joint report from regulators in the 27 EU member states in February on whether telecom firms respect the principle of net neutrality.Microsoft's Skype service says it is either blocked or overpriced by mobile operators, who see its low-cost service as a threat to their business. Skype's customer base is forecast to reach 150 million by 2016, according to Juniper Research.The Netherlands passed a law in October banning mobile firms from charging customers extra for web-based call services.• This article was amended on 15 December. The VON acronym stands for Voice on the Net (VON) coalition, and not the Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) association.
Released back in 2008,LostWindsremains one of the finest ever Wiiware titles, standing alongside World of Goo, the Bit.Trip titles and Mega Man 9 as a testament to the fact that Nintendo's console has enjoyedsomesuccess in the downloadable gaming sector. This beautiful, peaceful role-player features a young boy named Toku seeking to save his homeland from an evil elemental force, aided by the wind, which can be manipulated using the Wii Remote to direct its gusts.With its interesting control mechanic the title always looked like a prime candidate for touchscreen conversion; and this month we should see the result, with creator Frontier Developments (which has also just put a version of Kinectimals on the App Store) unleashing its iOS update. Whether or not you ever played the original, or its fabulous sequel, Winter of the Melodias, check out the trailer above.
In the coming year, mobile internet devices and in particular smartphones will continue to bring the biggest changes to the way we communicate. For the first time, they will also change the way we do business.As adoption of the recession-defying smartphone tips from 40% to 60% in the UK next year, these devices will morph from communication tools to become platforms for commercial activity, with eBay already reporting a mobile retail rush this Christmas.And while many of us will be tempted to spend more, young tech-native users will find ways to save money by driving the explosion in free voice and messaging applications.With these thoughts in mind, here are my five predictions for the communications industry in 2012.1. Mobile retailThis was the year mobile retail entered the mainstream, and eBay tells the story. In 2010, its global sales via mobile tripled to $2bn (£1.3bn). The prediction for 2011 has been revised up from $4bn to $5bn.More than 170,000 UK shoppers spend more than £30 using eBay's mobile app every week. On Cyber Monday, the peak day for online Christmas shopping in the US three times more people turned to eBay subsidiary PayPal's mobile app this year than last. Shoppers on the internet auction site have bought homes and even a £70,000 Ferrari from their phones.Christmas shoppers were predicted to spend 12% of their £13.4bn online pounds on mobiles in the UK this year, according to the Centre for Retail Research, which thinks that by 2015, a quarter of online purchases will be made on mobiles.2. Mobile walletsSwiping phones at public transport ticket barriers instead of travel cards, or at shop tills instead of debit cards, redeeming electronic coupons in-store, scanning barcodes to compare prices ... mobile phone networks have been talking about turning these ideas into reality for years.But Google is making it happen. This summer Google Wallet opened to the general public in the US, and the company hopesto bring it to Europe next year, beginning with the UK.PayPal has similar designs, as do the mobile phone networks. This Christmas, Amazon had bricks and mortar retailers choking on their tinsel with the offer of a 5% discount for items scanned in physical shops using its price comparison barcode scanner, which runs on smartphones.In the developing world, phones are being used not just as wallets but as a first bank account. Migrant workers are sending billions home using mobile phone money transfer services. Juniper Research says that $55bn will be sent in 2016, up from just under $12bn this year.3. Change at the topSeats are being reserved in the last chance saloon for two of technology's biggest chieftains: Sony Group's Sir Howard Stringer and Microsoft's Steve Ballmer.A former CBS journalist who went on to run Sony's American business, including the record label and film studio, Stringer has made it his mission knit the conglomerate into a coherent entity.During his six year reign he has scored individual hits with PlayStation games consoles, Bravia television sets, Vaio laptops and the Spider-Man films. But not all these initiatives have been profitable and the benefits of making both the content and the gadgets to consume it with have yet to materialise.This year, Stringer had hoped to announce a $2bn annual profit. Thanks to Japan's Tsunami and a sluggish global economy, he reported a $3.1bn net loss, the biggest for 16 years.Kazuo Hirai, credited with masterminding PlayStation's success and now corporate executive officer at group level, is the heir apparent.2012 is also a crucial year for Ballmer. He has so far failed to catch up with Google on search advertising, and has yet to make an impact on smartphones.None of this has mattered so long as Microsoft remained unchallenged on PCs, controlling 80% of the market. Ballmer's problem is that PCs are being challenged, by smartphones and tablets.When Windows 8 is released later in 2012, billions of Ballmer customers will ask themselves whether to spend money updating an old computer, or buy a new one. Microsoft word processing, spreadsheets and email are very sticky services, but many people may opt for a tablet rather than a laptop, and Apple dominates the tablet market.4. Free phone calls and messagesOn personal computers and increasingly on phones, young technology natives and those who watch their pennies are finding ways to get something for virtually nothing.Skype video phoning is a daily activity for schoolchildren. With a BlackBerry and a £10 a month Sim-only contract, messages are free and unlimited. If all your friends are messaging, there is no need to spend any money at all on calls and texts.For those who can't do without, there are endless applications which cut the phone bill by pushing the traffic onto the internet. WhatsApp is used to send 1bn messages a day. Viber, with free international calls and texts, has been downloaded 30m times. Video calling app Tango has 20m users.These services have arrived and are becoming mainstream. Good for consumers, bad for mobile network company revenues.5. Apple TVNobody really knows what it will look like, but Apple TV is coming next year. A factory in Japan is being retooled to produce it, and unlike current Apple television gadgets, which hook up your existing box to the internet, this one will have a screen.It will turn the iPhone into a remote control, and may also respond to hand gestures and voice commands. In 2012, shouting at the TV could take on a whole new meaning.
It's Tuesday. If you missed it yesterday, why not join the enlightened debate about Modern Warfare 3 beneath ourstory on the game's sales figures? It's edifying stuff!
The BluesThis iOS app claims to be the "world's first comic book that tells the story of blues music". That means 23 full-colour pages with music and sound effects, telling the tale of Otis, a young boy in the Mississippi Delta in the 1930s discovering blues music.iPhone / iPadGardens of TimeDisney's Playdom social games division has ported Facebook hit Gardens of Time to iPad, having attracted 17 million monthly active users at its peak on the social network. It's a hidden object game, with the social elements involving challenging friends and sending virtual gifts.iPadKeep Me SafeKeep Me Safe is pitched as "a GPS Sat Nav for your family", with the theory being you turn it on when wanting (with permission) to track someone's location – suggested examples include children walking to school or people catching late-night taxis. It costs £39.99 a year via subscription, or £3.99 a month.AndroidForbidden Planet StoreUK sci-fi store Forbidden Planet has launched an iOS app that enables people to buy products from their device, scan barcodes in-store, find their nearest outlet and download exclusive wallpapers.iPhone / iPadGuess with JessWe're still getting over the shock of seeing CBeebies show Guess With Jess and realising that Postman Pat's cat can a.) talk, b.) sing and c.) dance. The thoroughly modern spin-off now has its own iOS app from P2 Games, with seven mini-games and activities for 3-6 year-olds.iPhone / iPadGreat Battles: Blenheim 1704UK publisher Amber Books has released an iPad app focused on the battle of Blenheim, a turning point (it says here) in the war of Spanish Succession in 1704. The app takes the form of an animated map with audio commentary, complemented by text, a gallery and a battle quiz. An app for the Battle of Stalingrad is on the way too.iPadFarmerama: Harvest TimeWeb games giant Bigpoint has launched a "companion app" for its popular Farmerama game. Players can log in from their iPhones or iPad to plant and harvest crops or feed animals in their main game.iPhone / iPadMonopoly for BlackBerry PlayBookEA has ported board game Monopoly to RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook, with a pass-the-device mode for up to four players, as well as computer-controlled opponents to play against.BlackBerry PlayBookPaper Glider HolidaysUK publisher Neon Play's popular Paper Glider game returns with a festive theme, as you flick Santa's sledge through a succession of side-scrolling levels.iPhoneMini PetsMiniclip's latest iOS game enters the booming social/freemium/animals market, getting players to care for pets while building an animal shelter. In-app purchases of gems and coins fund the action.iPhone / iPadTop GoatParents eager for new book-apps for their children may wish to check out Me &amp; Mine Publishing's first iPad app. Top Goat tells the story of "a little girl, a little goat, and a whole lot of bossiness", with a mixture of animation and interactivity.iPad
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple Softens Stance to Lure Mobile Ads &gt;&gt; WSJ.comThe Tim Cook effect: "Having originally asked marketers to commit to spend at least $1 million--an amount later dropped to $500,000--Apple is now discussing ad deals with a minimum commitment of just $400,000, according to a person familiar with the matter."Exclusive: Microsoft Replaces Head of Windows Phone Unit &gt;&gt; AllThingsDSteve Ballmer noted at the company's analyst meeting in September that Windows Phone sales haven't been what the company had hoped. Despite positive reviews, Microsoft has yet to gain significant market share with Windows Phone.Google, Motorola Mobility review temporarily halted by EU &gt;&gt; Businessweek"European Union regulators suspended their antitrust review of plans by Google Inc., the biggest maker of smartphone software, to buy Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. after requesting more information about the deal. The antitrust authority will continue the review after it has obtained "certain documents that are essential to its evaluation of the transaction," said Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the Brussels-based European Commission. "Digital certificate authority suspends operations following breach &gt;&gt; The Register"Websites belonging to a Netherlands-based issuer of digital certificates were unavailable following reports hackers penetrated their security and accessed databases that should have been off limits. "Dutch telecommunications giant KPN issued a statement (translation here) that said it temporarily shut the website of it's Gemnet subsidiary while it investigated the hack. A second website belonging to a KPN subsidiary that issues digital certificates to the Dutch government was also taken down." While everyone is looking at issues such as CarrierIQ, the whole web of trust in certificates is rotting away.Pricing could be a problem for Windows 8 tablet &gt;&gt; ZDNet"The largest group of voters, 38% of he total, said that they would only be willing to pay between $200 and $399 for a Windows 8 tablet, while another 27% would be willing to go up as high as $599." It's a small sample, but the results reflect what is seen in the market: people don't like spending more than $400 for a tablet, except for particular brands. Well, one particular brand. However, it will be very hard for OEMs which will also have to pay the Windows licence price for a Windows tablet to drive their prices below that of Apple.Why Twitter engineers and execs keep quitting - one insider's explanation &gt;&gt; Business Insider"So...why are all these people leaving what appears to be a company that builds a product millions of people use every day, and several industries - including Business Insider's - depend on? "We've asked a former Twitter employee. Does this source have an ax to grind? This source says no. This source asked to remain anonymous in order to be as candid as possible. "This source told us Twitter's turnover problem has two main, related causes: Twitter, as a company full of workers, has cultural flaws and structural flaws."OneNote for iOS gets new features, arrives in new markets worldwide &gt;&gt; Microsoft OneNote blog"If you've been using OneNote on your iPhone for a while, you already know how useful it is for keeping tabs on all of your busy life's tasks, commitments, ideas, and decisions. OneNote mobile apps are fantastic companions to the full OneNote experience. Today, just in time for the holidays, we're releasing OneNote 1.3 for iOS. Since the launch of OneNote for iPhone nearly a year ago, a recurring request from our customers has been for a version that can be used more easily on the iPad's larger screen. We're happy to announce that today's new release of OneNote for iOS devices includes a version that's tailored for the iPad." One gets the impression that the OneNote team actually rather like the iPad. Who wins if it does well? Apple? Microsoft? Office? All of those?Vector math basics to animate a bouncing ball in JavaScript &gt;&gt; bassistance.de"Vector math is pretty much essential when you want to do any kind of physics simulation, be it as simple as a bouncing ball. While my goal originally was to implement a flocking simulation (like birds flying close to each other, but not too close), the lack of math skills led me to build a bouncing ball simulation first." You never know when this will come in useful.Google Wallet Security Questioned - American Banker Article"Google's contactless mobile payment application, Google Wallet, has long been thought by experts to be secure due to its use of a hard-to-break secure hardware element for handling cardholder credentials and account information. But the fledgling app has failed a security test conducted by viaForensics, primarily for storing too much of consumers' personal data on the phone. While the app doesn't store the customer's entire credit card number, it does store the user's name, credit card balance, limits, expiration date, and transaction dates and locations on the phone itself (in the application's databases directory). " Google responds that the data could only be retrieved from a 'rooted' phone, or one that had somehow been broken into.Google removes 22 Android apps due to RuFraud mobile attack &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"Google has removed 22 applications from its Android marketplace in the past week due to RuFraud, a new mobile threat aimed at European users that charges users for text messages. "Lookout Mobile, a security firm focused on smartphones, alerted Google to applications in its Android store that were posing as innocuous, free apps, but were really charging users' phones to send and receive text messages on their behalf. "The user downloads an app that promises wallpaper art, horoscope readings, or free popular games. Upon launching the app, the person sees a "To continue, click below" prompt above a giant Next button. By clicking the button, the user agrees to the sketchy terms of service agreement. And since the page has only one button, most people impatiently click through to get to their Robert Pattinson themed wallpaper images." Arguably, we've been underreporting Android malware incidents. Now it's starting to target European users.FBI using Carrier IQ data? Not just yet... &gt;&gt; TheNextWebA bit of pulling back at the websites chafing at the bit, based on (gasp!) actually speaking to a specialist: "While it's certainly not beyond the scope of imagination to infer that the FBI would use Carrier IQ data in investigations (whether those be against Carrier IQ itself, or perhaps against users), there's simply no fire sending out these smoke signals at this time. That's not to downplay what MuckRock is trying to do here, which is the task of keeping up with FoIA and making sense of complicated matters. But in this particular case, there's no need for alarm."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It took James Cameron just 17 days to take $1bn (£640m) at the box office with his 3D blue-skinned aliens in the film Avatar – but now he has been trumped by a very different set of virtual fighters.The latest instalment of the video game series Call of Duty has become the fastest-selling entertainment product of all time, hitting $1bn in sales through retailers in just 16 days, seeing off the latest Harry Potter film – which took 17 days to hit the billion dollar mark in August – and leaving Cameron's other commercial triumph Titanic, which took three months to pass the billion-dollar mark, in the dust.Activision Blizzard, based in California, said yesterday that the latest in its mega-selling franchise, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 had notched up $400m in sales within 24 hours of launching on 8 November."Call of Duty as an entertainment franchise has made an indelible mark on popular culture," said Bobby Kotick, the company's CEO. "Call of Duty is now amongst that rarified group of sustained franchises like Star Wars, Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings and the National Football League that attract or engage tens of millions of people every year or every new release."Modern Warfare 3's 2010 predecessor, Call of Duty: Black Ops, did not reach the $1bn sales markuntil almost two months after its launch.Modern Warfare 3 depicts a war declared on the US and western Europe by Russian ultranationalists. The games – in which a player takes the part of a combatant in the conflict – received critical acclaim and made $775m in its first five days.In its review, the Guardian said: "Even Hollywood couldn't afford this. Players pitch up to one bombed-out landmark after another, blowing up what isn't already destroyed before moving on in search of the villainous Vladimir Makarov. It's as ridiculous and exhilarating as ever … Essentially more of the same, then, but that's precisely what the developer set out to do – and what all those fans wanted."But there were complaints from some gamers that the title did not innovate on previous instalments.The sales figures of Modern Warfare 3 are not the only success story for this franchise. The game was released alongside a dedicated social gaming network entitled Call of Duty: Elite, which already boasts six million subscribers.Activision reported last month thatprofits tripled year-on-yearin the three months to the end of September – figures which exclude the Modern Warfare 3 sales figures.
Microsoft's chief executive Steve Ballmer is making a strategic shuffling of executives by shifting Andy Lees, currently in charge of the Windows Phone division (officially, its "president") to an unspecified role in which he will have some responsibility for both Windows Phone and some part of the forthcoming "Windows 8" product.Lees, who has been president of the Windows mobile division since March 2008 - the month when licences of Windows Mobile hit their peak, and subsequently declined - will report directly to Ballmer.Terry Myerson, who led the engineering work at the phone division, will be the "head" of Windows Phone, according to aninternal email. Myerson will be the person to whom people formerly reporting to Lees now report.Lees was made one of Microsoft's "presidents" in October 2010, when Windows Phone was launched amidst a substantial marketing blitz. So far, it has failed to make a significant impression, though the new partnership with Finnish mobile company Nokia could change that as more phone models using Microsoft's software come on the market in 2012.Lees's move, and its timing, points towards efforts by Microsoft to unify its phone, desktop and forthcoming platforms. Presently Windows Phone is written in Windows Embedded Compact, but there arepersistent reportsthat it is working to create a single codebase across all three in time for next year's launch of Windows 8.Putting Lees into a role which straddles both would fit into that strategy. In his email, Ballmer says he is moving him to "a new role working for me on a time-critical opportunity focused on driving maximum impact in 2012 with Windows Phone and Windows 8. We have tremendous potential with Windows Phone and Windows 8, and this move sets us up to really deliver against that potential."The tone is Ballmer's email suggests that Lees is in effect leaving the phone division:"I want to personally thank Andy for his contributions to the phone team. In the three years Andy has been leading the phone group, we've come a long way – we reset our strategy, built a strong team that delivered WP7 and WP7.5 and created critical new partnerships and ecosystem around Windows Phone. That is a ton of progress in a brief period of time, and I'm excited for Terry and team to keep driving forward and for Andy to dig into a new challenge."Myerson, who will now be in charge of mobile strategy and developement, hasn't always been the most popular person in the Windows mobile division. When Microsoft bought Danger (remember Danger? Maybe not - Paris Hilton was one of its best-known users. Remember Paris Hilton? Anyway), the team was put under J Allard, who was building "Pink" which was to be a feature phone "below" Windows Mobile and the forthcoming Windows Phone.However organisational politics took over and the Danger team got folded in, along with Allard, under Lees and Myerson. And then it all went wrong. Danger became Pink became the Kin - withdrawn after just 48 days on sale. Danger staff who had gone over to Microsoft weren't pleased and headed over to the Mini-Microsoft blog to say so. Including one who said: "Personally I quit because of the frustrating management and autocratic decision style of Terry Myerson [corporate vice-president of Windows Phone engineering] and Andrew Lees," wrote one. "The only exec in the team myself and other folks respected was Tom Gibbons [then head of Mobile Device Strategy and Commercialisation] who is now sidelined. Lees and Myerson don't know consumer products or phones. Gibbons at least knows consumer product development. We often talk about how Andrew Lees still has a job but Microsoft's loss is a gain for the rest of us."Corrected: Andy Lees's name on first appearance.
Chip maker Intel has cut its revenue forecast for the fourth quarter by about 7%, saying that floods in Thailand that have constrained hard drive production will affect PC sales.The warning spooked Wall Street, where Intel's stock fell by almost 4% in early trading.Intelsaid that it now expects revenue for the quarter to be between $13.4bn (£8.6bn) and $14bn, rather than its previously forecast range of $14.2bn to $15.2bn.It also warned that profit margins will be slightly lower, at about 64.5% rather than 65%.Intel is the world's biggest supplier of microprocessors used in personal computers, and has seen consistent profits as sales have grown steadily since 1985.Intel said that it expected PC sales to rise compared with the third quarter – a growth which typically happens seasonally – but that revenues will be lower than expected because companies are reducing inventories and microprocessor purchases because of hard drive shortages.The floods in Thailand, which killed hundreds of people, alsodisrupted hard drive production by companies with factories thereincluding Seagate, Toshiba and Western Digital. World production is expected to fall by about 30% in the fourth quarter, with many of the factories and facilities underwater.Thailand is the world's second largest source of the parts, which store data on spinning magnetic platters, unlike tablets and smartphones, which use solid-state storage and have not been affected.Research firm iSuppli said earlier it expects global PC shipments to total 84.2m in the first three months of 2012, down from a previous estimate of 88m. That compares with about 84m sold in the first quarter of 2011, according to the research company Gartner. Intel also said it expects hard drive supply shortages to continue into the first quarter.Generally, PC sales growth worldwide has begun to slow as the US and European economies have slowed, and as fewer companies and owners have reasons to upgrade their existing PCs. The rise of tablets such as Apple's iPad has also slowed PC sales in the west, according to analysts.Intel's shares fell $1.12, or 4.5%, to $23.89 in morning trading on Monday, more than the general market, which was down by about 2%.
The BBC has launched a native iPhone app for its iPlayer catch-up TV service, updating the existing iPad version to run across all iOS devices. The update also introduces 3G streaming and support for Apple's AirPlay technology.The iPad and Android versions launched in February 2011, although iPhone and iPod touch owners have been able to access iPlayer through its mobile website. In July 2011, a global version of the iPad app was launched in 11 countries by BBC Worldwide.The BBC says in ablog postthat the UK apps have been installed on 1.5m iPads and 1.2m Android devices, while 16.5m programmes were watched on mobile devices and tablets in October 2011, up 129% year-on-year."We have worked closely with the network operators to introduce 3G streaming and create a great mobile experience so you can watch your favourite TV programme wherever you are or listen to the radio when you are out and about," explains David Madden, executive product manager for BBC iPlayer on mobile, in the blog post."3G streaming is enabled in the iPhone and iPad apps and will shortly be coming to the mobile web version of BBC iPlayer for all supported devices."The lack of 3G streaming was a bugbear for some mobile iPlayer users, particularly as it was included in the global iPlayer app in July. According to Madden, the BBC is now using HLS – HTTP Live Streaming – for the apps, to detect the strength of viewers' Wi-Fi or 3G connections and stream video at a suitable quality.Madden's mention of mobile operators is significant, as their networks will have to bear the load if millions of British iOS (and eventually Android) users start watching Eastenders on the bus. "We are aware of the launch of the BBC iPlayer app, as announced today, and we are confident that our customers will enjoy using the updated access to BBC content that it offers," an Orange spokesperson tells The Guardian.Many smartphone owners in the UK are signed up to data plans capped at 500MB a month. There is no indication on the iPlayer's App Store listing how much data will be consumed by watching, say, a half-hour show over 3G.Also new in the updated app is the ability to "flick between channels" by tapping on a Live Channels button. The app also supports iOS' background audio feature, so that people can listen to the radio while using other apps on their device.For now, the Android iPlayer app remains Wi-Fi only when it comes to streaming, although Madden says a forthcoming update will solve this. "We have got a bit more work to do to improve the video playback experience and add 3G streaming and we will be releasing an update to the BBC iPlayer Android app in the new year," he writes."This is the first release of the BBC iPlayer app for iPhones and iPod touches and it will, of course, evolve and improve as we refine the interface and add features."
When you hear about "piracy" in connection to YouTube, perhaps you think of the billion-dollar lawsuit brought by Viacom against the Google division, claiming that Google should have the duty to police all of its users' uploads to determine that they don't infringe copyright.Google does something very close to this already, of course: the company offers a service to rights holders called "ContentID" that is meant to automatically police copyrights on their behalf. Rights holders upload copies of their copyrighted works to YouTube and identify themselves as the proprietors of those works, and YouTube scours its files for videos or audio that appear to be connected with those copyrights.Rights holders get to decide what happens next: they can ask Google to automatically remove matching files (Google then notifies the user that her files generated a copyright match and offers them the opportunity to contest it), or they can "monetise" the video by asking Google to display ads whenever it is played back. The revenue from these ads goes to the rights holders.ContentID does a lot more than US copyright law requires of rights holders. Under the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, services like YouTube enjoy a "safe harbour", that shields them from liability for copyright infringement. In order to maintain this safe harbour, YouTube must "expeditiously" respond to notices of copyright infringement by removing the offending works. But the law does not require YouTube to proactively search for infringements and remove them. Running ContentID isn't a legal duty, it's an olive branch extended by YouTube to the audiovisual industries.ContentID is contentious for many reasons. Viacom says it doesn't match enough of its works, and complains that it shouldn't have to tell Google which copyrights it owns – Google should just figure this out and block Viacom's worksa priori.But one titanic problem with ContentID has received little attention: the use of ContentID by those who falsely or incorrectly assert ownership over public domain works – works that have no copyright at all – and then either block access to the videos, or collect the advertising revenue from these videos.FedFlix is a charitable project launched by Carl Malamud, a "rogue archivist" who raises funds to digitise and upload videos created at US government expense. Under US law, government creations are in the public domain and can be freely used by anyone, but the US government is remarkably lax about actually making its treasures available to the public that owns them.Malamud's group pays the fees associated with retrieving copies from the US government – sometimes buying high-priced DVDs that the government issues, other times paying to have unreleased videos retrieved from government archives – and posts them to YouTube, theInternet Archiveand other video sites, so that anyone and everyone can see, download, and use them.Malamud's146-page report from FedFlixto the Archivist of the United States documents claims that companies such as NBC Universal, al-Jazeera, and Discovery Communications have used ContentID to claim title to FedFlix videos on YouTube. Some music royalty collecting societies have claimed infringements in "silent movies".These companies' claims – there are hundreds of them – have the potential to generate black marks on FedFlix's YouTube account, and these black marks could lead to automated punishment from YouTube. Accounts that generate claims can be suspended or deleted, or lose the right to mark videos as being available as Creative Commons or public domain files.YouTube offers very little help for FedFlix. ContentID's dispute resolution mechanism allows FedFlix to contest these claims under only three circumstances: first, ContentID has generated a false match (that is, the video isn't what ContentID thinks it is); second, the uploader has the right to the file, as demonstrated by written permission from its proprietor; or third, the use is acceptable under the US doctrine of fair use, or its counterpart in other laws, fair dealing.But FedFlix can't contest on any of these bases. ContentID isn't mistaken – the files are exactly what ContentID thinks they are. But no rights holder can send a written permission notice to YouTube about these files, because they have no rights holders – they are in the public domain. The posting of these files isn't "fair use". Fair use is a copyright infringement that is lawful because it serves some allowed purpose. FedFlix's posting of public domain files is not a copyright violation, so they can't be fair use.Malamud's report documents these troubles in Kafkaesque detail. It's frustrating reading. The American public paid to produce these videos, and they own them, lock, stock and barrel. Multinational companies – the same ones who cry poverty and demand far-reaching laws like the Stop Online Piracy Act – have laid title to them, "homesteading the public domain", and they are abusing Google's copyright peace offering to steal from the public.And unfortunately, there is no organised lobby for the public domain to demand the kind of stiff sanctions for Universal and co that other copyright infringers face at their behest.
Republican White House hopefuls are firmly on the campaign trail as the race to win the party's nomination to take on Barack Obama in 2012's US presidential election. The New York Times is also early into the race for app coverage of the campaign, with itsNYTimes Election 2012app.Released on 7 December for iPhone, it offers news, polling data, candidate information and – when the time comes – live election results."Mobile – and more broadly, phone and tablet – is going to be a huge way that people consume news about the election," says Fiona Spruill, editor, emerging platforms at the New York Times."We wanted to try to do something innovative and different. It's definitely aimed towards an audience that is extremely interested in political news. We hope people will be checking back multiple times a day."The app is notable for pulling in news stories from sites beyond the New York Times' own, with the aim of helping people cut through the "overwhelming" amount of coverage that the election will generate in 2012."Our own journalism is really the anchor to this app, but we're also adding this element of handpicking the other articles, videos and tweets that we think are the most important if you want to be a well-read political news consumer," says Spruill."I wouldn't call it aggregation: it's curation. We have an editor whose full-time job is devoted to the app, and what she's doing is looking at a whole bunch of different feeds to provide this one-stop destination for people."Spruill explains it's the first time the New York Times has ever appointed a full-time editor for an app. This may be a wider trend: in August 2011 FT.com managing director Rob Grimshaw revealed that the Financial Times hadjust appointed its first mobile editorial head.The hand-curation aspect of the New York Times' election app is interesting. Spruill is no luddite, but she says that in this situation people rather than algorithms were the best approach."We were trying to create the best possible experience for people on their phone, and it takes people to do that," she says. "What we were trying to provide was not something that could be delivered to an algorithm, even though there are many smart algorithms out there."Spruill has been working in her emerging platforms role since the beginning of 2011, having moved from a position managing the newspaper's website news team in the days before it was fully integrated with the newspaper's main news team."Even in my past role I have always been a big advocate and champion for mobile," she says, having been involved in the New York Times' first mobile WAP site. Her current job has its emphasis on mobile platforms and technology, though.Spruill works on long-term projects, having been very involved in the elections app, and before that the NYT's iPad fashion app,The Collection, which was launched in November 2011. However, her role also includes thinking about the New York Times website, and what the experience of browsing it is like on mobile devices."As someone who's been working on the web since 1999, mobile is so much more complicated – it makes the web sound like it was such a breeze!" she says."There are complexities in terms of technology, native versus HTML5, all the different platforms and devices… There are very interesting editorial questions, and how much we should create specific products for specific devices. And of course, there are a lot of really interesting business model questions too."Talking of which: The New York Times currently offers two digital subscription plans. People can pay $14.99 a month for a NYTimes.com + Smartphone Apps subscription, or $34.99 for All Digital Access, which includes the website, the smartphone apps and the newspaper's iPad app.The launch of The Collection and NYTimes Election 2012 is interesting because of the way they fit into the company's paywall strategy. In the latter app, non-subscribers can only see the top six news stories, while the former is currently free to all, but in mid-March 2012 will make most of its content subscriber-only too.In effect, the spin-off apps are providing more value for the digital subscriptions: people don't pay for a single newspaper app, but for that plus a suite of apps around it. "We're experimenting with these vertical apps, but our main news apps are our flagships," says Spruill.In the meantime, there are new technologies and business opportunities to explore. In response to a question about Flipboard, Zite and other news aggregation apps, Spruill says the NYT has had "really interesting conversations" with these companies, but has nothing specific to announce on the partnership front at this time.She is also interested in expanding social features in the NYT apps beyond simply being able to share links on social networks, and is wrestling with that HTML5 versus native apps issue. It seems the hybrid approachespoused by British news companiesat the recent Apps World conference is also finding favour across the Atlantic."The guts of the election app are HTML5, with a native wrapper around it," she says. "It's clear that native apps are something that's very important to us and to our strategy going forward, but the promise of HTML5 is also something that we're constantly exploring."
Google is getting serious about paying artists royalties for songs that are used as soundtracks or videos on YouTube.The company said on Friday that it has acquired RightsFlow, a New York-based company that will help it identify the owners of music that people use in videos they post."YouTube has had a long-standing commitment to solving the really tough challenges around online copyright – how to manage content rights in a quickly evolving technology world," said David King, YouTube's product manager,in a blog post."We've already invested tens of millions of dollars in content management technology such as Content ID. We want to keep pushing things forward."The deal should help YouTube, part of Google, manage the complex relationship it has with content owners, who are rarely consulted when their work is put online for free."By combining RightsFlow's expertise and technology with YouTube's platform, we hope to more rapidly and efficiently license music on YouTube, meaning more music for you all to enjoy, and more money for the talented people producing the music," King wrote.Terms of the deal were not disclosed.RightsFlow has a database of more than 30m songs that it says lets it account for royalties and ensure they are paid.YouTube's Content ID system already identifies songs when users upload them, but RightsFlow's database will help find the businesses and people who hold rights to the work, including songwriters, publishers, performers and recording companies.Content owners can choose to have the videos taken down or leave them up and collect a share of ad revenue.The company said it will mean that more music will be allowed on YouTube and become a greater launching pad for aspiring artists, as it was for teen sensation Justin Bieber.
A selection of 23 apps for you today:Yellow SubmarineStrictly speaking, this is an e-book rather than an app, but Yellow Submarine is one of the titles that is blurring the boundaries between the two categories. Nabbed by Apple as an iBooks exclusive, the free book tells the story of The Beatles' cartoon film, with video clips, music and interactive animations alongside the text.iPhone / iPadHalo Waypoint: ATLASATLAS (Assisted Tactical Assault System) isn't a standalone app: it's a new premium feature for Microsoft's Halo Waypoint apps on Windows Phone, iOS and Android. It includes content from Brady Games to help players of Halo: Reach improve their performance, but also functions as a live map while playing the console game, showing locations of vehicles, team members and weapons.Windows Phone / Android / iPhone / iPadSky Sports Live Football SCBSkyB has taken its live football scores app to Android, offering scores, commentary, league tables, match stats, radio and a feature to find pubs showing games in 3D.AndroidMoshi Monsters: Buster's Lost MoshlingsBarnstorming virtual world for kids Moshi Monsters has a new iOS game, courtesy of Penguin Books. Based on the book of the same name, Buster's Lost Moshlings involves exploring Monstro City, with a tracker mode to help younger kids play.iPhone / iPadDickens: Dark LondonDeveloper Brothers and Sisters Creative has launched an interactive graphic novel for iOS based on Charles Dickens' habit of roaming the streets of London at night, looking for inspiration for his writing. Illustrations from David Foldvari and voice narration from actor Mark Strong complement a map of the capital that will form the base for the planned series of monthly releases in this series.iPhone / iPadeasyJet mobileBudget flights firm Easyjet has launched an iPhone and Android app to help people search, book and manage flights on their smartphone. The link above is for the Android version, soclick here for the iPhone one.iPhone / AndroidElmo CallsSesame Street's latest iPhone app lets kids receive video calls, audio calls and voicemail from its Elmo character, with parents able to schedule incoming calls for situations including going to the doctor, birthdays and potty training. In-app purchases are included for specific "call packs" including ABCs, holidays and singing.iPhoneDapper John : In the Days of the Ace Rock 'n' Roll ClubCartoonist Eddie Campbell made waves with his In The Days of the Ace Rock'n'Roll Club comic in the 1980s, and now the editions have been collected and digitised for an iPad app. The storyline concerns a group of Southend teddy boys in the 1970s, with extra content including interviews and an unpublished strip.iPadLync 2010Microsoft's enterprise service Lync is going mobile, although the Windows Phone app requires an existing Lync server or Office365 / Lync Online account to work. It includes presence features, instant messaging, audio conferencing and phone calls.Windows PhoneMy O2O2 UK and its developer partner MIG have launched the My O2 app for Android smartphones, enabling customers to check their account information and manage their bolt-ons. It follows the iPhone version which came out in late 2009, and has so far been downloaded nearly 2m times.AndroidZite Personalized MagazineNews aggregation app Zite – now owned by CNN – has been available on the iPad for some time. Now it's been squeezed down for an iPhone version, released the same week that Flipboard made the same transition.iPhoneBerlin: DK EyewitnessBerlin is the latest city to get an iPad app based on Dorling Kindersley's Eyewitness series. Expect cutaways of notable buildings, as well as offline maps and all manner of tourist hotspots highlighted.iPadPopular Mechanics Be The SparkMagazine publisher Hearst has launched a new iPad spin-off from its Popular Mechanics magazine. It's a game that sees players getting inside an engine to keep its pistons pumping.iPadLogostreamEven a big brand often isn't enough to prevent an app from sinking without trace amid the hundreds of thousands of other apps nowadays. Logostream is the work of discovery service Appsfire, and helps people to browse Apple's App Store by brands.iPhone / iPadRock 'em Sock 'em RobotsMattel has taken its Rock 'em Sock 'em Robots toy brand to Android, with a boxing game that pits a Red Rocker against a Blue Bomber.Android(spotted byAndroid Police)Pet Shop StoryFreemium games publisher TeamLava has launched the latest social iOS game in its "Story" series: Pet Shop Story. The aim is to build a thriving pet shop business while cross-breeding animals to create labradoodles, toygers and, er, chugs. A pug plus a chihuahua, if you're wondering.iPhone / iPadThe Salvation Army UKThe UK's Salvation Army has an official iPhone app, offering news and tweets, and inviting people to donate online, by telephone or text message. There is also a map of the organisation's churches and centres.iPhonePuzzler World 2Puzzle publisher Puzzler has launched a new mobile game offering crosswords, wordsearches, sudoku and other puzzles. Developed by Ideas Pad, it uses in-app purchases to sell different game packs. The link above is for Android, soclick here for the iPhone version.iPhone / AndroidStyleTagThere are many,manysocial/photo/fashion apps available for iPhone, with most of them having come out in 2011. StyleTag is the latest, promising "on-the-go fashion trend spotting" and "hottest fashions from fashionistas like you".iPhoneBruce LeeCommodore 64 classic Bruce Lee hits the App Store, as Elite Systems releases a (licensed) emulation of the platform game. As in 1984, it involves running and jumping through a succession of chambers kicking seven bells out of a green sumo wrestler and a black ninja.iPhone / iPadEmlyn Hughes International SoccerAnother C64 re-release from Elite Systems is the game that at one point ran Microprose Soccer close as the best (in this journalist's eyes) 8-bit football title. Originally released in 1988, it uses Elite's "iDaptive" virtual joystick controls.iPhone / iPadMashableSocial media and entertainment news site Mashable has launched an official BlackBerry app, including the ability to comment on stories from the device.BlackBerryNoah and the Ark – BibleKids 3DThe latest games company to turn its hand to book-apps is RocketPop Games, with iPad title Noah and the Ark. It takes the Biblical story of Noah and presents it with interactive 3D visuals.iPad
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 10 DecemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (5)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (30)PC (6)52 (1)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (40)PC (3)Wii (2)53 (4)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (89)Xbox 360 (9)PS3 (2)94 (2)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (36)Wii (7)3DS (4)115 (3)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (42)PC (2)46 (9)Battlefield 3(16+)PS3 (48)Xbox 360 (47)77 (7)Professor Layton And The Spectre's Call(7+)DS (100)38 (6)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (34)49 (16)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)610 (8)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)211 (11)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (100)412 (10)Super Mario 3d Land(3+)3DS (100)413 (12)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)PS3 (48)Xbox 360 (46)Wii (4)3DS (1)414 (18)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)815 (15)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (45)PC (3)816 (19)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Xbox 360 (26)Wii (25)DS (20)PS3 (18)417 (20)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (83)Xbox 360 (14)PS3 (4)3718 (17)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (46)Xbox 360 (34)PS3 (17)3DS (3)919 (–)Michael Jackson: The Experience(12+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (9)PS3 (3)DS (0)1520 (–)Abba: You Can Dance (3+)Wii (100)1UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA weekend at work with an iPad &gt;&gt; The 23x blogJared Earle: "Could I recommend that other photographers ditch the laptop for an iPad? I think so, as long as they have a workstation at home for the post-event editing. The iPad cannot replace a computer, but it can lighten the load while photographing al fresco, and that means more space for bigger lenses in the camera bag."Pincus Faceoff With Zuckerberg Shows Fearsome Prelude to Zynga's IPO &gt;&gt; BloombergA profile of Zynga chief Mark PincusNo Copyright Intended &gt;&gt; Waxy.org"How pervasive is it? There are about 489,000 YouTube videos that say "no copyright intended" or some variation, and about 664,000 videos have a "copyright disclaimer" citing the fair use provision in Section 107 of the Copyright Act."Amazon Kindle Fire Faces Critics and Remedies Are Promised &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"A few of their many complaints: there is no external volume control. The off switch is easy to hit by accident. Web pages take a long time to load. There is no privacy on the device; a spouse or child who picks it up will instantly know everything you have been doing. The touch screen is frequently hesitant and sometimes downright balky"Is Apple using patents to hurt open standards? &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"Haavard identifies three separate occasions, twice in 2009, and again in 2011, where Apple has disclosed patents and not offered royalty-free licensing. In the first 2009 patent claim, Apple said that it had a patent covering W3C's "widget" specification. A PAG [Patent Action Group] was formed, and determined that Apple's patent was not relevant. In the second 2009 claim, Apple claimed to have two patents covering W3C's widget security specification. A PAG was again formed. It decided that one patent was not relevant, and the other didn't apply. With both 2009 claims, Apple waited until the last minute to disclose its patents." But how many PAGs are in progress, or have been convened? That's what is unclear, and slides past whether this is bad behaviour, or quite normal.Asus puts delay rumor to rest, confirms Transformer Prime is on schedule &gt;&gt; SlashGear"Apparently online retailer NCIX sold out of the Prime and after canceling multiple orders a few rumors came out that their response was ASUS had delayed the hotly anticipated tablet due to WiFi issues. Here at SlashGear we've already had extensive time with the Prime and you can see our in-depth review here. At no point did our unit experience any WiFi issues. After reaching out to our sources from ASUS here is what they had to say in response:" ...that it's on schedule. Suggestions that it had been delayed because of Wi-Fi issues are being squelched.Indonesian government threatens to ban BlackBerry services if it can't spy on users &gt;&gt; EngadgetWe feel that we've heard this story before in a slightly different context. What if the Egyptian or Syrian government were to demand it? Would that be different?Tech Company War Propaganda Posters &gt;&gt; Laughing SquidSplendid execution. Notice: no Microsoft.HP tosses WebOS out of frying pan into the open-source fire &gt;&gt; CNET NewsReally smart analysis by Stephen Shankland. Lists all those open-sourced OSs and projects you'd forgotten about. Why had you forgotten about them? One guess.Why developers need a Mac &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWritingTim Anderson is a very experienced Windows user: "Fourth, and this is the most difficult point to make, it is valuable to spend some time on a Mac to avoid bad assumptions about usability. One example that comes to mind is version control. On Windows there is no problem using Git, or Subversion, or any number of systems including Microsoft's Team Foundation Server installed either locally or on its own server. There is some setup involved though. On a Mac with the latest Xcode, you will find a checkbox in the new project wizard. "It is built-in. There is nothing more to do other than check [a] box. And yes, I know it is pretty easy to use Subversion or Git on Windows - though I would never describe a Team Foundation setup as trivial - but I am talking about the usability of a single checkbox. If you are thinking about the design of your own UI then spending some time on a Mac is though-provoking and likely to be beneficial."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Ah, that'll be the weekend over then. How did it go for you? I got in an hour or so ofRayman Originswith my sons, as well as some Lego Clone Wars (possibly my least favourite Lego title, but they seem to like it). How about you? Any Saturday or Sunday gaming fun?
US online security companies are banging the drum for their government to make its policy about cyber attacks from China clearer – and suggesting that it should have the right to force them to stop "by any means possible".As few as 12 different Chinese groups, largely backed or directed by the government there, do the bulk of the China-based cyber attacks, stealing critical data from US companies and government agencies, according to US cyber security analysts and experts.The aggressive, but stealthy attacks, which steal billions of dollars' worth of intellectual property and data, often carry distinct signatures allowing US officials to link them to certain hacker teams. Analysts say the US often also gives the attackers unique names or numbers, and at times can tell where the hackers are and even who they may be.Sketched out by analysts who have worked with US companies and the government on computer intrusions, the details illuminate recent claims by American intelligence officials about the escalating cyber threat emanating from China. And the widening expanse of targets, coupled with the expensive and sensitive technologies they are losing, is putting increased pressure on the US to take a much harder stand against the communist giant.It is largely impossible for the US to prosecute hackers in China, since it requires reciprocal agreements between the two countries, and it is virtually impossible to provide ironclad proof that the hacking came from specific people.Several analysts described the Chinese attacks, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the investigations and to protect the privacy of clients. China has routinely rejected allegations of cyberspying and says it also is a target."Industry is already feeling that they are at war," said James Cartwright, a retired Marine general and former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.A recognised expert on cyber issues, Cartwright has come out strongly in favour of increased US efforts to hold China and other countries accountable for the cyber attacks that come from within their borders."Right now we have the worst of worlds," said Cartwright. "If you want to attack me you can do it all you want, because I can't do anything about it. It's risk free, and you're willing to take almost any risk to come after me."The US, he said, "needs to say, 'if you come after me, I'm going to find you, I'm going to do something about it.' It will be proportional, but I'm going to do something ... and if you're hiding in a third country, I'm going to tell that country you're there, if they don't stop you from doing it, I'm going to come and get you."Experts agree, and say that companies are frustrated that the government isn't doing enough to pressure China to stop the attacks or go after hackers in that country.Much like during the Cold War with Russia, officials say the US needs to make it clear that there will be repercussions for cyberattacks.The government "needs to do more to increase the risk [to the hackers]", said Jon Ramsey, head of the counter threat unit at the Atlanta-basedDell SecureWorks, a computer security consulting company. "In the private sector we're always on defence. We can't do something about it, but someone has to. There is no deterrent not to attack the US."Cyber attacks originating in China have been a problem for years, but until a decade or so ago analysts said the probes focused mainly on the US government – a generally acknowledged intelligence gathering activity similar to the way that Americans and Russians spied on each other during the Cold War.But in the past decade, the attacks have gradually broadened to target defence companies, and then other critical industries including those in energy, finance and other sectors.According to Ramsey and other cyber analysts, hackers in China have different digital fingerprints, often visible through the computer code they use, or the "command and control" computers that they use to route their malicious software through.US government officials have been reluctant to tie the attacks directly back to the Chinese government, but analysts and officials quietly say that they have tracked enough intrusions to specific locations to be confident they are linked to Beijing either the government or the military. They add that they can sometimes work out who benefited from a particular stolen technology.One of the analysts said investigations show that the dozen or so Chinese teams appear to get "taskings", or orders, to go after specific technologies or companies within a particular industry. At times, two or more of the teams appear to get the same shopping list, and compete to be the first to get it, or the one with the greatest haul.Analysts and US officials agree that a majority of the cyber attacks seeking intellectual property or other sensitive or classified data are done by China-based hackers, while most of the cyber attacks stealing credit card or financial information come from Eastern Europe or Russia.According to experts, the malicious software or high-tech tools used by the Chinese haven't gotten much more sophisticated in recent years. But the threat is persistent, often burying malware deep in computer networks so it can be used again and again over the course of several months or even years.The tools include malware that can record keystrokes, steal and decrypt passwords, and copy and compress data so it can be transferred back to the attacker's computer. The malware can then delete itself or disappear until needed again.Several specific attacks linked to China include:• Two sophisticated attacks in 2010 against Google's systems which stole some of the internet giant's program code – its intellectual property – and also broke into the Gmail accounts of several hundred people, including senior US government officials, military personnel and political activists.• Last year computer security firmMandiantreported that data was stolen from a Fortune 500 manufacturing company during business negotiations when the company was trying to buy a Chinese company.• Earlier this year, McAfee traced an intrusion to an internet protocol address in China and saidintruders took data from global oil, energy and petrochemical companies.For the first time, US intelligence officials called out China and Russia last month, saying they are systematically stealing American high-tech data for their own economic gain. The unusually forceful public report seemed to signal a new, more vocal US government campaign against the cyber attacks.The next step, said Cartwright, must be a full-throated US policy that makes it clear how the US will deal with cyber attacks, including the attackers as well as the nations the attacks are routed through.Once an attack is detected, he said the US should first go through the State Department to ask the country to stop the attack. If the country refuses, he said, the US will have the right to stop the computer server from sending the attack by whatever means possible while still avoiding any collateral damage.China said in August that it wasraising penalties for those caught buying, selling or covering up illegally obtained data.But only days earlier the state broadcaster hadshown footage apparently showing army-labelled software for attacking US-based websites. Analysts disagreed on whether it was real, however.
The co-creator of the microchip and driving force behind Silicon Valley, Robert Noyce, has become the latest famous figure to be honoured by Google.The search engine's Doodle design celebrates what would have been Noyce's 84th birthday with a stylised electronic chip on its home page.The entrepreneur is credited along with Jack Kilby with the invention of the integrated circuit, which sparked far-reaching digital developments and gave the high-tech Californian region its name: Silicon Valley.Noyce co-founded Fairchild Semiconductor in 1957 and Intel in 1968. So it seems fitting that he should get a birthday tribute from one of Silicon Valley's most powerful technology companies.Noyce died in 1990 in Austin, Texas, aged 62. His family set up theNoyce Foundation, which works to improve the teaching of maths, science and literacy in US schools.• This article was amended on 13 December 2011 because the original said Noyce died aged 60. This has been corrected.
Sixteen years have passed since Rayman starred in his first outing, so it's with some surprise – after much time spent dabbling with the third dimension on consoles – that this latest iteration sees a return to the 2D platform genre in which he made his debut.It's a genre that has undergone a quiet renaissance in recent years, thanks largely to Nintendo, which has kept getting things right, while many other big developers seem too often to miss the point. Not so Ubisoft. The company's imaginative Montpellier studio has crafted something marvellous withRayman Origins. It is a platform game brimming with good ideas and, particularly in motion, it looks exceedingly pretty. The numerous stages twinkle constantly with such detail that it feels like a crime to tear through the game at the speed its play encourages.Equally enjoyable played as a single or multiplayer co-operative game,Originsisn't afraid to use influences from platform greats from the past, at times even making playful nods at the titles that have clearly influenced the game's creators. Criticism might be aired at the precision of control being a mite loose for some of the game's more intricate sections, but to overemphasise such a minor fault would be unfair to a game that really does get so much right.The music and sound, for example, make for a particular highlight, while the volume of secrets and new abilities to discover makesRayman Originsa game that consistently rewards and delights.
To celebrate the 20th anniversary of Sonic the Hedgehog's debut on the Mega Drive, Sega has plucked stages, music, characters and mechanics from across its mascot's history and come up with the most loving slice of fan service seen this year.Each level can be played either in traditional 2D as Classic Sonic or in a shifting 2D-3D hybrid with Modern Sonic. The frenetic pace can be too much for the eyes to cope with at times, and the game struggles too, groaning under the weight of its highly detailed backgrounds, resulting in some disappointing slowdown.But the time trials and challenges present plenty of replay value for those willing to learn the best routes through stages. Getting there means learning the often cynical placement of enemies and accommodating for the slight delay in responsiveness when jumping at speed, but this is the best Sonic game in years – even if that is damning with faint praise.
The story ofNeed for Speed: The Runisn't the way it plays (the way it plays is, in fact, hopelessly variable) but the fact that your average part-time gamer can start it from cold and complete all that the offline, one-player aspects have to offer in two hours. And if you're semi-pro, two hours can include loading time between events – which is a not-insignificant period.Given this playing time,NFS:TRneeds to be one of the best driving games of the century. In fact, it's not even the bestNeed For Speedof the past 12&nbsp;months (Hot Pursuitis, by a mile). Buggy when the going gets complex, downright poor online and with some bafflingly extraneous (and presumably expensive) voice-acting from Sean&nbsp;Faris and Christina Hendricks, this is one of the few games you can rent, finish and have back at the shop the same afternoon.
SOCIAL UPHEAVALGovernments all over the world had to deal with the power of social networking – and their reactions were not exactly an endorsementThe year began with the reverberations from Wikileaks – first the revelations about US military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and then what American diplomats had been writing home. Western governments that had hitherto viewed modern networked-communications technology as a useful scourge of authoritarian regimes began to have second thoughts.The U-turn was most painful in the US State Department, where Hillary Clinton had to eat her hat, or at any rate her stirring January 2010 speech about how "information has never been so free" and how "even in authoritarian countries, information networks are helping people discover new facts and making governments more accountable".Then came the Arab spring and the agreeable discovery that social networking and mobile phones appeared to have politically useful effects. I had a fascinating conversation with a State Department official who related how his colleagues, frustrated by the absence of al-Jazeera on US cable channels, were reduced to streaming it to their laptops. He also told an instructive story about how a senior colleague was baffled when a demonstrator appeared in Tahrir Square holding up a placard that contained only a Twitter hashtag. "What's that?" asked the baffled diplomat.There was delight in the west when the Tunisian regime failed to grasp the significance of Facebook and Twitter, and concern when the Mubarak regime did. There was gleeful exhilaration when some hackers rigged up a "phone to tweet" system that enabled Egyptians to dial an international phone number and record a message that was then broadcast as a tweet. Mubarak shut down Egypt's internet access for several days, which caused some disquiet. But then the Egyptian generals, who run a lot of businesses, discovered that they were losing millions of dollars in revenue every disconnected day, so the country hastily rejoined the networked world.This lesson – about the centrality of networked communications to modern industrial life – did not, however, seem to penetrate the corridors of power in Whitehall. When news of Britain's outbreak of recreational looting eventually reached the more expensive parts of Tuscany and David Cameron returned to take charge of the government's response, there was a lot of loose talk about the role that Twitter, Facebook and a particularly sinister technology called BlackBerry Messenger was playing in co-ordinating the mayhem. Men in suits speculated openly about whether these satanic channels should be shut down altogether.Which made one wonder what planet they inhabited. Apart altogether from the irony of seeing a device – the BlackBerry – that had once been the ultimate badge of corporate status now apparently metamorphose into a working tool for the scum of the earth, there was the fact that PIN messaging on BlackBerrys is not only an ancient technology, but was one of the reasons why governments across the world wanted BlackBerrys for their officials.The truth is that the heady talk attributing these social and political upheavals to social networking and text messaging was mostly eyewash – as, for example,theGuardianand LSE's "Reading the Riots" study of Twitter's role in the UK lootingsuggests.Political revolutions are made by people putting themselves in harm's way – on the streets. The fact that they use modern communications tools to co-ordinate their activities or to disseminate news is no more remarkable than that the communards of 1871 used cobblestones to build barricades. People use the tools they have to hand. So the prominence of social networking and SMS in political upheaval is simply a measure of the extent to which these technologies have become mundane.THE CLOUD'S THE LIMITSteve Jobs, its charismatic leader died, yet the iPad maker can do little wrong. How long can it keep it up?I spent a lot of 2011 writing about Apple for the simple reason that it dominated the news. At one stage it even passed Exxon Mobil to become the world's most valuable corporation. For a company that in 1995 was only months away from collapse this was the culmination of an astonishing comeback. Everywhere one looked, Apple seemed to have the Midas touch.In the mobile phone market, for example, Apple pulled in40% of smartphone revenues and close to 65% of the sector's profits. It launched an upgraded version of the iPhone – the 4S – that has a voice-control feature that has&nbsp;users behaving strangely: instead of talkingontheir phones, they now talktothem.In the PC market, where it was once a niche player, Apple achieved anall-time record this year– a 13% share, up 21.5% on the previous year.And then there's the iPad … Apple will have sold nearly 50 million before the year is out (up from 14.6 million in 2010). So a device for which there was no obvious need now hasa market shareof nearly 75%, and in 2015 is predicted it will have a 50% share of a world market that will apparently be 326&nbsp;million tablets.In other parts of the Apple forest, the iTunes store sold its16 billionth song in Octobersales ofapps for the iPhone and iPadgrew even more steeply, the company launched a comprehensive cloud service (called – inevitably – iCloud) and opened more wildly successful bricks'n'mortar stores. And all of this while the life of its charismatic CEO was  ebbing away.This is clearly a company at the top of its game: designing attractive products with high profit margins and bringing them to market with flawless efficiency. Here and there are dark patches that may herald trouble to come: working conditions in the Chinese factories that manufacture the beautiful kit, for example; Apple's less-than-perfect record at running cloud services; and irritation at the control-freakery that means there's always a trade-off between users' freedom and Apple's relentless upgrade policy. Customers who naively upgraded to the latest version of OS X, for example, discovered that their copies of Microsoft Office no longer worked. Apple's response? Essentially this: tough. Upgrade to the new version of Office. Or use Pages (the Apple word-processing product).BUSINESS CRASHTechnology moves at lightning speed.  This came as a surprise in 2011 to some tech companies, such  as Nokia and Hewlett-PackardHow long can Apple sustain its current dominance? The problem with the technology business is that somewhere else in the jungle there lurks an outfit whose business plan is to eat you for breakfast. And market dominance is no guarantee of safety.Just look at Nokia, which for a generation dominated the mobile phone business and whose flight into the arms of Microsoft marked one of the most humiliating climbdowns in corporate history. The problem was not that Nokia wasn't selling lots of handsets; it continues to bethe world's biggest manufacturer of phones. It's just that most of them are low-end, whereas most of the growth (and profit) potential lies in smartphones; ie the market for powerful handheld devices that provide high-quality internet access as well as voice and SMS. This is the market that was comprehensively disrupted by Apple when it launched the iPhone.At the root of Nokia's decline was the fact that it was, at heart, a hardware company with an engineering culture that didn't seem to understand software. Smartphones need sophisticated operating systems, and Nokia's efforts in that direction – Symbian and MeeGo – never really measured up. So, in the end, its only option was to team up with Microsoft last February in an "alliance" that would see Windows software running on Nokia hardware.Sales of the first of these devices, the Lumia 800,have been – surprise, surprise – "disappointing" so far.But if Nokia was laid low by its "hard" engineering culture, another technology giant, HP, lost its way by abandoning it. For generations, Hewlett-Packard – which was named after the two engineers who founded it – was a byword for wonderfully engineered, highly functional and reliable products, which sold into scientific laboratories, computer centres, offices and retail outlets worldwide. Its LaserJet printers became the de-facto office printer. It was the engineering equivalent of a blue-chip company.But then it embarked on the path of traditional corporate growth by acquiring companies with different cultures, entering the consumer market and in due course becoming dominated at board level by a marketing rather than engineering culture. Since 2006, that board has been enmeshed in one scandal after another – ranging from allegations of covert surveillance of some board members, cover-ups of technical problems and a legal dispute with Oracle. HP is still a big and important company. But it's no longer a paragon.And then there was RIM – the company that makes the BlackBerry smartphone. Once it, too, was a paragon of corporate success as the first company to make a mobile email system that actually worked. As a result it rapidly acquired a stranglehold on corporate and governmental markets. When Apple announced the iPhone it was assumed that, while it might prove disruptive in the consumer market, it would not impact on the BlackBerry franchise in the business world.How wrong can you be? Late last year RIM's share of the smartphone market was outstripped by the iPhone and soon afterwards RIM was overtaken by Android phones. Since then it's been downhill all the way, so a company that was worth $84bn (£53bn) in 2008 is now valued at just under $9bn (£5.7bn).Sic transit gloriaand all that.FACEBOOK BUBBLEMark Zuckerberg's luck (or skill) continued to hold in 2011. Despite the recession, investors clamoured for a chance to invest their dollarsThere are lies, damn lies and pre-IPO (initial public offering) valuations. Facebook started 2011 with 500 million users and ends it with more than 750 million. If this goes on it'll have more people than India by this time next year. And its putative value – ie what it would be worth if it floated on the stock market – has risen in proportion: from $50bn (£32bn) at the beginning of the year to $100bn (£64bn) now. If anyone doubts that we're in the middle of a bubble, then this should be a wake-up call.The feeding frenzy to get a share of the Facebook action is driven by many things, but chief among them is the fact that there are a lot of people out there with oodles of cash and nowhere to invest it that will give a decent return now that the banks are bust and even hedge funds have lost their magic. So think of Facebook as a dam behind which a huge tidal wave of cash is building.Of course there are also a lot of people who believe the infant Zuckerberg's assertions that "everything will be social" one day, and that when that day comes he will be the sole proprietor of the world's "social graph" (a fancy term for network). So here, in the interests of prudence and common sense, are two cautionary thoughts. The first is that if the eurozone implodes and the world economy nosedives then even ownership of the vaunted social graph might look a tad expensive at $100bn. The second is the salutary fact that of all the recent technology IPOs, only one –LinkedIn – is still trading at above its offer price.– is still trading at above its offer price.START-UP FANTASIESHopes and investment have been pinned on our silicon economy, but the jobs created may go elsewhereAs the UK economy prepared for its next nosedive, the fantasies of coalition ministers about the economic significance of start-ups and "creative industries" became increasingly comical. That's not to say that start-ups are not wonderful things – they are – nor that industries should become uncreative. It's just that start-ups, especially in the technology sector, create very few jobs in their home countries. They create jobs for the highly skilled people who found and run them, but these are a small elite. Most of the manufacturing jobs go to China or Taiwan. In that sense, while start-ups may have a beneficial impact on exports and GDP, they won't solve the really scary problem we face – mass unemployment. Oddly enough, large companies could do something about that. But in order to do so, they'd have to learn to innovate – and that's something they have hitherto not been good at. Sigh.BOOKS REWRITTENA digital version of a classic  poem showed the magical potential for ebooksFor me, the most exciting product of 2011 was not a gadget or anything Google or Apple did, but an iPad app – Touch Press's magical evocation ofTS Eliot's great poem,The Waste Land. By bringing together the text (with scholarly annotations and the marked-up typescript) with a filmed performance by Fiona Shaw, audio recordings of readings by Eliot himself, plus by Alec Guinness, Ted Hughes, Viggo Mortensen and Shaw, and commentaries from Seamus Heaney and others, the app provides an entrancing glimpse of how the book might be reinvented for a digital age. WhenI reviewed it in June,  I observed that another great modernist text cried out for the same treatment: Joyce'sUlysses, which comes out of copyright in January. And guess what? Touch Press are working on that right now.
When you've finished Skyward Sword, agreed an armistice in Battlefield 3 and need a break from living every waking moment in Skyrim, what is there to do now that this year's Christmas games hype juggernaut is just a confusing memory? As always, app developers have been keeping themselves busy to help prevent any fleeting moment of boredom. Here's some of the best of the recent bunch, all available for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch …Bike BaronTaking the same premise as Xbox Live Arcade bestseller Trials HD, Bike Baron has you riding a motorbike along increasingly precarious side-scrolling stages. Using a combination of accelerator, brake and leaning backwards or forwards, you scale gravity-defying architecture in levels that can seem impossible.Mountain Sheep, 69pJetpack JoyrideInteraction with Jetpack Joyride is a single button affair, with a touch of the screen unleashing a blast of your jetpack's engines. Collect coins, crash into power ups and avoid crackling energy barriers to fly as far as possible down a charmingly colourful tunnel. Saving coins to upgrade your jetpack proves as beguiling as ever.Halfbrick, 69pMinecraft Pocket EditionFollowing the staggering success of Minecraft – a game about building complex worlds from scratch – and the proliferation of pretenders and Minecraft-related ephemera in the App Store, it was inevitable that the real thing would arrive. In this version you can only build, but the frisson of creation is as alluring as ever.Mojang, £4.99W.E.L.D.E.R.Make words with four or more letters from the jumbled tiles on screen by swapping them singly or in groups. Earn more swaps for long or high-scoring words, as you work your way around "hot" and fixed tiles that won't move, while gently testing the limits of your, and sadly iPhone's, vocabulary. Dexterity-free, mildly cerebral goodness.Ayopa Games, £2.49Spy MouseDraw routes for your squeaky secret agent to steal cheese, disarm mousetraps with decoy mice and avoid marauding police cats. Timing is important, as is figuring out how to use teleporting doorways, convenient walls and safe cheese storage areas to complete elegantly designed missions.Electronic Arts, 69p, iPad £1.99Anomaly: Warzone Earth HDTurning tower defence on its head, this puts you in the jackboots of the invader, strategically herding your units  down maze-like streets to attack various elements of your enemy's war machine while doing your best to ration  power ups and avoid being vaporised by turrets lining every road.Chillingo, £2.49Where's My Water?Use your finger to dig through soft sand, guiding water from its source to the nozzle leading to the subterranean bath of a permanently ready-to-bathe crocodile. Poisonous liquids that melt through sand and dissolve fast-growing moss demand both quick-thinking and digging to solve later puzzles.Disney Interactive, 69pJelly DefenseJelly Defence is a subtle proponent of the tower defence genre, getting you to consider very carefully exactly where and when each wobbly organic-looking tower is built and upgraded, as well as which sorts of foes it will damage most effectively in this delightful test of tactics and memory.Infinite Dreams, 99p
I need a rest and a cup of coffee. To be honest, I&nbsp;wasn't aware that I did, but the car has just told me. A picture of a cup of coffee has pinged up on the dashboard, with a message, telling me it's time for a break. This car is so clever it knows how I'm feeling, even before I do.Actually it's wrong. Ha, fooled it. I'm not tired. But I have been drifting around on the road a bit. I'm on an empty motorway, and I&nbsp;was testing out the lane departure warning system, a beeping noise that sounds when I move from one&nbsp;lane to another. I wanted to know if indicating disables it (it does). But&nbsp;because of my erratic behaviour, the car thinks I'm losing concentration, so driver alert control kicks in, telling me to get off at Medway Services for a double espresso at Costa.Clever, huh? And that's not the end of it. I've got a blind spot information system, which shines an orange light in my wing mirrors if there's something coming up on either side. And collision warning that shines a light in my windscreen when I get too close to the car in front, and beeps if I'm going to crash. And when I've got my adaptive cruise control on, the car will automatically slow down if there's a&nbsp;slower one in front, then keeps a safe distance until the other&nbsp;car moves over, when it speeds&nbsp;up&nbsp;again.I've got LDW, DAC, CW, ACC (and probably ADHD as well). There are cameras and sensors all over the place, sonar, radar… I'm driving a nuclear submarine. Well, it's actually driving itself, I'm basically redundant. No wonder I'm falling asleep. Wake me up when we're&nbsp;home.Actually, I think the Volvo driver support stuff is brilliant. As a famous motoring journalist, I've driven a&nbsp;lot of fancy cars with similar systems, but Volvo's is the best, I&nbsp;think. Just so&nbsp;long as you don't let it lull you into a false sense of security –&nbsp;because it's not going to stop a&nbsp;lorry driving into you.Oh, and the car? Yeah, quite nice. Handsome, comfortable, an attractive alternative to the German executive saloons. This one has an impressive 2.4-litre five-cylinder turbo diesel engine, as well as stop/start technology and brake energy charging for efficiency. The fuel consumption and emissions are excellent for a car of its size and power. I took it on a stag do in Kent – the stag's second, as it happens, so we're talking a bunch of middle-aged men. I can't tell you what happened because we had a pact: what happens in Whitstable stays in Whitstable. But they liked my wheels. And the leather seats wiped clean nicely afterwards.Volvo S60 D5From£27,395Top speed143mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.2 secondsAverage consumption60.1mpgCO2 emissions124g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating6/10
HP's chief executive Meg Whitman has decided to make webOS - the operating system that it acquired in buying Palm for $1.2bn in April 2010, and which contributed to a $2bn write-off in its latest quarterly results - open source.The 600-strong webOS division - or as many of its staff as want to go - will in effect be spun off into a separate startup business trying to take advantage of the 750,000 HP Touchpads that have been sold, and any Palm smartphones.But HP will not use it in any devices in 2012. Instead, it plans to launch two Windows 8 tablets, Whitmantold AllThingsD: "In 2012 as you know we're bringing two Windows 8 tablets to the market, we're excited about that, we're going to be working with them [Microsoft] constructively, but there may be an opportunity in 2013 to think of a different device, maybe come back to tablets. Let's just see how it goes, but obviously HP would be one of the likely suspect hardware manufacturers for webOS."Open-sourcing webOS gets around all sorts of financial inconveniences. The New York Timespoints outthat if Whitman had shut down the division (as the Guardian previously forecast), HP would have taken a financial charge on its next quarter's results.HP would want to avoid that, having taken a$2.1bn write-off in its latest quarterly resultsfrom the effects of starting and then stopping the building of the webOS tablet and smartphones.In interviews with US media, Whitman said HP will not make webOS smartphones.Speaking toThe Verge, Whitman and Marc Andreessen, the former Netscape executive and now HP board member, said" "In the near term what I would imagine — and this could change, in full disclosure — is I would think tablets, I do not believe we will be in the smartphone business again."She alsotold AllThingsDthat HP "will [make] a substantial software investment but it will not break the bank at HP. This is a wonderful asset, actually, but what I was telling employees this morning is you're a start up now. You're a startup with a number of people, 750,000 installed devices out there, and with your first venture capitalist, and that's HP. And let's go figure out how to change the world out there."Whitman added to the Verge: "So we will keep the core group of employees together - those who want to sign up for this new vision. Admittedly, this is a different vision than webOS had for themselves. That was more akin to a closed-loop system, more like Apple in many ways, and now we're going to an open system."The Guardian suggested previously that HP would not be able to sell or license webOS to other companies, andpointed to the experience of staff inside the divisionwho called it "a roller coaster without brakes". The division has seen a steady stream of defections of senior staff, including those who were in charge of encouraging developers.At the end of November, Whitman said "we have a team of 600 people who are in limbo". To some extent, they still are: HP has not decided how making the source code free will interact with the division that still exists.Whiteman told The Verge: "what I told employees this morning is that we want them to be part of this. But we this also has the characteristics of a startup — a big startup. It has 600 people, 750,000 devices out there in the marketplace, it has a big company behind it. But it's a startup. What we have to do is figure out exactly where we're going to invest and how many people we need to do that."There is no obvious precedent for a tablet or smartphone OS going open source and succeeding in the marketplace. Android wasnot made open sourceuntil the first handset using it went on sale in 2008, when it was already owned by Google. A number of Linux OSs for smartphones have been introduced and withered.But making the code for webOS open source - and by implication releasing any intellectual property associated with it - could mean that Apple, Google and Microsoft might be able to incorporate elements of its "gestural" interface into their smartphone and tablet OSs without falling into patent rows.The closest analogue may be the Firefox browser, which grew out of the Mozilla project - itself the result of making the financially unsuccessful Netscape browser open source. But Firefox grew partly because Mozilla received funding from Google to be its default search engine - a contract that is rumoured to have ended, and whichgenerated more than 85% of the Mozilla Foundation's revenues over the past three years, and possibly longer.• Inits press release, HP saidthat "plans to continue to be active in the development and support of webOS. By combining the innovative webOS platform with the development power of the open source community, there is the opportunity to significantly improve applications and web services for the next generation of devices."It suggests thatwebOS offers a number of benefits to the entire ecosystem of web applications. For developers, applications can be easily built using standard web technologies. In addition, its single integrated stack offers multiplatform portability. For device manufacturers, it provides a single web-centric platform to run across multiple devices. As a result, the end user benefits from a fast, immersive user experience.Whitman is quoted saying: "webOS is the only platform designed from the ground up to be mobile, cloud-connected and scalable. By contributing this innovation, HP unleashes the creativity of the open source community to advance a new generation of applications and devices."It adds: "HP also will contribute ENYO, the application framework for webOS, to the community in the near future along with a plan for the remaining components of the user space."
Fresh from the success of its debut game Life is Crime on Android, US location-based games publisher Red Robot Labs has acquired British developer Supermono and appointed former Sony Computer Entertainment executive Phil Harrison as an advisor.Supermono, which has had App Store hits with productivity app EpicWin and endless racing game Forever Drive, will now be put to work creating location games using Red Robot's R2 platform, in an effort to encourage external developers to also use it.Red Robot was founded in January 2011 in Palo Alto, just down the road from Google's headquarters. Chief executive Mike Ouye's background is in social games at Playdom and Crowdstar, while chief product officer Pete Hawley has worked at Electronic Arts, Criterion Games and Sony Computer Entertainment.Life Is Crimewas released in August for Android. "We're at around 800,000 users now, and it's consistently been a top 10 grossing app on Android, so we're really happy," says Ouye in an interview.Hawley adds that Red Robot's location focus was there from the beginning. "We wanted to make games that went all in on location," he says. "We didn't want to do Google Maps with crappy icons on top, and not for one second did we think about check-ins or retailers or coupons or any other ulterior motive. We want to do something deep that gamers will really love."Red Robot is one of the more well-funded startups in this space, having raised $8.5m in September from Benchmark Capital, Shasta Ventures and Playdom co-founder Rick Thompson. The company had previously raised a round of $2 million in angel financing."We're working on three to four games now just focused on location," says Hawley. "18-35 year-old males love competitive gameplay and paying for content, but if you're in that age bracket and love gaming, there isn't that much around to serve you on phones."These games are as much an advert for Red Robot's R2 platform, which includes the company's geo-index of places that can be used for location-based gameplay. The platform aspect also differentiates the company from rivals like Booyah and Grey Area Labs, who (for now) are focusing purely on making their own games, rather than opening up their technology to other developers."The acquisition of Supermono will accelerate the growth of the R2 platform, as they will be building on it," says Ouye. "It's important getting someone in to experiment and help scale it."Supermono founder Tak Fung says he can't wait to get started on these games, saying that the R2 platform and Red Robot's team of engineers will allow his studio to focus on the creative rather than the underlying technology."We had a location-based idea before, but we realised that doing it with four of us would take about 50 years! I think we've made some really good apps so far, but now we'll have the firepower to actually carry them through."Red Robot's games will look to make money from in-app purchases of virtual items, rather than advertising. Hawley says he finds it hard to understand why many of his former peers in the console industry are wary of the freemium model."A lot of them are half-paranoid about free-to-play, like it's some kind of evil business model," he says. "It's not, if you do it properly. There does seem to be this general fear of the model, but we designed Life is Crime very carefully so that if you play for three to four sessions a day, you'll have a great time. If you pay money, you can play more and buy certain items."Hawley thinks that developers from the console industry could be well placed to make the most of mobile phones, due to the way they approach new hardware in traditional gaming."If you're working on a new console, the first thing you do is analyse what that piece of hardware can do, and create features around those new things," he says. "If you look at a phone, it can give you GPS, the camera… So what can we do with these things creatively? It's a very console way of thinking about things."Buying Supermono and setting up a London office marks something of a homecoming for British-born Hawley, who moved out to California to set up Red Robot Labs."It's hard to raise money in London," he says. "If you've got a small team of brilliant people who've just come out of a console studio, it's hard to say 'I need a million bucks in a year to do something amazing'. There's no culture of investors and amazing VCs ready to invest in gaming and take it seriously."Tak Fung has a theory about this. "A lot of the rich investors in America are ex-engineers: they've made games or been exposed to tech. Here in the UK, the rich investors – bar a few – are ex-bankers or consultants. They'll fund you if your outfit has a new model for banking, or an interesting app that they can monetise quickly, but games companies aren't going to get this kind of funding."That said, Hawley says he's excited about the British government's Tech City initiative in east London. Red Robot is also notably supporting Android, having launched Life is Crime exclusively for Google's OS – although an iPhone version will soon be released too.Ouye explains that Red Robot learned from investor Thompson, with Playdom having targeted MySpace rather than Facebook in its early days – "go to an alternative platform, try to solve the distribution problem and create high-quality polished games in a less competitive environment".Hawley adds that Android is an exciting platform at the moment. "All the curves are going up and to the right, yet if you look at the Android Market, it's full of junk!" he says."Nothing says that audience isn't crying out for something that's really high-quality though. We took a very strategic up-front decision to go to Android first, and Google has been very supportive, which has paid off for us."
BBC Worldwide has announced a new Doctor Who game for PS3, Vita and PC. Subtitled The Eternity Clock, the downloadable title will be the first in a series of new interactive adventures for the Time Lord. It's due to materialise on Earth early next year.From the little info the BBC is handing out at the moment, players are set to take on the roles of the Doctor and River Song as they explore the universe in the Tardis. According to the press release, time travel will form the basis of the game's structure: "Changes made in one time will impact another, creating multiple possibilities and challenging players to solve puzzles across the centuries."The story has been co-written by the BBC Wales team responsible for the TV series, and Matt Smith and Alex Kingston will be voicing their roles. There's no mention yet of any other major characters from the series appearing in the game, but more announcements are planned soon.For now, the pairing of the Doc with River rather than with Amy suggests the timeline of the game is around the sixth series or possibly after. Interestingly, you'll get to play as both the Doctor and River, maybe swapping roles to solve different game elements. It also suggests the possibility of co-op play.Eternity Clock is being developed by Guildford-based independent studio Supermassive Games, previously responsible for PlayStation Move titles Start the Party and Tumble. We're promised, "photo-real graphics, television quality scenes and highly realistic characters", which moves us on visually from the browser-based seriesDoctor Who: The Adventure Games– these took a more stylised approach.Next year will be an interesting one for Doctor Who-loving gamers. It should also see the release of Doctor Who: Worlds in Time, a free-to-play MMORPG from US developer,Three Rings. Co-published with Sega, this one was expected at the end of 2011, but will surely arrive at some point in 2012.So, a downloadable action-adventure with the Doctor, River Song and a range of multi-chronological challenges ... thoughts?
Samsung has won two rounds in its worldwide battles with Apple over sales of its smartphones and tablets, winning a final decision in Australia and a lower court decision in the US which both leave it free to sell the device over Christmas.But Florian Müller, an independent analyst following the court battles between the two, says thatApple is growing impatient with Samsung's delays in the US case, where meetings between lawyers for the two sides have been repeatedly delayed.Apple cannot get a final decision on its claim against Samsung in the US until the two sides' lawyers meet – but a motion filed by Apple asserts that "Samsung has produced almost no documents" relating to the case.Meanwhile, Australia's highest court on Friday dismissed Apple's appeal in its global patent battle, after the High Court had temporarily banned sales of the Galaxy Tab pending a final decision on whether to allow Apple, creator of the iPad and iPhone, to appeal a lower court ruling in favour of Samsung.Following the ruling, Samsung said that its Galaxy Tab 10.1 will be available in stores in time for the Christmas shopping period.In the US, Apple has lodged an appeal against a US judge's decision not to block Samsung from selling its smartphones and tablets there.Last week, US District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose, California, denied Apple's request for a preliminary injunction to ban Samsung from selling three smartphone models and a tablet.Banning the sales would give the iPhone and iPad maker crucial leverage in a global patent war between the two companies.The two companies are locked in a series of legal battles around the world, spanning 10 countries in which they are suing and countersuing over issues such as "trade dress" – the appearance of devices – and alleged patent and intellectual property infringement.The battle began in the US in April, when Apple sued Samsung, saying the South Korean company's Galaxy line of mobile phones and tablets "slavishly" copies the product design, user interface and packaging of the iPad and iPhone.Apple also took Samsung to court in Australia after accusing the company of copying. In October, a judge there ordered Samsung to halt sales of the Galaxy ahead of a trial.But Samsung went back to court, challenged the decision and won the right to resume sales. Apple immediately appealed that decision to the High Court, which granted a temporary injunction pending a final decision. That has now come – and does not favour Apple.Samsung responded to Apple's original lawsuits by filing its own accusing Apple of patent infringement of its wireless telecommunications technology.Germany and the Netherlands have ruled in favour of Apple, while aFrench court on Thursday ruled against a demand by Samsungthat sales of the new iPhone 4S should be blocked on the grounds that it infringed Samsung patents.An Italian court is due to hear the same arguments next week. A court in the Netherlands previously refused Samsung's claims.
Much as the molten core of its world swills deep below its grassy topsoil, so Minecraft the game is buried somewhere deep beneath the crust of Minecraft the phenomenon. This is no great surprise.An independent web-game written in an outmoded language and drawn with rudimentary blocks and 16-bit colours that finds unprecedented financial success will confound the wisdom of most video game critics, consultants and publishing mavens. So it's inevitable that discussion of the "what" will be smothered by discussion of the "how" and the "why".Released long before it was finished, Minecraft has no in-game tutorial, no instruction pages and few explicit goals. November's update moved the game from its extended beta into full release by introducing an endgame, but players are still forced to adventure outside of the confines of the game in search of YouTube videos to explain how to make one's mark.The basic rules are otherwise inscrutable, and, for players brought up on to-do list play, the passage of time largely aimless. And yet, in a few short months, Minecraft made its creator, Swede Markus "Notch" Persson, a multimillionaire, and revealed its player base to be one of the most creatively motivated in video games.Why? In truth, the answer to the why is hidden inside the what.Put aside Minecraft the phenomenon for a moment – the excitedwhispers of Lego deals, theunlikely merchandise, the endless industry awardssnatched from the fists of Goliath blockbusters– and the in-game story of Minecraft is essentially the story of man: survival, hunting, community and, eventually, hubris.The world is uniquely yours. All players share the 1x1 blocks that comprise its mountains, valleys, lakes and clouds, but their arrangement is randomly assigned to you alone. Day one and your goal is mere exploration, charting the terrain around you, a carefree sort of cartography as you feel out the contours of your domain, marvel at the scenery and build a mind map of natural landmarks to set your bearings by.Minecraft lets you turn a cave into a castle, or a town. Image: oddworldThen night falls and monsters rise; dead-eyed zombies, skeletons and camouflaged creepers, whose kindergarten path-finding AI has them pursue you with night-terror single-mindedness.In a flash you spring from tourist to tormented, your goal shifting to a quest for survival as, using the action button, you begin to dig a cave with your bare hands in search of shelter.Your interactive skillset may be limited to destroying blocks and rebuilding them, but soon you learn how to build tools from the materials around you. After the first night the rhythm and structure remains constant – work during light, shelter during night – but the next day's objective is largely one of your own making.You can choose to turn your cave into a castle, the urge to survive making way for the desire for comfort as you venture back out to gather the raw materials needed to laminate the floor of your home, build a bathtub and a stove onto which you can cook your meat.For some, constructing a shack in the shire is adventure enough, and Hobbit-like they leave the game happy to have made a house a home. For others, ambitions aren't so easily met, and they embark on a project to build a scale replica of the Taj Mahal, or the Starship Enterprise, or even to use sand and water to create logic gates that fire a giant rudimentary computer scrawled into the landscape.Your creativity may be bounded to the resources that surround you, but dig deep enough and you'll find everything you need to replicate on-screen that which sits in your imagination.Once you have exhausted your self-made goals – added that extension, converted that garage, scaled your own Tower of Babel – Minecraft's multiplayer servers allow you to venture forth to the community. Here you'll find collaborative projects that dizzy the mind with their scale or pedantry, a thousand stubby arms chiselling at metaphorical pyramids, slaves to naught but their own aspiration.Video game atoms can be arranged in every imaginable combination. Image: mr_sofaIn recent months, Minecraft's makers have sought to take what is, in essence, a playpen of wild potential and mild peril, and mould it into a more formal video game structure. Achievements point you toward light goals, RPG levelling provides an abstract numerical read-out for your progression, while an end boss offers a conclusion for the kinds of players who need to "beat" a game rather than merely play one.But these feel like half-hearted, tokenistic designs intended to bring some form of closure to the Minecraft phenomenon's aimless evolution.At its worst, the full-fat, full-price 1.0.0 Minecraft release is conflicted. A hotchpotch of game design clichés awkwardly stapled onto a wide-open space of joyous creative potential.But those recent, orthodox game features can be roundly ignored and their presence does not diminish the wonder of the true core of the player-defined experience.By offering us the tools we need to express ourselves, and by constructing the world from 1x1 blocks, video game atoms that can be arranged in every imaginable combination, Minecraft is perhaps the closest we have to a true god game.And yet, it is also a game that indulges the instincts and aspirations of man, from lighting that first candle in a cave in order to ward off monsters, to building a tower to the stars. And beyond this, Minecraft has irrevocably changed the landscape of gaming, even as we have irrevocably changed its landscape in kind.• Game reviewed on PC
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe new Twitter (RIP Tweetie) &gt;&gt; Daring FireballJohn Gruber isn't a fan of the new iOS version of Twitter's app, which began - three years ago - as a third-party app called Tweetie. He goes through the four tabs (Home, Connect, Discover) and finally "Me": "Oh boy. Stashed into this tab are your profile, your direct messages, your Twitter Lists, and the interface for switching to other Twitter accounts. This tab is the conceptual carpet under which Twitter swept everything that didn't fit under "Home", "Connect", or "Discover"."The point being that Twitter has ceased to be a way to just message people.The new, new Twitter: 10 big takeaways &gt;&gt; SplatFDan Frommer sums up what the new Twitter is about, and why. Note that not everyone has the new interface yet.What Eric Schmidt actually said &gt;&gt; Julian YapHis comment about developing for the Android platform was slightly mangled as it travelled over the intertubes. It was actually: "Whether you like ICS or not, and again I like it a great deal, you will want to develop for that platform, and perhaps even first."Subtly different from what was first reported (which has now, praiseworthily, been fixed).Here's what a Twitter follower costs &gt;&gt; ClickZ"An email from Twitter sales to prospective advertisers today revealed what brands have been paying for followers on the platform. The memo included cost-per-follower (CPF) rates for Promoted Accounts and cost-per-engagement (CPE) for Promoted Tweets.The CPF runs between $2.50 and $4, while the listed CPE rates come in from $0.75 to $2.50. For CPE, "engagement" refers to clicks, favorites, retweets and "@Replies.""As has been the case for a while, Twitter advertisers must commit to three months at a minimum spend of $15,000."That's some good money.It's insanely hard to make a kick-ass iPhone app &gt;&gt; Skritter"…we get it. Mobile is hot. Mobile is irreplaceable. And most importantly, mobile is the future. But this mobile future takes software for granted."We at Skritter are learning that because we're building a version of our app for iOS. We have found that there are so many apps that the they have been devalued to the point of monetary irrelevance [1]. That's sad because a good app is a piece of art. The buttons, the interface, the streamlined backend, all the pieces of a finely-tuned app take so much time and energy to perfect that I wanted to write a post to call attention to the level of software perfection that most people have acclimated to without even knowing it. Here are three reasons why it's insanely hard to make a kick-ass iPhone app."All the world's a game &gt;&gt; The EconomistBe impressed: "Over the past two decades the video-games business has gone from a cottage industry selling to a few niche customers to a fully grown branch of the entertainment industry. According to PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), a consulting firm, the global video-game market was worth around $56 billion last year. That is more than twice the size of the recorded-music industry, nearly a quarter more than the magazine business and about three-fifths the size of the film industry, counting DVD sales as well as box-office receipts (see chart below). PwC predicts that video games will be the fastest-growing form of media over the next few years, with sales rising to $82 billion by 2015."Multi-direction hover - jsFiddle &gt;&gt; Online Editor for the WebFun. You have to try it, really.Low expectations &gt;&gt; Matt GemmellHaving read a Verge review of the Samsung Chronos, Matt Gemmell is moved to write. "You, the PC consumer, simply shouldn't be putting up this sort of situation. Low expectations permeate the PC press, due to the type of products foisted upon the market for many years. Poorly-integrated plastic boxes (often poor copies of existing products), optimised for cheapness of manufacture and co-branding opportunities, resulting in horribly compromised products for the consumer."There are certain companies out there who wouldn't allow a product with even one of those flaws to ever make it to manufacturing. It's a terrible indictment of the PC industry that even journalists often don't expect anything better."Moving to standards-based web graphics in IE10 &gt;&gt; MicrosoftMicrosoft is dropping its own DX filters for CSS3 standard alternatives in IE10 (as it began to do with IE9). Essentially, Internet Explorer 10 is looking like the most standards-oriented browser Microsoft has produced since - and perhaps even more than - Internet Explorer 1.0.The mobile web in numbers &gt;&gt; Royal PingdomLots of interesting data. Such as: smartphones are 13% of the mobile handsets in use, but use 78% of the mobile data traffic. Or: forecast is that 472m smartphones will be sold in 2011; by 2015, 982m (compared to total mobile sales for 2011 of 1.6bn).Acer chief executive targets 10% shipment growth to become profitable &gt;&gt; WSJHow? By selling ultrabooks as part of a 10% increase in notebook shipments in 2012. "Many notebook PC and chip makers have said the slicker ultrathin notebook PCs, dubbed 'ultrabooks,' would likely be a game changer. But analysts say it is too early to gauge whether they can grab some market share back from tablets, as the first batch of ultrabooks only hit the market earlier this quarter."[Chief executive] JT Wang said: "Ultrabooks will become our key growth driver next year as customers want a lighter, thinner notebook with longer battery life. Selling more ultrabooks will also help improve our profit margins as they command higher prices."Selling Apple-like designs at Apple-like prices is the way forward for Windows OEMs?Asus Eee Pad Transformer Prime review &gt;&gt; Walt Mossberg"However, as with all other tablets based on Google's Android platform, its weak point is software. The tablet-oriented Honeycomb version of Android on the Prime isn't as slick or smooth as the iPad's operating system, though the Prime's potent processor makes it more fluid than is typical on such Android devices. And Google's Android Market offers only a small number of tablet-optimized apps, compared with 140,000 for the iPad."In addition, the Prime lacks access to a large, unified ecosystem of music, videos and books, unlike the Apple or Amazon's Kindle Fire. It does offer Google's new music store, and a movie-rental service. But, when I tried to rent two movies, neither would play."The keyboard is the best element of it, apparently. So, if you want a $648 netbook running Android, here you goYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Android games have notched up more than 2.5bn downloads since the launch of Google's Android Market store, taking a 25.6% share of the store's first 10bn downloads.Googlerevealed the 10bn milestoneon 6 December, adding that the Market is currently generating 1bn new downloads a month. That followed an announcement in November that more than 200m Android devices had been activated, with 550,000 more coming online every day.The company has nowpublished an infographicon its Android Developers blog digging into the Android Market data, including the claim that the most popular time to download apps from the store is 9pm on Sundays.There is also a chart for the "Top 10 Most App-crazed countries" ranked by downloads per capita. South Korea tops the list, followed by Hong Kong, Taiwan, the US, Singapore, Sweden, Israel, Denmark, the Netherlands and Norway.Entertainment is the second most popular app category in terms of downloads, taking a 12.2% share. It's followed by Tools (11.17%) and Communication (6.45%), with Productivity, Personalisation, Music &amp; Audio and Social all taking shares higher than 4%.There are some quirky stats too: 1.87m hours have been spent using the Android IMDb app in the last four months; 12bn miles are navigated on Google Maps every year; nearly 1.8m Adele songs have been tagged using Shazam; and 4,054 years have been notched up in the Talking Tom app.Google is bullish about the appeal of Android for app developers in 2012, with chairman Eric Schmidt telling the Le Web conference this week that he expects more companies to focus on Android alongside or even ahead of iOS next year, thanks in part to the new Ice Cream Sandwich (ICS) software update."Ultimately, application vendors are driven by volume, and volume is favored by the open approach Google is taking," said Schmidt,according to CNET."There are so many manufacturers working so hard to distribute Android phones globally that whether you like ICS or not – and again I like it a great deal – you will want to develop for that platform, and perhaps even first."The counter-point to Schmidt's argument about volume is that developers are also driven by revenues, especially when it comes to paid apps. Convincing developers to release their premium apps on Android alongside or ahead of iOS may require more case studies of these kinds of apps making good money on the Android Market.
Four freemium games made more money than Angry Birds on Apple's UK App Store in 2011, according to the company'sannual Rewind charts.The chart shows Tap Zoo as the top grossing app for 2011, with Poker by Zynga second, Smurfs' Village fourth, Tap Pet Hotel fifth and Angry Birds sixth.TomTom's UK &amp; Ireland and Western Europe navigation apps take third and seventh spots respectively, with iMobsters, Zombie Farm and World War rounding out the top 10.That means seven of those 10 top grossing iOS apps are freemium games. In fact, half of the top 30 are free-to-play titles: and this is in a chart covering all apps, not just games.There is a similar story in the US App Store's Rewind 2011 Top Grossing chart, where 16 of the top 30 apps are freemium games. Tap Zoo tops that chart too, followed by Angry Birds, Zombie Farm, Tap Pet Hotel and Poker by Zynga.The chart confirms that 2011 was a lucrative year for free-to-play games on the App Store, although there are some premium successes to report too. TomTom's two apps cost £49.99 and £59.99 respectively, with its £79.99 Europe edition being the 18th top grossing iOS app in the UK this year. The £3.99 Infinity Blade takes 14th spot in the list.Apple also named Instagram as its "App of the Year" in the UK – an editorial choice – with Momento and Nike+ GPS named as runners-up. Tiny Wings gets Apple's nod as "Game of the Year", with To-Fu 2 and Tiny Tower named as runners-up.Instagram was also App of the Year in the US App Store, although the runners-up there were VidRhythm and Band Of The Day. Tiny Tower took the Game of the Year garland, with Tiny Wings and Touchgrind BMX named as runners-up.
A selection of 16 apps for you today:Dizzy Prince of the Yolk FolkDizzy made his name in the 8-bit era of home computers, but Codemasters' eggy hero has returned with a new game for iOS and Android. The rolling and somersaulting remains, as do the puns.iPhone / Android / iPadFirst Aid by British Red CrossCharity the British Red Cross has launched an app for iOS and Android, with BlackBerry to follow. It offers advice for 18 first aid situations, with videos and quizzes to reinforce the education.iPhone / AndroidOn AirUK couch potatoes have a new way to browse more than 400 TV channels on their iOS devices, with On Air. A full schedule is complemented with YouTube trailers, with light social features including the ability to post and tweet from within the app.iPhone / iPadExpedia HotelsExpedia's app for browsing and  booking hotels has been out for a while on iPhone and Android smartphones, but it now has versions for those respective operating systems' tablets. Availability can be checked for more than 130,000 hotels, with search filters, photos and reviews included too.iPad / Android tabletsGoogle CurrentsGoogle has released its hotly-anticipated news aggregation app for smartphones and tablets, although frustratingly Google Currents is only available in the US for now. More than 150 sites are providing articles for the app, which is being pitched as a rival to Flipboard and others.iPhone / Android / iPadDragon ShoutGamers addicted to Skyrim on their console now have an unofficial companion app for iOS to help them remember interesting places and quests in the sprawling Skyrim world, with social features including chat to come in a future update.iPhone / iPadDr. Seuss BandOceanhouse Media has made lots of Dr. Seuss book-apps, but now it's turning its hand to music with an app that gets kids to play along with the characters from The Cat in the Hat, Green Eggs and Ham and other stories with virtual horns.iPhone / iPadChrono TriggerSquare Enix has updated its classic RPG game Chrono Trigger for iPhone, building on a previous remake for the Nintendo DS with its new Dimensional Vortex and Lost Sanctum areas.iPhoneJaeger - Winter CoatsBritish fashion brand Jaeger has launched an iPad app showing off its Autumn-Winter 2011 coat collection for women, with an emphasis on photographs and additional social features.iPadLemurMusic production multi-touch controller Lemur has been turned into an iOS app by Liine. It can control DJ software, electronic music performance software and studio production tools (among other things), with the original tool used by the likes of Daft Punk, Richie Hawtin and Deadmau5.iPhone / iPadHome Sheep Home 2Shaun the Sheep returns in this iOS adventure that spans 40 levels of caves and London streets. Fellow TV characters Timmy and Shirley are along for the ride too.iPhone / iPadDream League SoccerThe developer behind well-received iOS football games First Touch Soccer and X2 Soccer has a new game called Dream League Soccer, which uses the freemium business model and offers transfers, training and tactics, as well as online multiplayer.iPhone / iPad1000 Places To See Before You DieTravel book 1,000 Places to See Before You Die has been turned into an iPad app by Workman Publishing. Holidays can be filtered by region and interest, with a choice of map views and a "Photo Wall" to whet the appetite. Facebook-fuelled friend recommendations are included too.iPadSpellcraft School of MagicAppy Entertainment's latest freemium game for iOS takes inspiration from Harry Potter, with its SpellCraft school for apprentice magicians. Players get to harvest ingredients, brew spells and then battle monsters, while collecting virtual accessories and pets.iPhone / iPadFantasy TownGameloft's new freemium social game for iOS is "designed for girls", offering a fantasy-themed world populated by dwarves, fairies and monsters. Facebook Connect provides the social fuel.iPhone / iPadToys R Us Geoffrey's JungleToy retailer Toys R Us has launched an iPad app that shines the spotlight on other brands, with mini-games and activities for Moshi Monsters, Barbie and Hot Wheels.iPad
Friday! So what are you playing this weekend? My son is six today so lots of Wii games this afternoon, I think!
Six people have been arrested over a £1m online phishing scam in which money was stolen from the hacked bank accounts of hundreds of students.Scotland Yard said a criminal network targeted students on government loan schemes, conning them into revealing their bank account details, which were then used to withdraw amounts of between £1,000 and £5,000 at a time.The victims received emails asking them to update details on their student bank account via a link to a bogus website.The Metropolitan police's e-crime unit launched an investigation after being alerted to the scam in August and on Thursday seized computers and other equipment from addresses in London, Manchester and Bolton.A 26 year-old man and a 25 year-old woman were arrested in Manchester, a 25 year-old man was arrested in Deptford, south London, a 49 year-old woman and a 31 year-old man were arrested in Stratford, north-east London, and a 38 year-old man was arrested in Bolton.Detective Inspector Mark Raymond from the e-crime unit said: "A great deal of personal information was compromised and cleverly exploited for substantial profits. We have today disrupted a suspected organised group of cybercriminals and prevented further loss to individuals and institutions in the UK.The suspects, who were arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud, money laundering and Computer Misuse Act offences, were being held at police stations in central London, Manchester and Bolton.The investigation was carried out with the assistance of the Students Loan Company, the banking industry and internet service providers.Phishing is the act of defrauding an online account holder of information by posing as a legitimate company. It usually involves spam emails being sent to people pretending that there has been a "security update" to their bank, credit card, online shop or similar system.The user is lured by an email to go and view a webpage, often under the pretence of a "security update", which superficially looks credible but is a fake. The fake page usually include copies of all the elements of the real page, such as an Amazon or eBay page, but is hosted on a hacked server or PC.
Three of the biggest video game releases this winter have something unusual in common. Gears of War 3, featuring space marines fighting aliens, Uncharted&nbsp;3, an Indiana Jones-inspired game, and Deus Ex: Human Revolution, a dark science-fiction adventure, were all written by women.According to research by Tiga, the trade body representing the UK games industry, women make up just 12% of the development workforce in Britain – a percentage reflected by similar surveys in the US and Canada. Why? The obvious answer is that, because games were born in dingy arcades and on 80s home computers, creators tended to hail from computer science and engineering backgrounds, areas traditionally dominated by men. "Women have, of course, always played video games, but in the past it was always as a minority. Yet areportby the Internet Advertising Bureau in September found that 49% of gamers in the UK are female; but that percentage is not being reflected in the makeup of the industry, particularly at senior levels.Mitu Khandaker, who started programming at the age of 12 and now runs her own indie development studio, Tiniest Shark, credits "a complicated mix of marketing, early arcade culture, and deep-seated cultural expectations" for the status quo. "There are a lot of things in games that women can point to and go 'this isn't for me', whether that's eye-rollingly sexualised female characters, or just the openly misogynistic attitudes to be found within many gaming communities."As an example, Khandaker refers to a recentcontroversyinvolving the zombie horror adventure Dead Island, in which gamers scouring an unfinished version of the game found a line of code referring to the female character as a 'feminist whore'. "It&nbsp;boggles the mind," she says.Deus Ex: Human Revolution: 'about technology's threat to humanity'.Since its launch in 2008, the Nintendo Wii console has widened the appeal of games enormously by concentrating less on shooters and more on inclusive social experiences such as Wii Sports and Wii Play. At the same time, music titles such as Rock Band and Singstar have brought games into pop culture, and massively successful Facebook and mobile titles such as Farmville and Angry Birds have attracted people who might never have bought a console. As the audience widens, so does the pool of potential development staff."The consoles we had at home were mainly my brother's – I wasn't a huge gamer," says Siobhan Reddy, studio manager at Guildford-based developers Media Molecule. "But when I was a teenager I was really into making fanzines and little movies, and I saw how technology and the arts were beginning to fuse together. When the games industry was mentioned to me I thought: 'Yeah, that's interesting.'"Reddy reckons that games development is becoming more appealing to girls as a potential career because it is no longer about a computer sitting in the corner of the room, it's about phones, laptops and social networks. "I look at the generation of young women coming through school now and they've all grown up with technology, they've grown up in an era where entertainment, games and music are interconnected."Amy Hennig, the creator of the hugely successful Uncharted series, played games as a child in the late-1970s, but then left them behind as a teenager.Like Reddy, she arrived at game development through a background in other story-telling media. "In 1989, I had an opportunity to do art, animation and design for an Atari 7800 game," she recalls. "At the time, I was purely trying to earn money to pay my way through graduate school in Film Theory and Production – but this rekindled my love for games, and I realised that there were more creative opportunities in this young, pioneer medium than in the more established film industry.""I've been attending the Game Developers Conference for the past three years," says Khandaker. "But this year was the first time there was a line for the ladies' loos. That was a nice – though inconvenient – sign of progress."Plenty of female designers are bucking stereotypes, working, not just on family-friendly Wii titles, but on action adventures, filled with shoot-outs and fistfights. They do seem, however, to bring in comparatively more rounded characters and twisting, tricky narratives. One of the muscle-bound marines in Gears of War 3 is almost destroyed by grief for his dead wife, while Deus Ex is all about technology's threat to humanity. This is not the stuff of robotic characters and B-movie plots. Perhaps as a result of that, the games have built a strong female fanbase.Mary DeMarle, the co-writer of Deus Ex, who was an aspiring fantasy and sci-fi author before entering the industry, says: "We bring an altered perspective, I suppose, a different way of looking at things. And the more women become involved in games, the more that will filter into them."Women developers have certainly been key in experimenting with game design. The LA-based studio thatgamecompany has produced unique, and beautiful PlayStation titles such as Flower, in which players guide a breeze as it collects and disperses seeds, and Journey, an adventure set in a mysterious desert, where participants must forge anonymous relationships with other online players.The company was co-founded by Kellee Santiago, who had previously studied theatre at NYU; hers is a unique approach to design. "We begin by asking what is the mood or emotion we want to express in a video game. Then we go about discovering what are the mechanics, the visuals, the audio we need for that."Gears of War 3: muscle-bound marines, but with a sensitive side.Kellee and fellow thatgamecompany producer Robin Hunicke have become highly influential to young women looking to enter the industry. "They are loved for their creativity and great design, and for putting those things above the assumed desires of a target market," says Kate Killick, a graduate of the University of Newport's game design course and now an artist at startup studio Angry Mango. "Both of those women are active in supporting others and promoting creativity in the industry – I saw Hunicke speak the first time I went to the GameCity festival in Nottingham, and it gave me a lot of inspiration both as a female in the industry and an indie developer."Killick represents a new generation that resists the notion that the games industry is a boys' own club. "I see a lot of it as unacceptable," she says. "All the over-sexualised female characters, hiring women to 'decorate' stands at games events. I don't think this stuff has a place in the future of the&nbsp;industry."As interesting as Deus Ex, Uncharted and Gears of War 3 are, they still feature men in the central, playable roles; the anatomically impossible fantasy creature Lara Croft remains the high watermark for female lead characters – and that has to change. Perhaps when the percentage of women in development increases, it will."I think young girls need to have their eyes opened to the different avenues open to them in games," says writer Rhianna Pratchett, who has worked on several titles with strong female leads including Heavenly Sword and Mirror's Edge. "They can be artists, animators, writers, designers, producers, programmers … We need to get them fired up about technology and find the Ada Lovelaces of the future. I think both the industry and the educational system have a role to play to achieve this. There are so many great female role-models within the games industry, but they rarely get the exposure they deserve."
Twitter has unveiled sweeping new changes to the social network in the biggest shake-up of the site since its launch.The fresh design, launched with the nameFly Twitter, will be introduced to the social network's 100 million users in the coming weeks, but new iPhone, Android and TweetDeck apps were released on Thursday.The new site features redesigned profile pages, and is based around four key areas: Home; Connect; Discover; and Me. Twitter said one of the most significant introductions was its Discover page, which features trending topics and popular discussions from around the web. The Connect tab is home to users' mentions, retweets and new followers.In ablogpost on Twitter's official website, the fledgling internet firm said the changes are "just the beginning". Twitter has faced a resurgent competition in recent weeks, with Facebook and Google+ both grappling for users' time and attention with a slew of new features."Today we introduce a new version of Twitter. We've simplified the design to make it easier than ever to follow what you care about, connect with others and discover something new," Twitter said in the blogpost."What we're announcing today is just the beginning. We now have a framework in place that we will quickly build and iterate upon to help users connect with whatever is meaningful to them."Twitter launches Discover, featuring trending topicsTwitter also introduced slick newbrand pages– distinctive, for the first time, from users' profile pages – featuring adverts and promoted tweets. The 140-character network has lagged behind Facebook as a tool for brands, with only basic user functionality available to some of the world's largest big-name companies. Google's new social network, Google+,launched its version of brand pages last month.Disney Pixar's brand page on TwitterUnlike user pages, brands can customise their page with a large header image and choose to feature a tweet with a photo or YouTube video. Launch partners for the new pages includeAmerican Express,Best Buy,McDonalds, andPepsi.Although Twitter users have grown accustomed to the site's many changes and updates, Thursday's redesign is the biggest since chief executive Dick Costolo laid down the company's visionin March this year. "Our mission is to instantly connect people everywhere to what's most meaningful to them," he said.The shake-up aims to make it easier for users to interact with those they follow, while allowing them to more easily connect with information that often spreads like wildfire across the site.
Places such as the Android Marketplace allow you to publish your app in over52 countries, Apple's App Store supports 37 countries - and that's just two mainstream examples.Global app stores provide developers with an unprecedented chance to earn money from their work, reaching new markets more effectively than ever. But understanding the markets themselves is often finger in the wind stuff. This has to change.Understanding local markets is an age-old business challenge and is fundamental to success for mobile developers, a point recently highlighted inDeveloper Economics 2011by Vision Mobile: "But localisation will soon become a fundamental issue for mobile developers, as it becomes easier to distribute apps globally and to develop regionally-sensitive apps and content like news, music and social networks."Those who take a 'fire and forget' approach to publishing in multiple markets may be disappointed as mismatched apps fail to catch fire and generate the revenue expected. All sorts of cultural nuances can hinder an app's success, from privacy concerns to humour. In the end, a chart-topping game in the German market may not be quite right for Argentina.The developer community has been left to figure all this complexity out by themselves when deciding to enter a new country. They need to answer a variety of key questions, including:•	How many mobile users are there?•	What platform is most popular?•	Do they use app stores, if so how many users are there?•	What sort of apps do they buy?•	How much money do users spend?•	How many have credit cards?All are fundamental to assessing whether these markets are suitable for your product; the problem is that finding out the answers to these questions is difficult and often expensive but important to your success.Jason Armitage, senior analyst at independent research firm Yankee Group echoes these sentiments: "An understanding of local buying trends and platform availability is crucial for developers to succeed in markets outside of their home territory," he says.In its effort to give developers a commercial edge, BlueVia has negotiated withYankee Groupto offer free, detailed market data for 13 countries. This data provides facts such as mobile, smartphone and broadband penetration, plus more detailed information such as app store users and paid download volumes. In order to access this market data, developers just need to register atBlueVia.com(free for developers) and find the reports under their "My Account" section.
A French court has rejected Samsung's request for an injunction to prevent Apple from selling its iPhone 4S in France, which had been sought by Samsung on the grounds it copied elements of its own Galaxy line of mobiles.Calling the request "out of proportion", the court on Thursday also ordered Samsung to pay €100,000 of Apple's legal fees, according to the decision.The case is one of many legal battles being waged between Samsung and Apple in the US Italy, and several other countries over intellectual property protecting their smartphones.Florian Müller, an independent expert who follows the patent battles in the mobile industry,noted that the case had been "high stakes"for both sides.On attending the previous hearing to the final one, Müller said that "It became clear that the legal standard for a preliminary injunction is reasonably high in France, and Apple's lawyers made a number of points that I couldn't verify in their entirety but which appeared strong enough to dissuade the court from ordering a ban."Last Friday Apple's attempt to have four Samsung products banned from the US was rejected, while the ITC postponed a judgement on whether Apple can get a ban against HTC Android phones.In Australia, Samsung recently got an injunction imposed by Apple on its Galaxy Tab tablet lifted, while in Germany it is trying to work around another injunction imposed on the Ganaxy Tab from yet another Apple injunction which the American company won in Mannheim.On Friday 16 December Samsung will be in court in Italy, seeking a similar injunction to the failed French one against the iPhone 4S – though Müller suspects that that court will take note of the French decision.Samsung has failed in the Netherlands to obtain an injection against Apple products including the iPhone 4S on the basis of patent infringement; Apple, says Müller, prevailed because the court decided the patents fell into a class known as "FRAND" – which should be freely licensed because of their essential nature, and not withheld from competitors which are prepared to pay for them.Samsung and Apple have been vying for the title of the world's largest smartphone manufacturer by volume and by revenue; Apple held the title in the second quarter but Samsung took it in the third, according to estimates by analysts; the Korean conglomerate has not itself released detailed figures for the number of handsets shipped or sold, nor precise figures for smartphone or mobile phone revenues.Apple is expected to have a bumper quarter to the end of December because of high demand for its iPhone 4S model: in an analyst note, Citibank said that it understood that Apple had raised orders for products from suppliers. The company's chief executive Tim Cook also guided analysts to expect Apple's biggest-ever quarter at the earnings call in September.Müller commented that if Samsung's Italian bid fails, the companies should both realise that "you can't win a marathon with a sprint":Both companies are embroiled in more than 30 lawsuits in a minimum of 12 courts in at least nine countries on four continents, and either litigant is trying hard to win the race to the first court ruling that will have major business impact. That's the name of the game in those kinds of disputes. It's not just whether you prevail with a given claim, it's also a question of when (relative to your rival) you win favourable, impactful rulings.However, there is no sign so far of either company lifting the legal barrage.
Had your fill of cutesy 3DS gems such asSuper Mario 3D LandandOcarina of Time? Capcom has just the (T-virus infected) tonic.Resident Evil: Revelations is the latest title in the long-running survival horror opus, this time following Jill Valentine who must set to out to find errant anti-zombie agent Chris Redfield, last spotted on an abandoned cruise liner.You may have spotted this story trailer online, but if you haven't, it's worth a look if you've always enjoyed the series' befuddling plots and onerous voice acting. There are glimpses of some new monsters (the T-virus has mutated into something called the T-abyss, which doesn't sound positive) as well as men with weird haircuts worrying about what all this will mean for the world.Capcom has added a new co-op mission mode to the package, allowing players to take on a series of short tasks, upgrading their weapons and characters as they go. There's also a limited edition bundle, which will come with the weird Circle Pad Pro accessory, adding an extra analogue controller.Revelations is set between Resi 4 and Resi 5, but actually this trailer feels a lot more like Resi 3 or Code: Veronica in terms of tone and story. Have a look and see what you think.•Resident Evil: Revelations is out on Nintendo 3DS on 27 January
A few weeks agoa tweet by Mercury-nominated artist Jon Hopkins caused a stir on music and technology sites. "Got paid £8 for 90,000 plays. Fuck Spotify," it said. He later added: "Radio 1 pay about £50 for each play." Taking these tweets at face value, dozens of bloggers weighed in on the debate – on one side were those who claimed Spotify would kill the music industry and on the other people who thought artists should accept that that's how much they'd get paid from now on, many of them claiming "at least it's better than piracy".I've written some critical articles about Spotify in the past, mainly questioning the lack of transparency when it comes to the licensing deals – due tonon-disclosure agreements (NDAs) artists and songwriters are not allowed to know the details of these and how much they're supposed to get paid – and the fact that record labels have shares in the company. Yet, even though I don't think musicians should automatically accept any kind of paltry rate just because it's more than the £0 they get from piracy, I don't agree with Hopkins.First of all, there is no point comparing Radio 1 with Spotify. One play on Radio 1 goes out to about 9m listeners (100 times more than Hopkins's streams). One the flipside, Spotify is on demand, radio isn't. I also find the £8 payment surprising. Though my royalty statements fromSTIM(the Swedish version of the UK collection society for songwriters, PRS for Music) are quite puzzling and don't show how many streams occurred for me to get paid what I do, a swift look shows I got £8 in Spotify royalties for a song I know for a fact would not have been streamed even close to 90,000 times – the song was never in the charts, was recorded by a small Swedish band and is quite niche.In addition, that £8 was my 50% share of publishing for the track, as it was a co-write, and just for Swedish streams and for a six-month period (the previous period I got paid £9 in streaming royalties for that particular track). The royalty rate for the recording, which goes to the artist/label, would normally be about five to six times what the songwriter gets, which would mean that the act who performed my song would have got £80-£96 (remember £8 was 50% of the songwriting royalties) for that period for less streams than Hopkins says he had. So maybe what he was referring to was what he got after his label, Domino Records, had taken its share (which still sounds strange as today's record deals normally give the artist 16%-20% in royalties)?Of course, these payments are still not significant, nor enough to replace record sales by any means, and it's not the reason I wouldn't take my music off Spotify – it's due to several recent discussions I had with a number of music industry sources while in Sweden, the country where the music service originated and has been active the longest.Though Spotify won't be drawn on any specifics, apart from that it has 2.5m subscribers worldwide, and its NDAs with the labels and collection societies prevent sources from speaking on the record, one major label source told me the service now has 1m subscribers in Sweden. Another source from another major label said he was certain the number is 850,000, so let's say it's 900,000 subscribers. Considering the population of Sweden is 9m, that's a tenth of the population. And of those subscribers, the majority are premium, as the iPhone is hugely popular in my native country, which means they pay 99 SEK (about £9) a month. Spotify's bundling deal with the Telia broadband, TV and phone provider –a quarter of Spotify Premium subscribers in the country were acquired that way– as well as the limitations on usage by non-subscribers, have alsohelped increase the subscription takeup.I was told Spotify is expected to be paying out about £47m (500m SEK) to the Swedish record labels this year. According to IFPI figures, the digital music market worldwide was worth £2.94bn in 2010. So, to put this in perspective, let's say Spotify has the same percentage of premium subscribers in the US as it does in Sweden. That would add up to 30m subscribers and the revenue from them would be a whopping £1.41bn – half of the current worldwide digital music revenue.Interestingly, early indications suggest that about 80% of digital revenue for record labels in Sweden will come from Spotify. And digital is fast heading to half of all revenue generated by recorded music - with physical CD and vinyl sales accounting for the rest.While record labels get a per-stream rate, the publishers/songwriters receive about 8%-9% of the subscription fee (incidentally, pretty much what they get from a physical sale too). One publisher said STIM is expected to receive £8.5m (90m SEK) from Spotify this year, so that tallies quite well. He also said that figure is expected to increase to £14m (150m SEK), next year. Keep in mind that these figures are solely for Sweden, a country with a population of 9m, which means the potential for UK revenue from Spotify would be six times as much.So how come so many artists (and some independent labels) are complaining about paltry royalties? There could be a few reasons for this. Firstly, royalties take a while to be accounted for. As a songwriter it can take between one and three years, depending on where and by whom the royalties are collected. Secondly, some collection societies are better at accounting and more transparent than others (this is an issue that will need to be dealt with to get the majority of songwriters to support streaming). Thirdly, as mentioned before, artists' royalties depend on their individual contracts with their labels – and how the labels choose to account them.Beggars, for example, has chosen to pay artists 50% of all Spotify streaming revenues, instead of the much lower royalty rates. Why? "Because we believe it's the right thing to do," says its chairman, Martin Mills.Part of the reason some independent labels have pulled their catalogue from streaming services such as Spotify is their belief that they cannibalise record sales. Yet it's difficult to say if that's the case, this early on in the game. Mills doesn't believe it does, pointing out that at the rates Spotify currently pays, 200 streams equal the royalties from one iTunes download. Few people get up to such figures (a quick look at my digital music library shows not even my favourite songs have been streamed close to that many times), but what if there are plenty of streams from people who wouldn't have bought the track?To bring up a hypothetical example Martin Ingeström, MD of Universal Publishing Scandinavia, says one of Sweden's biggest local stars,Veronica Maggio, has had about 100m streams on Spotify. She sold 40,000 albums. "If we believe she would've sold 80,000 albums if Spotify didn't exist then we want 100m streams to equal 40,000 albums, revenue-wise." Assuming an album has 10 tracks, by my calculations, it's more than that (40,000 x 10 x 200 = 80m).Of course, every country's population behaves differently. Sweden has one of the highest fast broadband penetrations in the world and is an affluent country. But these figures suggest that artists, songwriters and indies may want to wait for at least another year before considering pulling their music off Spotify. And keep in mind that at least with Spotify you have a choice. Try pulling your music off Grooveshark. You'll find it's pretty much impossible – asRobert Fripp, theEaglesand evenyours trulycan testify.
Eric Schmidt, previously Google's chief executive and now chairman,forecast at the Le Web conference in Paris on Wednesdaythat "by the summer of 2012, the majority of the televisions you see in stores will have Google TV embedded on it".That's because he sees the "smart TV" sector exploding – with companies that make TVs wanting to build in internet connectivity and processing capacity. He didn't specify which companies will be selling sets with that capacity, but Samsung and Sony have already been offering "smart TV" sets for more than a year.The conclusion that you're meant to draw is that Google TV is therefore inevitably going to be successful. The company has admitted that its first attempt at Google TV wasn't a great hit (Logitech can confirm that: itlost tens of millions of pounds(PDF) on its Google TV Revue box, of which it sold perhaps a million, many of which were returned by dissatisfied users) and updated it earlier this year.Set Schmidt's words alongside the persistentrumours that Apple is going to produce a TV, perhaps to be introduced in 2012, and you can see that there's some momentum trying to drive people towards smart TV.Now, it's generally unwise for someone less smart than Eric Schmidt (me) to take a counter-position to him. And actually, I'm not going to. Let's accept, for the same of argument, that he's right and that the majority of TVs in stores (in the US and UK, since they get similar sourcings) will indeed have Google TV embedded.OK – how quickly will Google TV break through in that case?Well, Google is a data-driven company – decisions come on what can be found about the subject in hand. So what data can we find about TV sales?According to various sources around the web, there are about 300m TV sets installed in the US (285m in 2007; assume a few more have been sold).For the UK, the figure is 60m, of which 24m are HD-capable. (Limiting the discussion to the US and UK is, of course, artificial; Google TV will aim to make inroads in every country, but we may as well begin with two countries where Google dominates already.)Now, how many TV sets are sold in each country?For the US, the number is about 30m.iSuppli said a year agothat the figure for 2010 for LCD TV sales would decline for the first time since volume shipments began in 2006 (since when about 100m would have been sold). But it forecast that for 2011, sales would pick up again.Nope.In August, iSuppli was sayingthat 83% of people in the US weren't going to buy a new TV in the forthcoming year; only 13% did plan to. (The other 4% were expecting one as a gift.) That was worse than earlier in the year, when 66% were saying they wouldn't buy.Even so, that's about a 10% replacement rate for TVs. What's not visible from those figures is how quickly the installed base is really turning over: are people buying a TV and then buying a new one a couple of years later? Or do people really stick with them?Meanwhile in the UK, the TV sales figures are:7.5m sold in 2007(of which, amazingly, 4.4m were analogue); in 2009, itroseto a record 10m (with 32m flat-screen TVs having been sold in the previous five years – which suggests that half the installed base had a refresh).Since then – not so good. GfK is saying that there has been a21% fall in the value of the TV market since last October:Looking deeper into this figure we see that the Jumbo segment (43in+), which has been steadily growing in recent months fell by more than 7%, and the Superlarge segment (33in-42in), which has the largest share of the overall television market value, dropped by nearly 30% since last October.The accompanying image showing how sales have compared ispretty grim.The reason of course is the economy, which is looking woeful on both sides of the Atlantic. And it could also be that the market has hit a plateau – that people who wanted an HDTV bought one while the credit was cheap, and don't need a replacement any time soon. (Sony's TV division isalso struggling, and keeps losing money.)So on that basis, Google TV is going to face an uphill battle: it may well be installed in lots of TV sets sitting on the shelves, but people may well be keeping their hands in their pockets; few peopleneedto buy a new television. The market is saturated. TV sales look set for a dramatic slowdown in 2012. (Note though that GfK is seeing strong growth in the set-top box market –up 34% year-on-year, apparently as people realise that that's the cheaper way to upgrade their analogue TV to digital as the switchover date looms.)However, assume for a moment that they keep up. On the figures above, you might see Google TV arriving in 5% of installations. That of course that includes both homes and businesses; lots of businesses use TV sets.So the next question we need to ask is: how many TV sets that have internet connectivity (such as Google TV) then see that internet connectivity actually used?Over to Quora, where we find an answer saying that 20% of all TVs shipped in 2010 had connected TV capabilities.Now the harder news: only 45% of owners actually accessed internet-specific content; of those,only 57% found the experience satisfying.So in all, that's 25% of those who have an internet-enabled TV actually accessing and enjoying the experience. And of those who did use the features, 57% were using it to access Netflix; 47% to view videos on YouTube.And meanwhile, there's the question of what there is out there to watch. Looking at the internet on your laptop or tablet is very different from doing it on a TV: I've tried it (on a Logitech Revue) and the problem is that navigation is anightmare.Whereas on a laptop you have a keyboard and trackpad that you can move around discrete windows which have text, and on a tablet you can use touch controls, on an internet-connected TV (even via a set-top box such as the Revue) you have to use a keyboard or gigantic keypad (just click on the "Remotes" tab for thisSony connected TV). It is not a pleasant experience.Plus the cable companies have their own systems installed, and in the UK, Sky has its very effective Sky boxes and the Sky+ PVR (personal video recorder) which do not need keyboards; they've succeeded in producing something that lets you browse what's on – across hundreds of channels – using just a numeric keypad and the four arrow keys. Yes, there are plenty more buttons on a Sky+ remote, but most don't get used.Sky, you can bet, won't be welcoming Google seeking to take its business, no matter if Schmidt did say inhis speech at the Media Guardian Edinburgh International Television festivalthat Google is a friend to independent TV producers; they didn't seem to take that on board. And the networks in the US have shown too that they don't welcome the idea of Google getting between them and the viewer in the way it has done with so much advertising on the internet.All of which means that Google TV will have a mountain to climb. It's nothing to do with the quality of the software. It's to do with the economic situation, the slow rate of replacement, the entrenched interests, and perhaps even slightly the rivals. For don't forget that Microsoft has been trying to get hold of online TV for about two decades longer than Google, and in Octoberannounced dealsto bring on-demand services from the BBC, Channel 4, Channel 5 and Lovefilm in the UK – through the Xbox.Netflix, meanwhile, isgoing to be coming to UK games consoles.And those are installed in a lot of homes too.That's before you consider the possibility that Apple might have a smart TV in the works too – though one could expect that that is going to be a premium product, which won't work anything like Google TV. But the more splintered this market gets, and the more determined the incumbents, the more one would expect that the "connected TV" revolution will look more like the TV market itself, where many rivals have roughly equal shares, than the smartphone or PC market where Android and Windows dominate.So yes, Eric Schmidt may be completely correct about half of TVs on sale by the middle of next year having Google's smart TV capability. But there's a long way from that to people buying them, and taking them home, and engaging the internet capability, and enjoying the experience more than they do through some other channel such as their laptop, tablet, or games console. Let's check back in a year.
