With 4m downloads on iPhone and Android, activity-tracking app Moves is one of the more popular fitness apps for smartphones. Now Facebook has made it its latest in a string of significant acquisitions.Developed by Finnish start-up ProtoGeo, the app runs in the background on users&apos; phones, using location data to build up a profile of their activities throughout the day. Described as a &quot;surprise hit&quot; by Apple following its 2013 launch, it has been downloaded 4 million times.ProtoGeoannounced the news on its blog. &quot;Today, we&apos;re delighted to announce that Facebook has acquired our company and the Moves app,&quot; explained the company.&quot;Since we launched Moves, we’ve been focused on running a simple and clean activity diary that millions of people have enjoyed using. Now, we’re joining Facebook’s talented team to work on building and improving their products and services with a shared mission of supporting simple, efficient tools for more than 1 billion people.&quot;ProtoGeo added that Moves will &quot;continue to operate as a standalone app&quot; while stressing that there are no plans to &quot;commingle data with Facebook&quot;.That&apos;s a potentially sensitive topic: Moves tracks each user&apos;s walking, running and cycling activity, as well as the locations they have visited over the course of every day. Users who were comfortable with Moves storing that data may have concerns about Facebook owning it.&quot;For Facebook to really have a global business that can be more than just a fad, it is important for the company to branch out, to invest in apps and services that are not only complimentary but also help the business grow into different vertical market,&quot; says Gartner&apos;s Brian Blau.&quot;Moves fits right in line with Facebook&apos;s goal in this regard, to provide a different type of service which is focused on mobility and social. In keeping Moves as a separate app, Facebook can let the users continue to enjoy the app and improve it, and hopefully grow that app into a top line technology or product for the company.&quot;Moves launched in January 2013 for iPhone, and had been downloaded 2.5m times from Apple&apos;s App Store by the time itlaunched for Android in September 2013. The app stood out from other fitness trackers because it didn&apos;t require an external gadget to track people&apos;s steps, unlike Fitbit and other rivals.&quot;We wanted to make a mainstream product for people who are not that into sports or the quantified self,&quot; ProtoGeo&apos;s designer and chief executive Sampo Karjalainentold The Guardian in September.&quot;That&apos;s also why we have kept the app very simple, clear and approachable, with that element of lifelogging – the complete story of your day – that makes for a different experience to the more fitness-oriented products.&quot;Karjalainen, previously famous for co-founding theHabbo Hotelsocial network, started the company in January 2012, along with computational scientist Juho Pennanen and developer Jukka Partanen.Facebook&apos;s decision to buy an activity-tracking app comes at an interesting time, with Apple expected to makefitness a key feature in its long-rumoured &quot;iWatch&quot; smart watch. Leaked details have also suggested that the company isworking on an app called Healthbook, possibly to launch as part of its iOS 8 software later in 2014.Meanwhile, Nike was recently forced todeny claims that it is shutting down the team working on its FuelBand activity tracker, amid separate rumours thatit is a key partner for Apple&apos;s fitness plans.•After 2.5m iPhone downloads, Moves comes to Android
Getting security right is hard, especially for businesses. Outside of fending off scores of attacks on a daily basis, they have to deal with their own employees opening up risk by making stupid mistakes.On top of that, security chiefs have to worry about the tech protecting the company’s data actually working. So things often go wrong, either in hopelessly inevitable or horribly surprising ways.With that in mind, the Guardian has uncovered some of the more embarrassing failings that have somehow managed to avoid public attention. Until now, of course…Happens to the best of themThe worst security snafus are often born out of technology failures. Mistakes at anti-virus (AV) vendors have caused plenty of pain over the years.The Guardian was told by one source about one security firm that accidentally sent a malicious file to its entire UK security base back in 2004. If opened, it risked getting malware on employees’ machines.Remember, this is a company that is supposed to stop the propagation of such nastiness. “They recognised the error straight away and notified all the UK users the infected file had been sent to, asking them not to open it, and setting out what to do if the document had been opened,” says our source, who was involved in the clean-up operation.“It wasn’t a nasty worm, and there were very few reported infections, but it was obviously not ideal for an AV company.”Certainly the funniest AV company cock up came in 2012 when Sophos infamouslyidentified its own security software as a computer virusand then deleted some of its critical files from those systems it was installed on back in 2006,McAfee identified Microsoft Excel as a virusand promptly removed it from affected computers.A nuclear password leak?!Passwords often provide the keys to the kingdom. Occasionally, they leak on the public internet. To find these, attackers do Google searches related to their target to see if the search giant has indexed any useful login details. This is known as a “Google dork attack”.One might expect a small to medium-sized business to leak some secrets online, but what about the US government’s Nuclear Regulatory Commission? Apost on a public forum this Marchnoted the organisation, which governs the safety of nuclear power production and other civilian uses of nuclear materials, had leaked a username and password in an Excel file that could be accessed via Google.It does not appear the documents that are accessible using the logins are particularly interesting. But it’s clear the files were valuable enough to have some kind of protection wrapped around them.The NRC says the documents protected by the password were publicly available anyway, but the researcher who uncovered the credentials, who went by the name Hon1nbo, tells the Guardian “this is still a bypass of their business logic in that a user doesn&apos;t have to make a formal request, and that they don&apos;t know who is accessing data under these credentials,” Hon1nbo says. Given passwords are often re-used, any kind of leak is worrying.This is a lesson for everyone: make sure you aren’t openly sharing passwords, no matter what they’re for. And for anyone involved in nuclear power: don’t leak anything, ever.When the good guys do worse than the badSometimes facepalms don’t do the errors they deplore justice. Security consultant Brian Honan was working with a customer on dealing with an attack, where they believed they had located its source.They subsequently contacted the security service provider the client used, asking it to block connections coming in from the attacker. But rather than just cut off one source from the outside, they shut off all connections into the company.“The service provider had not only blocked that IP address but all external IP addresses resulting in remote workers and offices not being able to connect. So instead of mitigating the impact of the attack the provider mistakenly caused more damage than the attacker,” Honan says.“Lesson learnt, always be very clear in requests to third parties, especially when under pressure, and never assume the person has the same level of understanding of the situation as you do.”Copying idiocyHonan has another rather splendid tale from the days when technology was poorly understood. At least by one poor fellow. Honan explains: “Many years ago a client rang to say they had computer virus on a CD they had received. I asked them to send me a copy of the CD so we could analyse what was on it.“To my surprise a few minutes later our fax machine chirped and gurgled as it received a photocopy of the said CD. Lesson learnt, always be explicit in your instructions and don’t assume people interpret technical terms the same way you do.”Oh…You’re only supposed to blow the doors offBusinesses often do physical security badly, even though the same basic principles apply to their PC protection. Take passwords. We all know not to have them printed in an easily perceptible physical format, right? So the same would go for passcodes to access buildings, right? Wrong.“I was doing an audit of a secure facility inside an office block that used two-factor authentication for entry into the secure area, comprising of an access card and a four digit pin. All looked good and met the criteria that needed to be met. However, knowing this environment and the people concerned fairly well, and with a fair amount of hubris, I concluded all wasn&apos;t right. The project managers were openly adamant everything was fine,” says Thom Langford, a security consultant.“It turns out that the four digit pin that had been supplied to the individuals used the last four digits of the badge, printed on the back of their badge. To make my point I then proceeded to let the next 10 or so people into the secure area by taking their card and using the last four digits of the card.”Not the banks!The UK’s banks are often the vanguards of the security world, showing us all how it should be done. But, as we all know, the banking industry isn’t always responsible.For instance, former convicted hacker turned legit, Cal Leeming, says that when he was brought on board at one major bank after his imprisonment to highlight ways people can subvert their systems, he disclosed a flaw he liked to exploit in his darker days. That was back in 2006. Leeming says the bank still hasn’t fixed the issue.Javvad Malik, from analyst firm 451 Research, remembers one case where following an incident at a major financial institution, a security provider was brought in to investigate.They discovered that an entire portion of the organisation’s network, known as a or Demilitarised Zone, was not being monitored. That zone is essentially a subnetwork used by companies to check for requests coming from the public internet. It’s where companies detect malicious activity, so if you aren’t monitoring it, something has gone very, very wrong.It’s clear even those who are supposed to have the highest levels of data protection, whether they’re financial institutions, nuclear power regulators or security companies, are prone to error. Which at least should make you feel a little better if your Facebook account gets hacked...
Researchers are claiming to have invented a new form of human/computer interaction after developing a machine that can fill bubbles with different smells and project images on to them.The team at Bristol University describe SensaBubble as a “chrono-sensory mid-air display system” – a computer-controlled bubble cannon that fills soap bubbles with a particular scent and then fires them at a user, projecting a colour or display on to them in mid-air.When the bubbles burst they release their scent which, combined with their size and colour, can display anything from a logo to a notification, email alert or an advert.Powerful sense of smell“The human sense of smell is powerful, but there are few research systems that explore and examine ways to use it. We have taken the first steps to explore how smell can be used to enhance and last longer in a visual object such as a soap bubble,” Sriram Subramanian, professor of Human-Computer Interaction in the Interaction and Graphics group at Bristol University said, describing the reasoning for building a sophisticated bubble gun.The SensaBubble is able to create bubbles in three different sizes and frequencies, controlling their flight path, tracking their location in mid-air and projecting an image on to their surfaces using the opacity of the bubble as a screen.It is designed to explore the concept of “chrono-sensory experiences” where information is presented in different layers hitting different senses like vision and smell for varying lengths of time.Bubble clock, bubble maths, bubble adsSubramanian, led researcher on the SensaBubble project, described several novel uses for the bubble gun display including a clock that displays the time by the number of scented bubbles released on the hour, or an educational game that teaches maths through bubbles with the smell of the bubbles indicating success.SensaBubble could have immediate applications in advertising as well as certain forms of education, including museum exhibits and interactive displays, according to the Bristol University team.The SensaBubble will presented at theAssociation for Computing Machinery&apos;s Computer Human Interaction conferencein Toronto, Canada, one of the world’s most important human-computer interface conferences, between 26 April and 1 May.•Google&apos;s &apos;Project Ara&apos; modular smartphone set for release in January 2015, and could cost as little as $50
It's Thursday.
A new technology proposed by Apple would seek to address the dangerous and ubiquitous problem of drivers who use their phone behind the wheel, according to experts.A new patent by the technology giant could “change the culture” and help stop driver distraction with an automated system that would disable certain smartphone functions when an iPhone user is driving.Onerecently published patentdescribes a &quot;driver handheld computing device lock-out&quot; system that detects when a user is driving using on-board sensors or pulling information from the car when connected, blocking the use of text messaging or using other smartphone functions from the person driving.“As a market leader, Apple could have the power to change the culture behind texting and driving, if it works and is intuitive; that would be a very good step,” said Paul Watters, head of motoring policy for the AA. “What we find in our research is that there’s an addiction here, to texting and using smartphones, it’s an addiction that is very hard to break even when in the car — it will take some system to help people break that addiction.”Boosts likelihood of a crash by 23 timesTexting while drivingis a hot-button issuethat has been labelled as a “widespread menace” by Brake, the road safety charity, which has been shown to slow driver reaction times by 35% and increase the likelihood of a crash by 23 times for commercial drivers.It is illegal to use a hand-held phones while driving, even when stopped at lights or in traffic in the UK, with an automatic fixed penalty of three points on the driver’s licence and a fine of £100.Three in 10 of all drivers admitting sending or reading messages while driving,according to research by Brakeand insurance company Direct Line. That number increases to more than four in 10 for drivers aged 18 to 24, while one in eight drivers admitted to using smartphone apps while behind the wheel.‘Technology has a role to play’Attempts to disable smartphones or limit distracting features of phones have been made in the past. Several developers have released apps that prevent drivers from texting behind the wheel for Android, but it has not been possible for the iPhone due to Apple’s restrictions on apps and system control.“Technology has a role to play, but there is no single solution to the problem of distracted driving,” said Ellie Pearson from Brake.Apple is currently making a large push into software for cars with its CarPlay system, which integrates an iPhone with a car&apos;s entertainment and communication tools, including connecting the car’s navigation system using Apple’s mapping app.The patent for locking down the device was filed in 2008, but has only now been published. Apple could have a system in place that plays well with CarPlay, preventing the driver from texting using the smartphone other than via voice control through the car’s systems.“Even if you cut off some functionality, it doesn’t necessarily remove the distraction the phone causes for drivers,” warned Watters. “There is no greater safety system than simply turning off the phone while driving.”•What is Apple’s CarPlay and why would I want my iPhone at the centre of my car?
The Heartbleed flaw is being fixed more quickly because of the decision to give the bug a memorable name and a cute logo, according to the firm that first identified it.The flaw was caused by a simple coding error which resulted in passwords and security credentials being leaked from affected websites.&quot;I really believe that the name and the logo and the website helped fuel the community interest in this,&quot; says David Chartier, the CEO of Codenomicon, the security testing firm which found the bug on 3 April.&quot;The IT community and the press have been important players in getting the word out, and so many people affected have fixed their stuff already,&quot; Chartier added. &quot;This went extremely quick, and I think that the fact that it it had a name, had a catchy logo that people remember, really helped fuel the speed with which people became aware of this.&quot;Others agree. &quot;The Heartbleed logo is probably one of the highest ROI [return on investment] uses of [approximately] $200 in the history of software security,&quot;writes Patrick McKenzie, founder of Kalzumeus Software.&quot;Why spend the extra money for a logo? Because it suggests professionalism and dedicated effort, because it will be used exhaustively in media coverage of the vulnerability, because it further deepens the branding association of the vulnerability, the name, the logo, and the canonical web presence, and because it also suggests danger.&quot;The logo, as well asthe accompanying websitewhich explained in readable English exactly what Heartbleed entailed, were both created in the days between Codenomicon warning authorities of the bug and it being officially patched.&quot;We found the bug on April 3, we reported it to the Finnish CERT [a national organisation that takes computer problems and works with other nations to resolve them] on Friday 4,&quot; says Chartier. &quot;On Monday CERT Finland reported this to OpenSSL, and on April 7 OpenSSL released the advisory and published the patch. Right after that, we launched the webpage.&quot;Codenomicon discovered the flaw when it was testing its own software. The company makes programs which let developers automatically scan for security leaks, with a model known as &quot;fuzz testing&quot;; when it applied that to its own website, staff discovered the Heartbleed flaw, and very quickly realised that &quot;it was pretty important&quot;.&quot;We attacked our own infrastructure, and we found out that it was pretty serious because when we were getting our memory dumps we could get usernames, passwords, and the crown jewels of the system, the encryption keys… Then we saw that a large portion of the web servers in the world use OpenSSL along with email, instant messing and social media.&quot;It&apos;s not all altruism. Chartier foresees a boost in Codenomicon&apos;s prospects in the future. &quot;We&apos;ve obviously got a lot more name recognition than we did before,&quot; he says. &quot;But this is a good case that shows that if you proactively check your software, you find the bugs sooner, can fix them faster, and be more secure.&quot;•Heartbleed inspires developers to make new version of OpenSSL
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPlaying with privilege: the invisible benefits of gaming while male | PolygonOne of the luxuries of being a member of the dominant group is that the benefits afforded us often remain invisible to us. This blindness allows many men to remain blissfully unaware of what roughly half of all gamers experience on a daily basis. We have been taught and socialized not to see it and to think of our own experiences as universal.Sadly least likely to be read by those who most need to read it.Taming the Digital Wild West - NYTimes.comUber may also have run afoul of New York State laws against price gouging, which do serve the public interest. In the last year, in bad weather, Uber charged New Yorkers as much as eight times the company&apos;s base price.New York&apos;s Attorney General writes in the NYT&apos;s opinion pages that Uber&apos;s surge pricing may be illegal. Is Uber disrupting out-dated regulations, or just breaking the law?Supreme Court Justices Are Not Good With Computers | five-tweet-thoughtsWhen it comes down to it, everyone who&apos;s anyone inside that courtroom is most likely an incompetent Luddite. There&apos;s no point even putting them in an ordered list, except to be arbitrarily unkind to Scalia and/or Thomas by putting them in the bottom. And while making fun of the Supreme Court is a paradigmatic example of punching up, this particular form is not just fruitless, it&apos;s ill-informed.A major court case in the US Supreme Court at the moment concerns Aereo, an odd little firm which uses thousands of tiny aerials to rebroadcast free-to-air TV over the internet. Needless to say, lawsuits followed; and, perhaps also needless to say, America&apos;s highest court is not covering itself in glory.Reddit Ousts Technology Subreddit from Front Page - Digits - WSJWe decided to remove /r/technology from the default list because the moderation team lost focus of what they were there to do: moderate effectively.Reddit looks like a chaotic free-for-all, but the staff at the company actually pay close attention to what is happening on their site - particularly if it&apos;s on a default subreddit, one of the ones shown to logged-out users. There&apos;s nothing they want less than to be giving tacit approval to people who don&apos;t deserve it.As phone subsidies fade, Apple could be hurt &gt;&gt; WSJ.comAT&amp;T, which reports first-quarter results Tuesday, sold 15% of its smartphones without a subsidy in the fourth quarter. UBS analyst John Hodulik estimates that figure will rise to 35% this year. &quot;We actually think that the industry is at a place where you can actually see line of sight to the subsidy equation just fundamentally changing in a very short period of time,&quot; AT&amp;T Chief Executive Randall Stephenson said at an investor conference last month. The fast adoption of subsidy-free plans is setting up a real world test of consumer behavior: Will Americans continue to buy expensive phones if they are aware of the full price they are paying?Deflation looms for phone pricing. Great news for buyers.Bad news for Samsung: 85% of people in Philippines willing to buy homegrown smartphone brandsSmartphone adoption in the Philippines is growing faster in Asia than anywhere else – a reported75% year-on-year increasein mobile shipments last year proves that. According to arecent surveyconducted by rewards platformJana, this growth is being fuelled not by big names like Samsung but by the increasing demand of homegrown smartphone brands in the country. The Philippines&apos; top three homegrown smartphone brands are Cherry Mobile, MyPhone, and Starmobile – all of which offer low-cost Android-based smartphones, as well as Android tablets and a wide variety of feature phones too. Jana&apos;s survey shows that 85% of respondents in the Philippines are happy to buy from a local smartphone brand.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The business idea was perfect, really. Mix a child-friendly fantasy game based in a magical kingdom with a line of action figures that could be placed on a &apos;portal&apos; to interact with the on-screen action. Then stand back and watch the money roll in.And boy, has it rolled. Activision&apos;s Skylanders series of games and toys has made over $1.5bn since the launch of the original title in 2011, with over 175m toys sold alongside the video game component. And this week, the publisher arranged events in New York and London to announce the next instalment: Skylanders Trap Team.Once again, players control a range of magical anthropomorphic heroes as they attempt to protect their floating kingdom, Skylands, from the invasion plans of the evil &quot;portal master&quot;, Kaos. But here, as rumoured on specialist retail news sites for several weeks, the latest title offers its own innovation in the form of a new trapping mechanic.In short, a range of 40 enemies encountered in the game can be trapped and turned into playable characters. Once an enemy is defeated, placing a translucent Trap token of an appropriate Element in the new “Traptanium” portal peripheral triggers the trap.These ensnared enemies can be brought into the game as controllable characters by reinserting the Trap element into the portal. Converted enemies all retain their unique abilities and are upgradeable through the game. Essentially, this offers a secondary way of collecting characters without having to buy more toy figures – although you will need Trap tokens in each Element to collect them all.The portal itself looks substantially different in Skylanders Trap Team with a ring of light that pulsates as the trapped enemies talk. Like Swap Force last year, this is provided in the Starter Pack and replaces the previous version. Parents may well balk at havin to buy another peripheral but according to Jeff Poffenbarger, the game&apos;s executive producer, the update was necessary to support the new features. “We’ve added so much innovation in the experience of bringing life to the toy,&quot; he said. &quot;And the sound of moving from the digital world to the physical world is so important to the key concept that the new portal is needed to bring magic to that moment.”The new Trap Team portal, which replaces the previous models – to the possible frustration of cash-strapped parentsAlongside the Traps there are also a new set of Trap Master characters. These Skylanders wield large translucent weapons and are most effective at defeating and trapping the different enemies, although exactly how that plays out is yet to be explained. It seems that they also have their own special set of upgrades that relate to their “Traptanium” weapons.As usual, Skylanders Trap Team rolls out new and returning Skylanders too. A total of 50 playable Skylanders will slowly be drip fed onto store shelves once the game is released. These comprise the new Trap Masters, new Core Skylanders and new re-posed returning Skylanders. No mention at this stage of the illuminating Light Core Skylanders but these seem a likely inclusion as well — unless perhaps their absence from the current details suggests another innovation that is still to be unveiled.Gameplay itself, demonstrated on the PlayStation 4 version at the London event, extends the familiar action and puzzle platforming challenge with new environments and minigames. Fans can also expect a return for Sky Stones from last year&apos;s hugely successful Skylanders Giants. Largely though, Trap Team resolutely sticks to the familiar two-player shared screen format – online play has not been mentioned.As for the plot, the game once again takes players through a series of levels as Kaos continues his quest to rule Skylands. This time he has discovered the Cloudcracker Prison and in an attempt to build an army with its inhabitants, inadvertently blows it up releasing the baddies and showering Earth with shards of Traptanium.While much is made of the new trapping mechanic bringing “life to toys”, the corollary of Activision’s “toys to life” moniker, the physical side of the Trap Team experience feels less compelling than the excellent mix and match play possible with last year&apos;s Swap Force figures. Character director I-Wei Huang’s designs are excellent though with another set of endearingly mischievous figures.At the event we got hands on withFood FightandChopper, two new core Skylanders along withSnap Shot, Wollop and Wildfire, three of the new Trap Masters. Even with the considerable war chest of family favourites that Disney is plundering for its rival franchise, Infinity, the Trap Team characters we saw hold their own both in terms of in-game characterisation and the quality of the physical toys themselves. As has been the case in all Skylanders games, it’s not until you get the figures in your hands that their tactile nature can be appreciated.Although there was certainly a lot to take in at the launch, Activision was being more reserved with information this time around, perhaps keeping a few secrets in reserve. After all, on 30 April, Disney is making an announcement about Infinity which will involve the arrival of Marvel and possibly Star Wars play sets. The next Skylanders titles will need a few enticing new features to compete with that.Until then, while there is plenty of creativity on show in Trap Team, some will criticise the new title for over complicating the beauty of its simple toys-to-life mechanic. Furthermore, there is a pressing point about how the game will deliver good value. Requiring a new Starter Pack (rather than reusing the Portal like in Skylanders Giants) isn’t a great start. Also, the translucent Traps are purchased separately with “different sculpts available for different elements” as Poffenbarger put it, which introduces a new retail line into Skylanders potentially on a par with the Power Discs of Disney Infinity that are sold in foil blind packs.Provided you can complete the game with just the Starter Pack, as has been the case in previous iterations, and the additional Traps, Trap Masters and Core Skylanders are optional extras, Trap Team should still plenty of gameplay for that initial outlay. Nonetheless parents should steel themselves to say “no” to the inevitable supermarket aisle pestering from their offspring.Certainly, parents will be unable to complain that the game is unavailable on their machine. Original Skylanders developer, Toys for Bob is looking after the Wii, Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 version while Beenox will take on the Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Wii U and 3DS.This attention to Nintendo platforms will be pleasing to Wii-owning parents who have been neglected of late – mostly due to the poor sales of the Wii U. &quot;I believe it’s still a very viable platform and is very important for us,&quot; said Poffenbarger. &quot;A PS4 or Xbox One is going to run a little bit faster than the Wii but we want the experience to be the same across all platforms”.Although it may seem like a minor point amongst the more exciting headlines, this impressive approach to wide platform support is beyond what has been achieved by competitor Disney Infinity and will certainly put the pressure on Disney for their “2.0” announcement next week.• Skylanders Trap Team will be released on Wii, Wii U, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 and 3DS on 5 October in the US and 10 October in the UK.
Tech giant Apple chose a bombshell solution to the problem of its struggling share price, launching a full-on charm offensive to win over investors with a financial candy basket of stock splits and huge dividend increases to win back those who may have been disillusioned by the company&apos;s lagging growth.In the first three months of the year, Apple grew its revenue to $45.6bn, well above analysts expectations of $43.5bn in revenue for the first three months of the year.Among the biggest of Apple&apos;s moves was a seven-for-one stock split so that every investor will get six additional shares. Apple has done stock splits before – in 1987, 2000 and 2005 – but they have been on a much smaller scale.The company has done only two-for-one stock splits in the past, meaning that investors received two shares for every one they owned.On news of the stock split, Apple&apos;s stock rapidly jumped 8% – or $42 – in after-hours trading, landing at $566 before the stock was halted.Apple also offered another palliative to investors by growing its spending on dividends and share buybacks by one-third to $130bn. Stockholders like dividends because they promise easy and reliable income, and Apple is already generous, raising its dividend twice in two years and paying $11bn annually to its shareholders.Investors like share buybacks because it allows them to get premium prices for their stock; it also means companies use their cash, which otherwise lays fallow unless it is invested somewhere.&quot;We are planning for annual dividend increases,&quot; promised CEO Tim Cook on a conference call with investors.The stock split, which comes as a shock, will achieve several of Apple&apos;s financial goals to please investors, who have been looking to the company to dazzle with new product offerings. including creating more buzz around the stock and making it easier for small investors to buy shares of the company, which will now be cheaper.The split will also make it paradoxically more expensive for large investors to gain a large stake in the company, which may go towards some way towards fending off activist hedge fund managers like Carl Icahn and David Einhorn, who have dogged the company in recent years to force it to boost the price of its stock.Icahn pushed the company to use some of its infamously large cash hoard of over $140bn to pay dividends and buy back its own stock. His efforts helped raise Apple&apos;s stock to $529, but that is still well below the peak of $702 in September 2012.While Apple has successfully faced down those activist investors – who were looking to change the company’s use of its cash – the company has not dazzled on its growth or results.Cook, for instance, made his now-customary promise that Apple is working on innovation: &quot;The thing that drives us are the next iPads, if you will, the things in the pipeline.&quot;&quot;People want something great – insanely great,&quot; Cook said of the company&apos;s plans for acquisitions. &quot;And that&apos;s what we want to deliver.&quot;Apple in some ways may be a victim of its own success; analysts worry that the company&apos;s iPhone and iPad are so ubiquitous that they are reaching the saturation point where sales won&apos;t grow by much.There&apos;s some evidence for those fears. In the first three months of the year, for instance, sales of the iPad tablet, at 16.4m units, slowed considerably – falling by 16% – and it was no longer selling out. Apple spent a good portion of its conference call with investors explaining the shortfall in expectations for the iPad and offering investors a pep talk about the tablet&apos;s future prospects.&quot;It&apos;s the only one of our products that was instantly a hit,&quot; Cook reminisced on the conference call, saying the company sold 210 iPads since the product&apos;s launch, which was twice as many as the company&apos;s iPhone sales and seven times as much as its sales of its music player, the iPod. Cook said Apple is focusing on getting the iPad into more classrooms all over the world.&quot;Virtually all of the Fortune 500 are using the iPad,&quot; Cook added about the iPad&apos;s use among corporate, or &quot;enterprise&quot;, customers. &quot;We have to focus on penetration – it has to be deeper and broader.&quot;
Facebook profits tripled to $642m as revenues soared 72% in the first quarter of 2014, with the company continuing to shift its customers – and advertisers – to its mobile platform.Comfortably beating analysts’ expectation the company said Wednesday that it had revenue of $2.5bn (£1.5bn) in the first quarter. Revenue from advertising totalled $2.27bn, an 82% increase from the same quarter last year. Mobile advertising revenue represented approximately 59% of ad revenue for the first quarter of 2014, up from approximately 30% in the first quarter of 2013.Facebook said it had 1.28bn monthly active users at the end of March, up 15% year-on-year.The number of mobile monthly active users in March was 1.01bn, up 34% year-on-year.The social networking company reported the results in a quarter when it has made some of its biggest bets. In February, Facebook bought WhatsApp, a messaging service, for $19bn. Last month it spent $2bn on Oculus, developer of virtual reality software.&quot;Facebook&apos;s business is strong and growing, and this quarter was a great start to 2014,&quot; said Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder and CEO. &quot;We&apos;ve made some long-term bets on the future while staying focused on executing and improving our core products and business. We&apos;re in great position to continue making progress towards our mission.&quot;The company also announced that David Ebersman, chief financial officer, will step down. Ebersman, former executive vice-president and CFO of bio-tech firm Genentech, was hired in 2009 and helped Facebook through its rocky initial public offering. Ebersman is returning to the healthcare sector.He will be replaced by David Wehner, currently Facebook&apos;s vice-president, corporate finance and business planning. Wehner joined Facebook in November 2012 from Zynga, where he served as CFO.&quot;David has been a great partner in building Facebook, and I&apos;m grateful for everything he&apos;s done to help make the world more open and connected,&quot; said Zuckerberg. &quot;David set us up to operate efficiently and make the long-term investments we need, and built an incredibly strong team including Dave Wehner, our next CFO. I look forward to working with Dave in his new role.&quot;
Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi, which outsold Samsung and Apple in its domestic market at Christmas, is expanding to 10 new countries as it races larger rivals to flood emerging economies with low-cost gadgets.Founded just four years ago by Lei Jun, a digital entrepreneur known as the Chinese Steve Jobs for his showmanship and penchant for wearing jeans on stage, Xiaomi will begin exporting phones to countries including Brazil, Russia, India, Turkey and Mexico this year.In December, Xiaomioutsoldeven Samsung in China, according to research firm Kantar, and it is now planning to take the battle abroad as the cost of parts needed to build high-end smartphones continues to drop. The falling cost of mobile computing pushed down the share price of British chip designer ARM Holdings nearly 3% on Wednesday.Sales of top-end smartphones were lower than expected at Christmas, a factor that hit growth in royalty revenues for ARM. The company reported slower growth than in previous years, with pretax profits up 9% compared with a 44% leap a year ago.Hugo Barra, recently poached from Google to lead Xiaomi's international effort, will play a key role in the Chinese firm's latest move. In preparation, the group has already changed its web address to mi.com, paying $3.6m (£2m) to acquire the rights to a brand that it hopes will travel more easily outside China.Xiaomi shipped almost 19m handsets last year and was valued at $10bn in an August funding round. It plans to sell 40m handsets in 2014, and Lei has set a goal of 100m by 2015. Expansion outside China has already begun. Xiaomi has started selling phones in Singapore and set its sights on five other Asian markets: Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Vietnam and Thailand.Xiaomi's growth has come largely through word of mouth – the company sells high-end products, which use Google's Android operating system, at low-end prices. Costs are kept low because the company spends little on advertising and on distributing stock to physical stores, selling mostly via its website."You can certainly call this acceleration," its co-founder, Bin Lin, told Bloomberg. "It's our mission and our belief that this model should be able to achieve some level of success outside of China."The business captured 7% of the Chinese smartphone market in the fourth quarter of last year, ranking just ahead of Apple, according to research firm Canalys.It has also put pressure on native manufacturers, which tend to dominate in China, forcing vendors ZTE and Huawei to offer more affordable high-end phones."It's definitely disrupting everyone," said Ryan Lai, a researcher at IDC. "Now consumers expect phones with high-end specs at low prices."Xiaomi's business is not limited to smartphones. The expansion plans were announced at a product launch in Beijing on Wednesday, where the company updated its television set-top box and unveiled two new wireless routers. Lei, 44, made his first fortune in software, and his Hong Kong business KIS Holdings could soon join fellow Chinese digital company Alibaba on Wall Street.In January, an application was lodged to float KIS Holdings in the US. The company specialises in security software and makes the Clean Master app, one of the top non-gaming downloads from Google's store, which wipes junk files from Android phones.
OpenSSL, the security software which led to the Heartbleed flaw, has been forked – its code re-used to make a new piece of software – by developers angry at the lack of care given to the project.Theo de Raadt, the founder of open-source operating system OpenBSD, has taken the code of OpenSSL and used it to create a new version of the security software calledLibreSSL.OpenSSL, like OpenBSD, is open-source, which means anyone can take the code behind it and use it to make their own versions of the software. Open-source software is also typically developed and maintained by a large base of volunteers, but in the case of OpenSSL, de Raadt says those volunteers didn&apos;t do a good enough job.&quot;The open-source model depends on people being able to read the code,&quot;he told technology new site Ars Technica. &quot;It depends on clarity. That is not a clear code base, because their community does not appear to care about clarity.&quot;LibreSSL has launched witha deliberately bare-bones website, written in comic sans and using blinking text for the &quot;coming soon&quot; sign. Philanthropists can donate &quot;to stop the comic sans&quot;, which is &quot;scientifically designed to annoy web hipsters&quot;.&quot;At the moment we aretoo busy deleting and rewriting codeto make a decent web page,&quot; it adds. The group ismaking publicmany of the issues they find in the OpenSSL code, such aspassing details of the user&apos;s private key to a random number generator.The Heartbleed bug, which rendered hundreds of thousands of websites vulnerable to attacks that could steal passwords or security credentials, came about as a result ofa single mistake made by a volunteer coder. The error stayed in the code base for more than two years, with no other coder noticing, until it was disclosed by private security researchers in early April.OpenSSL has argued that the problems it faces are down to lack of funds. The organisation&apos;s president, Steve Marquess,wrote thatit has been surviving on less than $1m annual gross revenue since it was formed five years ago, and has just one full-time member.&quot;There should be at least a half-dozen full-time OpenSSL team members, not just one, able to concentrate on the care and feeding of OpenSSL without having to hustle commercial work,&quot; Marquess said.•Heartbleed: developer who introduced the error regrets &apos;oversight&apos;
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe hear from one of the most powerful figures in the global digital economy,Sheryl Sandberg, COO of Facebook. Sandberg tellsJemima Kissabout the latest edition of her hugely successful bookLean Inand why the tech sector and society needs to facilitate and encourage the ambitions of women. The interview was recorded as part of theGuardian's Women in Leadership eventsand the podcast includes an extract from the full discussion which is posted as a Tech Weekly Extra exclusive on our Soundcloud account.Click here to listen in full.Aleks is also joined byJuliette Garsideto discuss the decision by Weibo and other Chinese tech and e-commerce companies to float on the New York stock exchange.Finally, we ask the question: has Marisa Mayer turned Yahoo around?
Google has turned its Google Maps Street View into a time machine to let users travel back in time and see how places have changed.The new feature will let users track changes in landscape, buildings, roads and entire neighbourhoods from around the world since the Street View mapping program began in 2007.Users can now click on a new clock icon that will appear in the corner of the screen when using Street View on Google Maps on a desktop or laptop computer, firing up scrollbar-controlled time machine, changing the year and even season of the area or building they are currently looking at to see how it has changed over time.&apos;A time traveller like Doc Brown&apos;&quot;If you&apos;ve ever dreamt of being a time traveller like Doc Brown, now&apos;s your chance,&quot; said Google Street View product manager Vinay Shet in a blog post. &quot;We&apos;ve gathered historical imagery from past Street View collections dating back to 2007 to create this digital time capsule of the world.&quot;This image shows what a building in Singapore looked like in October 2008, upper left, against a more recent photo. (AP Photo/Google) Photograph: Uncredited/APGoogle&apos;s Street View uses car-mounted cameras to capture street-level photos of the world, stitching the images together into a virtual representation of the real world overlaid on Google&apos;s maps. Google&apos;s cars have driven across most of the world, but this is the first time the search giant has made more than one version of the resulting images available to the public.&quot;Now with Street View, you can see a landmark&apos;s growth from the ground up, like the Freedom Tower in New York city or the 2014 World Cup stadium in Fortaleza, Brazil,&quot; said Shet.&apos;A digital timeline of recent history&apos;&quot;This new feature can also serve as a digital timeline of recent history, like the reconstruction after the devastating 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Onagawa, Japan. You can even experience different seasons and see what it would be like to cruise Italian roadways in both summer and winter,&quot; he said.Street View has primarily been used as a way of visualising directions to help users find and identify locations they are looking for, but the service has become increasingly popular among &quot;armchair explorers&quot;, who have used Street View to discover far away parts of the world without ever leaving home.This image shows what a neighborhood in Japan looked like in July 2008, left, and in August 2011, after a major earthquake hit, right. (AP Photo/Google) Photograph: Uncredited/APGoogle has beenadding tourism and beauty hotspotsto the service for some time, as well as the insides of some public places liketrain stations, airportsand brick and mortar stores allowing users to view the inside of buildings too.Google recently announced that it was to begin using a new algorithm that can read the house numbers in images on the service, and then correlate these with real addresses in order to improve the accuracy of addresses supplied in Google searches.•Google Russia claims Crimea for the federation, while Google Ukraine shows its independence
The chief executive of the Chinese network and handset supplier Huawei says that last year&apos;s Snowden revelations about the extent of western government surveillance have been &quot;good and bad&quot; for business.Speaking at a global analyst summit in Shenzhen, China, where the company has its headquarters, Eric Xu said that the stories published in the Guardian and other papers &quot;did not have a big impact on business growth&quot; but that it had affected its relationships with its potential partners in mobile networks around the world.&quot;It affects us on communicating with our partners and stakeholders,&quot; Xu said. &quot;It makes us simply more tiresome for them.&quot;Huawei, whose founders include a former member of the Chinese Red Army, has been banned from network contracts in the US, and more recently from providing network capability for Australia&apos;s next-generation network. US politicians have expressed fears that the systems it provides could have &quot;back doors&quot; that would allow them to be tapped or subverted by state-run hackers.But it also emerged during 2013 that the US National Security Agency had stolen some of Huawei&apos;s code used to control its exchanges – making the company look like the victim rather than a malicious player.Despite being shut out of the US, Huawei is the world&apos;s second biggest supplier of network systems, after Sweden&apos;s Ericsson and ahead of Finland&apos;s Nokia Siemens Networks. On Wednesday its vice president of accounting, Fan Shen, announced full-year results of 239bn yuan (US$39.5bn), up 8.5% year-on-year, operating profits of 29.1bn yuan and net profit of 21bn yuan.Revenues in the Americas, including the US, fell by 1% – the only geographic area where the company&apos;s revenues fell. During the year it became the third-largest supplier of smartphones, after Samsung and Apple, according to the research company IDC.Huawei is angling to win more contracts to install 4G networks worldwide; it claims to power 70% of the 4G networks in place worldwide, being used by the UK&apos;s EE network along with NSN, and having last year won the contract to build out the 4G network for China Mobile, the largest carrier in the world.But security concerns have dogged the company in recent years as it has expanded out of China and begun to work significant contracts. Its first key overseas contract was with BT to provide a fixed-line network - a deal that last year led to calls for the source code for the network systems to be reviewed for back doors - something that had already been done ahead of the contract win.Xu said that it was important for the industry to agree on standards for security. &quot;We have always believed that the issue of security is a collective challenge faced by the industry, government and consumers – it therefore requires collective efforts to address this challenge.&quot; He added that &quot;security should be a priority. Looking into the future, I think it&apos;s possible Huawei could become one of the leaders in this area, and move global clients to meet requirements and standards for security.&quot;Such standards will become more important as networks move towards &quot;software-defined networks&quot; (SDNs), where data for real-time networks can be routed over abitrary networks by configuring them using software, rather than building specific vendor-owned systems to carry the data.• The Guardian&apos;s trip and accommodation to Shenzhen was paid for by Huawei. Editorial is independent.•Huawei faces cyber security review over Chinese spying fears
Beats have always been big, bold, showy headphones that are as much a fashion statement as they are personal listening devices, but you might expect a company founded by a rapper would make sure the product sounds good too. Particularly when they cost £330.Understated designThe new design of the Studio headphone line, first introduced in 2013, the Beats styling has been almost toned down a little.The result is a much more classy, almost understated look. Still big, but in some colour schemes like silver they look decidedly premium instead of gaudy.The outer shell is all plastic with an inner metal hinged band for adjusting the size of the headband, which collapses down for travel. A rubber strip under the headband pads the top of the head, while the soft leatherette ear cups sit snugly around the ear, making the headphones comfortable to wear without squashing your head or being too heavy.The rubberised pad under the headband sits comfortably on your head. Photograph: BeatsThe left-hand ear cup sports a slim 3.5mm headphones jack for wired connections when at a desk, as well as pause-play and volume buttons. The right-hand ear cup has the microUSB port for charging the battery, as well as the power button and battery level indicator lights – a small strip of five LEDs that light up when the power button is pressed.Sadly there are no separate track skip buttons, instead relying on a double and triple press of the big &quot;B&quot; pause-play button, which doesn’t always work. The headphones jack is also very narrow meaning that most cables will not fit correctly forcing you to use the included headphones cable.The included cable does have a music remote on it, however, for pausing music on an iPhone or Android when wired.Battery life is rated at 12 hours for Bluetooth listening, which in my testing proved to be about right, and is decent for the current crop of large wireless headphones but by no means stellar. Frustratingly, you cannot use the headphones via cable when the battery is flat.Mid-bass and sharp highsPrevious variants of Beats headphones have focused on bass above all else, which certainly pleases some, but sadly, the new Beats Studio Wireless are style over substance when it comes to sound quality.They are more balanced than previous Beats headphones, but as a consequence lack really deep bass, producing lows that sound like there is a bit missing – lots of punchy mid-bass with a lack of really low end, even when playing Dr Dre’s own bass-heavy tracks.As a consequence anything with a solid bass line sounds a little muddy, although vocals are still relatively clear if a little sharp when listening to rap, contemporary soul or pop for instance.The power button tops five LED lights that indicate battery charge, while the other cup sports the big "B" pause-play and volume buttons. Photograph: BeatsOther music genres do not fare quite so well. Jazz, for instance, sees half the track disappear between overly warm bass and sharp high-end frequencies lacking any nuance or clarity between instruments. Classical music, like Holst’s Jupiter from the Planets suite, sounds dull and muted in the mids, with all but the highs lacking any sort of energy.Rock and folk are also not suited to the Beats sound. Neil Young’s Harvest Moon is butchered by the headphones. Known for his pedantic love of sound quality, having backed his own high resolution version of the iPod, thePono Player, Harvest Moon is a track recorded in Nashville, the home of analogue recording perfection and this track is a tribute to that sound – rich, full, dense and rounded. To some it is like a great wine poured into your ear, but the Studio Wireless headphones managed to make it sound thin and flimsy, more Ikea than Conran, if we were talking furniture.The pleasing nature of sound profiles, balance and quality are, of course, down to personal preference, which is why we had more than one person listen to the headphones and give independent, objective opinions. Everyone who listened to them came to similar conclusions, but your milage may vary.It is safe to say, however, that the Beats Studio Wireless are not geared up for nuanced music listening, and unlike other decent £300-plus headphones will not show you anything new in the music that you might not have heard before.Noise cancellingAs well as being wireless, the new Beats have active noise cancelling, which uses microphones on the outside of the headphones to detect ambient noise and emits sound waves to cancel them out blended with the music.Combined with the relatively good sound isolation created by the thick, padded ear cups, the noise cancelling does an effective job of blocking out certain background sounds, especially the drone of trains, planes or automobiles. It is less effective at blocking out colleagues or people talking on the street.It is also not possible to turn off the noise cancelling, which means in silent rooms where it is unnecessary there is a quiet hiss noticeable in the background.PricyThe Beats Studio Wirelesscost £329.95, which puts them in the top bracket for Bluetooth headphones, with most priced between £250 and £350. They’re premium looking and feeling, but they do not sound high-end.The headphones fold up for travel and to fit inside the included shell case. Photograph: BeatsVerdict: comfortable, quiet but will murder some musicBeats has made a leap forward in comfort and design with the Studio Wireless. The battery life is decent, the noise cancelling effective, while the folding band makes them compact for travel.The problem comes to sound quality. Depending on your personal music preference, you might find the lack of deep bass and sharp highs pleasing, but the overall sound quality is not what you’d expect from a £330 pair of headphones.While it is true that streaming music over Bluetooth can technically impact sound quality, with modern Bluetooth 4.0 technology the difference between wired and wireless music playback is negligible for all but the highest quality of music and highest-end headphones, which the Beats are certainly not.With the Beats Studio Wireless you are paying for the brand name above all else. Your £330 buys an average pair of Bluetooth headphones with few, irritating controls and sound quality that doesn’t match their price tag, even for the music genres of their creator.Pros:Comfortable, fold up for travel, OK battery life, active noise cancelling, wireless, optional cableCons:Cannot turn off noise cancelling, fiddly controls, weak sound, large profile, cannot be used cabled without battery•Philips M1BT are compact Bluetooth headphones that sound good but have fiddly controls
The man named by Newsweek as the founder of bitcoin has appeared in aYouTube videoto again dispute the claim and to thank supporters.Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto rubbished the magazine's story in the video, which was uploaded on Tuesday, and said he wished to "hug" the thousands of people who  donated money to clear his name during his "ordeal"."I'm very thankful for you, all these people, in US, Europe and Asia and Africa and South America who supported me throughout. I want to hug you, this 2,000 of you, who donated. I'm very happy, each one gives me a tick in my heart."He spoke in occasionally halting English and held up a copy of the magazine's6 March issue, which declared him "The face behind bitcoin".The three-minute video returned Nakamoto, 64, to the spotlight a month after the cover story created a media circus around his modest home in Temple City, a suburb in east Los Angeles.The article, written by senior reporter Leah McGrath Goodman, identified him as the anonymous, enigmatic founder of the digital currency – a huge scoop if true. Bitcoin's explosion in popularity in 2013 supposedly made its founder – whoever they are – worth $400m (£238m).Amid near-slapstick scenes, with journalists chasing Nakamoto through Los Angeles, Nakamoto, a Japanese-American retired engineer, denied any link to bitcoin and said he had never heard of it until February 2014 through Goodman's inquiries.Newsweek hasdefendedits story but critics have accused the magazine of blundering and putting an innocent man of humble means – Nakamoto said he had been unemployed and sick – through the wringer."I am not Satoshi Nakamoto," he said in the YouTube video. "My name is Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto and of course if I were the creator I would never use my real name. So from that point of view, I'm sure you guys would know, that Satoshi Nakamoto is not me. But Leah thinks so and Newsweek said so, but it's not true."Goodman did not immediately respond to an interview request on Tuesday.A fund set up by Andreas Antonopoulos, an entrepreneur and coder, has raised $23,000 in bitcoin to help Nakamoto. Antonopoulos appeared alongside him in the video and appeared to have filmed it.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWorld&apos;s fastest lift will travel 95 floors in 43 seconds &gt;&gt;&gt; Wired UKHitachi has also put technology in the lifts that it claims will prevent lateral vibration (side-to-side shaking) and stop people&apos;s ears from popping the way they do on a plane. It has achieved this by creating a proprietary air pressure adjustment system, which reduces the changes in air pressure that occur during high-speed travel.All the better for listen to the rubbish elevator music.Withings Pulse O2 monitors blood oxygen levels for climbers, asthmatics &gt;&gt;&gt; EngadgetJust like that first fitness gadget, the new model keeps tabs on heart rate, sleep and activity (steps, distance, elevation and calories), but it also keeps an eye on blood oxygen levels with a lens and light mounted on the unit&apos;s back side. While you might not find that a useful bit of info, mountain climbers and folks who suffer from breathing problems like asthma need the data to monitor respiratory function.Quantified self now stretches to blood oxygen. I wonder when we&apos;ll just be able to have an implant to do all this stuff and not have to worry about wearing some sort of band.Amazon smartphone specs, details on software revealed &gt;&gt;&gt; BGRBeyond 3D effects, however, Amazon&apos;s new technology will also enable an entirely new way for users to navigate apps and menus on the phone. With its first handset, Amazon will introduce a variety of unique gesture controls.By tilting the handset in different directions while the device is in use, Amazon&apos;s interface will display additional information on the screen without the user having to touch or tap anything. This will not only be a point of differentiation for the company&apos;s phone lineup, but also a way for larger devices such as Amazon&apos;s upcoming 4.7-inch flagship phone to be operated more comfortably with one hand.Entirely new! Or just like a plethora of apps that allow tilt scrolling...Hangouts 2.1 for Android: SMS improvements and a homescreen widget &gt;&gt;&gt; Google+SMS and Hangout conversations with the same recipient are now combined into a single conversation. You can control whether you want to send a message via Hangouts or SMS with the flip of a switch, and different message types will be easy to tell apart in the conversation. Of course, you can always merge and unmerge conversations if you&apos;d like.About time.Portable wind turbine is the green way to charge your devices &gt;&gt;&gt; DVICEWhat&apos;s even more extraordinary about Trinity is that it can recharge itself, too, making it a completely renewable energy product. Although, if you&apos;re the impatient type, you can charge Trinity faster by using its mini USB plug to charge it via electrical outlet.So, no one&apos;s going to be using wind power to actually charge it, then. Unless you&apos;ve got all day, I suppose.I Can Make to launch model plane and train kits for 3D printers, Airfix for a new generation &gt;&gt;&gt; Pocket-lintLike with Airfix kits of old, kids and adults alike will be able to construct classic craft from individual plastic parts. However, the difference is that the user prints each piece themselves first.That&apos;ll put Airfix out of business, then.Presence Orb uses Wi-Fi to detect if buses and bars are full &gt;&gt;&gt; Wired UKImagine Citymapper not only telling you when your bus will arrive, but how full it is and the likelihood of enough people getting off at your stop to allow you to squeeze on. With Presence Orb&apos;s software installed on the ever-increasing number of public Wi-Fi hotspots, you could know exactly how busy a bar will be before you and your date arrive.But is it too much of a privacy invasion?Nike Fuelband: Simple math, cultural imperative, might&apos;ve killed it &gt;&gt;&gt; CITEWorldDavid Stern:To put some context around the math, although it doesn&apos;t break out its financials in this fashion, Nike probably sells $3bn of athletic socks, with substantial profit margins, every year. SOCKS!And although they also don&apos;t release these figures, if you extrapolate from Target and Best Buy&apos;s weekly sales data on overall wrist-worn device sales, my guess is that Nike&apos;s top line Fuelband revenue is no more than $150m to $200m. And that is just top line. On the bottom line - you know, the one that counts with Wall Street - this was a money pit.Nobody takes back socks. They don&apos;t break. Their USB dongles don&apos;t lose contact points. Their firmware isn&apos;t faulty. And they don&apos;t fail when they get wet. Bottom line - and I mean both actual bottom line and metaphorical bottom line - this has been a major sinkhole for Nike, just as it will be for someone, foolishly, trying to do anything around the wrist without taking into consideration the warnings above.Still, it leaves room for a partnership with Apple and others. Let them take the risk, while Nike just provides the metrics.Concerns about children&apos;s privacy doom ed-tech venture &gt;&gt;&gt; FT Tech blogInvestment in education technology has been booming this year. A record amount of invested flowed into the sector in the first quarter of this year, according to market researcher CB Insights. Investors put around $560m into 103 edtech deals in the quarter.Adding technology into the classroom, however, has prompted some concerns. The cost of some of the products--such as providing students with iPads to use educational apps on--has raised some eyebrows. Others have worried about companies collecting data on minors, which could either be stolen by hackers or used by for-profit companies to target software sales without parents&apos; explicit consent.The latter concern sunk InBloom.Storing students&apos; personal data with an outside party prompted concern from parents and the withdrawal of many of its public sector customers. Recently, it lost the state of New York, which had been under pressure from a local teachers&apos; union.Storing students&apos; data is, unsurprisingly, a hot button topic. Google is facing lawsuits over it too.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard.To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Much of the world seems content to quietly ignore the situation in Crimea in the hope that it will go away. But for some, silence isn&apos;t an option – and that includes the mapmakers of the internet.Take Google. The company has offices in 60 countries, and offers services in 130 languages, including both Russian and Ukrainian. Which means that whatever it does, someone&apos;s going to be annoyed.But that doesn&apos;t stop the company from trying. Visitors to the company&apos;s Ukrainian website, google.com.ua, will find a map of Crimea as they remember it. The border with Russia is unmarked, but the internal boundary with the rest of Ukraine is clear:A map of Crimea on google.com.ua. Photograph: GoogleRussian visitors to Google get a very different picture. In no uncertain terms is the area marked as a separate country from wider Ukraine:A map of Crimea on google.ru. Photograph: GoogleWhen international visitors look at the area, we&apos;re given an answer somewhere in the middle; Google uses its legend for disputed borders between mainland Ukraine and Crimea:A map of Crimea on google.com. Photograph: GoogleGoogle already gained a reputation for trying to please all sides from similar cases. For instance, Indian visitors to the site are show the area of Aksai Chin, north-east of Kashmir,as Indian, while Chinese visitors are shown the same areaas part of their country.&quot;Google Maps makes every effort to depict disputed regions and features objectively,&quot; a spokesperson told the Guardian. &quot;Our Maps product reflects border disputes, where applicable. Where we have local versions, we follow local regulations for naming and borders.&quot;Other online mapping services have not been as quick to move. Microsoft&apos;s Bing still shows Crimea as staunchly Ukrainian, whatever language the user speaks:A map of Crimea on Bing.com Photograph: BingAnd the volunteer-driven efforts at OpenStreetMap also ignore the effects of the the controversial independence referendum in March:A map of Crimea on openstreetmap.org. Photograph: Open Street MapBut one site takes the referendum very seriously indeed. Yandex, Russia&apos;s largest search engine, uses bold colouring to make the political statements in its map clear. For its users, Crimea is Russian:A map of Crimea on Yandex.ru Photograph: YandexWhat&apos;s more, South Ossetia and Abkhazia, two separatist regions of Georgia, are granted their independence as well.•How the geocoder puts us on the map
The US supreme court is hearing a case on Tuesday brought by US networks against Aereo, a startup company that wants to change the way Americans watch TV.What is Aereo?The two-year-old company, backed by media mogul Barry Diller, transmits broadcasters’ shows via tiny antennae. Subscribers access programming with computers, smartphones and other devices, as well as with TVs with Roku or Apple TV streaming devices.Aereo has huge arrays of TV antennae – at least one for every user of its service – and so claims it&apos;s not publicly reshowing broadcasters&apos; copyright content. By this characterisation, Aereo is essentially a TVR, with the cloud used instead of the cable to your TV set. The networks, of course, see it differently.Customers pay between $8 and $12 a month for the service, which includes a cloud-based digital video recorder, far less thanthe average cable bill.The company, backed by Diller&apos;s IAC, does not pay fees to the media companies whose programmes it redistributes. Aereo, which launched in March 2012 in the New York area and now serves 10 other markets, says that because it assigns small antennae to each customer it is not in breach of the law.What are broadcast and cable companies afraid of?Big media companies including Disney, CBS, NBC and PBS and News Corp argue that the service is illegal.Aereo resembles a cable or satellite TV service, except it costs less and is limited to over-the-air channels, plus Bloomberg TV. Cable and satellite TV companies typically pay broadcasters to include TV stations on customers&apos; lineups. Aereo argues it&apos;s exempt because it merely relays free signals. Broadcasters argue that the many tiny antennae are helping the company skirt copyright law.&quot;This case is not about stifling new video distribution technologies, but about stopping a company from violating our copyrights and redistributing our television programming without permission or compensation,&quot; the media firms said in a statement last year.Millions of dollars are at stake here: if people ditch cable service for Aereo, broadcasters would be able to charge cable companies less.How did we get to the supreme court?Last April, by a vote of two to one, a federal appeals court rejected the media company&apos;s attempt to force Aereo to cease operations. It was the companies&apos; second court loss in a row and came the same week the second circuit in New York ruled Monday that the redistribution did not constitute &quot;public performances,&quot; and copyright lawsuits against the service were &quot;not likely to prevail on the merits.&quot;That court cited the case of Cablevision, which won the right to create a cloud-based digital video recorder for its customers in 2008. But one dissenting judge, Denny Chin, called Aereo&apos;s technology &quot;a sham&quot;. Chin wrote that the company was using a multitude of antennas in order to take advantage of &quot;a perceived loophole in the law.&quot;What happens if Aereo wins?Some over-the-air broadcasters have threatened to go cable-only so Aereo&apos;s antennae can&apos;t access them – and neither can TV viewers without a cable subscription.Aereo founder Chet Kanojia told the Associated Press that change is inevitable:&quot;What is happening is the entire market base is changing with access to alternatives, whether it&apos;s Netflix or iTunes or things like that. Aereo is simply providing a piece of the puzzle. After we win, it&apos;s not that a sea change is going to happen overnight. It is just going to be that we will be allowed to continue to fit that missing piece in a consumer&apos;s life as they&apos;re evolving. These things take decades to play out.&quot;What happens if Aereo loses?&quot;We don&apos;t have a Plan B,&quot; Kanojia said.Haven&apos;t we been here before?Yes. In 1984, the supreme court ruled five to four that consumers&apos; use of VCRs to record TV shows was legal. Back then, the broadcasters argued that tape-delays were a misuse of their signals, much the same way Aereo&apos;s tiny antennae are thought to be by some today.There have also been cases about what counts as public retransmission (and so incurs fees).These have found, for example, that letting a restaurant letting customers listen to the owner&apos;s radio is fine, but a hotel placing a radio in every room fed by central antennae, is not.
A new camera promises to shoot “living pictures” by capturing the light field of an image, allowing users to refocus their photos after taking them.Lytro’s Illum camera resembles normal mirror-less cameras likeSony’s NEX cameras, but uses the company’s new 40-megaraylight fieldsensor instead of a traditional camera sensor. The light field sensor captures the colour, intensity and direction of every light ray flowing into the camera, rather than simply the colour and intensity of the light hitting a traditional camera’s sensor.The result is a digital image that can be refocused after the fact using the light field information to accurately recreate the image focused on a single point, viewed in 3D or used to create custom animations potentially including those involved in virtual reality.&apos;Push the boundaries of creativity&apos;&quot;With Lytro Illum, creative pioneers — ranging from artistic amateurs to experienced professionals — will tap into a new wave of graphical storytelling,” said Lytro chief executive Jason Rosenthal. “By combining a novel hardware array with tremendous computational horsepower, this camera opens up unprecedented possibilities to push the boundaries of creativity beyond the limits inherent in digital or film photography.&quot;Refocus photos on a single point or create 3D images using one lens. Photograph: LytroIllum is Lytro’s second attempt to revolutionise the way we take photos using light field technology to allow photographers to refocus their photos after taking them. Its first Lytro camera, released in 2012 based on technology developed by the company’s founder while studying for a PhD at Stanford University,resembled a fat lipstickin shape rather than a traditional camera, which made its adoption more difficult.The Lytro Illum features an 8x optical zoom lens, with a fast shutter speed and a constant f/2.0 aperture, which ensures a high level of light enters the lens for clear photos.Both arcane and fascinatingThe science behind the light field camera is both arcane and fascinating, with the first light fields being captured over 18 years ago requiring a roomful of cameras and a supercomputer to process the data. Lytro has spent years shrinking the camera equipment down to a single camera sensor that has hundreds of tiny lenses that deflect the light onto the sensor as it comes into the camera.Meanwhile, Moore’s Law, which dictates that computing power doubles every 18 months, has taken the power of the super computer and shrunk it down to fit into a standard-looking camera body.Lytro's second camera resembles a traditional mirrorless camera, but using the company's light field sensor. Photograph: LytroGoogle, HTC and Samsung have all recently released new camera technology and software built into smartphones that allows photographers to simulate the selective focus effectcalled bokeh, where the background of an image is out of focus and has a pleasing blur, emphasising the in-focus subject of the image.Lytro is hoping that its new Illum camera, which is available for pre-order for an introductory price of $1,499 (£890) for shipping in July, will offer enough to entice photographers to ditch their smartphones and digital SLRs and embrace light field technology where the company&apos;s first generation Lytro camera failed.•Farewell to the fine art of focusing- light field technology is here
Samsung has claimed that Apple’s FaceTime feature infringes on its video call patent, as the trial between the two technology companies intensifies.The Samsung return follows three weeks of defence against infringement claims by Apple, which is seeking $2bn from its number one competitor in the smartphone market.Samsung alleged Apple’s FaceTime app for the iPhone 4, 4S and 5 infringeson a patent for the compression of videobefore transmission over a mobile phone network, demonstrating that Apple’s software compresses video before sending it to the FaceTime video call recipient.&apos;Revolutionary&apos;Prof Dan Schonfeld from the computer engineering department of University of Illinois at Chicago described the video-transmission patent, which Samsung acquired for $2.2m in 2011 from inventors Michael Freeman and family, as “revolutionary” as people may not have considered it possible before in 1994 when the patent was awarded.Apple’s lawyers claimed that the technology described in the patent was obsolete.Samsung also claims that Apple’s media gallery app infringes on apatent the Korean company bought from Hitachirevolving the classification of images and video on a digital library.Combined, Samsung is demanding Apple pays around $6m for the alleged infringement by Apple.Apple declined to comment on the trial.Slide-to-Unlock and othersThe Samsung litigation is in response to the lawsuit brought by Apple demanding that Samsungpay around $40 per device($2bn in total) for infringement of five patents covering mobile software, including the “slide-to-unlock” feature.If Apple is successful, similar lawsuits could be brought against other Android handset makers as the patents at issue are part of Google’s Android software. Apple cannot sue Google directly, as infringement only occurs when the Android code is implemented in hardware.Apple claims the following Samsung products now infringe on Apple patents: Admire, Galaxy Nexus, Galaxy Note, Galaxy Note II, Galaxy SII, Galaxy SII Epic 4G Touch, Galaxy SII Skyrocket, Galaxy SIII, Galaxy Tab II 10.1, and Stratosphere.Samsung claims the following Apple products infringe on Samsung patents: iPhone 4, iPhone 4S, iPhone 5, iPad 2, iPad 3, iPad 4, iPad mini, iPod touch (5th generation), iPod touch (4th generation), and MacBook Pro.• Apple and Samsunghead back to court in $2m battle, after previouscourt battles in 2012
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team.Google is researching ways to make encryption easier to use in Gmail &gt;&gt;&gt; VentureBeatVentureBeat&apos;s source at Google acknowledged that &quot;end-to-end encryption is the best defense for message protection, though it comes at considerable cost in functionality.&quot; PGP is currently compatible with Google&apos;s Gmail service, although it&apos;s widely regarded as unapproachable to a majority of Internet users like the Tor project. Third-party services, including GPG Tools and Mailvelope, have worked to make such encryption more approachable but have largely failed to reach a mainstream audience.PGP for all, without the usual usability headaches. A win for privacy for sure, but will the average user care?Facebook launching mobile ad network at F8 conference &gt;&gt;&gt; Re/codeFacebook will pitch the ads to publishers and developers as a way to leverage the social network&apos;s vast database of user information for better ad targeting. And Facebook wins by expanding its ad reach now it can make money from its billion-plus users even when they&apos;re not on Facebook&apos;s own properties.Users are going to love that.The Nokia Devices and Services acquisition close date &gt;&gt;&gt; The Official Microsoft BlogToday we are excited to share that we have completed the steps necessary to finalize Microsoft&apos;s acquisition of the Nokia Devices and Services business. The transaction will be completed this Friday, April 25, when we&apos;ll officially welcome the Nokia Devices and Services business as part of the Microsoft family.Took long enough.UK Police force shutdown of sports torrent network &gt;&gt;&gt; TorrentFreakDue to its coverage of sports including the NHL, NBA, soccer and Formula 1, The Sports Torrent Network (TSTN) was a site popular with fans on both sides of the Atlantic. With an estimated 20,000 userbase and its own &apos;capping&apos; team, the site was certainly a fan favorite and possibly the largest site of its type. But now, after an unwelcome warning, the party is over.As one dies will others spring up in its stead? It is still more difficult than it could be to legally stream content online, especially sports.Nokia Oyj to become Microsoft Mobile Oy, Nokia to retain its suppliers base post the deal? &gt;&gt;&gt; NPUFirst revelation is about renaming of Nokia Oyj to Microsoft Mobile Oy, which will be a wholly-owned Microsoft subsidiary and may be the name of Microsoft&apos;s mobile devices arm.Surely Nokia&apos;s brand name is worth keeping for handsets? Perhaps Microsoft will drop Lumia in favour of Nokia?Patent suggests Sony still sees future for household robots &gt;&gt;&gt; IEEE SpectrumFor example, the robot would look at its hand from different angles to determine if it is dirty, since you don&apos;t want your robot picking up and spreading muck around. And if it is a speck of dirt on its camera, the robot can wipe it clean.Robots that clean themselves. Let&apos;s hope this becomes a reality when self-driving cars are common place – no one likes washing bird poop off their cars.Apple, Google vie to offer exclusive game apps &gt;&gt;&gt; WSJ.comLast August, for the launch of &quot;Plants Vs. Zombies 2,&quot; a highly anticipated sequel to a popular zombie-survival strategy game, publisher Electronic Arts Inc. struck a deal with Apple, which promoted the game prominently in its App Store, according to people familiar with the matter.In exchange, one of these people said, EA agreed to give Apple about a two-month window of exclusivity for the title, which wasn&apos;t released on Google&apos;s Android software until October.Sounds familiar. It is the console wars all over again.Google Maps now takes you to Westeros &gt;&gt;&gt; The Daily DotIt gives you all of the benefits of visiting Westeros and Essos without risking getting murdered while you&apos;re traveling on the Kingsroad. In fact, it probably could&apos;ve helped a few characters out.Game of Thrones fever hits Google Maps. Who said Martin&apos;s cartography was less than stellar?You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard.To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
The screen was tiny, the graphics limited to shades of gray on a dull green background, but the Nintendo Game Boy was a revolution when it launched in Japan 25 years ago today. The original version may look hopelessly chunky now, but back then it was unimaginably svelte, a proper console that you play on anywhere – an ingenious gaming equivalent of the personal stereo.To celebrate its anniversary, here are 25 facts about the machine that brought Tetris to worldwide fame and spawned a pocket gaming dynasty that lasts to this day.1. The best, but not the firstThe Game Boy was not actually the first handheld games machine with interchangeable cartridges – that was the Microvision, released in 1979 and described as a &quot;programmable electronic game system&quot; by its manufacturer, toy giant Milton Bradley. Interestingly, the console itself was just a container with a small screen, each game cart had its own central processor and memory chip. (Oh, and the machine was bundled with a clone of the classic Atari game Breakout named Block Buster. Ten years later, one of the Game Boy launch games was Alleyway – a clone of, yes, the classic Atari game Breakout.)2. Nintendo&apos;s pocket geniusThe console was designed by Nintendo&apos;s Research and Development 1 team, headed by legendary engineer Gunpei Yokoi, the genius behind the company&apos;s Game &amp; Watch series of handheld LCD games. Yokoi came up with a pivotal design philosophy – &quot;Lateral Thinking with Withered Technology&quot; – which meant using cheap, readily available components in interesting ways...3. Portability over perfomance...So while rival handheld consoles like the Atari Lynx and Sega Game Gear boasted expensive hardware and battery-zapping colour displays, the Game Boy was comparatively cheap thanks to its dated Z80-based CPU. And while the 2.5-inch screen could barely handle four different greys, the console promised up to 30 hours of play on four AA batteries – which made it much more useful. As the hugely successful Wii console later confirmed (by easily outselling the technically superior PS3 and Xbox 360), looks aren&apos;t everything.4. Perfect controlThe Game Boy has an eight-way D-pad controller (originally designed by Yokoi for the Game &amp; Watch series), and four buttons: A, B, Start and Select. It&apos;s exactly the same set up as the Nintendo Entertainment System controller, making it hugely familiar to gamers. This also meant that it was easy for developers to convert games from the hugely successful NES to the new handheld machine.5. The boy arrivesThe Game Boy launched in Japan on 21 April, 1989, at the price of 12,500 yen and immediately sold out of its initial run of 300,000 units (it didn&apos;t arrive in the UK until September, 1990). The must-have game at the time was Super Mario Land, a typically quirky and enjoyable platformer which replicated many features of the classic Super Mario Bros series. It would go on to sell over 18 million copies.6. That game about falling shapesBy the time of the US launch in July 1989, games industry entraprenuer Henk Rogers and Nintendo of America chief Minoru Arakawa had secured the handheld rights tocult &quot;falling object&quot; puzzler Tetris. Designed by Russian programmer Alexey Pajitnov, it was originally distributed on the PC to moderate success, but when bundled with the Game Boy it became a smash hit, attracting a new audience of casual users with its simple yet addictive gameplay. The game also coped well with the key limitations of the system – horrendous motion blur. It would go on to sell 35m copies on Game Boy alone.7. Linking upTetris was also one of the key titles to use the Game Link cable which allowed two Game Boys to be connected together for multiplayer fun. In this mode, Tetris players could send completed lines over to their opponent&apos;s screen – a uniquely satisfying experience, until someone inevitably became frustrated and yanked the cable out, &quot;by accident&quot;.8. Four playIncidentally, an extra adaptor allowedfourpeople to gather together and play a range of compatible titles including driving game F-1 Race and early Candy Crush Saga ancestor, Yoshi&apos;s Cookie, which featured puzzles designed by Alexey Pajitnov.9. Multiplayer mayhemBetter than that, the Game Boy version of early first-person shooter Faceball 2000 allowed 16 players to take part simultenously via a tangle of cables and adaptors. Released in 1991, this incredibly prescient title gave handheld owners a similar experience to local area network gaming on the PC, two years before the arrival of Doom.10. Dawn of the pocket monstersOne very important fan of the link up cable was game designer Satoshi Tajiri who loved the idea of bringing people together in play. He combined this concept with his childhood love of insect collecting and came up with Pokemon Red and Green (re-branded Red and Blue in the West), the first two titles in the multi-gazillion selling monster battling series. Released on Game Boy in 1996, the titles allowed players to link up their consoles and trade pokemon with each other – indeed, this was the only way to collect the whole set.11. Pokemon feverThe Pokemon series has since become a staple of the Game Boy and DS handheld consoles, also spawning a cartoon series (briefly famous in 1997 for causinga spate of seizures among Japanese viewers), several movies, a card trading game, anda jumbo jet. Recently, the original titles becamean internet phenomenononce again thanks to live gaming experimentTwitch Plays Pokemon, in which thousands of people attempted to play the game simultaneously and cooperatively – withhilariousconsequences.12. Tiny epicsThe Game Boy was the first portable system to show that handheld games could be more than just snack-sized diversions. The machine boasted dozens of epic fantasy role-playing titles familiar from home consoles – including Legend of Zelda: Link&apos;s Awakening and Final Fantasy Adventure. Mammoth platformers Metroid, Castlevania and Mega Man were also highlights among the 700-odd Game Boy software library.13. Game girlsIronically considering its name, Game Boy was also one one of the first games machines to successfully target female players. In 1995, Nintendo claimed that 46 percent of Game Boy users were female, a major leap from 29 percent on the Nintendo Entertainment System. This has remained a cornerstone of Nintendo&apos;s marketing and design approach.14. Game Boy in spaceIn 1993, cosmonaut Aleksandr A. Serebrov took his Game Boy along on the Soyuz TM-17 space mission to the Mir station. The console orbited the Earth 3000 times before safely returning with its owner. The machine was laterincluded in an auction of space travel memorabiliaheld at Bonhams in New York, along with a note from Serebrov which explained, &quot;Like all cosmonauts, I love sport. My particular favorites are football and swimming. During flight, in rare minutes of leisure, I enjoyed playing Game Boy.&quot; It sold for $1220.15. Cartoon boyThe Game Boymakes several appearances in The Simpsons, mostly in the hands of avid gamer, Bart. However, an unlikely fan is sea captain McAllistair who appears in the episode &quot;In Marge We Trust&quot;bemoaning the loss of his trusty handheld, which he accidentally dropped in the sea.Later, in the Bart Simpson Treehouse of Horror comic, the captain offered to catch a sea monster in exchangefor$30,000, a wife and a Game Boy. The Game Boy also provided the inspiration for the multifactedBMO gadgetin Cartoon Network&apos;s Adventure Time series.16. Cheating on the Game BoyAlong with other Nintendo consoles, the Game Boy was reverse engineered by British games publisher Codemasters in the early nineties, allowing it to produce the successful Game Genie cheat cartridge, which gave players infinite lives and other perks. I actually worked for the development team, Big Red Software,that disassembled almost every Game Boy game available in order to write the cheat codes. Through the summer of 1993, I played over 200 GB titles, testing every single cheat and typing them all out for the tiny booklet that slotted into the back of the device. Sorry, just had to include that.17. Work and playFor a brief moment in 1992, it looked as though the Game Boy was about to become the Serious Boy. The arrival of the Psion Series 3 and Apple Newton in the early Nineties kickstarted a new market for handheld computers – or &quot;personal digital assistants&quot; – and enterprising eyes looked toward Nintendo&apos;s gaming system. Hence, the Work Boy, a productivity app developed by unknown company Fabtek, which would ship with its own keyboard and featured a diary, calculator, currency exchange and an accounting app. Amazingly, it never managed a full retail release. (Update:as mentioned in the comments section below, the game was also used in the auto industry asa cheap diagnostic tool. Thanks to our reader, Gadget, for that information.)18. Fishing boy. No seriouslyIf you think Work Boy was the strangest productivity concept for the Game Boy you are completely wrong. In 1998, Bandai launched theGame Boy Pocket Sonar, a fish-finding gadget that attached to the console, allowing frustrated anglers to locate their prey. The device was able to spot fish at depths of up to 20 metres and displayed their whereabouts on the screen. Tragically, it was only ever available in Japan.19. Print and playIn 1998, Nintendo launched the Game Boy digital camera and a compatible thermal printer, allowing users to take low resolution photos of themselves before printing them out onto tiny pieces of paper – pretty much inventing the selfie. Images could be customised with pixellated wigs and glasses and much hilarity ensued in schoolyards and pubs around the world. The package also included a range of strange augmented reality games and some unsettling hidden features – hitting the &quot;Run&quot; option, for example, would often bring upa bizarrely modified image of a manasking &quot;why are you running?&quot; To this day, no one is sure what the hell Nintendo was thinking of.20. Custom machinesThroughout its lifespan, the Game Boy was released in a variety of colours and several custom designs, including the lovely yellow Pokemon Game Boy and an Official Manchester United Game Boy. One of the rarest and most sought after is the limited edition&quot;Tezuka Osamu World Shop&quot;design which appeared on the Game Boy Light, a smaller version of the handheld released only in Japan. This much coveted one-off was covered in characters from the legendary animator&apos;s most famous works.21. Wonders and raritiesAs with all consoles, the Game Boy also has a small range of rare and highly collectible games. Chief among them is Trip World, a cute platformer from Sunsoft that was only released in Japan and a handful of European countries. Mint copies can sell for as much as $1,000. It&apos;s also worth combing car boot sales for lesser known GB versions of successful console titles like Castlevania, Metal Gear Solid and Resident Evil.22. Musical adventuresThe Game Boy is a favourite instrument of &quot;chiptune&quot; artists who use vintage games hardware to create electronic music. By plugging in bootleg sequencer cartridges likeNanoloop, musicians are able to tease an array of weird sounds from the hardware. Artists such as Pixelh8, Nullsleep and Mikro Orchestra have produced amazing tracks and live multimedia performances, often fromhacked Game Boy units.23. Evolution of Game BoyThe Game Boy was followed in 1996 by the thinner, lighter Game Boy Pocket, which retained the same hardware set-up, but unlike the original, did actually fit in your pocket. Two years later, the Game Boy Color made a self-evident improvement to the graphical display, but was crucially backwards compatible with most original Game Boy titles – it was one of the first modern games machines to offer this thrifty feature.24. Reasonable successTogether, the Game Boy and Game Boy Color sold over 118m units. They were discontinued in the early 2000s in favour of the subsequent Game Boy Advance series, which arrived in 2001 and would go on to sell a further 81 million.25. A virtual returnThanks to Nintendo&apos;s &quot;Virtual Console&quot; scheme which makes retro titles available for download on its current machines, over 50 Game Boy and Game Boy Color titles are available to play on the 3DS (more in the US and Japan). Better still, the new console featuresa hidden Game Boy mode, which displays the old classics in their original resolution, complete with the familiar green background. The Game Boy lives on...
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNike denies FuelBand shutdown, but layoffs could reveal new cracks in wearables market &gt;&gt; Re/codeNike confirmed a "small number" of layoffs in its digital sports division, but attempted to tamp down aCNET reportlate Friday that said the company was shuttering the hardware side of its FuelBand team."The Nike+ FuelBand SE remains an important part of our business," the company said in a statement emailed to Re/code. "We will continue to improve the Nike+ FuelBand App, launch new METALUXE colors, and we will sell and support the Nike+ FuelBand SE for the foreseeable future."How long is that, though? The original story emerged fromthis comment on Secret. Bonus fact: Tim Cook is on Nike's board.I was assaulted for wearing Google Glass &gt;&gt; Business InsiderKyle Russell:After more than an hour spent working on the story in a coffee shop, I arranged my laptop, camera, and notes in my backpack. Mindlessly, I put on Google Glass instead of squeezing it in with the rest of my things.(In retrospect, I can see how that might not have been the best idea.)The aforementioned colleague and I were on our way to the 16th Street BART station — I'll note that I wasn't using any device at the time — when a person put their hand on my face and yelled, "Glass!"In an instant the person was sprinting away, Google Glass in hand.I ran after, through traffic, to the corner of the opposite block. The person pivoted, shifting their weight to put all of their momentum into an overhand swing. The Google Glass smashed into the ground, and they ran in another direction.But it's a more nuanced writeup than that might suggest.Why consumer tech is so irritatingly incremental &gt;&gt; Juan Pablo Vazquez Sampere - Harvard Business ReviewIn the late 1960s, Michelin introduced the radial tire into the U.S. market. This was no surprise to the top five U.S.-based bias-ply tire manufacturers (Goodyear, Firestone, Uniroyal, B.F. Goodrich, and General Tire). After all, it was hardly a new technology; the first radial tire patents had been filed more than 40 years before. And they'd all seen radial tires take over the European market.But even though radial tires were far superior to bias tires in terms of durability, cost per mile, and safety – and could be sold for an attractively higher price — they presented a challenge to U.S. incumbents. The process used to manufacture them was completely different from the one they used to make bias-ply tires. To produce radials, the U.S. giants basically needed to start their companies all over again — practically nothing of what they knew about producing bias-ply tires could be reused.Another disruption tale, but with lessons.A dozen things I've learned about business from Bill Gates &gt;&gt; 25iqTren Griffin outlines a few, of which this one stands out:"Being a visionary is trivial.  Being a CEO is hard.  All you have to do to be a visionary is to give the old 'MIPS to the moon' speech — everything will be everywhere, everything will be converged.  Everybody knows that.  Which is different from being the CEO of a company and seeing where the profits are."The others are worthwhile too, though.How Americans Die &gt;&gt; BloombergJustifiably lauded HTML5 data visualisation.Mozilla location service – the next wave &gt;&gt; Mozilla Cloud ServicesThere are a few reasons that Mozilla is developing a location service. Location in general has become a very important part of how we use the Internet, and the Mobile Internet is becoming an even more critical part of our lives. So it's important for the world to have an open and trustworthy location service.Having an open location service is also critical for some of our key initiatives such as:• The FirefoxOS initiative, which aims to bring user choice and the principles of the open web to mobile phones and the mobile ecosystem. MLS in conjunction with FirefoxOS has the potential to provide location services to the millions of users who are transitioning from a feature phone to a smartphone.• Providing location information to open-source operating systems.There's an Android app if you want to help out.The curious case of the fake Steve Ballmer &gt;&gt; Owen WilliamsOn Twitter [a few days ago], a fake Steve Ballmer quickly gained a lot of followers as people discovered the account. The account tweeted a few times, with a bunch of convincing pictures that hadn't been posted anywhere else online, so many were lead to believe it was real.Quite a bit of sleuthing to reveal the person behind it - who seems to be a serial faker of such things.In praise of unfairness &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansIn case it isn't obvious by now, these charts are meant to be unfair - that's the point. Unfair but relevant comparisons are the most interesting and important kinds. An unfair comparison generally means an unfair advantage, and this isn't the Olympics - unfair is good. Customers don't care if a company's advantage is unfair. Investors don't care. Unfair advantages are often the best kind. They are something that flows structurally from the reason why your business is going to change everything - they flow from a technology change you are building on or a change in market dynamics or consumer behaviour that you're riding, and that your competitors cannot address. Disruption is unfair. Mobile's disruption of PCs and the PC internet is entirely unfair - it's the unfairness of differences like the replacement cycle and subsidy model (amongst many others) that makes it possible.In the battle for best smartphone, Apple still beats Samsung &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comOnce you're past the opinion of the headline, there's this more farsighted question from Farhad Manjoo:for many people, there will only be a single obvious reason to buy the Galaxy S5 over the iPhone 5S: The Samsung phone has a much bigger screen. Size isn't an objective advantage but rather a matter of preference — some people like big phones and some people like small ones. For the next few months, for big-phone lovers, Samsung's massive size will make it the clear winner.Yet that points to a looming problem for Samsung. News reports and common sense suggest that Apple will almost certainly unveil a bigger iPhone later this year. If you assume that everything else about the iPhone-versus-Galaxy matchup will remain the same after the size increase, it means that Samsung will lose its single greatest advantage over Apple.And what will Samsung do then?The real challenge for Project Ara &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh:the low-end variant of Ara is scheduled to be priced at just $50. This device will include a frame, display, Android OS, low-end application processor, battery and Wi-Fi module. As manufacturers begin moving away from the feature phone market, products like this could hold appeal for low-end users.The real challenge here will be to fashion a go-to-market strategy. Since the product actively discourages replacement purchases, OEMs will have no interest in the category. For now, Google has been attempting to rope in third party developers to build modules, but this could also hold promise for component manufacturers. While modular hardware has the potential to destroy OEM margins, selling directly to consumers could actually boost margins for component vendors. This creates another problem - neither third party hardware developers nor component vendors have the required distribution reach. Therefore, the success of Project Ara will depend on the creation of a "hardware appstore", with a distribution network that can deliver these physical modules. Creating this distribution network will be the real challenge for Google and Project Ara.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
DeveloperTraveller's Talesappears to be on a quest to recreate the entirety of popular culture in primary-coloured plastic block form. Undergoing the Lego makeover this time are the first two films in Peter Jackson's three-part adaptation ofThe Hobbit,the most light-hearted and comedic entry in JRR Tolkien's Middle Earth opus. The subject matter is already in familiar Lego game territory, so we know what to expect: a bright and breezy whistle-stop tour of the movies' significant events, packaged in an unpretentious collect-'em-up campaign. The series' trademark humour is ever-present (the one ring to rule them all is hilariously incompatible with Lego's fingerless residents), and though juggling a large company of lookalike dwarves can occasionally be fiddly, the co-op is perfect for teaming up with less experienced players, making for a predictable but pleasing adventure.
Back in the bad old days of the cold war, one of the most revered branches of the inexact sciences was Kremlinology. In the west, newspapers, thinktanks and governments retained specialists whose job was to scrutinise every scrap of evidence, gossip and rumour emanating from Moscow in the hope that it would provide some inkling of what the Soviet leadership was up to. Until recently, this particular specialism had apparently gone into terminal decline, but events in Ukraine have led to its urgent reinstatement.The commercial equivalent of Kremlinology is Google- and Facebook-watching. Although superficially more open than the Putin regime, both organisations are pathologically secretive about their long-term aspirations and strategies. So those of us engaged in this strange spectator-sport are driven to reading stock-market analysts' reports and other ephemera, which is the technological equivalent of consulting the entrails of recently beheaded chickens.It's grisly work but someone has to do it, so let us examine what little we know and see if we can make any sense of it. First of all, what do we know for sure? We know first of all that these two companies are run by smart people who have a deep understanding of the capabilities and potential of computing technology. We also know that these folks have: total control of their companies on account of a cunning two-tier shareholding structure, which effectively liberates them from stock market control; megalomaniacal ambitions; and – for the time being at least – money-pumps, which provide limitless resources and enable their founders to indulge their ambitions and visions.After that, all is speculation. The only thing we have to go on is what Google and Facebook have been up to in the public marketplace. And what they have been doing is acquiring companies in the way that,pacePG&nbsp;Wodehouse, ostriches go for brass doorknobs.In the last 18 months, for example, Google has bought at least eight significant robotics companies, and laid out £400m to buy the London-basedartificial intelligence firm Deepmind. Facebook, for its part,bought Instagram, a photo-sharing network, for $1bn and paid an eye-watering $19bn in cash and shares forWhatsApp, a messaging company. More puzzling wasits decision to buy Oculus VR, a virtual reality company, for $2bn. And in the last few weeks, both companies have got into the pilotless-drones business. Google acquiredTitan Aerospace, a US-based startup that makes high-altitude drones, which cruise near the edge of the Earth's atmosphere, while Facebookbought a UK-based company, Ascenta, which is designing high-altitude, solar-powered drones that can fly for weeks – or perhaps longer – at a time.In trying to make sense of these activities, we need to separate out short-term panic from long-term strategy. Facebook's acquisition of Instagram and WhatsApp was the product of two things: naked fear and the ability to mint a particular form of Monopoly money known as Facebook shares. Users' photographs are Facebook's lifeblood, and Instagram's meteoric growth suggested that it, rather than Facebook, might ultimately become the place where people shared their pictures. Much the same applies to WhatsApp: it was growing much faster than Facebook had at a comparable stage in its corporate development, and looked like eventually becoming a threat; besides, most of the $19bn price was paid in Monopoly money rather than in hard cash. As for the Oculus VR acquisition? Well, like the peace of God, it passeth all understanding.Which leaves us with the strategic stuff. Here we see clear long-term thinking at work. The Google boys have decided that advanced robotics, machine-learning, distributed sensors and digital mapping are going to be the essential ingredients of a combinatorial future, and they are determined to be the dominant force in that.As far as the high-altitude drones are concerned, Google and Facebook are on exactly the same wavelength. Since internet access in the industrialised world is now effectively a done deal, all of the future growth is going to come from the remaining 5 billion people on the planet who do not yet have a proper internet connection. Both companies have a vital interest in speeding up the process of getting those 5 billion souls online, for the simple reason that the more people who use the internet the greater their revenues will be. And they see high-altitude drones as the means to that profitable end. They piously insist, of course, that this new connectivity will be good for humanity, and perhaps indeed it will. But ultimately profitability, like charity, begins at home.
Football management Sims are typically hard, complicated and visually unappealing games, so of course, Nintendo's version is none of the above. It is a stripped-down title that has all the addictiveness of a Sim without the density. There are limited tactical options, from picking positions to selecting "players to watch". But there are no team talks, press briefings or lengthy transfer battles. It'sFootball Managerwithout the fuss. The matches last eight minutes and cannot be skipped but they're (usually) engaging – tactical changes have a genuine and satisfying impact on proceedings – and playing them allows training cards to be awarded that can be combined to boost players' stats. More cards can be won by facing tougher opponents, but losing will bring down that all-important approval&nbsp;rating.It may not be a title that will suit the football management connoisseur, but there's plenty to enjoy here for anyone seeking an entertaining, lighter take on the genre.
Trials Fusiondevelopers RedLynx, it seems, are eager to have a good, long break before coding a follow-up – if one of the most intriguing elements of their new title lives up to its promise. As with previous entrants in the popular series,Fusionis a game of dexterous motocross trials. Simple controls serve as a robust foundation for the tremendous skills needed for later levels, which arrange ramps and ledges into increasingly elaborate formations. Most of these 60 levels are spectacular, vertigo-baiting creations, played on a two-dimensional plane, and whileFusion's learning curve is perhaps the series' least aggressive, it remains a demanding game.So far, soTrials, then. Except thatFusionplaces an emphasis on user-created tracks with a gusto not previously seen in the series.Fusion, it appears, wants to be the playground that gamers extend and rebuild indefinitely – it provides the tools to do so, and rewards those who tackle home-made levels. At its core, then, it is ostensibly more of the, admittedly brilliant, same. Just how much more really is up to the players.
The arrival of the Peugeot RCZ-R coincides with a new arrival to this family of&nbsp;famous automobile examiners and arbiters, bringing a fresh pair of eyes – if they ever open – for these pages.But Thomas's (I know! Named after a train! Ironic, isn't it?) car&nbsp;seat&nbsp;doesn't fit on the tiny back seat of the Peugeot. He – and the rest of them – will have to stay at home, and I'll go for a paternity-leave drive on my own, a blast back to a past of fewer cares and responsibilities.I've always liked Peugeot's style-conscious coupe (I say always, it's&nbsp;only been around for four years). In an age when so many cars look&nbsp;the same, here is one that&nbsp;genuinely looks different. As&nbsp;well as its purposeful poise, there are loads of neat futuristic design details – the scooped-out step in its flanks, the shallow arched silver roof pillars. And, best of all, this car's crowning glory, its "double-bubble" glass roof/rear windscreen.I generally don't approve of people who talk about some cars as&nbsp;being sexy. No, they're not. (Some) people are sexy. Cars are cars – too hard and cold (or hot) and metal to be sexy. But I may have to make an exception for this one, or this particular part of this one. But that's because the RCZ's glorious double-bubble looks like a part of a person – specifically their arse. A&nbsp;lovely, peachy smooth curvy French one. Rear (windscreen) of&nbsp;the Year, I'd give it. The Peugeot Arsey Zed, I call it, cleverly.If there's been one problem with&nbsp;the RCZ up to now it's that it's&nbsp;been a teeny bit gutless. Nice to&nbsp;drive but lacking in proper thrills;&nbsp;style over substance; gorgeous to look at but a little disappointing in the sack, or on the track… You know,&nbsp;a car for people in advertising rather than for proper Mr Toads.This more potent performance RCZ-R sorts that. It's got 270 horsepower, a whole torque show's&nbsp;worth of torque (apols if this&nbsp;is getting too technical and motoring jargony), it gets to 60mph&nbsp;in under six seconds. It's stiffer, has bigger brakes and better&nbsp;tyres. And it's actually less polluting than the less pokey, advertising person's versions. Go on then, treat yourself – there's no excuse not to (unless, I suppose, you don't happen to have 32 grand lying around to spend on a highly impractical car).The only shame, I think, is that the silver roof pillars are no longer silver but matt black (the double-bubble, thankfully, is untampered with). Otherwise it's delightfully irresponsible. And I really don't mind at all that my family doesn't fit in it.Peugeot RCZ-RPriceFrom £31,995Top speed155mphAcceleration0-60 in 5.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption44.8mpgCO2emissions145g/kmGreen rating6/10Cool rating8/10
Rob Ford, the crack-smoking, drink-driving mayor of Toronto, has inspired a web game that's unlikely to be endorsed by his re-election campaign. InCrackathon, you hop a corpulent cartoon Ford through crack pipes and marijuana leaves positioned on patriotic maple leaf platforms, while avoiding policemen and paparazzi as your public opinion points tick down to zero. Canada really puts the "party" into politics. Also out this week is2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil(Xbox 360, PS3), Electronic Arts' latest modest update of its football simulator, gearing up for what its chief financial officer presumably expects will be a bumper year; andFinal Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn(PC, PS3, PS4) arrives on PlayStation 4 having solved the technical challenges that almost destroyed its PC and PS3 launches, leaving a complex but conservative subscription-based game.
Monument ValleyiOSPart game, part mesmerising geometric artwork, Monument Valley is a journey through impossible, physics-defying, Escher-style buildings towards heroine Ida's mysterious destiny. Made by eight-person outfit Ustwo, Monument Valley has been a hit on the Apple store. It works by rotating and sliding sections of its architecture until you guide Ida to each level's exit. The pin-sharp minimalist design and ambient soundtrack create a magical atmosphere that compels you to see more of its tiny world. The puzzles aren't hard but have an elegance in their simplicity that makes solving them a source of joy and continual surprise.Ustwo, £2.49Trials FusionXbox 360, PS3, Xbox One, PS4The Trials series has spent the last 14 years adding ridiculous spectacle to riding motorbikes over tricky obstacles. Set in the near future, Trials Fusion escalates the visual extravaganza, starting off in vast exploding industrial facilities with drones scudding past and pieces of tracks swooping in at the last second, as you use careful throttle control and balance to land improbably large jumps. There are new skill stages and courses where you need to pull off tricks to score points, but this is still mostly about getting to the end of each track without crashing. There's also an excellent level editor that lets you knock together your own rider-tormenting creations.Ubisoft, £28.99FTLiOSIn FTL your job is to deliver data to the imperial high command before the pursuing rebel fleet catches up with you. You do that through a series of faster-than-light jumps, hopping between star systems, each of which contains a random encounter, mission or enemy space ship. Dealing with each threat means juggling your ship's crew and resources, turning off the oxygen supply and medical bay to divert power to weapons, or opening airlocks to asphyxiate cheeky intruders. The refinement of its touch screen controls and inclusion of the Advanced Edition, which adds new aliens, weapons and scenarios, make this the best version of a brilliant and murderously difficult game.Subset Games, £6.99
Almost a third of Android apps on third-party app stores contain some form of malicious software,according to research from cybersecurity firm Opswat.Knock-off versions of popular apps such as Twitter and Angry Birds dominate the list of suspicious downloads, while one-shot joke apps such as &apos;screen crack&apos; make up the rest.The firm downloaded almost 12,000 app files from various sources of Android apps other than the official Google Play store, and loaded them into their proprietary anti-malware systemMetascan, which flagged 32% of the apps as suspicious.Metascan works by using multiple anti-malware libraries, and the majority of the apps it highlighted were marked as malware by just one service. Additionally, many files were picked up because they had been classified as adware, &quot;which is not universally considered malware,&quot; says Opswat&apos;s director of professional services, Dan Lanir.But even when only counting apps which were flagged by at least two libraries, and which were flagged for something other than being adware, almost one in ten qualified.The news illustrates a long-running problem for Android: the system&apos;s openness is frequently taken advantage of by malicious actors. While the Google Play store is largely safe – except for scam appssuch as Virus Shield, which cost $3.99 and did absolutely nothing – a selling point of Android is that the OS will run apps downloaded from other stores.•&apos;Fake&apos; Android antivirus app developer says Virus Shield was a &apos;foolish mistake&apos;
MtGox, formerly the world's biggest bitcoin exchange, is the subject of a rescue attempt from a group of investors who want to save it from liquidation.Tokyo-based MtGox dealt a severe blow to bitcoin's reputation when it fell victim to an apparent digital heist in February in which $480m (£286m) worth of the virtual currency disappeared. The exchange is under threat of liquidation after a Tokyo court dismissed an attempt to resuscitate the business this week, triggering a last-ditch attempt to save the platform."We need your help to stop a liquidation, which would be good neither for MtGox creditors nor bitcoin's reputation with the general public and regulators," wrote the investors on the Save Gox website.The company had 127,000 customers at the time of its closure, and each of them is now a creditor with little hope of recovering all the money they lost. The Save Gox group is attempting to halt the liquidation by reviving the exchange."Under our proposal, MtGox's remaining assets would be distributed to customers immediately. Creditors would be made whole over time by sharing revenue generated from business operations and from other recovery programmes, such as participating in the upside if they continue doing business with the rebuilt exchange."Exchanges like MtGox offer a way to convert official currencies such as dollars into bitcoins. Each virtual coin represents a unique solution to a complex cryptographic problem, aimed at preventing duplication and forgery. However, the safety of the currency has been questioned by officials at the central banks of the US, the Netherlands, Denmark and China. The head of the Federal Reserve, Janet Yellen, has flagged concerns about the currency being used for money laundering and has warned that the Fed "doesn't have authority to supervise or regulate bitcoin in anyway."But that has not deterred supporters of bitcoin, who are attracted to the concept of a currency that operates outside the conventions of the global financial system. The MtGox investor group has received backing from many creditors and hopes to persuade the court to reconsider its rehabilitation proposal. When MtGox closed, it held 2,000 bitcoins, despite having a debt to its customers of 850,000 bitcoins. Since then, the company has announced it discovered 200,000 bitcoins in an unused computer wallet, but is still far from being solvent.The company is reportedly liable for more than $20m in fiat currency that it does not have.Since the closure of MtGox, the price of bitcoin has hovered at around half its December peak of $1,150 a coin. The decline began in the months before MtGox shut its website, as it halted withdrawal of bitcoins in an effort to prevent hackers stealing more.But since MtGox finally collapsed, the price has been held down over fears that the Chinese government – one of bitcoin's most vocal opponents – will move against the currency. Founded in 2009 by American software hacker Jed McCaleb, MtGox was originally a site for people to trade cards for a game called Magic: The Gathering. MtGox is short for "Magic: The Gathering Online Exchange". Only 1,000 of MtGox's 127,000 creditors are Japanese.At the time of MtGox's collapse, its founder, Mark Karpeles, a French national, said the furore would not dent the currency's popularity. "The bitcoin industry is healthy and it is growing. It will continue," he said.
For a British company few people knew about, £400m seemed a lot of money. ButGoogle's acquisition of DeepMind Technologiesearlier this year, founded by a former child chess prodigy only two years ago, will be followed by more big-money transactions involving home-grown tech companies.DeepMindspecialises in artificial intelligence, or creating computer programmes that match the human mind. But several of its UK peers are at the cutting edge of their own areas of the tech world – from property websites to mobile phone keyboards.Here are five British companies tipped to follow DeepMind by attracting multimillion pound valuations, through stock market flotations or being bought out by one of the major technology outfits.SwiftKeyWith its headquarters south of the Thames, far from Silicon roundabout,SwiftKeyis one of London's quieter tech successes. The company is best known for a keyboard that redesigns typing with a smartphone and touchscreen in mind. Its SwiftKey Flow product allows users to type whole words without lifting their finger from the screen, while predicting the word they are typing before they have written the first letter. For example, once a user types "on my", SwiftKey knows that the next word is likely to be "way".The company has raised more than $20m (£12m) and is ripe for acquisition. Its technology would let any handset maker leapfrog the opposition, which will be interesting to Apple and Microsoft, the owner of Nokia, which both need to catch up on rivals in this field. Facebook, which is rumoured to be interested in entering the smartphone market, may also be interested in acquiring some in-house expertise.TransferWiseOne UK business is taking on PayPal and Western Union in the multibillion-dollar money transfer market.TransferWise, which recently closed a $6m funding round led by PayPal founder Peter Thiel, allows individuals and companies to send money oversees for a fraction of the fee charged by banks and Western Union. The trick is that much of the money transferred does not cross borders: if someone in the UK wants to send £10 to someone in Ireland, TransferWise finds a transaction worth the same value in the same countries and matches them together. So if Alice in the UK sends £10 to Bob in Ireland and at the same time Charlie in Ireland sends €12 to Dan in the UK, then all that happens is Charlie's money goes to Bob and Alice's money goes to Dan.TransferWise recently processed its billionth pound and claims to have saved its customers more than £45m since it started. With rapid growth and a worldwide market waiting to be tapped, it is tipped for flotation.Green Man GamingGreen Man Gamingsells downloadable copies of PC games, often at deep discounts from the retail price. It has attracted sniping from some quarters of the tech world because much of its success has come from selling access to games including The Walking Dead (see image above), Half Life 2 and Dungeon Siege III on Steam – a popular online gaming platform. The company also sells physical copies of games, while a merger with gaming social network Playfire has given it a wealth of information on its customers. In the first quarter of 2014, the company sold 41,000 games per employee and has already turned its attention towards a stock market flotation.VisualDNAGP Bullhound, the British tech investment bank, has describedVisualDNA's founder, Alex Willcock, as an "internet visionary".  Like DeepMind, VisualDNA is an example of a company that has no public profile but is a ground-breaker in its field. However, VisualDNA operates in an area that goes to heart of public sensitivity over transmission of personal information on the internet.It aims to make money from your personal information by selling it to retailers – but with your consent. The company invites users to take quizzes that are like simpler versions of the Myers-Briggs personality test, which characterises people as one of 16 types of personality along the lines of  introvert/extrovert and thinking/feeling. The quizzee uncovers their attitudes to money, relationships and career; the quizzer builds out their profile of a potential customer. And sells it to retailers and credit card companies. If that doers not sound like a fair deal, Willcock's ultimate aim for VisualDNA is "to be the place where every internet user safely stores their digital persona and gets to decide who can use it"."We've got all of the platform ready that actually enables people to store and control their information," says Willcock. "But in terms of people being able to benefit from it, that depends how quickly the market can respond." He estimates it is likely to be about two to three years "before we the consumers can have total control".ZooplaThis online property company is the jewel of London's tech scene and a flotation is imminent, having hired advisers to work on a listing amid reports that it will be valued at £1.3bn. When the company's largest shareholder, the Daily Mail &amp; General Trust, said in February thatZooplawas considering "strategic options", the newspaper owner's shares shook off their old media shackles and reached a 13-year high.Despite stiff competition, Zoopla has become a one-stop shop for property research by combining historic sales prices, current home values and local schools' positions on league table on websites such as PrimeLocation.Through a long chain of mergers and acquisitions the company has eaten up competitors and it is now battling the older RightMove for pole position in the property market.
Revoking all the SSL certificates leaked by the Heartbleed bug will cost millions of dollars, according to Cloudflare, which provides services to website hosts.SSL, the technology used to secure much of the internet, relies on private keys that must be kept hidden, but the Heartbleed flaw allows an attacker to steal them by pummelling a server with carefully crafted requests.Cloudflare initially speculated that such an attack was impossible on the type of web server they use, but after opening it up to the public to test,the firm was soon proved wrong. As a result, it has decided to revoke and reissue all SSL certificates for its customers – well over 100,000 of them.The company also responded to queries as to why it had not done so earlier, as a preventative measure. &quot;The answer,&quot; cofounder Matthew Prince writes, &quot;is that the revocation process for SSL certificates is far from perfect and imposes a significant cost on the internet&apos;s infrastructure.&quot;In revoking their customers&apos; SSL certificates, CloudFlare caused the size of the file which contains a list of all revoked certificates to grow by more than 200 times, from 22KB to 4.7MB, still held by CloudFlare&apos;s certificate authority Globalsign, which issues the certificates. That list has to be served to every single internet user, to ensure that their browsers know to reject stolen certificates.As a result, Prince writes, &quot;if you assume that the global average price for bandwidth is around $10/Mbps, just supporting the traffic to deliver the CRL would have added $400,000USD to Globalsign&apos;s monthly bandwidth bill … The total cost to Globalsign if they were using [Amazon&apos;s] infrastructure, would be at least $952,992.40/month&quot;Cloudflare had an extra reason to hesitate, because the firm was one of the few given forewarning about Heartbleed. The company was told about the flaw a week before researchers from Codenomicon disclosed it publicly – even before it was given a name, which is whyCloudFlare&apos;s initial release on the matterjust refers to &quot;a new vulnerability … in OpenSSL&quot;. Since no patch was available, it fixed it by simply turning off the affected functionality altogether.But even with that early warning, the company still had to act. The Heartbleed flaw has been in OpenSSL for two years, and with no way of telling whether it had been hit, the safest option was to replace all the certificates.•Tor may be forced to cut back capacity after Heartbleed bug
Yahoo&apos;s chief executive Marissa Mayer is not the company’s highest paid employee, but Meyer is not alone is taking a symbolically lower pay packet than some key members of her executive staff.Mayer, whose pay was disclosed in a regulatory filing this week, earned a total of $26.9m last year - down 26.5% from $36.6m in 2012 - yet her base salary has more than doubled to $1m, according to company filings.Mayer’s former number two Henrique de Castro, who left Yahoo’s chief operating officer position in January this year, eclipsed Mayer by earning $39.2m in 2012 and $10.9m in 2013. He walked out with $20m in stock bonuses.Silicon Valley&apos;s chief executives are often not the highest paid employee despite shouldering the most responsibility, but often have more invested in the company than just a pay cheque at the end of the month.FacebookMark Zuckberg earns just $1 a year. Photograph: Shannon Stapleton/Reuters/CorbisMark Zuckerberg might be a billionaire, and 22nd richest person in the world according to the Bloomberg Billionaire Index, but his salary isn’t the source of his enormous bank balance. Hejoined the exclusive “$1 CEO club” in 2013, which reduced his salary to just one dollar down from a base salary of over $500,000 in 2012, and will not receive any bonus.In contrast, Sheryl Sandberg, Zuckerberg’s number two and Facebook’s chief operating officer, earned $16.2m in 2013 and briefly become one of the world&apos;s youngest billionaires in January, though a drop in Facebook&apos;s share price meant shelost that statusin April.Facebook’s chief financial officer David Ebersman unsurprisingly earns more than one dollar, raking in a total of $10.5m in 2013, while chief technology officer Mike Schroepfer earned $12.8m in the same year.GoogleSergey Brin and Larry Page, both members of the $1 CEO club. Photograph: Jacob Silberberg/ReutersBoth Google founders joined the $1 salary club in 2004 when the company went public, with Sergey Brin and Larry Page requesting their annual salaries be reduced from $150,000 to just $1. At the time Eric Schmidt was Google’s chief executive earning $250,000 a year.Now chief executive, Page still earns just $1, while Google’s advertising business head Nikesh Arora earns $46.7m in 2013. Chief financial officer Patrick Pichette earned $38.7m last year, followed by Google’s chief legal officer David Drummond earned $31.3m in 2013.AppleSteve Jobs started the $1 CEO club, but his successor has not followed suit. Photograph: Bloomberg via Getty ImagesThe father of the $1 salary was Steve Jobs, who took the pay cut in 1997 and rarely took a bonus or other compensation during his second term at Apple.Unsurprisingly, Tim Cook then earned more in salary than Jobs, but didn&apos;t opt for the symbolic pay cut - earning $4.2m in 2013. Cook’s pay packet was boosted by stock options from Apple worth $376.2m, paid by Cupertino-based company every two years and putting him ahead of Apple’s chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer, who earned $68.6m.MicrosoftSteve Ballmer's low salary lead will not be followed by Satya Nadella. Photograph: Michael  Kappeler/EPAMicrosoft’s 2013 wasn’t a great year for the company, with weak Windows 8 and Surface tablet sales, yet chief executive Steve Ballmer still took home $1.26m before he stepped aside for the appointment of Satya Nadella.In the same year, Ballmer was dwarfed by his number two, chief operating officer B. Kevin Turner, who took home total earnings of $10.4m. Microsoft’s new chief executive Nadella won’t be beaten quite as easily, however, with an estimated $18m waiting for him for the year, if all goes well.TwitterNot quite $1, but Dick Costolo's $14,000 is one of the lowest salaries of any tech chief executive. Photograph: Francois G. Durand/Getty ImagesNot quite in the $1 club, Twitter’s chief executive Dick Costolo took home just $130,250 in 2013, with a base salary of $14,000, after the company went public generating $1.82bn.In contrast, Twitter’s chief financial officer Mike Gupta took home $24.6m in 2013 as Twitter’s highest paid executive - even more than $11.5 million Costolo earned in 2012.OracleOracle's Larry Ellison tops the list for chief executive pay packets. Photograph: Andy Watts/REXDespite earning just $1 in base salary, Oracle’s chief executive Larry Ellison is one of the Valley&apos;s more ostentatious executives, frequently featuring in the top paid chief executives across the board not just in technology.Ellison took home $78.4m in 2013, but that was down 18% on 2012’s $96.2 pay packet after Oracle missed some of its annual targets. As a result, Ellison ranks eight in Bloomberg’s Billionaires Index, worth $41.8bn, and was the highest paid chief executive in the US in 2013.Stocks and shares in the company are built-in performance related pay. Photograph: Jianan Yu/ReutersOne of the reasons that the reported base salaries are often low for top executives at technology companies is the use of bonuses and stock, but even then, the people at the top of the tree are often more invested in the company’s success than simply reaching their maximum pay packets.Executives often have a large proportion of their earnings paid in company stock, which ensures that the company’s top brass have a vested interest in company performance that is more in-line with shareholders and board members, rather than simply hitting targets for bonuses.“With a large chunk of equity, salaries are much less important. By making the compensation in-line the company’s share price, the senior management’s self-interest is mostly aligned with shareholder value,” explained Ian Maude of Enders Analysis.Even those that take just $1 and do not take any bonuses or additional pay from the companies they head are hardly destitute. Most are paid by increasing value of their existing stock in the company they run, and are worth billions because of it.“What you’re talking about here is a bunch of people who are not exactly worried about where they’re going to find the money to pay the mortgage at the end of the month, which is why some can take such low salaries and simply be paid by their stock ownership in the company,” said Maude.• Sheryl Sandberg:I don’t plan on running for political office
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIntroducing Steam Gauge: Ars reveals Steam's most popular games &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaKyle Orland:Right now, I can tell you that about 37% of the roughly 781m games registered to various Steam accounts haven't even been loaded a single time. I can tell you that Steam users have put an aggregate of about 3.8bn hours into Dota 2. I can tell you that Steam users tend to put nearly 600% more time into the multiplayer mode on Modern Warfare 2 than the single player mode.Basically, I can give you an idea of how any of the thousands of games on Steam have performed, both in terms of sales and gameplay hours.An amazing piece of data-driven journalism that wouldn't have been feasible or affordable (because of its processing demand) even a few years ago.First photo of purported iPhone 6 front panel appears online &gt;&gt; VR-ZoneOnly one photo of this purported front panel has been posted on Sina Weibo, China's equivalent of Twitter. In it someone is holding a black iPhone 5S alongside the panel to show off the sheer difference in size. Obviously the authenticity of this part can not be verified and no additional information was offered alongside the picture. The Sina Weibo user who posted the image online didn't reveal the exact size of this display panel. It's unclear if it would have the correct 16:9 aspect ratio that all iPhones have had since the iPhone 5.A closer look at the purported panel shows that screen bezels might be very slim in comparison with existing iPhones. That corroborates with rumours about the next generation iPhone being thinner and lighter than its predecessors.The leaks began at about this time last year too.Windows tablets gaining traction in Japan &gt;&gt; DigitimesSales of Windows-based tablets in Japan have been rising as vendors have been aggressively releasing Windows 8.1-based 8-inch models since October 2013. In February 2014, 15.7% of Japan's tablet sales were contributed by Windows-based models, up significantly from a year ago and also larger than the Windows tablet's share of 2% in the worldwide tablet market, according to figures from Japan-based BCN.XE16 release notes &gt;&gt; Google Glass HelpMostly little tweaks. But what's dropped is telling:A fond farewell to...Video callsGlass is always evolving. In this release, we turned off video calls. Why? We've been experimenting and gathering feedback on video calls and, while we love the idea, the experience did not live up to our high standards. Meanwhile, it wasn't used all that often by Explorers. We're sad to see it go, but are encouraged to see some effort by Glassware developers coming down the line.Song searchSong search is a relatively new feature that saw little usage. We wouldn't be surprised to see it come back in someone's Glassware (hint, hint).Even with a video camera in front of one eye, video calls don't pass the popularity test.Solid S5 sales to bolster Samsung &gt;&gt; Korea TimesSamsung Electronics said it shipped 1.3 times as many S5s on April 11, the first day of global sales, as it did S4s when it was launched, with demand for the S5 doubling in some European countries.Samsung launched the S5 in 125 countries Friday and signed contracts with the top five mobile carriers in the United StatesA Samsung spokesman declined to comment on the sales target for the S5...However, Samsung insiders said that it aims to ship at least 35m units in the second quarter of this year to create some 17 trillion won in quarterly revenue from the product. The insiders said about 63m S4s have been shipped, but so far, only some 40m units have been sold. Samsung generates most of its profit from smartphones.Apple said to prepare song-ID feature for IPhone software &gt;&gt; BloombergThe company is planning to unveil a song-discovery feature in an update of its iOS mobile software that will let users identify a song and its artist using an iPhone or iPad, said two people with knowledge of the product, who asked not to be identified because the feature isn't public. Apple is working with Shazam Entertainment Ltd., whose technology can quickly spot what's playing by collecting sound from a phone's microphone and matching it against a song database.Apple is bolstering its music offerings even as song-download sales have slowed across the industry. While the Cupertino, California-based company is the world's largest music seller through its iTunes store, customers are listening more to Internet services like Google's YouTube, Spotify and Pandora Media. Apple last year introduced its own streaming service, iTunes Radio, which it plans to expand outside the US this year, people with knowledge of the plans said.When they say "update", they mean iOS 8. Windows Phone 8.1 will have this (via its Cortana voice-driven assistant). Seems like Shazam or equivalent could become a new basic functionality for smartphones.'White box' leads growth in tablet PC panel shipments &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch BlogLed by growing sales of inexpensive white box tablet PC brands, tablet PC display panel shipments nearly doubled in 2013. According to our Monthly Tablet PC Panel Shipment &amp; Value Chain Report, private label tablet PCs consuming increasing numbers of panels. While low-cost white box products were originally aimed at emerging markets, sales have recently expanded into more developed markets, and are competing directly against established brands.More than half of all tablet PC panels (54%) in 2013 were shipped to Apple, Samsung, and other brand name tablet PC manufacturers; however, the rapidly growing white box device market recorded 146m shipments in 2013, more than three times the level reached the previous year. Market growth for white box tablet PCs is expected to remain strong in 2014."White box" is the essentially unbranded devices - the sort of thing that became the Tesco Hudl.Why do Android smartphones guzzle the most data? &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comBrian Chen:In a recent study, Ericsson, the networking company, found that global mobile Internet traffic varied greatly, depending on the software system and the network that a phone uses.But the highest average data consumption was seen on Android phones, which consumed an average of 2.2GB of data a month on one network, the study said. By contrast, iPhones used roughly 1.7GB a month and Windows phones used approximately 1.4GB a month, Ericsson found.Chetan Sharma, a telecom analyst who is a consultant for wireless carriers, also has found that Android phones were the biggest data hogs. In the United States, high-end Android phones used about 4GB a month on average this year, he said. That is well above the average of 1.2GB a month that American wireless subscribers consumed this year.So why does Android use more data?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
What if your headphones were smart enough to know where you are, which direction you are facing and could play 3D sounds capable of giving you directions – without the need for a screen or glasses strapped to your face?The Intelligent Headset from Danish audio specialists GN can do just that using built-in sensors that relay information to a smartphone or tablet and allow the headset to know where and what you are facing at any time.“It took us under two years to develop the headphones, which are based on our sister company Jabra’s Bluetooth headphones, upgraded with a gyroscope, GPS and compass integrated into the top band,” said Lars Johansen, one of the developers of the Intelligent Headset.Wearable technology, hidden in plain sightThe headphones do not obviously look like a piece of wearable smart technology, unlike smartglasses like Google Glass. The only sign that they are more than Bluetooth headphones is a small lump in the headband that contains the extra sensors and electronics.Intelligent Headset Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian“They connect via Bluetooth to a smartphone or tablet and allow us to use 3D positional audio to give the wearer real-time audio feedback on their actions or location – they’re like an audio version of Google Glass,” explained Johansen.Like Google Glass, the Intelligent Headset has a lot of potential for all sorts of innovative uses in audio and gaming, but also in navigation and support for blind people.Gaming, walking, touring and talkingWhile GN has opened up the Headset to developers, and is currently seeking “killer apps”, its in-house developers like Johansen have already come up with some very interesting applications.Intelligent Headset Zombie X game Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianJohansen has developed an iPhone game called Zombie X, which uses 3D-spatial audio to simulate an immersive zombie attack in a 360-degree space around the wearer. Players have to pinpoint the direction of the attack using audio alone. As the player rotates, the direction of the audio source changes, and once the zombie is right in front of them hitting a button will fire a gun and take the beast down.Other applications being demonstrated included an audio tour of a museum, which explained to the wearer what they were looking at with the touch of a button. Some exhibits emitted sounds associated with their function, like the sounds of water pouring for a fountain or the puffs of steam for an engine, allowing the wearer to pinpoint the attraction’s location by the direction the sound source.Intelligent Headset audio tour Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianGN’s 3D-audio technology also allows immersive music listening experiences. Wearers can walk through an orchestra, for instance, and hear the individual instruments pass them by. The headset could also recreate a concert, where it sounds like the user is standing in the middle of the crowd.&apos;Something smaller, more discrete&apos;Besides entertainment, GN sees applications for helping blind or partially sighted people with navigation, using directional audio cues to indicate which way they need to move or where a building is, like an audio version of satellite navigation.The headset is still in development, butpre-orders are available nowcosting $420 and shipping in July this year.• Google Glass –wearable tech, but would you actually wear it?
It's Friday.
Tracy Morgan, the talented 30 Rock comedian whose unpredictability once threatened to outshine his accomplishments, took questions on Reddit on Thursday as part of a tour to rehabilitate his image ahead of a new comedy special and standup tour.The 45-year-old Morgan has seen his reputation tarnished in recent years by allegations ofhomophobicandsexistremarks. “If my son were gay he better come home and talk to me like a man,&quot; Morgan said during a 2011 appearance before then saying he&apos;d &quot;pull out a knife&quot; on his child. Morgan has three sons and one daughter.In the years since, Morgan has either either genuinely matured or assembled a talented press team. Morgan is in New York to promote hisTurn it Funnytour and hisComedy Central special airing this Sunday, and after a week of answering soft questions on late night television, it was time to face the usually straightforward, equally unpredictable denizens of Reddit.The question around his homophobic comments, which famously earned him apublic dressing downfrom 30 Rock creator Tina Fey, surfaced near the end of hisReddit Ask Me Anythingdiscussion: &quot;If you do have any issues with the gay community, why?&quot;&quot;If you love me, I love you back,&quot; Morgan wrote. &quot;I&apos;ve got love for everybody ... I don&apos;t know why people are trying to surround my career with that.&quot;Other than that, Morgan named two readers&apos; kittens (Smokey and the Bandit), touted Aids and diabetes research, and identified his favorite Pokemon character (Pikachu). Here are a few other things we learned:He really wants you to know he never smoked PCPAfter oneReddit user posteda link to a podcast claiming that Tracy had smoked PCP, Morgan vehemently (and humorously) shot down the rumor:I used to buy my own weed, and it wasn&apos;t laced with PCP. I knew what I was smoking. I would never do that.His favorite pizza slice can be found in the BronxMy favorite kind of pizza? I like just pepperoni and cheese. There&apos;s a small pizza place in the Bronx that I&apos;ve been going to for 22 years. I don&apos;t know what it&apos;s called but it&apos;s a mom &amp; pop pizza shop, and they have the best pepperoni &amp; cheese.He is not – repeat, not – 30 Rock&apos;s Tracy JordanThe only thing they ever had in common was the name. I&apos;m an actor, just like Tina, or Alec, or anyone else on the show.His favorite SNL episode involved Tom HanksMy fondest SNL memory was the very first show with Tom Hanks hosting and I got to say goodnight America. For 30 Rock I liked the christmas episode when we chopped down the tree. And I have another one when we did the Gladys Knight Midnight Train to Georgia.He has a shark tank, and his sharks are doing fineAfter a readeraskedhim whether his pet sharks were growing to be too large for the tank, Morgan responded: &quot;No, the sharks are doing great. They&apos;re growing, but they&apos;re being fed. They&apos;re majestic creatures and they are doing fine.&quot; And yes, this does actually exist:He likes to answer questions with one wordMorgan&apos;s AMA answers felt a bit brief, so here&apos;s the lightning round: he wantsWill Smithto play him in a movie about his life;Kate Uptonis the most famous person he&apos;s ever farted around; hisfavorite video gameis Pac-Man; andif he could have anything in the world, he&apos;d choose his youth.&quot;I&apos;d go back to being 18, and be trouble, with what I know now. Youth is definitely wasted on the young.&quot;
Can you suggest a silent laptop? I&apos;ve just got a QuietPC, which is very nice, but someone I know needs a totally silent laptop. It needs to be Windows/Office capable (so no Chromebooks) but not particularly powerful – no heavy games etc. I&apos;m guessing an SSD HD with low-spec CPU would do it, perhaps with a laptop cooler tray?JulianQuietPC, which is based near York, has launched anApache Prohigh-performance quiet laptop, but you&apos;re thinking along the right lines. The main sources of noise in most laptops are cooling fans and hard drives. Any laptop that has a cool-running processor and a solid-state drive (SSD) – made of memory chips instead of rotating platters – is probably quiet enough for most practical purposes.In fact, the Microsoft Surface Pro 2 that I have on loan at the moment seems to me to be silent when used for normal word processing and web browsing. That is to say, any sounds it makes don&apos;t rise above the background noise created by fridges, boilers, radios, passing traffic, people breathing, and so on. It would be nice if manufacturers measured laptop noise in decibels in anechoic chambers and listed that in the specification, but they don&apos;t, and I don&apos;t expect them to start soon.Noise was more of a problem in previous decades when both laptops and microprocessors were designed to deliver maximum performance. Fast chips run hot, and hot chips need fast cooling fans. Nowadays, Intel focuses on performance per watt, which means newer chips don&apos;t run a lot faster, but they run cooler, consume less power, and generate less heat (some of which is silently carried away by heat pipes). This enables PC and tablet manufacturers to use these chips in slimmer cases – which are fashionable, for some reason – and get longer battery life. The performance of ultrathin laptops may be noticeably worse than thicker ones, and very much worse than a decent desktop PC, but users rarely seem to notice or care.Hot chipsIntel publishes a &quot;thermal design power&quot; (TDP) number for all its processors, which tells the PC manufacturers how much heat they need to shift when they&apos;re running. A more recent idea is &quot;scenario design power&quot; (SDP), which means running a chip with a lower TDP than it was designed for. For example, an Intel Y-series processor with a TDP of 13W in a laptop has an SDP of 7W in a tablet. This recognises what some PC manufacturers have done for a while, which is to throttle the processor&apos;s performance rather than increase the amount of cooling.Notebookcheck has a big table,Comparison of Mobile Processors (CPU Benchmarks), which provides a quick way to compare the TDP ratings of different processors. The top spot for performance is occupied by the Intel Core i7-4960X, which has a TDP of 130W. The Intel Core i7-4600U is in 93rd place, which is spectacular for a chip with a TDP of only 15W. Much lower down are the Intel Pentium J and Celeron N series chips (N2910 etc) that run at 8W or even 6W, but these are based on the &quot;Bay Trail&quot; Atom design not the Core iX design used previously. In fact, a Bay Trail Atom like the Z3740, which is 400th on the list, might be a good choice for a silent laptop. The next-generation Cherry Trail – due in September – and Willow Trail versions should be even better.Some gamers like to &quot;overclock&quot; their PC processors – run them at higher speeds – which generates more heat. The opposite idea is to throttle the processor to limit the amount of power used and increase battery life. This should also reduce fan noise. Some laptops have a power-saving mode that you can set in the BIOS chip before starting Windows. In some Dell laptops, for example, you can select Acoustic Mode and then Quiet Mode from the options menu.All Windows laptops also offer a choice of power settings, available from the battery icon in the Task Bar&apos;s notification area (bottom right) or via the Control Panel. Choosing a power-saving mode will slow the processor, reducing the heat generated and therefore the fan noise. For even finer control, you can runThrottleStopsoftware designed for use with Intel Core processors.ThrottleStop was created so that users could find out if their laptop manufacturer was throttling the processor, and if so, speed it up. The current version enables users to &quot;undervolt&quot; the processor and therefore – again – reduce power, heat and noise. The only drawback is that you are deliberately reducing your PC&apos;s performance, though not having tried ThrottleStop myself, I&apos;m not sure if it will have much effect. Modern processors have built-in sleep modes that turn off most of the chip most of the time. At gigahertz frequencies (a billion cycles per second), the time between keystrokes must feel like an eternity.CoolersAs you know, the way you use a laptop can make a big difference. It&apos;s a very bad idea to use one on something soft, such as a bed or carpet, as this could block ventilation holes. Worse, fibres get sucked in and eventually clog the fan. It&apos;s also a bad idea to use a laptop on your lap, for the same reasons, and because it&apos;s bad for your neck and upper spine. Desks are good, but a laptop riser or cooler tray may be even better. These allow more air to circulate around the laptop, which helps dissipate heat.Some laptop coolers, such as theZalman ZM-NC3 Ultra Quiet Cooler,have built-tin fans, but I suspect even a quiet fan will make more noise than a laptop that uses the latest chips, heat-pipes and SSDs. There are also passive cooling pads that use gels or crystals to absorb heat. Examples include theTargus Heat Defence Paneland theLaptop/Notebook Gel Cooling Pad.How can you tell whether these things make a difference? The simple answer is to run CPUID&apos;s small, free hardware monitor,HWMonitor.This will tell you things like fan speeds, voltage levels, and chip temperatures. It will even give temperatures for the different cores in a multicore processor such as the Core i5-2500 in my desktop PC.Laptop optionsThe Asus Transformer Book T100 must be worth a look because, although plastic, it&apos;s terrific value for money. It&apos;s a Windows 8 hybrid where you can detach the screen from the keyboard and use it as a tablet. It has a low-voltage Intel Atom Z3740QC processor, 2GB of memory, and 32GB of Flash storage instead of a hard drive. If that&apos;s not enough, you can expand it with a 64GB or smaller microSD card. The current price is£319.97 on Amazonor£329.95 at PC World, and that includes a free copy of Microsoft Office Home and Student 2013, worth about £100.The silver Lenovo Yoga 2 convertible laptop is a more solid alternative with a better keyboard. It has a bigger screen (11.6in against 10.1in), a much faster processor in the 1.4GHz Intel Core i3-3229Y, twice as much memory (4GB), and a 128GB SSD. Naturally, the higher specification is reflected in the price:£599.99 at Amazon.co.uk.A Lenovo Yoga 2 with a 13.3in touch screen and the latest Haswell-based 1.6GHz Core i5-4200U processor and 256GB SSD pushes the price up to£999.99, or maybe£899.99if you shop around. The main drawback with this machine is that the screen resolution is still only 1366 x 768 pixels.The Microsoft Surface tablet is also worth considering, particularly if you need Wacom-style digitising pen input. A Surface Pro 2 with a 10.6in (1920 x 1080-pixel) screen, 1.6GHz Core i5-4200U processor and 64GB SSD costs about£719, though you will also need to buy a Type Cover 2 keyboard for£109.99-- unless you&apos;d prefer to use a Bluetooth keyboard instead. Someone on a budget could also consider the original Surface with a Core i5-3317U and a 128GB SSD, heavily discounted to£499.Whichever quiet laptop your friend decides to buy, he should search reviews and user forums for reports of excess noise. Ideally, he also should try it in a shop, and run some videos to see if this results in fan noise.
Online retailer Amazon has been hit by renewed industrial action in two of its distribution centres in Germany. Hundreds of workers in Leipzig and Bad Hersfeld staged an all-day strike on Thursday. The same centres had seen strikes last summer and in the run-up to Christmas.Verdi, the German services union which organised the strike, wants the US company torecognise its employees as retail rather than logistics workersand comply with standard wage agreements in Germany. Mail order businesses are supposed to pay workers between €11.47 and €11.94 an hour, at least €1 more than Amazon's German workers earn.Union representative Jörg Lauenroth-Mago said that the online retailer was displaying "a lack of respect for the excellent work that Amazon employees deliver every day". He said he expected around 40% of the Leipzig workforce to take part in industrial action today, and that further centres in the rest of Germany would follow Leipzig and Bad Hersfeld's lead over the course of the year.Earlier this month, Amazon had rejected a union offer to enter tariff negotiations. In a statement, it said that only a small number of employees were taking part in the protests and that the centre's turnover rate wouldn't be affected. The company claims that its employees are rewarded by flexible rewards such as shares or bonuses, which couldn't be reflected in a tariff agreement.
Sony’s Xperia Z2 is an update to the Z1, its flagship released just six months ago. It&apos;s slimmer, lighter and stretches the screen all while adding 4K video capture.TheSony Xperia Z2is quite clearly what its predecessor should have been the first time round. It&apos;s also Sony’s latest weapon in its war with Apple, Samsung and HTC - more the latter than the former two, as its phone sales put it third in the UK in 2013 with an 11% market share, trailing Samsung with 37% and Apple with 22%, but ahead of HTC&apos;s 5%, according to data from research firm IDC.Monolithic designSony has stuck to its “omni-balance” design for the Xperia Z2, with a front and back slabs of glass surrounded by aluminium edging. It looks simple and well-designed and feels solid in the hand.There are clear elements of design pulled from Sony&apos;s other products such the multi-coloured LED-strip notification light on the top, reminiscent of the PS4&apos;s controller, and the slab-like design, pulled straight from Sony&apos;s TVs.The screen and back glass plates are sunk into the aluminium edging, keeping them off the deck when laid flat on a table. The texturised metal overhang also provides a slightly sharp ridge that makes the Xperia Z2 much less slippery to hold than its predecessor and some other glass-clad smartphones such as the LG-made Google Nexus 4.Sony Xperia Z2 review Photograph: SonyAll of Sony’s high-end smartphones and tablets have been waterproof for the past couple of years and the Xperia Z2 is no exception. Its IP 68 rating means it will resist a 1.5m submersion for up to 30 minutes, rather than simply immersion to 1m like the competingSamsung Galaxy S5, but that comes with some design compromises.While the headphones port is open, the micro-USB charging port and the microSD and micro-SIM slots are protected by rubber-sealed doors. The gaskets fit snugly, but charging the device every night will inevitably lead to wear and a break of the seal over the lifetime of the phone. Opening the door and plugging in the connector is also quite fiddly - but the Z2 has Sony’s magnetic charging port, for those that want to avoid having to hook up the phone via micro-USB each night. You can slot the phone into a charging dock, removing the need to fiddle with the door - but you have to buy it separately.Sony Xperia Z2 review Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianScreen: big, bright and boldThe Xperia Z2 has the largest screen of the big new three flagship smartphones. Its 5.2in size means the device is very wide indeed – a good 5mm wider than theHTC One M8for instance – which makes holding on to the Z2 and reaching its entire screen area with the same hand a challenge. I found it just a bit too big for comfortable use, which its blocky, monolithic design exacerbates.If you&apos;re looking to upgrade from an iPhone 4S or Samsung Galaxy S2 or 3 after a two-year contract, the Z2 will feel gargantuan. But the same could be said for the majority of the flagship smartphones available today.Sony Xperia Z2 review – a stretch to hold one-handed. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianForgetting its sheer size, the Z2’s screen is fantastic. It has very wide viewing angles, the colours are crisp and rich, and it&apos;s sharp and accurate, making text easy on the eyes. The details and colours in videos and photos look especially good. The gap between the glass cover and the display beneath is also very thin, making the screen feel much closer to your fingers as you touch it - reminiscent of Apple’s newest iPhones which use IPS (In-Plane Switching) touchscreens.Sony has followed HTC’s lead. The Z2 has stereo front-facing speakers bracketing the screen which are loud, clear and a big step forward - if a bit tinny compared to the HTC One M8’s larger BoomSound speakers.SpecificationsScreen: 5.2in full HD IPS LCDProcessor: 2.3 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 801RAM: 3GB of RAMStorage: 16GBOperating system: Android 4.4 “Kitkat”Camera: 20.7MP rear camera, 2.2MP front-facing cameraConnectivity: LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE and GPSDimensions: 146.8 x 73.3 x 8.2mmWeight: 163gPowerful with a massive batteryThe Sony Xperia Z2 uses the same chip from Qualcomm (the Snapdragon 801) as theSamsung Galaxy S5andHTC One M8making it just as quick.That means the Z2 is powerful, fast and lag-free, with graphically intensive games running smoothly and apps launching almost instantly. It is also relatively light on the battery: I found it lasted a good day and half on a single charge under heavy usage without activating any of the power-saving modes.Sony Xperia Z2 review Photograph: SonyThe large 3,200 milliampere-hour (mAh) battery – 400mAh more than the Galaxy S5 and over twice the size of the iPhone 5S’s 1,570mAh battery – can be extended much further. When you activate Sony&apos;s Stamina mode, a battery that&apos;s 50% full will provide an estimated three days life by freezing background apps and turning off Wi-Fi and mobile data when the screen is off. A separate &quot;low battery&quot; mode is also available which will turn power-hungry features off to eke out even more time once the battery charge is below 20%.Sony’s power saving modes aren’t quite as aggressive as HTC’s or Samsung’s new super-low power modes, which limit what the smartphone can do and turn the display to black and white for instance.For the storage-minded, the Z2 also has a microSD card slot for adding up to 64GB more storage for movies, photos and music.Attractive, useful tweaksSony makes some subtle customisations to the standard Android experience on all of its devices. While most are cosmetic, the small functional tweaks are almost uniformly useful. There aren&apos;t unnecessary lag-inducing animations, and the overall look of the interface is clean and understated.Sony Xperia Z2 reviewSony has integrated &quot;theming&quot; into its additions to Android, so the look and feel of the device can be customised way beyond simply changing the background. Menu buttons, status bar, lockscreen and lots of small interface elements can all be changed using downloadable themes. Some are improvements and some are simply hideous, but there’s no accounting for taste.One of the most useful additions has to be the Stamina mode mentioned above, which is twinned with a battery icon that can contain the battery remaining percentage within it. (Normally, the percentage figure sits beside the icon, crowding the status bar.) It is a very small thing, but makes a big difference.Users can also adjust the status bar contents to hide unnecessary icons, while the quick settings panel under the notifications pull-down menu adds a host of useful controls for Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and NFC among other settings that canbe configured and re-ordered.The Xperia Z2 also has an added tap-to-wake gesture - double- tap the screen to wake the device. The HTC One M8 also has this, and it&apos;s easily one of my favourite features for large screen smartphones.Sony’s apps also come preinstalled on the Z2, including the Walkman app and Sony’s music and movie subscription services. They&apos;re decent, but can be safely ignored if a user already has Netflix subscription or other preferred app or service.One app worth mentioning is Sony’s Smart Connect app, which automatically puts the Z2 on silent when plugged into the mains at night – or at any other time-, hardware- or event-defined quick settings. You can define a whole host of custom actions to speed up everyday tasks such as switching from silent vibrate to a &quot;loud&quot; sound profile when you plug in headphones, or turning on Wi-Fi when you get to work.CameraThe Xperia Z2’s camera is one of the best available. Its 20.7-megapixel sensor might seem like overkill on a smartphone, but the images look stunning.By default, the Z2 takes care of the settings. Simply point and shoot, using touch to focus or the dedicated shutter button using &quot;Superior Auto&quot; mode. Manual mode provides adjustments for a whole host of settings including the white balance, ISO, HDR and metering.Sony Xperia Z2 review - Camera apps.Sony’s also included a load of fancy camera apps that allow fun effects like background defocus (very similar to Samsung’s selective focus), insert dinosaurs into a picture, or use the &quot;Timeshift&quot; burst mode (which captures about 30 frames per second) to capture a series of images in rapid succession before and after the user hits the shutter button to grab the best shot. (How does it know when to start capturing before you touch the button? Because it begins capturing as soon as it&apos;s activated, but only saves footage from the second before you touch the button.)There are also boosted video camera features, including the ability to capture 4K ultra-high-definition video (though that isn&apos;t the default) and slow-motion video. Sony has also brought its SteadyShot image stabilisation technology from its camcorder range, which makes shooting handheld video on the Z2 much easier removing the shakes. For most people, 4K will be overkill (and quickly eat up storage); it&apos;s more a gimmick than a feature.Noise cancellingThe Xperia Z2 is the first smartphone with active noise-cancelling technology integrated into its body for use with a special headset. The headset contains microphones that monitor incoming noise and send it back to the Z2, which then blends in noise cancellation to whatever is being played.Active noise-cancelling is not a new thing, but normally it requires headsets with a bulky battery and electronics pack attached to the headphone wire. Sony has squeezed the circuitry and software into the Z2, removing the bulk that normally makes noise-cancelling earphones bulky or heavy.Sony Xperia Z2 reviewBecause the noise cancelling control system is built into the phone, you can select an appropriate profile for the noise to block out - the options are planes, trains, buses and the office - which makes the technology much more effective. I found the office setting to be particularly effective at blocking out the hubbub of an open-plan office, much more so than most other noise-cancelling ear or headphones.The sound quality of the included noise-cancelling earbuds has good dynamic range and solid bass. The only detractor is that they do not have an in-line music control remote, as is common on mobile phone headsets (because the auxiliary channel that would control it is used for the sound feedback); you&apos;ll have to control it on the phone. If you use other headphones which do have a mic and/or music remote, they will work as on other phones.Pricing: like a SamsungThe Xperia Z2 costs £560 in black, white or purple without a mobile phone contract, making it £10 cheaper than theSamsung Galaxy S5, but £29 more than the Apple iPhone 5S, £39 more than the newHTC One M8and £269 more than Google’s ownNexus 5smartphone.Sony Xperia Z2 review Photograph: /SonyVerdict: great phone for big handsThere is no doubt that the Sony Xperia Z2 is a great phone, and is what its short-lived predecessor the Z1 should have been.It is powerful, packed with features and has a great-looking large screen making it a hefty upgrade from two years ago.But that large size makes the phone a big beast. The monolithic, hard-edged design adds to the size, making it more difficult to handle one-handed than most other smaller flagship smartphones like theHTC One M8orGoogle Nexus 5.Compared with smartphones of two years ago, the Z2 is gigantic despite being thin.If the size is not an issue (and before deciding that I recommend getting into a store and holding one for a bit) the Z2 is the complete high-end smartphone package. It’s built with premium materials, capable of capturing stunning photos, powerful enough to handle anything you can throw at it and will last all day on a single charge.It’s just a shame that Sony just didn’t stick with a 5in screen and concentrate on shrinking the Z2‘s overall footprint. The 5.2in screen makes the phone difficult to handle and veers dangerously into phablet territory. You could argue that the Z2 is a phablet - at least by IDC&apos;s definition, which is a phone with a screen size of 5in or more. Whether it is or not isn&apos;t important. But a smaller screen would have been better.Pros:great screen, waterproof, powerful camera, long battery life, built-in noise cancelling, premium materialsCons:fiddly doors for ports, wide footprint makes it difficult to hold one handed, heavier than some competitorsOther phone reviews•HTC One M8 review•Samsung Galaxy S5 review•Moto G review•Google Nexus 5 review•iPhone 5S review
A range of crucial satellite systems manufactured by some of the world’s biggest government contractors contain severe vulnerabilities that could be exploited to disrupt military operations and flight-safety communications, researchers have warned.Security consultancyIOActivesays it has uncovered various vulnerabilities in software and ground-based satellite systems manufactured by British suppliers Cobham and Inmarsat. US firms Harris Corporation, Hughes and Iridium were also said to have produced vulnerable kit, alongside Thuraya, a UAE provider, and Japan Radio Company.The Computer Emergency Response Team based in Carnegie Mellon University, which is sponsored by the Department of Homeland Security,warned about a handful of the vulnerabilities in January.But on Wednesday information on more alleged weaknesses was released, amid growing concern the contractors are ignoring the threats. The latest report from IOActive suggested there were some easily hackable systems, many of which were designed for keeping aircraft, ships and army personnel safe.&apos;Soldiers could be located, systems disabled&apos;Many of the issues lie in the Broadband Global Area Network (BGAN) satellite receivers that the manufacturers produce with Inmarsat, the satellite operator that provided tools vital in helping locate the Malaysian passenger plane MH370 that crashed last month. BGAN is designed to provide internet and voice connectivity for remote teams.The affected Harris BGAN satellite terminals are used by the military, including Nato, for tactical radio communications. Thanks to the vulnerabilities, a hacker could install malicious software on the devices to obtain the location of the soldiers using the kit, or even disable the systems, according to IOActive.Cobham produces most Inmarsat terminals, a handful of which were found to be vulnerable. Those used in shipping, such as the Ship Security Alert System, could be exploited to prevent vessels detecting distress messages or direct those containing sensitive cargo on a collision course, suggested Ruben Santamarta, the IOActive researcher who found the alleged weaknesses.The Cobham Aviator machines could be compromised to alter satellite communications, such as the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (Acars), used by a plane, he added.A &apos;safety threat for the entire aircraft&apos;Acars, which is used to transmit vital information such as fuel levels, was initially used to track the movements of the MH370 flight soon after it disappeared, before Inmarsat stepped in to help. Attacks on the Cobham aircraft systems could “pose a safety threat for the entire aircraft”, IOActive’s advisory read.Only Iridium had confirmed it was working on fixes for the vulnerabilities. None of the other manufacturers had responded to contact from the Cert, which had been informed of the issues by IOActive, Santamarta said.Neither Cobham, Inmarsat or Hughes offered a response to repeated requests by the Guardian to comment on the claims of vulnerabilities of their products.Santamarta was disconcerted by the lack of response from the vendors. “Usually you receive a reply or an email. We have been reporting a lot of vulnerabilities in the past. This is the first time we&apos;ve seen such behaviour. Usually, you get an email or something to acknowledge the issue,” Santamarta told the Guardian.The manufacturers were warned about the alleged vulnerabilities, some of which, it is claimed, could be exploited with little technical ability, in late 2013. The flaws are likely to have been present in the products for at least two years, added Santamarta.A cabinet office spokesperson provided this statement to the Guardian: &quot;Cert-UK is aware of the report and expects all vendors to work to patch security vulnerabilities they are informed of. It is important that organisations know what technologies they use and check that they are updated regularly in order to receive critical security patches.&quot;
Tor, the secure networking service, may have to close down an eighth of its capacity as a result of the Heartbleed flaw.The service, which allows users to access the internet untraceably and securely, runs on a network of donated servers.Those servers bounce encrypted data between themselves, before returning back on to the open web from an &quot;exit node&quot; – the server that ultimately connects back to the internet. With enough internal relays, it is impossible for an observer to determine which traffic is coming from which computers.But some Tor nodes are running on servers which have OpenSSL versions 1.0.1 to 1.0.1f installed, the software that is vulnerable to the Heartbleed flaw. That means that an attacker could theoretically exploit the Heartbleed flaw on those nodes, and find internal information relating to Tor, compromising the security of the whole network.As a result, Roger Dingledine, one of the initial developers of Tor, has suggested on a mailing list for the open-source project that nodes running the vulnerable versions of OpenSSL should be kicked off the network.&quot;If the other directory authority operators follow suit, we&apos;ll lose about 12% of the exit capacity and 12% of the guard capacity,&quot;he writes on the software&apos;s mailing list. The project could allow the servers back on once they&apos;ve upgraded their OpenSSL, but, Dingledine writes, &quot;if they were still vulnerable as of [Tuesday], I really don&apos;t want this identity key on the Tor network even after they&apos;ve upgraded their OpenSSL.&quot;•What is Tor? A beginner&apos;s guide to the privacy tool
Sony has sold 7m PlayStation 4s worldwide since its launch in November 2013, as the Japanese electronics company continues to struggle to meet the huge demand for the new console.The PS4 is ahead of Microsoft’s Xbox One in sales, which sold 3m units by the end of 2013 butrecently got a boostby the release of the triple AAA sci-fi shooterTitanfall.&quot;The response from the global gaming community for PS4 has been overwhelming and we are truly humbled,&quot; said Andrew House, president and group chief executive of Sony Computer Entertainmentin a statement. &quot;Although we are still facing difficulties keeping up with the strong demand worldwide, we remain steadfast in our commitment to meet the needs of our customers.”Sales of the PS4 have outpaced its predecessor, the PlayStation 3, which sold 3.5m units in its first four months on sale.Software sales for the PS4 have been strong, with 20.5m copies sold world wide across retail and digital distribution by 13 April.• Xbox Oneboosted by Titanfall release, but strong a Christmas gave the PS4 a strong lead
A radical Australian preacher revealed to be using social media to encourage acts of terrorism has had his Facebook page taken downfollowing a Guardian investigation.The California company confirmed it took action to remove the page following revelations that Musa Cerantonio, an Islamic preacher from west Melbourne, was urging about 12,000 subscribers to "assassinate" US politicians.A second US radical is believed to have deleted his Twitter account after the Guardian and the BBC reported that he had twice praised the deaths of British Muslim fighters killed in Syria on the microblogging site.Born into an Italian family as Robert Cerantonio, the Melbourne preacher was found to be thethird most "liked" person by western jihadists in Syria. The discovery came from the groundbreaking work of King's College London academics who analysed the social media habits of190 western jihadists fighting in Syria against president Bashar al-Assad.In one post from 16 December, Cerantonio told his followers: "If we see that Muslims are being killed by the tyrant leaders of the USA then we must first stop them with our hands [ie by force]. This means that we should stop them by fighting them, by assassinating their oppressive leaders, by weakening their offensive capabilities etc … This is not something that is beyond us at all." .Cerantonio, who attended a Catholic primary school, says he converted to Islam in around 2002 at 17, after a visit to the Vatican left him disillusioned with Catholicism. He was particularly disgusted by Michelangelo's artwork on the roof of the Sistine Chapel – calling it idol worship.Sources within the Australian Muslim community say Cerantonio's faith journey took him to Cairo, where he became involved with a literalist interpretation of Islam. His status as a convert also won him a spot on Islamic satellite TV stations, and a global audience.When in Australia,&nbsp;Cerantonio frequented classes and events at the Ummah United centre south of Brisbane and at a now-closed bookstore in Bankstown, Sydney.Cerantonio said he currently lived in the Philippines and Egypt and only rarely returned to his native country.Asked if he wanted sharia, or Islamic, law to be established in Australia, he told the Guardian: "Sharia law is to be established in the lands of Islam, it is a law for Muslims, not for non-Muslims … My advice to any Muslims in Australia is to migrate to Muslim lands, especially if they wish to establish sharia and live in a land ruled by Allah's law."It is understood Cerantonio's Facebook posts violated the site's community standards on violence. The company, which says it works with&nbsp;law enforcement in the event of an urgent threat, added that the networking site was a place where beliefs, however abhorrent, could be shared.The second preacher identified in theKing's College report, Ahmad Musa Jibril – a Michigan convicted fraudster turned spiritual adviser – was revealed to be the most popular on Facebook with European and North American jihadists. He has more than 190,000 "likes" and on his now-defunct Twitter account Jibril was followed by 60% of foreign jihadists in Syria.The Palestinian-American preacher spent a portion of his childhood in Saudi Arabia, where his father was a student at the Islamic University. He is understood to have completed high school, going on to get degrees in both Islamic sharia and US law.In 2004 he was incarcerated on several fraud charges in the US federal government's Communication Management Unit in Terre Haute, Indiana – a facility sometimes referred to asGuantánamo North.Before this, Jibril was known to run a website that government prosecutors in his fraud trial described as containing "a library of fanatically anti-American sermons".In a document submitted to the court in 2005, US lawyers said Jibril, using his website AlSalafyoon.com, "encouraged his students to spread Islam by the sword, to wage a holy war [and] to hate and kill non-Muslims".A poem published on the site before 2001 entitled Al-Jihad reads: "Why are you waiting go and thrust, in the lines of enemies and have them crushed. Hit them on the neck and send them to hell, if you're killed, you'll be received There well."It continued: "Give them a knife and a bulletful [sic] of gun … Fight, fight, and Fight, it must be our aim."After his release from prison in 2012, Jibril sent a message of condolence last December via a series of direct messages to a member of the family of a well-known dead British jihadist, Ifthekar Jaman.Uploaded to the family member's public timeline, the messages read: "I didn't know him [Ifthekar] but when I read of him today it made me weep, may Allah be with you and may Allah grant himferdous[the highest level of paradise]!"Give my salam, love and respect to all the family. If I was there it would be a great honor to visit you all."Twitter was not available for comment.
