Dave Winer ofScripting News-- possibly not The Guardian's biggest fan -- bought a Mac to work onOPML, and had a slightly less than wonderful experience. Anyone who criticises Apple or the Mac can expect to be insulted and abused, but he has had some email support. On hisblog, he muses:This is the kind of adviceI've been getting from Mac users. Good stuff. You know, based on the rah-rah's from developers who are probably too scared of Apple to say what they really think, I thought everyone else thought Apple was the perfect company and the perfect computer. That's the downside of people being too scared to speak up, we get shitty information. How can we change this system, so that people aren't so scared? Or can we get Apple to thicken up their skin a bit, and learn to not punish people who have the nerve to criticize them. Blogs were supposed to fix all this. Frankly I think it hurts Apple to just have rah-rah public discourse and commentary.In my experience the leading companies with super-thin skin: Apple, Google, and by far the worst -- O'Reilly. It's so funny people think they're so cool and not-evil. These are the biggest control freaks in the computer industry, again, in my experience. We were joking about Google at dinner the other night, with their policy of not talking to CNET because they had the nerve to print some public information about their CEO. We really need to do something about this. It's a gross ugly disease. Compared to these companies, Microsoft is positively laid-back. You can quote me on that.Winer was an early developer for and very enthusiastic supporter of the Mac. He posted an interesting comment on Apple's attitude to developers,Platform is Chinese household, on October 29, 1994.
I suffer from ME and this makes me very chemically sensitive. I am bothered by the air issuing from computers and it takes me about two years before I am really comfortable using a new machine. Are there any PCs (particularly laptops) that do not suck air over all the components and spew it out? Mark SavillThere is a lot of interest in PCs that use liquid cooling and/or heat pipes instead of (but sometimes as well as) fans. The market is driven mainly by gamers who want to "overclock" their machines: running the processor at a higher clock speed means it generates more heat.There is also some interest from people who want silent PCs, eg for use in music studios. Searching Google for [silent PC] will provide some leads.When it comes to notebook PCs, things have improved in the past few years thanks partly to the arrival of low-power Transmeta and Intel Pentium M processors. These were designed mainly for thin-and-light notebooks where heat can be a problem, but they have also been used in fanless desktop PCs such as theTranquil T2eMP Media Center PC. In my experience, Centrino notebooks usually run without using the fan, but when the processor is used heavily, the fan spins up and blasts of hot air come out.You can reduce the chances of this happening by making sure there is clear air around the notebook (so don't use it on your lap) and that ventilation points are not blocked. You can also buy laptop coolers - stands that often have their own fans. When it comes to mainstream suppliers, the only fanless notebook I can think of is Sony's high-tech VAIO VGN-X505, which takes thin-and-light to extremes (seehttp://products.sony.co.uk/article_11.asp). It was launched in May last year but was too expensive and is no longer on the market.Backchat:
Have you ever lost any of your writing?All the bloody time, and of course it's always my fault. Usually I back up by emailing myself every so often. Most recently I lost a chapter because my husband's stupid Mac doesn't save on Ctrl +s. I know it's wildly unfashionable to prefer PCs, but give me the two-button mouse any day.Do you use any special software for writing your books?No, Word is fine, but I wrote one on Works because I lost my Word disc and was too tight to buy another one for a year. I miss WordPerfect, though, which I learnt on. I have a friend who still uses it. I need to get something like Final Draft (www.finaldraft.com) because I'm working on a sitcom script and am sick of justifying things. The free one from the BBC doesn't work on my computer.Your website says you lost all your email in an Outlook Express crash. Was it bad?I'm so traumatised, I daren't even try to recover them, despite the fact that everyone says every email you ever write hangs around for ages, just in case, I can't. It's five years of my life.Does your name-checking of Half Life 2 betray a love of computer games?Oh yes, but it's so hard to find stuff I like. I loved both Half-Life games, I love Super Mario, SimCity and I used to love Theme Hospital. I wish there was more for girls. I want a game based on Gosford Park, or Sex and the City. Weirdly, although I'm its target market, I've always found The Sims (http://thesims.ea.com/) too difficult - my Sims always pee themselves then take to their beds, moaning.Do the Amazon readers' reviews still hold sway in the literary community?Well, I've weaned myself off it to a certain extent but yes - someone with two seconds on his or her hands can easily ruin your day.What other gadgets get you going?I love my BlackBerry so much. I bought one of the first lot to arrive in Britain. I had a colour one with photographs, but I've gone back to my trusty black and white because the battery lasts a week on it. When I was in labour, I held my husband in one hand and my BlackBerry in the other, getting supportive emails from my chums. I'd like an iPod exactly like the one I have, except with a battery that lasts more than 10 bloody minutes.What about podcasting?I haven't got into podcasting yet as it took weeks to get all my CDs on to iTunes (www.apple.com/itunes). I'm sure it's next though. I wouldn't have thought it possible to get sick of all 4,000 tracks on my iTunes, including every single song I've ever loved in my 33 years on this earth, but I appear to have managed it.If you could email any one person (living or dead) who would it be and what would you say to them?I'd love to drop Douglas Adams a line - I think he'd like Google Earth (http://earth.google.com/).Visit:www.jennycolgan.comJenny Colgan's new book Where Have All the Boys Gone? is out nowwww.popjustice.co.ukwww.popbitch.comwww.thepixiepit.co.uk/scrabblewww.notbbc.netwww.ivillage.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
We are concerned at the amount of time our teenagers are spending on MSN Messenger. If we try to get them to sign out, they insist that they are busy with homework. Is there any way of allowing access to the web, but disabling MSN Messenger - or imposing a curfew? John RussellMany teenagers do homework co-operatively using MSN Messenger and other instant messaging (IM) programs. They all seem to be able to watch TV, talk on their mobiles and chat via MSN at the same time. However, there are "parental control" programs that allow you to block specific programs or groups of programs. You could try RIA Software'sParental Lock Guard 1.2, which is free, and runs on Windows 2000 and XP. A more closely targeted alternative for the same operating systems is Comvigo'sIM Lock. This can block MSN Messenger, AIM, Yahoo Messenger, Trillian, mIRC, AOL Messenger and GAIM, and also many filesharing programs. Version 1.3.1 is available for a seven-day trial and costs $24.99.
Emails disappear from my Outlook Express inbox after a first reading. I can retrieve them using the Find facility - but only if I remember the sender's address or subject line. Gerald HirstGo to the View menu, select Current View, and make sure there is a black dot next to Show All Messages. My guess is that you have accidentally set it to the next menu item, Hide Read Messages.
With a new blog created every second, how are you going to keep up with 900,000 posts a day across 15m blogs? These blogs (short for web logs) are online journals written by people who might be talking about your organisation, or sharing information that could help you do your job. And if you have a company blog, how will customers find it among the millions of alternatives?Traditional search engines are struggling to keep up with the rate at which people update their blogs, and specialist blog tracking sites such as Technorati and Bloglines have sprung up to help.Search engines like Google treat blogs like any other website, and even the large numbers of blogs are a drop in the ocean compared to the rest of the web. As a result, they often get drowned out in search results. Clive Longbottom, an analyst from Quocirca, thinks that's not necessarily a bad thing for normal searches. "Who wants to have blog search results in the upper reaches of Google, MSN or Yahoo search results? Blogs, by their very nature, are personal thoughts and have therefore not gone through any editorial or peer control," he says.If you want customers to find content from your company blogs, one solution is to include them on your regular website. Microsoft, for example, automatically pulls relevant content from employee blogs on to its product pages, along with threads from newsgroups, lists of chats and webcasts, security bulletins and other information that can be retrieved via web feeds such as RSS (Really Simple Syndication).However, people searching specifically for blog posts should get better results from services such as Technorati, Blogpulse, Bloglines, IceRocket, Feedster, Rojo, Blinkx and PubSub. Some concentrate on blogs, others include any RSS feed. Some services crawl the web looking for blogs, some rely on blog software telling them about new posts - and some do both.Most blogging software includes the option to notify sites like Technorati when you make a post. David Sifry, Technorati's chief executive, says that on average, a post is indexed five minutes after you make it, and Bloglines aims to do the same. But if your hosting service doesn't offer that option, and doesn't make blogs available via RSS or Atom feeds, it's harder for the search sites to track it. Although users can always register their blogs with the blog search engines.Last week, Feedster came up with a list of what it considers the Top 500 blogs, but it excluded blogs from several hosted systems, such as LiveJournal, for technical reasons. Does that mean hosted blogs don't get indexed as well as those created with more sophisticated software such as Movable Type? Not necessarily.Feedster's chief executive officer Scott Rafer points out that its search does cover hosted blogs, as well as RSS feeds from professionally published sites, as do the other services. Indeed, Sifry finds the standard templates of hosted services make them easier for Technorati to index.Blinkx chooses how often to index a site not by how it's created or hosted but based on how often it comes up in search results. There's a sliding scale from sites that show up regularly and therefore get indexed every hour to those that are looked at only every three days.Blog search also differs from web search in how the results are ranked. Most search tools show you the most recent posts first. According to Mark Fletcher of Bloglines: "With blog searches you're looking for timeliness; with a web search you're looking for authoritative results".But you will also want to know how many people read a blog regularly: popularity doesn't guarantee credibility, but if a blog is influential, you need to know if your business or product is mentioned.Searches also take into account how often a blog is updated and who links to it, though the issue of how to count and rate links is contentious. Some blogging services include automatic links that can skew the results, as can spam blogs crammed with links. Sifry talks about identifying bloggers who consistently start the stories others pick up, rather like tracking the outbreak of an epidemic and developing the equivalent of "PageRank for people".Most of the services also let you save searches on the site. That provides a way to skim through blogs you already know about.All the blog search services agree that the tools are still in development. They're not going to be the only players in the game, either. Bloglines' Mark Fletcher says we can expect to see blog search as a tool on every major search engine in the next six to nine months. This may lead to some takeovers. Ask Jeeves now owns Bloglines, and is putting the Bloglines notifier on its front page, while Intelliseek owns BlogPulse. Technorati is designing its own service for corporate tracking and business intelligence.Tracking blogs is a lot of work, and most of the time you won't find anything significant. But it's starting to matter. As IceRocket's chief executive Blake Rhodes puts it: "If you're a business owner and you don't care about what bloggers are saying, you don't care about your business."
I would like to download some screensavers and wallpapers. How do I know if they are safe? Ted MartynIt should be safe to download from reputable sites - you can always Google a site to see whether other people have had problems. In general, I'd be wary of screensavers or wallpapers packed in .exe (executable) files, though they are more likely to contain adverts than viruses. If you download zip files, you can scan them before you install the contents. JPeg image files are usually safe.DeviantARTandCaedesare among many good sources of wallpaper images.
Google has just fired two broadsides in the war against Yahoo, Microsoft and AOL by releasing two more products in a week. First, on Monday, came Google Desktop, which includes a new Sidebar and an upgraded version of the current Desktop Search. Yesterday, Google topped that with the launch of an instant messaging (IM) and internet telephony program, Google Talk.Google Talk looks likely to blow instant messaging apart, since it uses open standards in a balkanised market where the main rivals - AOL, Yahoo and Microsoft - prevent users from talking to one another. Google's director of product management, Georges Harik, says that by opening up the interface to third parties, "we hope to make a fairly big change to the way messaging is done."Both launches will arouse interest that could well stimulate Google's share price. This has slipped recently, following the announcement that the company was raising a $4bn war chest by selling more shares.Google's entry into the instant messaging market was predictable enough. The company has spent the past 18 months converting itself from a search engine into a portal that can compete head to head with Yahoo, Microsoft and AOL. All three already have strong IM systems, and AOL has two - AIM and ICQ.The problem with current IM systems is that, in general, users can only send messages to other people on the same network. Google wants to change that opening its interface and supporting XMPP, a standard protocol. This means some existing messaging programs, such as Trillian and Jabber, will already work with Google.Harik says Google is trying to sign "federation agreements with other service providers", starting with Earthlink. It could soon generate enough mass to force rivals to interoperate, the way they do with email.What is also significant is that this is Google Talk and not Google Messenger or even Google Chat. Other messaging systems have added voice features over the years, but it's likely to be a major element in Google's service. This could also hit pioneering internet telephony firm Skype, which has been hugely successful in persuading users to download proprietary software to do something their PCs could do already - though arguably not with the same quality or convenience.Google's Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service will be standards-based, and the company has licensed the same third-party codec as Skype.The main drawback with the internet telephony service is that, at the moment, it can only be done with Google's client software, which is only available for Microsoft Windows. Also, Google Talk will only be available to Gmail users, and will use the same contacts list. Gmail is still an "invitation only" service, but Harik says any US user will be able to sign up by mobile phone.Google Desktop was, by contrast, not widely predicted. This is the portal's first attempt to claim some space on the world's most valuable virtual estate - the Microsoft Windows desktop. The central plank in this plan is the optional Google Sidebar, which is about 4cm wide and occupies the full height of your screen.The Sidebar keeps itself on top of everything else, so you can't miss it. However, like the Windows Taskbar, it can be set to hide.In the default installation, the Sidebar has eight panels that hold information. The main ones are news headlines (from Google News), Web Clips and Photos, plus stock prices and weather reports. All these download information from the net. There's also Scratch Pad, for writing little notes, and a search box that does progressive searching, so the display changes as you type.Users can add or remove panels, and Google has released a software development kit, so outside programmers can develop plug-in utilities just like they do for similar products like Yahoo-owned Konfabulator or Apple's copycat Dashboard.The search box is a vast improvement on Google Desktop Search. You can choose where to search, either on Google or on your local hard drive. You can even use it to launch programs, because typing the start of a program name finds it on the Start menu, a function reminiscent of Apple's Spotlight search.Web Clips picks up RSS and Atom feeds based on the sites you visit. Nikhil Bhatla, the Google Desktop product manager, says the Sidebar is "automatically personalised based on the web pages you view ... You don't have to lift a finger to find out what's going on."All this sounds somewhat like the sidebar that Microsoft proposed in 2002, when it unveiled some of its plans for Vista, the next version of Windows. Since that has been delayed, it means Google, like Apple, has delivered first. Whether this will make Google's Sidebar obsolete, or mean fewer users want Vista, or neither, remains to be seen. It is certainly good to offer users the choice.
Is Google planning to take over the world? You could be forgiven for thinking so, judging by the speed at which the US high-flyer is moving away from its core search-engine business into activities dominated by powerful rivals such as Microsoft, Yahoo and AOL. Earlier this week Google launched an electronic Trojan horse. It is in the form of a "sidebar" (linking to its own services), which can be imported on to the desktop of hundreds of millions of computers powered by Microsoft's Windows operating system that resides in 95% of the world's personal computers. Yesterday, Google not only released an instant messaging system, but also an embryonic internet telephone service which could one day challenge fixed-line global operators.Making telephone calls through the internet (often for no charge) is one of the hottest businesses around. An OECD report published yesterday suggested that 50% of the world's telephone traffic could travel through the internet rather than traditional networks by 2006. It pointed out that the biggest operator, Skype (with a claimed 46% of the market, but yet to celebrate its second birthday), was undercutting the prices of traditional fixed-line carriers by 80%. Skype, which claims that 3 million people use its service at any one moment, yesterday launched its own expansion into the fashionable market of instant messaging. Google's new service restricts telephony to users of its own rapidly expanding email service (Gmail), but it has the potential to become a global force in telephony. The danger is that a web service could divert eyeballs away from computer screens, the source of Google's income, if internet telephony migrates to handsets.The timing is not unconnected with Google's need to generate hype when it is trying to take advantage of an inflated share price to raise $4bn from investors for development. But this does not mean that the company is not deadly serious. Indeed it has become so deadly serious it is in danger of losing its reputation as one of the world's favourite companies. Under pressure from Wall Street to produce spectacular profits growth, Google is starting to attract negative comments even from its home base in Silicon Valley, where it is usually feted as a counter to the overmighty Microsoft in Seattle. Words such as "hubris" and "arrogance" are starting to be used. It would be very sad if Google, like Microsoft, were to turn from being considered "one of us" to "one of them". But to conquer the world and retain the faith of its groupies may be a Holy Grail that not even Google thinks it is worth searching for.
A shrinking world got considerably smaller yesterday. Google, a company spawned in a garage of two university students in California just seven years ago, announced a new service that will allow you to telephone your mother in Australia free of charge, as long as she too is a Google user.That is just the start. The company, with a market capitalisation of $78bn, has ambitions to colonise the living room and to apply the phrase "to Google" to every activity that occurs within it. In addition to the telecom move, it also launched an improved version of its desktop search software this week that helps users to organise all the files on their computer and constantly suggests useful web links and documents pertinent to whatever you happen to be doing at the time.The rate of new launches has increased further since its high profile flotation last year. With each new service, Google and its student founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, encroach a little bit more on the territory of Bill Gates and Microsoft, the software giant that powers 95% of the world's computers. The question now is whether the young upstarts who have built a hugely profitable business on Google's anti-corporate image are on the way to following Microsoft's founder's path from bright young turk to monopolistic behemoth.Interbrand, a company that measures the relative worth of the world's main brands, calculates that Google is the 38th most valuable, at $8.46bn. While this is a long way behind Microsoft, estimated to be the second most valuable brand, at $59.94bn, Google's ascension is remarkable for a company that is so young and has spent next to nothing on marketing.Already there are whispers in California's Silicon Valley that it is becoming too much like Microsoft, the technology firm that every teccie loves to loathe. While there is a significant crop of sour grapes in the mix - not helped by last week's news that Google is selling a further $4bn worth of shares to fill a "war chest" - Google is also attracting unfamiliar epithets such as "arrogant".Its sheer financial power and need for engineers to create new products has sent salaries in Silicon Valley rocketing, as it poaches staff. It has already ended up in a court battle with Microsoft over the fate of Dr Kai-Fu Lee, the developer of MSN's search engine, whom Google poached from the Seattle-based software giant.Dot.com start-ups are also finding it increasingly difficult to persuade potential financial backers that their prospective markets will not be squashed by the might of Google.Mr Gates put the knife in earlier this year when, in an interview with Fortune magazine, he said Google was "more like us than anyone else we have ever competed with".Microsoft and Google are battling it out for control not only of the way we use our computers, organise and retrieve information and communicate, but ultimately for the way we consume audio and visual entertainment content and make telephone calls. It is a battle that will take place on a global scale, from the US to Europe to the far east and the huge emerging market in China.Julian Smith, European online advertising analyst at Jupiter Research said: "Google has evolved from a technology provider into a media owner; now they are evolving and trying to expand that into a portal play, offering additional functions and functionality to try and emulate the likes of MSN."There is a lot to play for in the online advertising market. Paid for search, in which advertisers pay to have links to their websites displayed alongside search results, is the fastest growing segment of the market, which itself is growing faster than print or television advertising.Last year the online advertising market was worth upwards of $15bn worldwide, with paid-for search accounting for just under a third and Google taking the lion's share. It made $3.2bn in revenues."The battleground between Google, Microsoft and also Yahoo! is trying to get the hearts and minds of the online user. It's about maintaining search loyalty," Mr Smith said.Google's expansion comes at a time when media, entertainment, internet and telecom companies are increasingly treading on one another's toes. Industry analysts believe that there are signs that the long mooted convergence between various home entertainment devices and technologies is finally coming to pass."That's the key battle, the battle for the home," said Jerome Buvat, a strategic business consultant in media, telecoms and entertainment at Cap Gemini. "You've got mobile operators offering access at home, unbundlers &#91;new companies taking advantage of regulatory intervention to access telephone exchanges&#93; offering triple play services and incumbents offering a range of services from home security to video on demand."Microsoft and Google are far from the only companies involved in this battle. The News Corp mogul, Rupert Murdoch has set aside $2bn to accelerate his online ambitions. Under the leadership of a former Hollywood executive, Terry Semel, Yahoo! has been reborn and has similar ambitions to become the jumping off point through which people access entertainment, music, community and communications services. It has already launched a telephony service in the UK.Yet industry experts believe Google is still set fair. Telecom analysts Ovum said: "If Google succeeds in converting enough of its Gmail users to Google Talk PC phone customers, it has the brand strength and market presence to move into a much broader range of multimedia services.But given its newly inherited responsibilities to shareholders, some analysts wonder whether Google might repeat the mistakes of its forbears. Its critics point to the way in which it is starting to behave more and more like the conglomerates it once sought to differentiate itself from."Everyone loves a great story," said Rita Clifton, chairman of Interbrand UK. "It'll only become a problem if you start looking like a mega corp. They are walking a delicate tight rope."The giants in numbers How they shape upGoogle$10bnEstimated worth, each, of Sergey Brin, 31, and Larry Page, 32, who launched Google commercially in 1998229%Gain in share price on first year as a publicly quoted firm: from $85 to $28098%Gain in revenue after first year as a publicly quoted company: from $700.2m to &pound;1.38bn4,183Staff worldwide$399.1mCompany's 2004 net Income60%Proportion of people using the Google search engine for online search inquiries in the UK. The figure for the US is 36.5%Microsoft$46bnEstimated worth of chairman Bill Gates, 49, who founded the company in 1975294%Gain in share price on first year as a publicly quoted firm: from $21 to $82.7559%Gain in revenue after first year as a publicly quoted firm: $94m to $143.8m57,000Staff worldwide$12.254bnCompany's 2005 net income10%Proportion of people using MSN Search, Microsoft's search engine for online searches in the UK. The US figure is 15.5%How VoIP works&middot; People can chat to friends on a telephone headset or phone connected to their computer without using phone companies and incurring charges.&middot; By downloading free software from Google's website, users will be able to use the service to talk to friends. It will show when people you have added to your electronic address book are online, so you can instantly click and chat.&middot; The system uses Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) which, in simple terms, turns your computer into a phone.&middot; It takes analogue audio signals and converts them into digital data that can be transmitted over the internet. This is converted back to an audio signal at the other end.
I was at Yahoo! headquarters in Sunnyvale, California when Google fired two new salvos in the battle for web domination this week - a new version ofGoogle desktop search, andGoogle Talk, an answer to its rivals' instant messaging services.Mentioning the G word did make Yahoo!'s PRs wince, but it illustrated how the Google brand still has a cachet Yahoo! doesn't seem to be able to match.Yahoo! faces a difficult job in cutting through the Google hype prevading the search industry. Some of the shine is starting to rub off Sergey Brin and Larry Page's baby, though - not least as a result of widespread cynicism over the firm's latest share offering and its one-year ban on talking to journalists from tech news site CNet after an article it objected to.No doubt the press trip I was part of - which brought journalists from the UK, Germany and Australia to the Yahoo! "campus" to talk to senior staff about the company's plans to advance its search capabilities - is part of the strategy to break through the white noise of Google's domination.The core message repeated by all the Yahoo! executives I met was "ignore the branding, look at the quality", and there was much talk of how blind independent tests had given Yahoo! a lead - albeit slight - in the relevance and accuracy of its search results, for example.Despite its dominance as a brand, Google is still playing catch-up with its rivals as it continues to transform into a portal rather than focusing single-mindedly on search: desktop search and instant messaging are both areas already long colonised by Yahoo!, as company spokeswoman Terrell Karlsten was keen to emphasise."We've been in this &#91;instant messaging&#93; business for over seven years now, and through YM client we offer a comprehensive real time communication experience", she told me.She also said Yahoo! was an "active advocate" of allowing users to communicate with people using other instant messaging services - something Google Talk already offers - provided users' security was not affected. However, this isn't something Yahoo! offers to customers at the moment.Although Google's two most recent announcements are not insignificant, they don't have the "this is going to keep me awake at night" feel of the April 1 2004 launch of Gmail, which represented a quantum leap forward in the field of free email.But as analyst Greg Sterling, of the Kelsey Group, told the San Jose Mercury News on Wednesday: "It's significant for Google because it's been a gap in their offering. As they increasingly take on the mantle of a portal, it's natural for them."The spotlight has swung back to Google in the wake of its latest launches - but if you miss the unveiling of one new feature in the constantly innovating world of search, you can always be sure another one will be along soon, whether it's the launch of a new innovation or a "catch-up" product that attempts to keep pace with the competition by matching its offerings.One example of the latter is theYahoo! Publisher network, currently being beta tested in the US. It's due to roll out internationally early next year as a direct challenge to Google's Adsense, offering small publishers, niche sites and blogs the chance to buy their own advertising and make revenue from placing ads for other sites on their own pages.One of the most interesting innovations coming from Yahoo! in the next few months is likely to be the social search services it is currently beta testing in the form ofMyWeb 2.0, a service allowing you to create a network of trusted contacts with whom you can share sites and recommendations, be it your favourite restaurant or the best night schools for studying Italian.It will be interesting to see whether MyWeb 2.0 can assist Yahoo! in reaching its goal of becoming the number one in search. As John Marcom, the senior vice president of Yahoo! International, put it: "My management doesn't really like it when I say we want to be number four in things."The $64,000 question is whether it will ever manage to displace Google as the default search engine in the mind of the web user. And that's one question you can't find the answer to by Googling (or should that be Yahooing?) it.
I was surprised (in a mildly misogynistic way I fear) to learn intoday's Online sectionthat Jenny Colgan is a keen gamer. Colgan, as you may know, is the author of novels like Amanda's Wedding and Looking For Andrew McCarthy in which scatty thirty-something heroines tipsily navigate the London social scene and generally cause embarrassment at dinner parties. Colgan listed her favourite titles as Half-Life, Super Mario, SimCity and Theme Hospital - a great selection, and then berated the industry for not doing more for girls. Her suggestions? "I want a game based on Gosford Park, or Sex and the City".Fantastic ideas, both of them, and I'm amazed no one has at least considered the latter. For Gosford Park, I envisage something like Resident Evil, replacing 'survival horror', with 'etiquette horror'. You're the harrased butler overseeing a dinner party for an aristrocratic employer in uptight thirties England. Instead of zombies coming at you with axes, there are guests brandishing overcoats - quickly, what is the correct way to address an earl?! Too late, you have committed an unforgivable faux pas, wiping out half of your self-respect gauge!Sex in the City creates an elaborate fantasy world as alien and unattainable as anything from the Final fantasy series. Imagine if our worries reallydidrevolve around getting hold of Manolo Blahnik's limited edition Carmine re-issues, or whether, say, dining at Alain Ducasse on a first date creates impossible expectations for the rest of the relationship. And naturally, a game based around Samantha would make Hot Coffee look like the grim nerd fantasy it so obviously is.In fact, is thereanyglamour in videogames? And I don't mean Rumble Roses XX...
My, how quickly Google has grown up. When I first visited the company's California headquarters at the start of 2002, it was regarded as an upstart, the little search engine that could.It was already famous around Silicon Valley for its playful corporate culture, its grand piano in the lobby, and the former cater-er to rock band The Grateful Dead cooking superb free meals in the canteen.More crucially, it was also gaining recognition around the world for its lightning fast, accurate search results, a plain front page belying the awesome computing power that lay beneath. Google was a prodigy, streets ahead of the competition.A few years on, it still is. And the company has not been slow to exploit its superiority. Its headquarters, packed with PhDs, continues to churn out innovation after innovation, from superb free email to very smart maps, as well as a constant stream of tweaks to the core search engine. Yahoo and Microsoft simply haven't been able to catch up.All this is funded by hearty revenues from online advertising and the enormous proceeds of its first share offering last year. The company has around $3bn in its bank account, and plans to raise another $4bn in another share offering soon.But all this cash, and all this success, is beginning to draw envious glances. More than a few in Silicon Valley think Google is now simply too brash, too flush with its own success, to avoid breaking its famous founding motto: "Don't be evil".The turning point perhaps came earlier this year, when Microsoft founder Bill Gates told Fortune magazine Google was "more like us than anyone else we have ever competed with". That, for many, was the end. They always hoped Google would be the antithesis of corporate, predatory Microsoft.And now they see the same problems growing out of Google's dominance of search as appeared, 10 years ago, when Microsoft became king. As Google launches new features, it threatens to wipe out whole markets through the strength of its name and the quality of its work. This has a chilling effect on innovation: already there are tales of young American companies - potential future Googles hoping to win venture capital to start up - being asked what would happen if Google were to enter their market. The answer, it is left unsaid, cannot be good.Perhaps worst of all, many people are realising just how central Google is to their lives. They worry what might happen if Google started to play nasty - for instance, by abusing the huge amounts of information it could collect about individuals who use its services. Yet users also realise that, for many things, Google is simply doing things far, far better than the rest.And many more, having helped Google grow to be what it is, now wonder what - exactly - they've created.
Geography isn't history, yet. Far from ushering in the death of distance, the internet is making us more anxious to live alongside like-minded people, reinforcing rather than reducing social divides.This theory appears in a study of websites that publish information about our neighbourhoods. The Joseph Rowntree Foundation, a social policy charity, warns that sites providing such data may promote "online marginalisation" - a virtual segregation of deprived areas leading to real segregation on the ground.Local information sites were some of the web's most exciting innovations. The Joseph Rowntree study calls them IBNIS, for internet-based neighbourhood information systems. The foundation found at least 33 different IBNIS sites in the English speaking world. They range from the trailblazing Up My Street (www.upmystreet.com), which dates from 1998, to the government's official "geodemographic" site (www.neighbourhood.statistics.gov.uk), to the highly subjective Crap Towns (www.idler.co.uk/crap/)These sites draw on official and unofficial data such as crime statistics and house prices to build location-specific pictures of what life is like in a particular postcode or town. Some also draw conclusions about the sort of people likely to live there, so-called "geodemographic data".Geodemographics has long been available to marketing specialists and scientists. In the US, the science of assigning characteristics to Zip codes goes back to the 1970s. Credit scoring agencies use sophisticated geodemographic databases such as Acorn and Mosaic to score people according to where they live. This apparently blunt instrument works because people with similar demographics, lifestyles and values tend to cluster together. "From the point of view of marketing professionals, knowledge of where someone lives is a particularly powerful predictor of all manner of consumption practices, values, tastes, preferences and so on," the Rowntree authors say.Most commentators treat the availability of such information as good news. The Joseph Rowntree report is ambivalent, setting out optimistic and pessimistic scenarios. The optimistic prospect is that more information will help create better engagement, whether through house-buying or local politics. The pessimistic prospect is that it will lead to more informed social sorting.The Rowntree authors worry that neighbourhood information websites will bring this specialist language into the public domain and that people will start taking it seriously. An area's Mosaic classification may soon rank with house prices and Ofsted reports as a subject of dinner-party conversation - for the web-savvy middle class, at least. So far, most debate about geodemographics is about the consequence of being unfairly misrepresented - the nightmare of unwittingly moving into a "red-lined" address with a terrible credit history. The Rowntree report warns that even when data is accurate it is dangerous, leading to "ongoing processes of inter-neighbourhood segregation and intra-neighbourhood homogenisation".Such sorting is further promoted as more data about schools' performance becomes electronically available. In theory, the government already knows the postcodes of all schoolchildren. It would not be difficult, the Rowntree authors say, to post the Acorn or Mosaic data of children who attend a particular school along with its league table scores. "The dilemma ... is whether it is considered acceptable that consumers could look up a school in order to discover the kind of pupils that go there." It is on such issues that the ambivalence about online information is at its most acute: "there is a real awareness of the potential social risks involved in making particular types of information widely available".The study found that geodemographic sites receive surprisingly few complaints - in one case only 27 from 175,000 visitors. (In the US, communities are more vociferous about being "informationally misrepresented".) The Rowntree study warns that UK geodemographic sites do not seem to be set up to handle large volumes of complaints. It suggests that sites find ways to allow "bottom up" contributions.The study is the latest of many alarms that have been sounded about the consequences of posting on the web data that was previously available to specialists: hospital death rates, for example. Theories about the internet's polarising effect are not new, either. Cass Sunstein, a Chicago professor of jurisprudence, warned in his 2001 book Republic.com of the risk to democracy from the web creating communities of individuals engaging only with others who think the same way.The Rowntree researchers accept that they cannot reverse the trend towards more data being publicly available. However they hold out another outcome - that the sorting of information by neighbourhoods is itself a passing phase.Thanks to the march of technology and the widespread use of devices that leave electronic traces about individuals, geodemographics will become unnecessary. The consequences of that trend for social policy will keep researchers busy for a while.Joseph Rowntree Foundationwww.jrf.org.uk
The trouble with owning lots of gadgets is finding space to carry them round. So, not surprisingly, enterprising manufacturers have attempted to hype wearable gadgets as the solution. For some, the trump card has been to transform the watch from a modest timepiece to an all-singing, all-dancing uber gadget.Over the years, we have had the wristwatch phone from Motorola, the watch-camera from Casio, music-playing watches from Technotunes, and, most recently, the watch-TV from NHJ. In the US, Microsoft has pioneered Spot Watches, which display basic weather, news and sports information, delivered to the devices via the spare FM capacity of radio stations.The latest company to reinvent the watch is Fossil, which has confirmed it is to launch a PDA-style watch, the Abacus, in the UK next week via Widget. The &pound;99 watch harnesses the Palm OS4 operating system to deliver a personal organiser-type device that acts as a receptacle for contact details, appointments etc. Users can input data while it is on their wrist, using a stylus that cleverly snaps into the watch buckle, or in the traditional way, through syncing it with a PC."There's no more rummaging around looking for your PDA or your phone with the Abacus," explains Widget's Mark Needham.Yet while sporting a watch that can moonlight as a PDA, phone or camera sounds great in theory, manufacturers still need to convince consumers that their watches should be that little bit smarter."Watches are a piece of jewellery," says James Gurney, editor of watch magazine QP. "The problem with the gadget watches is that they don't really work on any level. The gadgets are largely second-rate and the watches are often hideous. They end up appealing to no one."There is also the issue of usability. "The problem with gadget watches is that they are small and can't offer a good user experience," says John Harvey, senior partner at analysts Logan Orviss International. "Do people really want to be stood in a public place talking to their wrist, making do with reduced playlists or struggling to read emails on a tiny interface?"In the future, watches may display information beamed wirelessly to their screens from larger, easier to operate devices in bags or pockets.Until then, the gadget watch may have had its thunder stolen by the mobile phone, which can offer many of the same applications in a reasonably compact form. They even tell the time, too.Fossil Abacuswww.widget.co.ukTechnotuneswww.iwantoneofthose.comCasiowww.casio.co.ukQP Magazinewww.qpmagazine.com
Best of both worldsSuper Monkey Ball DeluxePlayStation 2, Xbox, &pound;39.99Sega, ****Here's more bad news for devotees of Nintendo's GameCube: Sega's glorious Super Monkey Ball has finally made it to rival consoles, which will further diminish bragging rights that were already in short supply.Super Monkey Ball has always been one of those games with much more substance than meets the eye. It looks like a cutesy kids game and sounds simple: essentially a modern update of Marble Madness, you must pilot a monkey in a transparent ball around labyrinthine stages using just the joystick. Yet it is beloved by hardcore gamers just as much as youngsters, thanks to difficulty levels that ramp up to near-insane, an immaculate physics engine and a purity of gameplay that harks back to what those of a certain age persist in viewing as the golden age of videogames.Super Monkey Ball Deluxe is an impressive package, which can be summed up as a megamix of SMB 1 and 2. The main game is an amalgam of all the stages from the first two GameCube games, plus 46 new stages. Many of the existing stages have been extensively tweaked. Stitched together by a cute but silly background story, SMB Deluxe now boasts 300 stages. And it also includes faithful reconstructions of all the mini-games (Monkey Tennis, Monkey Race, Monkey Target and so on) from the two original games - so, for example, you can opt to play Monkey Target as it appeared in SMB or in SMB2. When you consider that SMB2's Monkey Target is one of the most addictive games in its own right, you appreciate that SMB Deluxe offers serious value for money.If you have ever played a modern game and abandoned it in frustration at the over-complicated control system, then Super Monkey Ball Deluxe will restore your faith.Steve BoxerA wet blanketDeep Sea Tycoon 2: Take the PlungePC, &pound;19.99GMX Media/Pixel After Pixel, **It's unclear why this has been labelled as the sequel to Deep Sea Tycoon, as it's basically a highly watered-down version of the original game. Whereas the first title had a host of underwater buildings, environments, disasters and strategic elements, DST2 focuses on creating cuddly sea creatures and keeping them well fed and photographed.The game has a much younger audience in mind, but that's no excuse for dumbing down the gameplay to such an extent that many missions take just a few mouse clicks to complete. This isn't only at the start of the campaign, either. The basic mission structures and objects are repeated and you can easily complete the main game in a few hours.That said, the graphics engine is better this time and watching all the sea life swimming along, with the sunlight streaming through the water, is captivating. But, in the end, it becomes like watching a detailed aquarium screensaver.Children will find the primitive building aspects easy to handle and will enjoy watching the divers ride the animals. But for everyone else, there's simply not enough of a game here to maintain long-term interest.Rhianna PratchettSporting funEverybody's GolfPlayStation Portable, &pound;34.99Sony, ***Everybody's Golf is aptly named. This PSP launch title is easy to play and will entertain even those who think Tiger Woods is a Disney character. The look of the game is cutesy Japanese, and while the plus-four brigade may choke on their post-round G&amp;Ts, the aesthetics work well.Everybody's Golf bypasses the ridiculously starchy golf baggage and unearths the highly enjoyable sport underneath. But don't let the jovial visuals fool you. To win anything other than the beginner tournaments, you will need to master the top spin and hooks. The controls are a simple throwback to pre-analogue days. Press once to start the power bar, press again for power level and a last time to match up accuracy.Wireless play works well too, with the game, like the sport, at its best when playing opponents of a similar level. The graphics are lovely but there is an issue with putting. Reading the greens is tough, with little in the way of on-screen aid.Another issue is the reward system. It takes a lot of golf to earn the right to play as other characters and slogging through a gruelling course only to be rewarded by a trinket is pretty demoralising. Despite the anime look and the tongue-in-cheek feel, Everybody's Golf is serious fun.Greg HowsonTop 5 gamesAll formats1.Brian Lara International Cricket 20052.Madagascar3.Fantastic Four4.Juiced5.Cricket 2005&#183;Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Many top videogame developers started their gaming careers hacking and programming in their bedrooms. Due to spiralling development costs, however, and the seemingly unshakeable power wielded by both publishers and distributors, the bedroom coder has become an endangered species.But while they may be down, they're certainly not out. This is especially true when it comes to Britain's independent development scene, which is leading a burgeoning undercurrent of small studios that have found success away from the publishers' glare. But what's making them take the road less travelled in a climate that's unstable even for the big development houses?"The royalty deals that publishers offer you are rubbish," reveals Mark Morris, director of Introversion Software, a three-man company that has won critical acclaim for its two self-published titles: the hacking simulator Uplink and, most recently Darwinia, a game that revolves around a futuristic virtual world overrun by killer viruses.Uplink was conceived and written by Introversion's lead designer, Chris Delay, while he was still at college. Delay, Morris and their college buddy, Tom Arundel - who is now their main marketing man - each put in &pound;200 of seed funding, built a website for Uplink and went into self-distribution. Getting the word out through the internet helped generate initial sales, but Delay admits that they did most of the initial spin themselves. "We faked it completely," he says. "We went into forums and posted that there was this really quirky new game out and people should give it a go."Eventually, the gaming press got hold of the game and the team started to clock up the column inches. But success brought its own problems, as the trio were doing all the manufacturing themselves - including burning the CDs and posting them out. They soon realised they needed to find proper distribution and get Uplink on to the shelves - but, as Morris explains, they had no idea where to start."We even went up to the cashier in Virgin and asked how we could get our game into the shops," says Morris. "Eventually, after talking to a lot of wrong people, we managed to get a deal with a company called Pinnacle."With sales figures for Uplink in hand and a distribution deal in place, the team had a much better idea of what they were doing with their next title. Morris knew what Introversion had made from Uplink (about &pound;250,000 over two years), and was convinced that they could quadruple that with Darwinia. In reality, the initial sales of the game weren't as strong as they'd hoped."We were a bit disappointed with the initial launch, but then again I think you always will be," muses Morris. "You want the game to launch at midday and then at 5pm have the distributor ring you and say they need another 10,000 copies. That didn't happen, but it has been getting consistently good sales week-on-week."When asked if they'd consider selling out and snuggling under the wing of a big publisher, Morris gives the quick, honest answer: "It depends on the money". Then he gives a more considered response. "You don't really get that much freedom to steer games in a big company," he says. "I think you're only really going to have the creative freedom to work on your own game ideas when you run your own business."Introversion is of the view that it's not as hard as people think to start your own games company. "People have a lot of assumptions about how the industry works," explains Morris. "They automatically assume that they have to go and work for a big developer, or that if they start their own company they need a publisher. You do need capital but you can do a lot of your own distribution online."In fact, the internet has become something of a best friend to the indie developer. Cultivating fan bases and running lively forums can provide a great backbone for fostering a community and gaining essential feedback from players. Introversion used several of its forum members as beta-testers on Darwinia.Online distribution has been a key factor in the success of not only Introversion, but also British indie studios such as Pompom, a two-man company that created the retro-inspired games Space Tripper and Mutant Storm. Positech has found fame with small, downloadable games such as the political strategy title Democracy. Cutting out the middleman has also proved beneficial to larger companies, with Valve's online distribution platform, known as Steam, growing in popularity.Morris claims that online distribution is the future of games development: "I think retail is sensing its own demise. We'll see more companies vying for downloadable content."The most important ingredient in creating a successful indie developer can't be bought or sold, yet often gets overlooked in the profit-grabbing scrum - and that is sheer talent. Add to that a good deal of online nous, plus a few family members who are willing to stamp-lick, and fortune really can favour the brave.LinksBack to the bedroomwww.introversion.co.ukwww.pompomgames.comwww.positech.co.uk/games1.shtml&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Pentax's Optio WP is an amphibious camera: it features a shell that is impervious to water. In theory, users can snap away on the beach and then descend into the ocean to capture the marine life. In practice, however, the five megapixel camera is only waterproof to about five feet, which makes it fine for the causal dipper but too primitive for anyone with loftier diving ambitions. The trade-off for the waterproof case is that the WP, which costs &pound;220, is slightly larger and heavier than most compacts. It also has a few quirks, such as the way its lens is sited behind a pane of glass. Accidentally scratch the glass and your images will suffer.Nevertheless, the pictures it takes underwater are good and for this user, it captured the rich blues of a swimming pool and the murkier water of the North Sea with excellent colour resolution. In spite of the difficulties of framing pictures underwater, the autofocus worked well to deliver clear, non-blurred images. The WP isn't for everyone, but for swimmers who enjoy taking the odd underwater snap, it is well worth considering.www.pentax.co.uk
The soft, inevitable kiss came last Monday. After years of playing hard to get, Big Content and the digitally savvy might just be getting it together.The first signs are good: PlayLouder MSP, an internet service provider (ISP), announced its intention to launch a service in September that, included in the price, offers a licence to download and share all of the music from a variety of record labels, no matter where that music comes from. Subscribe to PlayLouder, in other words, and your Kazaa habit will be legal.The trick is that the ISP has equipment that can spot, and identify, music files being shared across its network. This allows it to count the number of times a particular artist or track is copied by one of its customers. That, in turn, means it can share its revenue fairly between the record companies, in exactly the same way as radio stations do.According to Paul Hitchman, a director of PlayLouder, the licensing terms differ between the record companies signed up with the service, and negotiations are continuous as they ramp up to launch next month.As for now, any customer joining up will be able to freely share any music that the ISP has a license to, regardless of where that music came from. In other words, by joining the ISP, you're getting a get out of jail free card for your stolen music.But PlayLouder hopes that you won't need to do that. In order to improve the experience for its users, PlayLouder is making half a million tracks available at launch with higher quality encodings and completed metadata - the sort of thing invariably missing from illegitimately shared music.There's a rub there, though: while independent record labels are providing their music in unprotected MP3 format, music from SonyBMG will be in copy-protected Windows Media format. Cease to be a PlayLouder subscriber, and that music ceases to be playable.It's not a perfect romance. PlayLouder says it will block access to the wider world's filesharing networks; though it says that this, and the fact you have to stay with the ISP to listen to some of the music, isn't necessarily a bad thing for most customers. As Hitchman points out, less than 10% of customers change their ISP anyway.So the quid pro quo is rather plain to see - pay a subscription and you'll get all the music you want, and, perhaps, legitimise all the music you've stolen to date. Or go with another ISP, continue to break the law, and risk trouble. Legal carrots and sticks aside, it is a compelling proposition, and one that could be easily reused for other content. For &pound;20 a month, say, access to the movies and TV shows to be found on the BitTorrent tracker sites could be a very popular offering.As it goes, PlayLouder is a tentative and awkward first embrace. It could be the start of a beautiful relationship between the content companies and the people who want their product, but want it in their own way.Why fight it? We love each other really.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
TelevisionCrystal clearSatellite broadcaster Sky this week announced the lineup of channels for its high-definition television service, which is mooted for launch early next year. HDTV, which relies on higher resolutions to produce clearer images on screens, has already proved popular in the US and is being trumpeted by broadcasters as the next generation of TV. Sky promises viewers crystal clear HD channels for Sky Sports, Sky One and ArtsWorld as well as two dedicated movie channels and on-demand films. The total cost for those wanting to switch to high definition still isn't clear, however, since subscribers will require a special high-definition Sky decoder and a HD-capable television set.www.sky.comMobile phonesHandy messagingA new service hopes to bring the popularity of online instant messaging to mobile phones. While phone networks already offer messaging, they are generally only available on smartphones - handsets which make up just a small part of the market, and are less popular among message-friendly teens. Senjoo, a new service launched this week, is Java-based - which means it can be downloaded on to many more existing handsets - and is compatible with messaging networks like AIM, ICQ, Jabber, MSN and Yahoo Messenger. It costs &pound;1.50 for a month's subscription, which is payable by text message.www.senjoo.comWalkie talkiesMobile phone network Orange is to extend the availability of its Talk Now, push to talk (PTT) service. The system, which enables owners of PTT-equipped mobiles to converse with each other in a manner similar to walkie talkies by pressing one button and speaking, has been available to Orange subscribers for nearly a year. Now the company has significantly extended its list of PTT handsets by offering the Sagem my-C5-2T, pictured left, and LG 2250T, and is rolling out Talk Now to its pay-as-you-go customers. Users are given a three month free trial, after which they pay 20p a session (which can last up to 30 minutes).www.orange.co.ukMedia playersRadio revampUS manufacturer Pogo! Products is bringing its Radio YourWay LX to the UK. The small portable device combines FM and AM radio tuners with either 128 or 256MB of internal Flash memory, enabling the user to record both programmes that are on air and, via a timer, those yet to be transmitted. The radio also features integrated MP3 and WMA players, a speaker, a pair of earphones and an internal microphone for voice recording. Users can also increase the radio's storage capacity by adding an SD or MMC card. On sale now, the 128MB model retails for &pound;110 and the 256MB model for &pound;140.www.pogoproducts.comCamerasClever compactSanyo has unveiled a digital camera with a three-inch CD monitor - the largest so far on a compact model. The Xacti E6 is an ultra-thin camera capable of capturing six megapixel still images. It also features MPeg-4 video capabilities, which record VGA-standard footage. The camera is Sanyo's first to feature its new Touch Sensor button, which delivers faster auto-focusing than previous Xactis. Other features include digital effects, a 3x internal optical zoom and 16MB of storage, which can be supplemented by an SD or MMC card. The E6 is due on sale in the autumn; there are no price details yet.www.sanyo.co.ukYou'll be framedPanasonic has unveiled a pair of DVD-based camcorders. Set to launch in the UK this month, the VDR-M55B (&pound;500), and VDR-M75B (&pound;600) both archive footage to DVD-RAM discs that can be played back in Panasonic DVD players (and some other makes). The pair, which are smaller and lighter than their predecessors (they weigh about 440 grams), can also take VGA still images, which are saved on to either the DVD-RAM disc or an SD card. The camcorders are fairly similar, though the higher specification VDR-M75 has a resolution of 1.3 megapixels and a 24x optical zoom, compared with 800,000 pixels resolution and 10x optical zoom of the VDR-M55.www.panasonic.co.ukStat of the week - search ruled by big playersGoogle's constant headline-grabbing emphasises the idea that the search market is growing fast - but it is a space that's completely dominated by the main players. Even AOL, traditionally seen as one of the "big four", has less than 10% market share in the US.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
There's a new buzzword doing the rounds: arphids are simple devices, a few pence worth of electronic components and an antenna. To give them their proper name, RFID (radio frequency identification) tags are getting cheaper by the day and are becoming important tools to help companies keep control of their supply chains and inventory.Software toolkits from major vendors and cheaper ways of producing tags mean RFID is now starting to appear in some unexpected places.The magic price point at which big stores suddenly replace barcodes with arphids is still some time away. You probably won't see them on the pair of trousers or the razor blades you bought at Tesco, but they're working behind the scenes - helping track items through the convolutions of the supply chain, and making sure that palettes and containers are returned to just where they belong. RFID tags even help in security, with banks using them to track packages of bonds. It's a technology that links security and location control.Your new PC may well have come to you courtesy of RFID. Custom-built systems from many vendors start life as an arphid on some paper work. This tag follows the computer through production and inspection, and on to delivery - making sure that custom hardware goes to the right place. Tagging also helps track problems with specific batches of hardware, as it gives complete traceability of manufacture. That way batches built with suspect components can be quickly recalled and faults rectified before they cause problems for most users.Oracle, the database software company, treats RFID as just another data source that produces information and transactions that need to be managed. Oracle isn't building new RFID products; instead it's adding RFID support into its standard product line by extending the Fusion middleware platform with the Sensor Edge server. That gives the Oracle platform the tools to work with automatically generated transactions.The Sensor Edge server connects to any event-reading device - from an RFID tag to a Geiger counter - and stores the result in a database or feeds it into any of Oracle's eBusiness tools. Daniel Dombach, Oracle's European director for alliances and channels, believes that "customers will get the most value from this approach". He sees RFID being used where counterfeiting can occur, where compliance is needed (especially in life sciences) and where assets need to be tracked and managed.Oracle is working with Tata Consultancy Services on a pilot RFID project at Virgin Atlantic Airways, at Virgin's Heathrow facility. RFID tags will be attached to critical aircraft parts, and the resulting system will be able to locate parts more easily, helping with checking and warehouse management. Better inventory control should also help with quality management. An RFID tag allows the airline to store more than just product part numbers and locations and it can be used to track and analyse the lifecycle of individual parts.Microsoft is also adding tools to its development platform to help businesses use RFID readers. Scott Woodgate, group product manager in Microsoft's Connected Systems Division, wants to make it easier (and cheaper) to add devices to existing applications. Despite emerging standards, many RFID readers use their own protocols. Microsoft is developing a plug-and-play layer for readers - standards and non-standards-based alike. Using this and Microsoft's Visual Studio.net software, developers can produce custom RFID applications without needing to learn anything new.Oracle and Microsoft aren't the only tool vendors with RFID frameworks. BEA is helping the Finnish Post Office track postal cages. These are often lost and "re-purposed". Tagging them will show who took a cage and its location. It's only a pilot project, but the post office hopes this will reduce wastage and give an insight into the return on investment for evaluating other projects.Progress Software is also working on an unusual RFID implementation, putting arphids on trees in Germany. Nail-shaped arphids are hammered into trees and used to track the trunks as they move from chainsaw to truck to sawmill. Better tracking doesn't only reduce what Progress calls "inventory shrinkage". The data collected will make it easier for the right payments to be sent to the right people, including foresters and hauliers.While many RFID projects deal with counting single instances of objects as they pass through set points in a business process, Microsoft placed anonymous and randomly allocated "slap-n-ship" RFID tags on attendee badges at this year's European TechEd conference. With data gathered from the tags, conference staff could look at the flow of attendees through specific areas, as well as matching the number of staff in demonstration labs to the number of people showing up. By working with aggregate, anonymous data like this, Microsoft can improve its planning for next year's event, locating conference staff where they're needed, when they're needed, as well as allocating rooms more effectively.Arphid identification systems can also add value. Often it's important to ensure the integrity of an item - especially when the item in question is rare, and expensive. NEC has worked with a group of Japanese Hida beef providers, using RFID in every stage of beef production, from the cattle in the field to the final delivery at the store. Tags on the animals are used to monitor temperature and where they're feeding. Once the cattle are slaughtered, the same tag is used to trace the beef, adding information on the source, the number and type of cuts, and the weight. The resulting information means that stores know the exact history of the beef they're selling, from field to counter.NEC is also using RFID tags in hospitals. A pilot project at the University of Yokohama is using arphid rings to replace patient identity tags. This helps tie the patient's ID to their records. The hospital can attach photographs to the records, and nurses on their rounds can call up the images to make sure they're giving the right drugs to the right patients, in the right doses.And there's plenty of scope for arphids in logistics. Californian stone and building materials company Graniterock uses RFID tags to track trucks of rock, storing information about the load before it's sent out to customers. RFID systems can quickly produce vast amounts of data, and Graniterock is using tools from Business Objects to create the reports needed to manage its logistics business - and produce accurate bills.It's getting easier to add RFID to business processes. IBM and Printronix printers produce "slap-n-ship" smart labels by encoding the tag as the label is printed, while software toolkits are linking tag printing to line-of-business applications. With arphids on trees, aircraft parts and customs forms, RFID is coming into its own - without any risk to consumer privacy.
Charles Clarke, the home secretary, has revealed the answer to one of the great government IT mysteries: whatever happened to the Passport Agency umbrellas?The 1,200 brollies symbolised an archetypal government computer fiasco. They were bought in 1999 to protect thousands of anxious applicants for new passports, forced to queue in the street as the agency struggled with a new IT system.In the event, the umbrellas were never deployed in earnest. The great passport panic, caused by a decision to introduce new IT simultaneously with a change in the rules, was over within weeks.With hindsight, the agency's IT problems were just teething troubles, albeit of the screaming all night variety, which should have been foreseen. Since then, so far as we know, the system has worked.The disaster's legacy, however, lives on in public and political minds. Unlike most such imbroglios, it was sudden and photogenic, which made good material for TV news. For ministers, the crisis brought to a head a decade-long series of IT-related embarrassments, prompting a succession of measures supposed to stop them happening again.These measures included setting up a "senior forum" with the IT industry, the wholesale adoption of gateway reviews as reality checks for IT programmes, and the appointment of a new corps of high-flying government chief information officers. Projects would be professionally managed, their risks assessed and contingency plans put in place for failure.Five years on, it remains to be seen whether these measures are working. Although the tide seems to be turning, horror stories are still filtering through from IT programmes begun under previous management structures.Probably unfairly, the idea that the British government is uniquely incompetent in running IT projects remains as strongly embedded as ever - listen to any public discussion about ID cards, road pricing or NHS reform.On the other hand, none of these ambitious programmes would have been conceived if Downing Street and the Treasury had not been confident that they could get a grip on IT. So perhaps we have the Passport Agency to thank for bringing matters to a head.And what of the umbrellas? Until last month, they were last heard of during a hearing at the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee. A suspicious MP asked what had been done with them. "In storage against future contingencies," came the smooth reply. For a while, it looked as if a new piece of parliamentary ritual was in the making: would generations of tourists marvel at the annual ceremonial counting of the passport umbrellas?Someone, however, has had enough. In one of those enigmatic ministerial replies to parliamentary questions that sputter out before the summer recess, the home secretary revealed that as 94% of applicants are now seen within 20 minutes, the umbrellas are no longer needed. They have been donated to Oxfam. Look out for a piece of government IT history in your local high street charity shop.
Right to royaltiesSun Microsystems is calling for "an open source, royalty-free internet standard to compensate rights-holders and stimulate innovation". In other words, it is asking the industry to back its digital rights management (DRM), which controls the way music, video and other files can be played or copied. Sun says its system, Dream (or DReaM), is open source, and is being released under Sun's Community Development and Distribution License. Supporting products include Java Stream Assembly and the Sun Streaming Server. Dream is unlikely to replace the DRM systems used by Apple, Microsoft and other market players, but it aims to allow different DRM systems to interoperate. Sun has had some success with the open Liberty Alliance, launched in opposition to Microsoft's Passport sign-on system, when that was seen as a threat. In this case, Sun will need the support of groups which don't want a proprietary DRM system (unless, of course, it's theirs). These include Hollywood studios and the major phone companies.www.sun.comRootkits revealedOne of the main trends in the malware business is the use of "rootkits". Moscow-based anti-virus company Kaspersky Lab says: "The term refers to a set of programs that allow a hacker to maintain access to a computer after cracking it and that prevent the hacker being detected. Both writers of illegal viruses and developers of so-called 'legal' spyware programs openly advertise that programs concealed using rootkits are invisible to the user and undetectable by anti-virus programs." Kaspersky has produced a white paper to explain the problem.www.viruslist.comDual duelAMD has challenged Intel, its much larger rival, to a duel. AMD will enter a boxing ring armed with severs based on Dual-Core Opteron 800 Series or 200 Series processors, and it is now up to Intel to choose its weapons. Both systems would run standard server benchmarks. Marty Seyer, corporate vice president and a general manager at AMD, says: "The gauntlet has been thrown down, it is time to cut through the hype and demonstrate who the industry's leader in x86 dual-core processing is."www.amd.com/duelOn the jobEmployees downloading things and attempting to bypass company policies may account for 80% of security threats, according to a study by AppSense, a system performance and security specialist. The information gathered in 160 systems audits revealed that, while some threats are from hacking tools downloaded by employees, many are from unsanctioned installation of applications downloaded from the internet. In both cases, the actions open the door to viruses, spyware and Trojans. The data was collected through AppSense's Systems Audit, an on-site consultancy service designed to show potential customers how their systems may be under threat.www.appsense.netMoving mainframesLocal authorities are moving away from mainframes for running their primary applications, with the major winner being Microsoft Windows. In the latest Index of Application Software from the Society of IT Management (SocITM), only 9% of local authority general ledger systems run on mainframes compared to 43% in 2000. Unix's growth has been modest, and only increased by two percentage points to 52%, whereas Windows has shot up from 7% to 29%. St Helens Metropolitan Borough Council is the latest convert and is migrating from its Amdahl mainframe to a Windows and Unix environment. The council is using two applications migrated by MicroFocus from its mainframe. It is expecting to save &pound;300,000 per year.www.socitm.gov.uk/Wireless warIntel has started an argument with US telecoms companies that could have repercussions in Europe. The company's Digital Communities initiative, designed to encourage city authorities to get wireless networks, is being seen as an anti-competitive threat by telecoms companies. Philadelphia is planning to be the first city to use a WiMax network, the wide-area version of Wi-Fi. This could undermine telecoms companies and other providers of broadband and Wi-Fi hotspots. When mobile phones add Wi-Fi to their wireless protocols, it could also be the cheapest way to make voice calls inside the city's free WiMax zone.www.intel.com
It seems there are two kinds of worm in the Windows world: ones that threaten hundreds of millions of XP users, and ones that embarrass a small number of media companies using Windows 2000.The second type struck last week. It started spreading via the net on Sunday with Zotob.A, which according to anti-virus company Trend Micro, infected about 50 computers worldwide. It was soon followed by Zotob.B, which hit about 1,000 systems, without doing any actual damage.Were reporters across America shouting, "Hold the front page"? Well, you don't need two guesses.By Tuesday, variants of the worm were shutting down PCs, or causing them to reboot. But this still only affected PCs running Windows 2000 that had not had the latest security patch installed, that were not properly protected by firewalls, and lacked updated virus checkers - which must be a tiny proportion of all Windows systems.As Russian anti-virus company Kaspersky Lab reported last Wednesday: "There has not been any noticeable increase in network activity which could be ascribed to this worm." For comparison, it said, the Sasser worm caused an increase in network traffic of approximately 20% to 40%.However, the companies hit included The New York Times, the CNN cable news network and Walt Disney's ABC News, so perhaps the result was predictable."A real epidemic or media hysteria?" wondered Kaspersky Lab. The amount of coverage was surprising, but the story the press didn't tell was: "Wow, we screwed up."There were, as always, lessons to be learned. The most important is that worm and virus writers are speeding up their efforts to create exploits as soon as possible after Microsoft has "announced" them by releasing a security fix. IT managers no longer have months or weeks to get their acts together: Zotob/Mytob/Rbot/IRCBot/Bozori appeared in days.The second lesson is that worm and virus writing is no longer the preserve of inadequately socialised nerds. Compromising PCs so that they can be exploited to send spam or mount blackmail attacks on websites or networks is now a big-money business and attractive to serious criminals.According to Finnish anti-virus firm F-Secure, the Zotob debacle included a "bot war" as rival gangs tried to grab compromised PCs. The third lesson is, I deduce, that many IT managers have not installed adequate defences against malware that is brought inside their firewalls by the laptops staff use at home. People can't plug into Microsoft's corporate network without their notebook PC being scanned for updates and viruses: how about yours?Still, in the long term, Zotob could be good news for Microsoft. Windows 2000 is still the most common operating system in corporations, even though they must know (if their IT people are doing their jobs) that XP SP2 is more secure.Many firms have taken the view that Windows 2000 is a good desktop operating system that does all they need, so they don't have a reason to spend money upgrading to XP SP2 or the forthcoming Vista. Well, perhaps now they do.
Clear the airI suffer from ME and this makes me very chemically sensitive. I am bothered by the air issuing from computers and it takes me about two years before I am really comfortable using a new machine. Are there any PCs (particularly laptops) that do not suck air over all the components and spew it out?Mark SavillJack Schofield replies:There is a lot of interest in PCs that use liquid cooling and/or heat pipes instead of (but sometimes as well as) fans. The market is driven mainly by gamers who want to "overclock" their machines: running the processor at a higher clock speed means it generates more heat.There is also some interest from people who want silent PCs, eg for use in music studios. Searching Google for &#91;silent PC&#93; will provide some leads.When it comes to notebook PCs, things have improved in the past few years thanks partly to the arrival of low-power Transmeta and Intel Pentium M processors. These were designed mainly for thin-and-light notebooks where heat can be a problem, but they have also been used in fanless desktop PCs such as the Tranquil T2eMP Media Center PC (www.tranquilpc.co.uk/t2eMP.htm). In my experience, Centrino notebooks usually run without using the fan, but when the processor is used heavily, the fan spins up and blasts of hot air come out.You can reduce the chances of this happening by making sure there is clear air around the notebook (so don't use it on your lap) and that ventilation points are not blocked. You can also buy laptop coolers - stands that often have their own fans. When it comes to mainstream suppliers, the only fanless notebook I can think of is Sony's high-tech VAIO VGN-X505, which takes thin-and-light to extremes (seehttp://products.sony.co.uk/article_11.asp). It was launched in May last year but was too expensive and is no longer on the market.Kill the MessengerWe are concerned at the amount of time our teenagers are spending on MSN Messenger. If we try to get them to sign out, they insist that they are busy with homework. Is there any way of allowing access to the web, but disabling MSN Messenger - or imposing a curfew?John RussellJS:Many teenagers do homework co-operatively using MSN Messenger and other instant messaging (IM) programs. They all seem to be able to watch TV, talk on their mobiles and chat via MSN at the same time. However, there are "parental control" programs that allow you to block specific programs or groups of programs. You could try RIA Software's Parental Lock Guard 1.2 (www.riasc.net/plg.aspx), which is free, and runs on Windows 2000 and XP. A more closely targeted alternative for the same operating systems is Comvigo's IM Lock (www.comvigo.com/imlock.htm). This can block MSN Messenger, AIM, Yahoo Messenger, Trillian, mIRC, AOL Messenger and GAIM, and also many filesharing programs. Version 1.3.1 is available for a seven-day trial and costs $24.99.All is not lostEmails disappear from my Outlook Express inbox after a first reading. I can retrieve them using the Find facility - but only if I remember the sender's address or subject line.Gerald HirstJS:Go to the View menu, select Current View, and make sure there is a black dot next to Show All Messages. My guess is that you have accidentally set it to the next menu item, Hide Read Messages.Image consciousI would like to download some screensavers and wallpapers. How do I know if they are safe?Ted MartynJS:It should be safe to download from reputable sites - you can always Google a site to see whether other people have had problems. In general, I'd be wary of screensavers or wallpapers packed in .exe (executable) files, though they are more likely to contain adverts than viruses. If you download zip files, you can scan them before you install the contents. JPeg image files are usually safe. DeviantART (http://wallpaper.deviantart.com/) and Caedes (www.caedes.net) are among many good sources of wallpaper images.Backchat&#183;Last week, I suggested reporting broken links on the Guardian's website touserhelp@guardian.co.uk. David England says he does, "but I invariably get the response that I need to clear my cache even when I point out that I have already done this. It's infuriating." I think it's something they put in the tea here ...&#183;Joy Murphy asked about organising her Favorites list in Internet Explorer, and I said she could right-click on the drop-down menu and choose Sort By Name. Dai Bickham, Peter Howells, Richard Rees Jones, Mike Jordan and Michael Miller were the first to point out that you can also rearrange bookmarks manually by using "drag and drop" to move them with the mouse. Norman Thomas said Sort By Name wasn't on his menu, which I can't explain.
Just weeks after the US supreme court ruled against filesharing network Grokster, legal experts and industry insiders say the verdict is having a chilling effect on US technological innovation.The Grokster case was the result of a lawsuit brought by 28 of America's largest entertainment companies against a group of peer-to-peer software developers. It hinged on a simple question: should the distributor of a tool be held liable for the copyright infringements that may be committed by that tool's users?The answer, when it came, was vague. Under certain circumstances, the court said, programmers can be held responsible for the things people do with their applications.The result, say some, is that venture capitalists made uneasy by the imprecise ruling are abandoning investments in filesharing technologies for more sedate arenas."Money has shifted into places which will avoid any conflict with the copyright holders," says Professor Larry Lessig, the top American advocate for copyright reform. "Why buy a &#91;new innovation that gets you a&#93; lawsuit when you can buy a new innovation that doesn't get you a lawsuit?"The threat of legal action can be as dangerous as legal action itself, says veteran investor Joi Ito. "All of these laws and possible future laws ... increase the risk that someone will decide that the cool, new music distribution technology of the startup you invested in is illegal," he says."I think Grokster, as well as the possibility that Congress will pass new laws, creates a chilling effect by increasing the risk to companies and investors."Braden Cox, technology counsel for the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a Washington thinktank, said: "Unfortunately, the verdict will have a chilling effect on innovation and may stifle the next generation of digital multimedia technology."The aim of the lawsuit, apart from shutting down the peer-to-peer companies, was to overrule the so-called Betamax Doctrine. This has been a mainstay of US intellectual property law since the early 1980s, and emerged after Universal Studios sued Sony for producing the Betamax video recorder - which, Universal claimed, encouraged widespread piracy of TV shows.At that time, the supreme court said that a manufacturer could not be held responsible for the illegal uses a user puts its product to. Sony won the case. Although the majority decision said that most of Betamax's users were breaking the law, their actions were not deemed to be Sony's fault. The company is not responsible for its users.The difference between the users and their uses was again the key point this year when Grokster was in the firing line. The Grokster case rested on whether the writers of the peer-to-peer software could be held responsible for the copyright infringements made by its users.In the end, the Grokster ruling didn't change the law - Betamax still stands - but it did add a new test. It says that "one who distributes a device with the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright, as shown by clear expression or other affirmative steps taken to foster infringement, is liable for the resulting acts of infringement by third parties".In other words, if the product is promoted as just the thing to steal music with, the defence that it can do other things too now doesn't stand. An US manufacturer of such a technology can be sued by the owners of the copyrighted material in question.This section of the ruling is quite straightforward. Industry analyst Om Malik says: "The bottom line is that, so far, many digital lifestyle related startups have used the Sony Betamax ruling as a crutch - more like an excuse for doing things which fall in the grey area. That's clearly not going to fly &#91;any more&#93;."The first, more immediate, consequence of the ruling was that Grokster can now be sued. The plaintiffs claim that the company's business model was based on encouraging people to use their software to infringe copyright, and the more people did that, the more Grokster profited. They're all going back to court later in the year.However, while the Grokster ruling seems fair, it is also not particularly precise. And here's the problem. Just what is the definition of the inducement to infringe copyright that pushes a company over the edge of illegality? The ruling says it is something "shown by clear expression or other affirmative steps", but does not elucidate further.Just what "other affirmative steps" are is hard to say, and it is this doubt that may be having a damaging effect on technological innovation in the US. "The question of intent is highly fact-dependent, and discovery rules will afford plaintiffs wide latitude to seek probative evidence," warned the top Silicon Valley law firm Cooley Godward in an advisory to its clients. "It may be more difficult for defendants to obtain resolution of cases short of going to trial."Copyright holders are invariably huge media companies with big legal budgets - and this means they can afford to pursue a legal remedy for as long as it takes.The result is that programmers with a good idea will have to prove to everyone, and specifically their backers, that they are operating entirely without the risk of a lawsuit. This is hard to do: indeed, so hard, that many backers aren't giving them the chance in the first place.Furthermore, given that the fundamental point of the internet is the moving of data from one place to another, the area of chilled innovation is greater than you might think. Does advertising a system that allows for large email attachments induce copyright infringement? Could the features of broadband connections, which make large files easier to deal with, make it an inducement to illegal filesharing? When a photo-sharing site or blogging tool proudly proclaims the ease of placing material online, does that make it an inducement to breach copyright?It doesn't really matter. The fact that the answers are fuzzy means that small innovators will run out of money for their lawyers long before the record labels do. Venture capitalists might not even take the risk of funding any such startups at all.The future equivalents of the video recorder or the photocopier may well be throttled at birth by the risk of an expensive lawsuit, even if the result of such a day in court would be complete vindication. Some battles are too expensive to fight, even if you are bound to win.These lawsuits may also become a great deal more complicated. The supreme court has given the go ahead for Grokster to stand trial, but it hasn't given any advice on what the punishment should be if it is found guilty.As Ito says: "Any startup trying to innovate in the online music distribution business will be walking a minefield of unreasonable government legislation and industry patent litigation, which will scare away entrepreneurs and investors alike."In the end, the problem is, at heart, a local one. Because the US supreme court only rules over the US, the rulings there don't make any difference to programmers in the rest of the world. And while Europe does sometimes take a lead from US law with respect to copyright issues, much of the developing world does not.They are free from legal restraints - but, more importantly, they are free from legal uncertainty, and there lies the rub. Whether copyright infringement is their business or not, foreign developers now have the advantage.Sadly for the copyright owners, while the new ruling might make it difficult for a company to make money from a commercial filesharing application, filesharing itself isn't affected. Because of the way that modern peer-to-peer networks operate, with no central organisation to shut down, you don't need a professionally produced or supported application to access them.Most of the filesharing applications in use are open source, free to use and without any corporate backing. There is no one but the individual filesharers themselves to sue - which is already happening in the UK - and no way to put the cat back into the bag.Indeed, by forcing first Napster and then Grokster and the other filesharing entrepreneurs out of business, the record companies have created an enemy they can neither beat nor negotiate with.An embrace of Napster at the start might have, in retrospect, made for a better strategy.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
In a world that has become addicted to broadband, Mikie Rods has lost his high-speed connection. His internet access was terminated because of so-called 'referrer spamming' - leaving links to websites about pornography, loans and ringtones.Rods doesn't see himself as a hardened spammer, because he doesn't use networks of compromised Windows machines to bombard the world with spam. Nor did he try to hide what he was doing, even though his activities are distasteful.So what exactly is referrer spamming? Whenever you visit a website, you leave a record in its access log - including the page (or referrer) that you came to the site from. Referrer "marketeers" fake this information, leaving details of sites they want to market behind instead. Some site owners - particularly bloggers - publish lists of incoming links for their visitors, and these links are also visible to search engines."I've been reading up on search engines and how they rank," says Rods. "The more links that point towards your domain, the higher you get in the ranking."When he came across a $50 Windows program called Reffy, Rods realised it might boost his search engine rankings and make him some money at the same time. Capable of visiting 80 sites a second, Reffy came with a list of nearly 12,000 target blogs. It was soon hard at work leaving referrer strings for Rods' websites about pornography, loans and ringtones. "Those sites were set up trying to make money. All I was doing was marketing somebody else's product," says Rods, who was looking to receive a commission for each customer he brought to these sites.His activities were soon spotted by Norwegian blogger, Ann Elisabeth Nordbo, who runs the Spam Huntress website. She published her findings and Rods' ISP cut him off.Reffy's author is an anonymous programmer in Norway who goes by the nickname of M0nkey. The program has since been upgraded and relaunched as PR Storm. For $87, it promises to bring its users millions of links by invading websites and leaving a trail of links behind."The result of this form of marketing is a nearly limitless flow of visitors and links," says M0nkey, who doesn't understand why some websites become enraged at referrer strings that don't reflect real page links.But is the practice legal? M0nkey says there is no law anywhere specifically against referrer spamming. Steve Linford of the anti-spam organisation Spamhaus, however, doesn't approve: "The whole idea of doing this type of marketing is so unethical. It's a very sleazy thing to do."Clare Griffiths, a partner at legal firm Be, says that while a breach of the implied contract between the owner of a website and the visitor could give rise to action against the referrer spammer, "realistically it's not going happen". But David Engel, a partner at Addleshaw Goddard, says spammers should watch out: "There is a serious risk that they are committing a criminal offence under the Computer Misuse Act 1990."There may also be civil remedies for search engines which find that referrer spamming damages their ability to providing reliable search rankings. Despite all of this, M0nkey remains unrepentant. "Why would it be unethical, any more than it is unethical to wear a highly visible company logo on a piece of clothing?"&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Better late than never dept: The guy behind the Furby has come up with a new toy for the iPod generation, reports theChicago Tribune.Zizzle, started in January by Roger Shiffman, a co-founder of the original Tiger Electronics, is launching iZ (pronounced "is"), a combination high-tech musicmaking toy and external speaker for the iPod. The $39.99 character has a Sputnik space-age look, with three poseable white legs, a shiny green body and orange-and-white belly button that doubles as a control."It's iconic. It's cute. People will like it," said Shiffman, who founded Zizzle with partner Jeff Hsieh, chief executive of Toy Biz Worldwide Ltd. in Hong Kong. IZ is designed to capture a segment that many toymakers have been missing: 'tweens on up.
Must say I am pretty impressed withGoogle Talk. It took about 3 minutes to download and install the software and get going, most of which was taken up figuring out which sockets to use to plug a new Plantronics 70 headset into my notebook PC. The main drawback is that I only have one person to talk to, but it is the first day! Also, it only does VoIP with the Google Talk client software, and both of you must have Gmail and run Windows.... The IM bit, of course, usesXMPPand works with several clients.I did a little piece fortoday's Guardianand a longer one on Google Talk and Google Desktop for tomorrow's Online.
What should we make of theserumoursabout the much-hyped, much-anticipated Revolution controller? Remember, Nintendo has been promising something very special, something that'll change the way we interact with games, yet internet gossipmongers are suggesting that the joypad's unique feature is a force feedback tilt sensor, which provides resistance to the player's movements. Everyone is expecting a cross between the tilt feature in Wario Ware: Twisted and the Rumble Pak for the old N64 pad.Of course, the reports have prompted a lot of negative comment and disappoinment, but there are two things we should remember here. First, not everything you read on the internet is true - especially where videogames are concerned (feel free to pause here and take a few deep breaths if this revelation has shocked the bejesus out of you). These days the key companies keep their cards very close to their chests, creating a lively black market in conjecture, guess work and outright fiction. Secondly, we all scoffed at the Rumble Pak, but the rumble feature has quietly become a staple element in creating atmosphere and providing near-subliminal sensory feedback to the gamer. And there were even people who doubted the wisdom of the DS touch screen...These rumours probably say more about the close-knit videogaming community and the speed with which gossip spreads and attains authenticity than they do about the Revolution. Whatever, I'm hoping that tilt feedbackisn'tthe big sell. I was expecting a thought control device. Or something involving nano-bots.
"When Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger shipped in April, the rest of the media fawned over its hot new features and made you feel that Tiger was a must-have upgrade," says Bob Leviticus, Dr Mac for theHouston Chronicle."But I read MacFixIt's recently releasedTroubleshooting Mac OS X 10.4.2 Special Report, at www.macfixit.com/osx1042/, and now I'm not so sure:"The report includes a poll that asked: "Did your system have problems after applying the Mac OS X 10.4.2 update?"64.5 percent said, "No, seems to be working fine."24.5 percent said, "Yes, minor issues (quirks and minor deficiencies)."11 percent said, "Yes, major issues (cannot boot, loss of data, etc.)."In a similar poll earlier this year, 47 percent reported major and minor issues with the 10.4.1 update, while 63.6 percent had some form of malfunction after installing the initial 10.4.0 release. That's not good.Comment:Thank goodness it wasn't a Windows upgrade. With this level of problems there might have been 100 million people rioting in the streets... ;-)
A little business news for ya. Yesterday saw Square Enix moving in to buy out Taito in a potential 67 billion yen deal.Accordingto news site Gamesindustry.biz, Taito stock rocketed in response to the proposed deal.Two questions:1) Will the new company be called Square Enix Taito? It sounds like some kind of crazy law firm. 2) Will we see any exciting IP crossovers? Perhaps Final Bubble Bobble Fantasy in which the balloon popping dinosaurs embark on a heroic quest to squeeze more life out of the Bust-A-Move franchise.Meanwhile in America, media mega-giant Time Warner has invested $7.5m in mobile games publisher,Glu. As Varietypoints out:"Media congloms, led by Murdoch's News Corp., have taken a renewed interest in the Internet and wireless entertainment recently. Warner Bros., Fox and CBS recently appointed high-level execs to oversee their wireless efforts."Congloms? What an unpleasant abbreviation. Anyway, it doesn't take a genius to work out why the big media monsters are into mobile games. But just in case, here's a quick reminder...Five reasons why giant media corporations love the mobile games industry1. The potential audience of billions somewhat dwarfs the reach of the console or PC industries. 2. The quality of the games doesn't matter so much. Mobile downloads are often impulse purchases made by casual users who don't mind if a game produced to tie in with the latest Hollywood action blockbuster actually bearsabsolutely no resemblanceto the source material and is in fact a Space Invaders/Pac-Man/Tetris/Mario Kart [delete where applicable] clone, coded into soporific 'life' by some sweatshop studio in Bombay. 3. Mobile games publishers are still relative small-fry and therefore easier to push around than the likes of EA or Activision. 4. Mobile games take around three to nine months to produce whereas a console or PC game will take 18 months (or maybe twelve if they're really taking the p**s. Which they often are, but that's another story). This means it's much easier to arrange the simultaneous release of a wireless game with a related movie. 5. Mobile games are cheap. An investment of $7.5m into EA would probably buy you a weekly newsletter, a car sticker and a VIP pass to the annual Christmas party.
If you have a US PSP, and value a browser more than homebrew software, then you can nowofficially upgradeto system update 2.0. All European PSPs will come with 2.0 pre-installed. I've been using the browser on my Euro PSP for a couple of weeks and, to be honest, it is a bit of a gimmick. The initial thrill wears off surprisingly quickly - the constant scrolling needed to properly view a page gets tiring. But as a way of keeping up to date with the cricket/footy while out shopping - assuming you have a hotspot nearby - then it could be useful. It is safe to say though, that I've spent a lot more time playing the fabulousVirtua Tennis World Tour- the pick of the launch titles - and watching movies, than browsing. Roll on next Thursday...
Google will today launch its long-awaited instant messaging and internet telephony service Google Talk, throwing down the gauntlet to rivals such as AOL, Yahoo! and Microsoft's MSN."We hope to make a fairly big change to the way messaging is done," explained Google's director of product management, Georges Harik.The initial test service, which does not yet carry any money-making advertisements, follows other new services from the American internet group, including its Gmail email and Google maps.These services are designed to help Google move from being merely a search engine to a web portal that competes with similar offerings from Yahoo! and MSN. Portals provide utilities such as mail and messaging that keep users on the site, as opposed to search, which sends them elsewhere.Google's launch of an instant messaging service had been widely predicted, but two things make it unusual. First, it is based mainly on open standards, rather than being closed and proprietary. Second, the offering includes internet telephony using voice over internet protocol technology.Internet telephony is already a common addition to instant messaging services, but Google Talk appears strong enough to compete with industry leader Skype.Mr Harik said the company has licensed the same third-party technology or codec - which converts analogue signals such as speech into a digital format so it can be transmitted over the web - as Skype and aims to offer similar voice quality. However, while Skype's technology is proprietary, Google's is based on internet standards, as far as this is technically possible.But Google Talk will only be available to people with existing Google Gmail accounts as the two will share address books. Initially it only works with the software Google has written for Microsoft Windows. Google is also taking a much more open approach to its instant messaging service than rivals. The market is constrained by the fact that the most popular services - MSN Messenger, Yahoo! Messenger, and AOL's AIM and ICQ - generally do not allow users to send messages to those on rival services.Google hopes to change that by basing its software on emerging internet standards and by making the program interface available to third-party software developers.This will allow some existing instant messenger software to work with Google, so Google Talk users will not be forced to use Google's software to send messages.Google shares closed up 2% at $279.58 yesterday on the Nasdaq exchange. They floated a year ago at $85.
Charles Astwood is the kitchen nightmare that Gordon Ramsay can't fix. More horrifying to many restaurateurs than AA Gill, Fay Maschler and the man from Michelin all coming to dinner at once, Astwood spends at least part of each day listening to London's top chefs scream at him. And why? Because Charles Astwood has transformed ordinary punters into critics.Astwood is the founder ofLondon-eating.co.uk, a website dedicated to restaurant reviews written by ordinary diners. Did you eat the best langoustine in London last night? Or was the service snooty, the prices outrageous and the food mediocre? Four star or no star, gushing or gruesome, type it up, and so long as you don't libel anyone, Astwood will publish it, along with all the other customer reviews and ratings for that restaurant.Since its launch in 2000, the site has grown to become the largest online restaurant guide in the UK, with more than 650,000 unique users visiting the site each month and more than 100,000 reviews, all submitted by ordinary diners (its sister site,City-eating.com, covers other UK cities such as Manchester, Edinburgh and Brighton, as well as foreign cities, but hosts far less reviews). The appeal is obvious - reviews are honest (brutally so, in some cases) and up-to-date. (The fact that its reviews invariably appear first when you Google a restaurant's name must also drive diners to the site, too.) It's like a word-of-mouth thumbs up or down for nearly every leading restaurant in London, and Astwood is evangelical about it. Fine dining is no longer the preserve of the very rich, but a product like any other, he says. After all, if you buy a DVD player on Amazon, you'll certainly look at the customer reviews, so why not do the same for a romantic dinner for two at, say, the Ivy?Unsurprisingly, it's making restaurateurs feel vulnerable. Jamie Oliver, after receiving sustained criticism on the site of his restaurant, Fifteen, felt he had to respond to the online reviewers. "I don't know why I'm bothering reviewing your comments at midnight," Oliver wrote on the site in January 2003, "but as this project has been a real love and dream of mine all my life, I feel I should post something to make myself feel better ... We are getting there and the food is really getting close to where I would like it to be. Thank you for your comments, I have found them very interesting and will act on all your points as I am every day."Michel Roux Jr, chef de cuisine at Le Gavroche, the first British restaurant to be awarded three Michelin stars, says that he knows how Oliver feels, but isn't sure that it's the way forward. "I think these sites are good fun, but we probably shouldn't take them too seriously," he says. "After all, to review Le Gavroche you need to have eaten at the other top restaurants in London. Otherwise, how can you compare?" As most of the top 10 restaurants in London have a price tag reaching &pound;100 a head and rising, the pool of qualified reviewers by this measure is necessarily small.Eddie Hart, owner of Fino, a tapas bar in Bloomsbury, has recently started taking bookings online via the site, but doubts that his customers rush back to the office after a good lunch to type up a review. "There are nine reviews for Fino on the london-eating site, but we've had 28,000 customers through the door," he says. "I like the idea of Joe Bloggs telling us about his experience, but I'm just not sure our kind of customer uses these sites." Rose Gray, co-founder of the River Cafe, agrees. "Sometimes you read the reviews and it's hard to believe that the writer has even been to the River Cafe," she says. "At least with a food critic you know that they actually know about food."The idea that "our sort of customer" would never be so vulgar as to review a restaurant online is a common one, but Astwood has bad news for Hart and Gray. His users are resolutely ABC1 types - user surveys reveal that, on average, they eat out at least twice a week, one fifth earn more than &pound;50,000 and 90% type up their entries during office hours. "We've got several regular reviewers who eat at Michelin-starred establishments two or three times a week. But, in a way, that's not really the point," Astwood says. "Everyone's paying money to eat there, and at the end of the day their opinion is just as valid as a professional critic's."But what about the restaurant reviewers? Jay Rayner, food critic for the Observer, thinks that he and his colleagues will be stuffing their faces on behalf of the dining public for some years to come, but says that the power of the web should not be underestimated. "I'm only one voice, and my opinion ends up in the cat-litter tray after a week. Reviews on the web hang around for ever; and for a small restaurant it can cause serious problems."Hannah Tyekiff, marketing manager at No 5 Cavendish Square, is one of those who has asked Astwood to remove reviews. "Customer websites only give you one side of the story," she says. "Bad reviews often come from customers who were incredibly drunk, or very rude to our staff." Tyekiff and her team examine all comments, but she still thinks that the system is unfair. "We have stacks of letters congratulating us on our restaurant," Tyekiff says, "but if someone sees a bad review online we lose a customer before they even walk through the door."Claudio Verrilli, manager of the Drawing Room in Lavender Hill, says that he checks all the online reviews, but if your restaurant gets targeted it can be lethal. Verrilli says that London-eating.co.uk removed a number of reviews of the Drawing Room because an investigation demonstrated them to have been faked. "There's a lot of competition in our area, and most people are struggling," he says. "Some people think that writing bad reviews about other restaurants is a good way to improve their chances."Astwood's team moderate every review, checking for plausibility and accuracy, but he admits that restaurants will always try to skew the reviews. "I'm confident that 99.9% of reviews are genuine. I want to provide the best impartial assessment of what a restaurant is really like for ordinary paying customers," he says. "If we allow the site to be abused, we might as well give up."Astwood argues that his system is, in fact, fairer to restaurants: rather than getting one chance to impress a spoilt, over-fed critic, restaurateurs get as many bites of the cherry as they can inspire diners to write. In 1987, on the cusp of recession, Grace Ilic set up Le Mercury in Islington, with a mission to serve the very best food at the lowest possible price. Eighteen years later, Le Mercury features in London-eating.co.uk's list of the top 10-rated restaurants in London (see box), in the very fine company of, among others, Gordon Ramsay (three Ramsay-inspired restaurants make the list). Online reviews have raised its profile far beyond what it could achieve through word-of-mouth alone."The reviews are amazing - I'm shocked," says Ilic. "The internet means that we are still being reviewed. We would not normally be reviewed in the papers because we have been here 18 years."Astwood believes that his site also provides a service to restaurateurs. "I know for a fact that the Ivy checks our site to see what is being said about them, and they are not the only ones," he says. "It's a much more effective customer-interaction tool than trying to persuade people to fill in a comment card." But Rose Gray is unimpressed by this argument. "If we have an unhappy table we will know there and then," she says. "We will deal with it on the spot."For some, though, nothing can replace the expertise of the professional restaurant critic. Egon Ronay has been reviewing restaurants since 1957. He is astounded to hear that ordinary restaurant-goers are posting reviews on the web. "It is of no greater use than someone venturing an opinion as you wait in the queue at the supermarket," he declares. "Or somebody saying that they had a very good dinner, while you are both sitting in the doctor's surgery."Top 10 London restuarants as rated, in order, bywww.london-eating.co.ukreviewers:&#183;Mosaica @ the Lock (Tottenham)&#183;Gordon Ramsay At 68 Royal Hospital Road (Chelsea)&#183;Michael Moore (Marylebone)&#183;Lightship Ten (Tower Bridge)&#183;Terra (Fitzrovia)&#183;Le Mercury (Islington)&#183;Chez Bruce (Wandsworth Common)&#183;Gordon Ramsay at Claridge's (Mayfair)&#183;Petrus (Knightsbridge)&#183;1880 at The Bentley Kempinski (South Kensington)
It's official:Google Talkis go: Windows-only instant messaging and internet telephony, linked in with Gmail. In today's Guardian, Jack says thatits part of a power play:These services are designed to help Google move from being merely a search engine to a web portal that competes with similar offerings from Yahoo! and MSN. Portals provide utilities such as mail and messaging that keep users on the site, as opposed to search, which sends them elsewhere.Google's launch of an instant messaging service had been widely predicted, but two things make it unusual. First, it is based mainly on open standards, rather than being closed and proprietary. Second, the offering includes internet telephony using voice over internet protocol technology.Internet telephony is already a common addition to instant messaging services, but Google Talk appears strong enough to compete with industry leader Skype.In the Financial Times, analysts are quoted as saying that Google will likely find it difficult to quickly build a network that can rival the existing instant messaging networks. I'm not so sure: look how quickly GMail changed the game in webmail - despite being invite-only.The Wall Street Journal, meanwhile, has an analysis piece suggesting that therecent issue of $4bn more sharesis simply intended to capitalise on the company's high value at the moment - because they're waiting for a market turndown. "In recent months, the top Googlers have sold off nearly $3bn of their own holdings," writes Alan Murray. "They also have been changing their compensation plans, moving away from reliance on stock options. [...] If that isn't evidence enough that Google is preparing for the bubble to burst - or at least deflate a bit - then the new stock offering should be."I'm not sure how accurate that is (very few people get much from inside the Googleplex) but even if they expect things to break down, they're not showing it. Talk is its biggest direct challenge to Google's rivals - and a clear challenge to the likes of Microsoft. But it's proof, if proof were needed, that we're talking corporate business here: will the backlash really begin?
Give it up for Damon Albarn and his cartoonGorillazgang; they're embracing the cyberspace vibe by appearing in theUS versionof the teeny-friendly, mega virtual world hit Habbo Hotel today to give residents both a personal appearance and a live performance. If you have an account with the US site, you can see them in world between 11-12pm UK time (4-5pm Eastern US), but if you're not down with the transatlantic check in procedures, you can get in to theUK's Habbobefore the Gorillaz land on the final date of theirworld touron 2 September.ViaYahoo NewsandWonderlandDig! I always likedBlur better than OasisIn honour of Gorillaz, here's a list of a few of the other celebrity special appearances in games (outside of the sports and films genres):Michael Jackson: doin' some freaky dancing inSpace Channel 5, Part 2Wu Tang Clan: doin' some fly moves inWu Tang Clan: Shaolin StyleSam Fox: doin' some stripping inSam Fox Strip PokerMichael Jackson: doin' some butt-kicking inReady 2 Rumble Boxing: Round 2
Sex sells, according to the old marketing adage. But while the adult entertainment industry swooped on the introduction of video recorders, embraced multi-angle DVD players and hijacked the internet, mobile phones seem to have slipped its grasp.At the height of the dotcom boom, as mobile phone companies began looking for revenues from non-voice services, adult content was lauded as a money-spinner based on its success in the online world.Since then, all the UK operators have dabbled in the provision of erotic content, either directly or by allowing customers to access content provided by third parties. For customers who want them, there are wallpapers, screensavers, videos, animated scantily clad women and even "moantones" for those who find that Crazy Frog just doesn't do it for them.But the figures do not match the hype. In its report into the mobile entertainment industry last month, industry expert Informa predicted that the market for erotic content for mobile devices will be worth $2.3bn (&pound;1.3bn) by 2010 compared with just under $1bn this year. Within five years there will be more than 114 million regular users of adult services compared with 65 million now.They may look good, but these figures are dwarfed by the overall mobile market. There are already well over 1 billion mobile phone users, and by 2010 that will have passed 3 billion, according to research by Gartner. Informa's prediction for the entire mobile phone content market, including music and gaming, is $43bn by 2010. Adult services will account for just 5% of the market."If you take it out of the context of the wider market, $2.3bn is not a small amount of money," says Daniel Winterbottom, senior research analyst at Informa and author of the report. "It's just when you put it next to things like music and games, which we believe will take off, it's not quite as impressive a part as made out in previous years."Graeme Oxby, marketing director of 3, the UK's newest mobile phone operator, admits: "It is not very important in terms of the volume of usage. It is dwarfed by music and football and comedy."It was massively important on the internet partly at a time when next to nothing was charged for apart from access. For mobiles it is just a bit of the cake."John Conlon, head of adult services at Virgin Mobile, concurs. "I think it is going to be a money-spinner," he says, "but only in the same sense as music, gaming and gambling. It was pitched as the great white hope for mobiles but it is just one service."The adult content industry believes the operators are downplaying the importance of their wares because they do not want to be seen as peddling pornography. The mobile phone networks, for example, have done deals with well-known adult brands such as Playboy, Hustler and Paul Raymond.Julia Dimambro, director and co-founder of Cherry Media, which operates the Cherry Sauce mobile phone adult content portal, reckons such deals are an attempt by the operators to distance themselves from the content."Operators are saying that it is not the big revenue driver, but they cannot be seen to be promoting adult content because it affects their brand as a mobile operator," she says.The mobile phone operators' biggest fear is that adult content will be viewed by children. Last year, the networks plus Virgin Mobile produced a code of conduct and set up the Independent Mobile Content Board (IMCB), which takes best practice from standards bodies such as the British Board of Film Classification and adapts them for mobile phones.Under that agreement, mobile phone users are barred from viewing content the IMCB deems adult, and it cannot be accessed without an age check being carried out."It is essential to us that the people who get to see over-18 content are over 18," says Mr Oxby. However, the adult content available through the mobile phone operators' portals is fairly tame. The video clips available on 3, for example, "in no sense could it be described as hardcore", according to Mr Oxby.Aim-listed mobile content group Blue Star recently signed a deal with O2 to bring Page 3 models to mobile phones.With its generally young customer profile in mind, Virgin Mobile has slapped a no-nipples rule on its content. Mr Conlon believes that the market for fun, flirty and sexy content is much wider than the market for the purely erotic.For example, Virgin has run a successful WAP-based Beauty or Beast game that takes the form of a striptease quiz. A right answer removes a piece of clothing from the model on the screen, a wrong one generates a less appealing picture, such as a "granny with her teeth out".It's the sort of tongue-in-cheek content found in lad's mags rather than in top-shelf publications, and it is interaction rather than graphic detail that seems to turn on more punters, Virgin believes.The Glasgow-based DA Group has developed animated "fantasy babes" who can interact with mobile phone users. "What we do is more on the fun side than the seedy side," explains sales and marketing director Cyril Scott. "The sort of stuff you would not be embarrassed if your mum saw on your phone."Ms Dimambro, however, reckons there is a real market for more hardcore content, provided it has the interactive element that mobiles can bring.Cherry Media's wap.cherry sauce.com age-verified mobile site gets 300,000 hits a month with no marketing behind it. The site repurposes content from top-shelf providers such as Private, and is currently working on a 3G service that will take interactivity to the next level. It offers punters the chance to pick particular girls and act out fantasies."A 15-second clip of someone twirling around in a bikini is fine," says Ms Dimambro. "But if it is two minutes long it starts to get boring after 45 seconds."
Just this week Google launched itsdesktop tool... now it is rumoured to be going even further. The LA Times,quoting anonymous sources, says that Google is preparing to launch a new instant messaging platform - and that it may include internet telephony.According to a person who has seen the service, Google plans to let users chat using more than just their keyboards. Like similar programs from competitors, Google Talk also will let computer users with a headset have voice conversations with other computer users with headsets, this person said.I don't agree with the article's rather simple analysis ("the goal is to get consumers to stay longer, rather than simply search for websites and then click away" - surely the goal is to click awayin a way which makes Google money) but "Google Talk" is both an exciting and a sobering proposition: and further proof that Google's not just in this game, it's out to crush everybody else.The forums at SearchEngineWatch.com are starting tobuzz. One poster mentions the inevitable privacy concerns with such a product:"Google needs to give users a unique or semi-unique offering to get them using the software and to calm their nerves about advertising targeted to messaging or chat conversations"Let's wait and see.
Sony is taking casual gamingveryseriously. At this year's E3, amid the PS3 fanfare and hardcore tech demos, the company also made time to show off Buzz, a multiplayer music quiz game, which utilises a bespoke controller to make the content accessible to whoever gathers around the TV of an evening. There are eight different rounds to take part in, each requiring players to quickly buzz in with answers. Often it's all about identifying a short blast of music and the tunes are varied enough to ensure everyone stands a chance from '60s rockers to McFly-loving pop kids.Clearly, the success of EyeToy and SingStar goes someway to explaining why the project has been commissioned, but if anything, Buzz moves even further away from Sony Computer Entertainment's core audience of young zeitgeist-savvy gamers. Buzz is, I feel, a direct assault on Saturday evening TV. With its daft host, throwaway one-liners and emphasis on family competition, it appropriates the ingredients of traditional weekend entertainment, but adds in interactivity and a bit of vitality. While TV execs are pulling their hair out trying to re-capture those giant Saturday night viewing figures withbanal star vehiclesandbarrel-scraping talent contests, Sony could be about to pull the rug right out from beneath their twitchy feet.This is how it's going to work. Videogaming has had a modest place in the family entertainment schedule for twenty years, but titles like SingStar and Buzz, aided by a succession of TV disasters, are subtly shifting the balance, drawing interactivity out of the ghetto and into the primetime. The National Lottery has killed off the big money quiz show, and let's be honest, the fragile conceit of eventual pop stardom touted by the likes of X Factor, Pop Idol et al has been shattered by a dozen one hit wonders and instant failures. All that these programmes can now offer is a parade of vulnerable show-offs to laugh at, and every household has one of those - just like every household has a cynical, sneerySimon Cowelllurking in the corner. Sony, it seems, wants to release them.I think this is a noble pursuit. So to find out more about Buzz, I recently spoke to David Amor, creative director at Relentless, the game's developer. Here's what he saidSo how did Buzz come about?Sony were looking to repeat the 'social gaming' success of EyeToy and SingStar and suggested the idea of a quiz show to us. They were already in contact with a company who supplied music clips and questions, and asked us what treatment we would give such a game. We suggested setting the game in a TV show, which people would be familiar with, and suggested they included gameshow style buzzers in the box. That was about a year ago.And once you had the format sorted, where did you look for inspiration?We watched a bunch of quiz shows from the golden age of gameshows such as Jeopardy and The Price is Right. In fact, while we were waiting for audio we ripped the audio tracks from those shows to use as placeholders. Last Christmas there seemed to be a lot of DVD based quiz games and we took a look at the more popular ones. What struck us was their pedestrian nature and the fact that you needed pen and paper to keep score, both of which are easily avoided on a console.At the risk of appearing sycophantic, the products we've been inspired by most are EyeToy and SingStar. Both prove that a simple game mechanic well delivered can be as engaging as any Metal Gear Solid or Gran Turismo. You Don't Know Jack was also influential; we ended up using the same company to do the commentary.Who came up with the buzzer-style controller?The design of the peripheral has been well handled by Sony. We suggested the classic gameshow big red buzzer and over many prototypes they've developed it into something more like a PlayStation peripheral. It's been an interesting process to observe and be involved in.How does it all actually work, then?It varies between the eight rounds, but all of them use very simple TV game show-style gameplay. Sometimes you answer a multiple-choice question, other times you buzz in when you see the right answer. During development we tried all sorts of sophisticated gameplay, but we found that if you couldn't describe what you do in a sentence then your gran probably wouldn't get it.There are 1,000 music clips and 5,000 questions in the game, and four players can take part, each with their own buzzer. Question categories include 'name the artist', 'movie trivia', 'name the album' etc, but in truth this isn't a game to establish who knows the most about music. If the same person won the game each time then it wouldn't be much fun for the others. We try and set up the gameplay to level the playing field. Also, there are no difficulty levels, but we let players select the era of music to answer questions on.How has the game evolved since your initial ideas?Our first art style we presented was best described as 'golden age of gameshow' meets 'crazy kitsch'. The hostess was a talking cactus the music clips came from a singing clam. Sony, quite correctly, suggested a more mainstream look. That said, I think the host of the game, Buzz, carries some DNA from that original art style.Clearly the idea of a quiz game isn't new, but it's the controller that really separates Buzz from other trivia titles. How important do you think it's going to be in the success of the game?I think that the videogame industry takes a controller for granted, but a lot of people look at it with fear. A standard controller has 13 buttons and three directional inputs, which correctly or incorrectly, is intimidating for non- gamers. Our buzzers have a big red buzzer and four coloured selection buttons which is not dissimilar to a simple TV remote. That seems about the right level of complexity, but we would have made the game work with just one button if we could.Any plans for an online multiplayer version?Always on connectivity is something that makes all sorts of ideas possible. We'd love to do online tournaments and some kind of functionality that let you play along with a real TV show, but the truth is that for the casual gamer always-on connectivity is some way off.
I'll admit: Henrico County, Virginia isn't a place that I know too much about. But that's all changing, because I've just found out my first factoid on the place - it's hit the headlines for a bizarre human stampede caused by the flogging off of old Apple laptops.When the local school decided to sell off its old stock of iBooks for just $50, it was inundated. Some queued overnight, but problems started when the gates were opened,according to the local newspaper.More:Many of those in line were immediately overrun by "a flood of people" lurking in the background or rushing across Laburnum Avenue, said 16-year-old Donna Owen, a junior at Tucker High School. "It was terrible."Once the laptop louts broke though the clog of flesh at the entrance gate, they joined the race for the warehouse entrance, ignoring orders to form a line given by one of the few off-duty police officers on the scene.The articles also have links to pictures and video of the incident, which left 17 people needing medical treatment, according to the authorities.(thanks, John-Henry)
Bookworms are being invited to join what is described as the world's first online cooperative library,My Book Your Book, which was launched last night.The site allows people to borrow from complete strangers such works as Bruce Chatwin's In Patagonia and Yann Martel's Life of Pi. The website has ambitions to introduce thousands of paperbacks into its catalogue. Should anyone in Britain not already own at least one copy of The Da Vinci Code, the bestseller also features on the list, and there are plans to include books of all genres.Although not the first online community built around sharing books - the not-for-profitBookCrossing.comencourages readers to leave books in public places so they can be picked up by others - My Book Your Book is unusual in trying to make money out of it.Readers pay an annual fee of &pound;8.95 (currently being waived) and pledge to share 10 of their own paperbacks, in return for access to the titles owned by the rest of the community.After choosing a book, each reader sends a stamped addressed envelope to whoever owns the volume. The owner posts the book and the reader is allowed to keep it for up to five weeks before passing it on to the next person in the chain.After beginning its journey from reader to reader, each book is destined to remain in circulation indefinitely. Anyone failing to keep the chain in motion will have membership frozen, although there are no plans to introduce library fines.The website's founder, Peter Baillie, 64, said the plan was to encourage a community spirit, persuading people to share books that would otherwise gather dust."Most books I read once, but not again, and I'm sure there are thousands of people in exactly the same situation."Mr Baillie denied that the scheme would hit book sales. "In my view it will encourage people to keep buying books. The success of this depends on fresh titles coming all the time. I want people to keep adding them."The idea has won applause from Friends of the Earth, as well as from groups including the National Literacy Trust and Booktrust. But some librarians point out the site is offering what is available from them for nothing.
Revisit yourpast-- or, at least, mine.
Ubergeeks from across the globe streamed into Sebastopol, California last weekend for FooCamp, the in-tents O'Reilly get-together (sorry). It's like a music festival for hackers, programmers, technology thinkers and developers. And without the bands.The list ofFooCampersis pretty heavy duty: names that Online readers may recognise include Caterina Fake, Dan Gillmor, Dave Sifry, Esther Dyson, Howard Rheingold, Jimmy Wales, Joi Ito, Josh Schachter, Quinn Norton, Stewart Butterfield and Tom Coates.The result? Coates sums his experience up by saying that"frankly it's been pretty astonishing", while others call itBest. Conference. Ever.Meanwhile, some clever chap has constructed amash-upof all the attendees blogs. The whole thing is geek-fu of the highest order.However, it's invite-only, so some enterprising democratisers startedBarCampin Palo Alto, an open source equivalent where anyone could come along. By all accounts, that too, was fairly successful.Now Suw Charman, one-time Online contributor, is wondering whether there could be aBar Campin Britain. Well? Can we manage it?
CNNhas a great article exploring the drive to encourage more minorities into computer games development. Certainly diversity is a huge issue when it comes to the continuing success of videogaming, and some believe that incorporating a broader demographic into the industry fold will generate interactive experiences that reflect and support the play desires of people of different races, sexualities and (dare I say it) genders.It's already been seen to work with women; the number two selling-game of all time (deposed after the awesome sales figures of GTA: San Andreas) is The Sims, which not only attracts a larger proportion of female than male gamers, but coincidentally boasted a 40% female creative development team. But what about different ethnicities? Is the multicoloured ethnic rainbow to be catered for with, for example, black characters like CJ and the Wu Tang Clan?From the article:"Not everybody goes outside with bling-bling and listens to rap music all day," says Amil Tomlin, a black 15-year-old from Baltimore who plays hours of video games each day.Among those trying to paint a different racial picture is Mario Armstrong, who hosts a weekly National Public Radio program on technology. He and two fellow black colleagues have started the Urban Video Game Academy, a virtual programming boot camp for minorities."It's been said that a bunch of nerdy white guys are creating these games," Armstrong said. "The problem with a bunch of white guys creating the games is that the story isn't being created with balance."
Sports website Sportal was relaunched yesterday as a 24-hour, live online television channel.This new lease of life for Sportal, which was once valued at more than &pound;250m before being sold off for &pound;1 after the dotcom crash, is expected to herald a new wave of low-cost, online channels delivered via high speed broadband connections.UKBetting, the company that picked up the brand and several others in 2001, last year bought In The Box Media, a fledgling broadband content provider, to develop on-demand sports video content. As well as live football coverage from the Nationwide Conference, the company produces live sports news updates and betting tips, golf coverage and horseracing.Peter Lewinton, who founded In The Box and is now director of rights and video production at UKBetting, said that the growth of broadband, with upwards of 7m households now connected, made it possible to run an online channel for a fraction of the price that a similar operation would cost to launch on a pay TV network.Improvements in compression technology and computer processing speeds, plus the ever increasing speed of typical broadband connections, had also substantially improved the quality of the images, he said.Sportal would not compete for premium sports rights, but would instead rely on its own news operation, its links with the Nationwide Conference and the PGA European Tour, an archive of classic sporting moments and coverage of offbeat sports including backgammon and poker.It will also feature live, studio based content such as a newspaper round-up, live sports news on the hour, competitions and "fun features", including Presenter Idol - an on screen search for a new host.Mr Lewinton said he believed other niche TV channels would follow suit, particularly as technology linking a broadband connection to television sets became more prevalent. "Because the cost base is so much lower and because the channel goes worldwide, we don't need huge audiences to make this work."He said he was confident of attracting "several hundred thousand" viewers to the channel, which will make money by driving traffic to UKBetting's gambling sites and through advertising.
I haven't got a full version yet - my debug Xbox has given up - but what I have played so far makes me thinkFahrenheitcould be one of the games of the year. Think MonkeyIsland/Grim Fandangocrossed with24and you are part way there. The former is due to the game itself - essentially this is an evolved point and click, with mouse gesticulations replacing verb manipulation. But it is the sophisticated style that makes Fahrenheit stand out. The 24-style split-screen approach and the Angelo Badalamenti score, combined with a real feeling that your in-game decisions actually matter, all mark this down as one to get when released in Sept. Not only could Fahrenheit resurrect the adventure game genre, but it could hopefully herald a new dawn of intelligent narrative-driven gaming. Let's hope eh?
Goal keeping: will Premiership football drive HDTV? Photograph: Phil Cole/Getty ImagesWe've written extensively about the upcoming birth of high definition TV in Britain, but this morning things took a further turn: satellite broadcaster Sky announced a series of launch channels which will be available when it starts its HD service early next year.As expected, the focus is on sport - with Sky Sports showing Premiership football and rugby (and likely followed with dedicated coverage of the World Cup in Germany) - but there's also a mixture of entertainment channels, including dedicated HD movie channels, arts programming and Sky One.From Sky Movies there will be two HD screens dedicated to films in HD, with titles available at launch including Spider Man 2, The Day After Tomorrow and House of Flying Daggers. In addition, movie fans will able to choose from up to ten movies in HD each week on Sky Box Office.A simulcast version of the existing Sky One channel will deliver high-quality entertainment programming with a range of Sky One shows and cutting edge series in HD.Sky HD's simulcast version of the existing Artsworld channel will offer a selection of arts programming including opera, dance, and classical music. The quality of HD broadcasts will transform the viewing experience offering stunning picture and sound quality, bringing alive performances of a wide range of artistic genres on the UK's only dedicated arts and culture channel.This launch spread will appeal to many early adopters - particularly pubs - and are likely to join the mix before it actually hits our TV screens. But will there be enough to entice you to high definition?Related:For more information on HDTV, seethis piecewritten by myself and Ashley Norris earlier this year.
"This weekend we put something cool out into the world. Wikiwyg is what-you-see-is-what-you-get editor for wikis, or pretty much any other text area on the web. It's open source licensed, available for download and demo. Jeff Jarvis said wikiwyg is 'the way wikis are supposed to be'," says Socialtext'sRoss Mayfield."Our hope is this makes the two-way web usable."
"Sun Microsystems Inc., weighing in on the fractious issue of protecting copyrighted digital content, on Sunday announced a project it calls the Open Media Commons initiative aimed at creating an open-source, royalty-free digital-rights management standard," reportsReuters."Sun said that its Project DReaM includes a piece of software known as an API that Sun said makes it easier to build and manage video streams delivered over networks. The project also includes what Sun calls DRM-Opera, an interoperable DRM standard that is independent of specific hardware and operating systems, and is not restricted to specific media formats. It also enables a user-based licence provision, compared to the majority of today's methods, where licenses are assigned to actual devices."According toCNet: "Dream is open source software governed by Sun's Community Development and Distribution License  the same licence it uses to cover its OpenSolaris operating system. Dream's components include software for letting different DRM systems interoperate based on credentials held by individuals, not by particular devices; server software for delivering streaming video; and Java software for managing video streams."
