A friend once observed that when you go out of town your computers sulk. This is true. I came back from a month in California to discover that because digital television means that Telewest's set-top box is a computer, it had decided to sulk, too. So while I was gone, my TiVo intelligently recorded ... hours of channel 890 because the Telewest box preferred it to Eurosport.After all, who needs the Australian Open tennis finals when you can have channel 890, the Telewest guide? "I'm going to give you help on how to use your ... " Hours of endless loop, like the aeroplane speech on how to buckle your seat belt. There is no explanation as to why the box reset itself. Instead, there is a blue rectangle covering two-thirds of the screen that informs me: "The batteries in your remote control are running low ... Press OK to clear."I don't know what you do with nearly dead batteries, but I put them in remotes, where they can last for years, given the tiny amount of current they need to send an infrared blip across a distance of 10 feet. Is there some reason Telewest (or Pace, which makes the boxes) thinks I am unable to notice when the channel doesn't change? Do they really think I am incapable of understanding what that means? I've been working with remote controls for a long time; I think I understand intuitively that if the set-top box does not respond, you need to insert the metal plate into the buckle and pull tight. Meanwhile, because the signal that the set-top box thinks indicates the batteries are low is actually the TiVo turning itself on to record something, everything the TiVo records is blocked out by the blue warning that my batteries are running low. I have to be there to "press OK to clear".Then there is the fact that even with new batteries in the remote, the set-top box takes five seconds (no exaggeration) to respond to any command. Do you know how long five seconds is? Exactly the length of time it takes an averagely impatient human to decide the box didn't hear you and press the button again. Which is how I accidentally turned on parental restrictions.Clearly, this is a plot devised by someone who hates viewers having control. You might think Telewest is just looking out for our health by getting us into fitness programmes of set-top box-smashing, but I know the truth.In the past two days, it's developed a new tic: whatever three-digit numbers you type at it, it displays each one separately, stops on the final one and ignores it. Apparently I have to reboot the box. I want to smash its face in. But it knows I can't. Because without it, there's no television.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Wouldn't it be good if searching online meant instructing software to find and combine data automatically from multiple online databases, rather than supplying some words and getting back a list of web pages?The system that should revolutionise online searching is the "semantic web", where online data is marked up with indications of its meaning, rather than simply its appearance and links, as currently happens on the world wide web. That would help scientists and students gain easy access to the latest research data, and help websites that "mash up" material from a variety of sources.Sir Tim Berners-Lee - better known as the inventor of the world wide web - also originated the idea of the semantic web, which he calls "the web of data". But this new brainchild is finding it much harder to take off. In his 1999 book Weaving the Web, Berners-Lee described a two-part dream for its future. The first part, which he described as "a much more powerful means for collaboration between people", has arguably been realised through wikis and blogs. Not so the semantic web, the second part, which he predicted would allow computers to collaborate directly, "leaving humans to provide the inspiration and intuition".Berners-Lee is still trying to realise this dream: "The web of hypertext everybody knows about; the web of data hasn't really spread worldwide yet. So we're still working on it," he told a lecture last month at Oxford University (webcast athttp://tinyurl.com/mxysy; slides athttp://tinyurl.com/rol4x). The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), which Berners-Lee directs, has been working on it by producing standards to allow the linking of data, including the Resource Description Framework (RDF), a language for information about the meaning of data.Merging data"The nice thing about RDF data is you can merge it," said Berners-Lee, who by way of demonstration took a picture of the Oxford audience. "The camera knows when the picture was taken," he said. "However, if I have marked in my calendar the fact that I'm giving a lecture here, and I was smart enough to have some data about the hall that has the GPS coordinates, then if all that data connects, then through the timeline I can join to the event, and from the event I can figure out where I am, therefore I can put geospatial coordinates on this picture."Where applications share some of these big mainline things like time and personal identity and geospatial position, they connect together very easily," he added.Other standards for information - such as a company's component numbering system - would connect far fewer pieces of data, such as a small branch line of a train network, but would still be useful. "We'll end up with a big, mushy set of ontologies" - in this instance, data standards - "which connects so that it's not perfect, but we get the connectivity we want to be able to do really wonderful things," he said.Few seem to disagree with Berners-Lee's destination, but some question the route he is taking. "I completely believe in the long-term vision of the semantic web - that we're moving towards a web of data, and sophisticated applications that manipulate and navigate that data web," commented Tim O'Reilly, chief executive of O'Reilly Media. "However, I don't believe that the W3C semantic web activity is what's going to take us there."It always seemed a bit ironic to me that Berners-Lee, who overthrew many of the most cherished tenets of both hypertext theory and SGML [standardised general mark-up language, a precursor to HTML or hypertext mark-up language] with his 'less is more and worse is better' implementation of ideas from both in the world wide web, has been deeply enmeshed in a theoretical exercise rather than just celebrating the bottom-up activity that will ultimately result in the semantic web."Berners-Lee did concede that as with the world wide web, the semantic web should "serve useful stuff". "One of the problems we've actually had with the semantic web, I only recently realised, is we haven't been doing that."Not enough useful RDF data has been left online, he explained: "The whole value-add of the web is serendipitous re-use: when you put it out there for one person, and it gets used by who-knows-who. We want to put data out there for one purpose, then find it gets linked into all kinds of data. And that's been not happening, because we forgot 'serve useful stuff', not to mention 'make useful links'."Incremental stepsAccording to O'Reilly, "That's the most hopeful news I've heard in a long time about the semantic web, and I couldn't agree more." He believes getting data online should take precedence over standard-setting: "It's still too early to formalise the mechanisms for the semantic web. We're going to learn by doing, and make small, incremental steps, rather than a great leap forward."Berners-Lee told his audience in Oxford that the semantic web has already been adopted in drug discovery in life sciences, where solutions represent cures for diseases. "People in these fields are bright and intelligent, they are early adopters, they have quite a lot of money to throw at a problem," he said. "We have an incubator community there."Dr Tim Hubbard, head of human genome analysis at the Sanger Institute near Cambridge, which as part of its work sequenced a third of the human genome, said that centres such as his place vast amounts of raw data online for others to use. However, this looks likely to create financial problems: "Whereas funding agencies are starting to recognise this is a sensible way to support research output, they are not necessarily supporting the databases," he says.Sanger has more than 350 of terabytes of disk storage space, with users downloading some 200 gigabytes a week. Those providing the data for the semantic web may find serving it proves expensive.But what about wider use? Business-focused software firms are getting involved, with Oracle incorporating RDF into some of its database software. Berners-Lee said it has taken time to create the standards, and perhaps "data isn't as interesting as web pages. Data tends to be to do with work, web pages tend to be to do with fun. Web pages are music and poetry, and data is physics analysis and spreadsheets and economics and budgets and stuff. So there's much less, 'woo-hoo! I've got my budget on the semantic web'."However, people are starting to link data for fun, such as with mashups and big IT companies are taking notice. "The broad idea is becoming a reality, perhaps from a slightly different angle than specifically envisioned by the semantic web," said Mark Quirk, Microsoft UK's head of technology for the developer and platform group in an email. "For example, more and more websites are making their data accessible programmatically, to be used intelligently and mashed up in to composite applications," such as MSN's Virtual Earth.Threat to standardsBut Joe Wilcox, senior analyst at Jupiter Research, warns that the attention from big IT companies could, ironically, threaten W3C's semantic web standards. He recalls Microsoft's "embrace and extend" approach to web standards - first adopting them, then using its heft to create new versions that only worked in its Internet Explorer browser. Microsoft, its rivals or big media companies wanting to keep tight reins on their products may try something similar for the semantic web, he suggests."The reality is, if there is a commercial opportunity, someone will try to jump ahead in the direction that benefits their line of business," he says. "The question is not, should the W3C develop the standards. It's whether they will be implemented. That has to do with conflicting interests of certain businesses on the web."Others are more optimistic. Gartner analyst Rita Knox says that RDF has not been exploited fully, but she thinks it may allow developments in search services, given it enables computers to connect data in different locations. "It has to be an automated process, something which guns around looking for things," she says. "I don't think people will necessarily ever know that they are using this." But they will appreciate better searches.And the BBC, one of the organisations that led Britain on to the web, is keen to share some of its data. Tom Loosemore, head of strategic innovation, says the corporation will shortly place online the catalogue of its entire surviving programme library - not the 950,000 television and radio programmes themselves, but the names, transmission details, often production credits and in some cases who is interviewed.This could produce some surprises: Loosemore discovered that his father was interviewed in 1988 on regional news programme Points West. "The BBC librarians have been building this data set for the past 80 years, and they have done a phenomenal job," he says, adding that the richest programme data is for in-house news and current affairs programmes."What is interesting is what the audience does with that data," although Loosemore imagines that Doctor Who fans will be early adopters. It will be available through an API (applications programming interface) at BBC Backstage (http://backstage.bbc.co.uk), which allows data to be re-used for non-commercial purposes - a model that Ordnance Survey hopes to follow.Loosemore is a believer in the semantic web. "The potential benefits are so unbelievably powerful. To go from the web to the semantic web could be as big a leap as to go from nothing to the web itself." For Sir Tim Berners-Lee's blogged instructions on placing yourself on the semantic web:http://tinyurl.com/s67zh.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Although most Mac users probably haven't even heard the "bombshell" news about Apple's Boot Camp beta software, which enables Microsoft Windows XP to run on Intel-based Macs, it's already obsolete. Boot Camp enables you to dual-boot into either Mac OS X 10.4 or Windows, and while that's welcome, it's an idea that got tedious a decade ago. There's a far better option, which is to run two or more operating systems at the same, and that's what theParallels Workstation 2.1software -- beta now available -- promises.This approach is already well known in the Windows and Linux/Unix markets, where it is used mainly on servers, but is likely to get a boost now that Microsoft is offering Virtual Server 2005 free, to match VMWare's free virtual server. Of course, Apple won't let you run OS X that way -- not legally -- but it's a good way to run multiple operating systems on one machine. And with multi-threading multi-core processors, and lots of cheap RAM, there should be little if any reduction in performance.It might be assumed that Boot Camp was just Apple's first step into the Windows market and that it's also developing virtual server software. But according toWired News, Apple says not:Apple, for its part, has shown no interest in creating its own virtualization software. In the run-up to the release of Boot Camp, many speculated that Apple was working on its own virtualization software, but the company denies it."We are not providing a way to run Windows within OS X," Natalie Kerris, an Apple spokeswoman, said Wednesday.If you apply the standard transformations that are necessary with any Apple quotation, this translates as follows: there's a very good chance that we are working on virtualisation but it's not an announced product so we wouldn't talk about it even if we knew.The main drawback with Parallels Workstation 2.1 -- always assuming it works -- is the $50 price. Boot Camp will be free, and will become part of the operating system, so it seems likely that most Mac users will use that.
I'm just off to the MCV Games industry trade awards. Yes, not exactly the Oscars but fairly important, especially to retail and marketing types. The full list of finalists ishere. While you rightly won't care who wins the sales team award or who picks up the retail buying gong, the new game brand and developer awards may be of interest. Also the most improved company category is always worth watching. Sega won it last year and are nominated again - a sign of how far they had fallen before their recent renaissance - but my money is on NCSoft.
As our colleagues over on the Technology blogreportedearlier, Microsoft has just purchased Lionhead Studios. Peter Molyneux's team will now be creating content exclusively for the Xbox 360 and PC, I mean, Microsoft® Windows platforms.Many in the industry see this as something of a gamble for Microsoft. As Jack Schofield writes, "Lionhead's recent games, such as The Movies, have not been selling as well as was hoped, and last month the studio laid off 50 staff and cut back on future developments". However, there were similarly raised eyebrows in 2002 when the Seattle mega-corpbought Rare, the UK developer responsible for GoldenEye, but at that time going through something of a fallow period. Since then Rare has produced two successful Xbox 360 titles: Perfect Dark Zero and Kameo.It could be that the financial security and added discipline of complete ownership gave Rare more focus. Certainly Lionhead could benefit from a more finely honed development structure. However, Peter Molyneux soon left Bullfrog after it was bought out by EA, apparently bored by his new, more management-based role, and perhaps disenfranchised with the emphasis on titles with obvious commercial appeal.Well, we know that Lionhead has been working on a surreal physics demo known as The Room, and is also toying with a massively ambitious project in which the player somehow gets to re-live their own teenage years. Surely, though, Microsoft, like EA, will be looking for a few mainstream big hitters -a couple of Black and White sequels, and an Xbox 360 outing for Fable are probably first on the menu. The question is, will Molyneux hang around for the main course?
Get chatting.
The rumours were true: Microsoft Game Studios (MGS) has just bought Peter Molyneux's Lionhead Studios, which will now start creating content "exclusively for the Xbox 360 and Microsoft Windows platforms".Lionhead's hits include Black &amp; White for the PC, and Fable for Xbox.MGS has already invested in one major British game developer, Rare, as well as Bungie Studios, Ensemble Studios, and FASA Studio.BBC Newshas the story, and there's apress release.Comment: Lionhead's recent games, such as The Movies, have not been selling as well as was hoped, and last month the studio laid off 50 staff and cut back on future developments. However, Molyneux has been associated with a string of hits from his old company, Bullfrog, including Populous, Theme Park and Dungeon Keeper, and Black &amp; White certainly had an impact. Microsoft can justify the purchase if Lionhead comes up with just oneexclusivehit that will separate the Xbox 360 from its rivals in a market where games often look derivative and repetitive.Last time Peter sold out, it was to Electronic Arts, in 1995. He left Bullfrog (with some colleagues) in 1997 to set up Lionhead, which is also based in sunny Guildford in Surrey. Does MGS have any golden handcuffs to stop Peter from decamping from Lionhead?We publishedan interview with Peter Molyneux OBErecently.
The C partition on my hard disk has only about 750MB free but the D partition is unused. How can I make full use of the hard drive, and will this speed up the computer? Helen GazeleyFirst, use the Add or Remove Programs utility to find out if you have any programs you don't need, and uninstall them. Then run a program such as SpaceMonger (http://tinyurl.com/34q8f) or Sequoia View (www.win.tue.nl/sequoiaview) to find out which folders are taking up the most space. If you have a large folder of photographs or movies, you can use Windows Explorer to move this to the D drive - select the folder, hold down the right mouse button, drag the folder to the other partition, then select Move Here from the menu.You can also move programs to the D drive, but I would strongly recommend against moving any of Windows (including Outlook Express and the Documents and Settings folder), the swap file (pagefile.sys) and hibernation file (hiberfil.sys). When Windows is restarted, it can "forget" these are on D, attempt to recreate them on C, find there isn't enough room, and fall over.To move a program, copy the program's folder from C to D, making sure the path is the same (ie including Program Files etc). Then uninstall the program from C, and reinstall it to the same directory on D, changing only the drive letter. This should preserve all your settings and data. However, there are commercial utilities that will move programs for you, such as Iolo's System Mechanic 6 (www.iolo.com./sm/6).Another alternative is to make the C partition larger, and the D partition smaller. There are not many programs I'd trust to do this, but I've done it with Partition Magic (http://tinyurl.com/bhsrq). This includes Magic Mover, a utility to move programs.In general, this will not speed up your computer. However, if Windows runs out of temporary swap space on the hard drive, it will slow down dramatically. I recommend never having less than a gigabyte of free space on the C drive of an XP PC.Backchat: Pat Whitehead says: "All our company laptops are set up with C and D drives with Outlook and My Documents on the D drive, and I have never heard of Windows 'forgetting' this." Nor have I, but I have seen it "forget" the new locations of Outlook Express email and the swap file. Pat likes to use C for Windows, D for programs and E for documents, as it makes backing up simpler. More people did this when using the old DOS file system, because smaller drives were more efficient. This is not an issue with the NTFS (New Technology File System) used in XP, and external USB and network drives have made backing up much simpler. It is simpler to reinstall Windows if you have data on a separate partition, but I've never needed to reinstall XP.
When I printed out a phishing email to show to my local Barclays Bank, the printed version showed an additional paragraph which was not on the screen. Furthermore, the content is a strange, bizarre and incomplete piece. Why? Philip RobertsonMany spam and fishing emails contain invisible text, often random paragraphs copied from novels or reference books, to help them evade spam filters. You don't usually see it because the spammer uses HTML and sets the text colour to the same value as the background colour. You can reveal the hidden text in your mail software by selecting it with your mouse or pressing Ctrl-A for Select All.
When I follow the link to updates, I am asked to validate my copy of Windows XP by installing some software called Windows Genuine Advantage. Is this a good idea? Matt O'DriscollMicrosoft wants to reward people with legitimate copies of Windows, not just punish the ones with pirate copies. Windows Genuine Advantage offers free downloads such as Photo Story 3, a video screensaver and the Match-Up game, plus discounts on commercial programs (http://catalog.microsoft.com/genuine/offers). It works using a small ActiveX control that runs in the browser, though there's also an alternative standalone program if ActiveX is blocked. It collects your Windows product key, Product Identification Locator (PID), PC manufacturer's name and BIOS chip details. If you refuse WGA, you should still be able to get security updates by turning on Windows' AutoUpdate feature. The free downloads are available without validation to people running Windows 98/SE/Me and Windows 2000. Seewww.microsoft.com/genuine/downloads/FAQ.aspx.
Forrester research has just released a brief,Podcasting Hits The Charts. It's only available to clients, but Forrester analystCharlene Li has put a summary on her blog. She writes:Our survey showed that only 1% of online households in North America regularly download and listen to podcasts. And when you include all of the people who are just interested or have used podcasts, they strongly favor listening to existing content like Internet radio or broadcast radio, not necessarily new content. (And for newspapers thinking about podcasting, putting print stories into audio format just ranked ahead of original content from bloggers)In other words, podcasting's main appeal at the moment is time-shifting professionally-produced programmes. It's a variant of tape recording, and should probably be called AOD (audio on demand).She says:Forrester projects that just 700,000 households in the US in 2006 will use podcasting, and that it will grow to 12.3 million households in the US by 2010. (See Forrester's "The Future Of Digital Audio" report). Just to give you some context, we expect MP3 adoption to be almost 11 million households in the US this year, and grow to 34.5 million households by 2010. So that means in four years, about a third of those MP3 owners will be listening to podcasts on those devices. Podcasting will get easier and the content will get better, but it will all take time.Comment: There are some curious "death of podcasting" reactions, when Forrester is actually predicting that podcasting will grow 17.5 fold in the US in the next four years. However, while it's useful to have someone try to pin the genre down, I suspect that the reality is more confused. Does the BBC's replay facility count as podcasting? How about the same kind of radio programme downloaded from iTunes? And even if we distinguish between the various options, do the people Forrester asks about their use of podcasting? As Charlene Li says: "measurement is still really hard to do."
When the BBC sent a blind TV director out on a shoot, it was hailed as a piece of political correctness gone mad. How could blind people make TV programmes, they don't even watch TV. Or do they?The BBC's blind director might have been a one-off, but every day, large numbers of Britain's two million blind and partially sighted people sit in front of the TV - often with sighted family and friends - trying to make sense of programmes with varying degrees of success. Television can be a challenging experience if you're blind. It can also be distracting for sighted family and friends asked to provide commentary or explanation. On trips to the cinema it's even worse: imagine a trip to the pictures to see a film such as Casanova. The activities of the Italian stallion mean little if you can't actually see what is going on in the boudoirs of Venice.Visual informationFortunately, Casanova is now among a growing number of films and TV programmes that are "audio described". This means a separate narration track is supplied, giving a brief outline of the action, scenery and other essential visual information in quiet moments between speech or sound effects.Audio description is delivered via headphones in cinemas and a growing number of theatres, offered as a separate track on DVD and also available on a small but growing number of TV programmes via digital set-top boxes.Not surprisingly, it has been enthusiastically received by many people in the UK who have sight problems. Typical of those using audio description is 17-year-old Harry Luckhurst, who lives with his parents and his brother Jamey. Harry is blind but, like most youngsters, enjoys TV - in particular soaps and action films.Before the advent of audio description, members of the Luckhurst family had to describe things for Harry, with varying degrees of success. As dad Trevor recalls: "Imagine you have worked all day and just want to sit and relax in the evening in front of the TV. You are just dozing off, when Harry asks, 'What's happening, Dad?'."Audio description is a godsend. Harry can come home from school and 'watch' something on his own. It removes the need to describe everything that is happening in any programme, giving us more time to do other things that need doing in everyday life. Audio description is one of the best things to come into Harry's life. It has also made a big difference to us as parents. "Another big fan is Mike Townsend, a trustee of the Royal National Institute of the Blind (RNIB), who has been blind since childhood. Townsend was one of the first users of the Netgem I-Player AD, a Freeview box that can receive audio description. He says it has made an enormous difference to his life, and that where audio description works - as in programmes like Waking The Dead - it can make a real difference. In fact, he's such a fan that his main gripe is that so few programmes - just 8% on TV - are audio described. "I like to relax on a Sunday evening and put on Heartbeat, which is audio described. I would like Casualty but they don't do that, although strangely enough they often do Holby City. I sometimes wonder why this is," says Townsend.It's a good question. RNIB would like to see far more programmes broadcast with audio description, but progress in rolling out the service seems slow. The TV target for audio description is set at 10% of programmes by the fifth year of the digital transmission start date of a channel, and although audio description is available on Sky and on Freeview, audio description on cable is only just beginning.The situation in broadcasting is in sharp contrast to that in the film world, where 170 cinemas around the UK have an accessible screen delivering audio description through headphones, and around 80% of all major film releases are now audio described. Not surprisingly, there is a feeling that broadcasters are dragging their heels and lack enthusiasm. Leen Petr&eacute;, head of broadcasting and talking images at RNIB, says that the charity wants to see 20% of TV programmes audio described by the 10th year of digital licences - not 10% as the system presently demands.Dr Margaret Rogers is director of the Centre for Translation Studies at the University of Surrey and programme director of the first MA programme in subtitling and audio description. A great enthusiast of audio description, she agrees that the number of audio-described TV programmes is small but warns that there is a need to ensure that audio description standards are maintained despite pressure for output to be produced "on the cheap" to meet targets. Programmes that are easy to audio describe, such as University Challenge, have been criticised by some blind people as not really adding much value for them.New possibilitiesTownsend's sighted wife, Edith, sees new possibilities for audio description. She thinks that it might catch on among sighted people once they realise how useful it is. So much so that she says she would consider using the audio description track when her husband isn't around. "Sewing or doing the ironing - something like that is perfect for audio description. It makes it like radio."Dr Rogers goes further. "Sighted people who have watched a video or DVD with audio description have frequently said it told them things they would not have noticed with their own eyes."Members of the Surrey team also think that audio description could have the potential to turn an audio-visual experience like watching a film into an audio product like a talking book or a radio drama - suitable for listening to in the car or on a portable stereo or maybe even a mobile phone.Last year, RNIB held a special event at Vue West End cinema to mark 10 years of audio description. Although it was a celebration, the charity stressed that more still needs to be done.Given the little-known fact that blind licence fee payers are expected to pay for a TV licence - 50% of the price paid by sighted viewers - it could be argued that audio description is, to use that hackneyed phrase, what they pay their licence fee for.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Four years ago this month the infamous auction of radio spectrum took place, promising a new era of mobile communication besides netting the Treasury &pound;22.5bn, (equivalent to a year's economic growth of 2.5%). What has happened since? The short answer is that the industry has delivered the hardware in a startlingly successful way but is only now beginning to understand what consumers want.Just as the mobile industry a decade ago failed to foresee texting becoming a killer application, so it has been proved wrong in early beliefs that video calling - the unique feature of the phones - would drive the 3G revolution. In fact, hardly anyone uses that feature and operators have stopped promoting it heavily (though there are hopes it will boost dating services). It is likely that well under 30% of 3G customers use data transfers of any kind apart from texting. So far 3G's revolution has been driven more by technology than content. In the US, $10bn spent on 3G network upgrades has so far generated only 2m people connected to a 3G data plan ($5,000 a customer!).The new phones are being bought for cheapness and incremental benefits rather than revolutionary potential. Indeed, it would be difficult to tell in a blind testing whether a phone was a 3G one or just a smart phone (apart from the video call button). One difference is that 3G phones give faster web access though it is usually only a matter of seconds.A second give-away feature of 3G is the way operators take you to their walled garden of paid-for services rather than let you roam the web freely. 3, which adopted a policy of selling phones cheaply to gain market share, has by far the biggest installed base in the UK and is starting to do innovative things such as video blogging. But it charges 50p an upload (with a 10% revenue share if anyone downloads it) and &pound;2.50 extra a month with a 5MB data limit (500 pages) if you want to surf outside its walled garden.Operators justify such prices by the need to recoup the cost of the licences and finance cheap rentals. But the price of the licences is a "sunk cost" that can't necessarily be recouped and is no reason to confine users to a walled garden. If your broadband provider charged an extra &pound;2.50 a month for accessing the wider web, you would change to another. But there is not much point with phones because most mobile operators are up to the same tricks. One day they will be forced to adopt the broadband model of fixed-fee access to the web instead of the hugely inhibiting model of clocking up charges as data is downloaded.Reservations about charging should not blind us to the huge technological advances. I have been testing two 3G phones from 3, a Nokia 6280 and an LG U880 - the biggest-selling (contract) handset in the UK in March. Both weigh barely 100g yet include features that could only have been dreamed about 15 years ago, including camera, video camera, MP3 player, voice recorder, organiser, video phone and television (an extra). To pack all that into something that weighs so little - and, in the case of the 6280, sells for only &pound;194 (with a 2 megapixel camera and radio), or free on contract - is awesome and way ahead of what was expected to happen when 3G was mooted.Both phones are easy to use and have decent-sized keypads thanks to the LG being a clamshell design and the Nokia having a keyboard that slides under the phone, permitting a larger screen than usual. Such mind-boggling technology deserves equivalent marketing. It would help if operators asked consumers what they really want from 3G rather than by pursuing captive revenue streams. To be fair, 3 is now doing this with success in video and music downloads (20% of sales of the Gnarls Barkley chart-topper were downloaded through 3 last week) plus its forays into citizen journalism, albeit on a small scale. But it will clearly be some time before 3G services catch up with 3G technology.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
MOGDreports on a new Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) application that should challenge the boundary between real and virtual. When implemented in a Massively Multiplayer Online Game, it will allow avatars to phone out of the world to offline friends and relations.What Vivox brings to the MMO gaming table is a communications solution is known as "Immersion", which is the quality they hopes players will experience when exploring a Vivox-integrated game. ... I donned a pair of headphones and listed as Sharma's character walked to an in-game phone booth and punched the digits to his own cell phone, which then promptly rang. Using VoIP calling like other Internet telephony services such as Vonage, Sharma blurred the line between in-game and real-world communications. After that, the avatar was walked into a nearby room, where another Vivox developer was lounging on a couch as a character. Using the laptop microphone, Sharma and I were able to carry on a conversation with him at roughly the quality of a land line phone.VoIP has been on the cards for a number of online games, most of which only feature text-based communication. VoIP over other connected services, like Xbox or PlayStation 2, have added new dimensions of gaming for players (as well as irritating many others).As the article says,"You can add a lot of great functionality into a (community-oriented) game developed with audio in mind," Sharma asserts. "Voice will become that important a few generations of games from now."
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Spread the word, and join it upData is the key to taking the world wide web on to the next level, says its inventor Sir Tim Berners-Lee. But how near are we to realising it? SA Mathieson reports.Not what the doctor orderedDeveloping an IT system for the NHS has so far produced more pain than gain for Accenture. So what's the prognosis?Public services now have legal means to open upMuch more government data should now be available free, after the agency charged with opening up access to public sector information had its powers extended last week.3G packs a punch but the content doesn'tVictor Keegan: Web access via mobile phones may still be costly and restrictive but the technological opportunities are awesome.TechnobileClearly, someone hates viewers being in charge of their TV. Why else would the set-top box reset itself? Asks Wendy M. Grossman.Read this week's letters(including one from the mystery Microsoft blogger advocating the company slim down..Send your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, and please inclufe your address and telephone number.Can Murdoch make money from those MySpace users?Given that he spent $580m (£334m) acquiring the site last year, one must think that Murdoch Has A Plan.Will we all be switching to ebooks?Sony certainly wants us to. This week the Japanese electronics giant announced an exclusive deal with high-street bookseller Borders to promote the new Sony Reader, its pint-sized attempt to finally break open the ebook market.Time for a new episode in the never-ending storyThe next big thing for the industry - episodic gaming, where games are sold singly at regular intervals - could be the precursor to moves to distribute games digitally.Controlling the basics: forget the joypadControllers have been on my mind, inspired by a presentation by Infovore's Tom Armitage, and the nomination of the one-switch game Strange Attractors at the Independent Games Festival awards. Armitage argued that the control pad interface adopted by all three major console creators is preposterous, exclusive and inaccessible, says Aleks Krotoski.GamesThe Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion | Commandos: Strike Force | The GodfatherSir Alan, I'm ready to see the weather on my fridge nowThere are plenty of times in the day when I could do with a web appliance in the kitchen; something stuck to the fridge that showed us the weather forecast, a web feed of the newspaper headlines, even a list of household to-dos.Picture the sceneAudio description allows blind people to enjoy film and television. And the system has possibilities for the sighted, too.Trouble on the lineVoIP customers around the world are discovering that their calls cannot be connected because telecom companies are blocking the movement of such traffic across the net. Jane Dudman finds out whyAsk JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your queryNewsBytesNews in brief
When the NHS sneezes, very big people catch cold. Last week it was the turn of the IT consulting firm Accenture. The firm told shareholders it has written off $450 million (&pound;260m) because of "significant delays" in its part of the world's largest computer initiative, the modernisation of the NHS in England.Accenture is feeling the pain because it is the largest prime contractor tackling the job of standardising systems used by GPs, hospitals and other NHS organisations. Under the NHS National Programme for IT, these systems will be linked via a data "spine" to create electronic records of every individual's health, accessible anywhere in the NHS.Accenture holds contracts worth &pound;2bn, covering eastern and north-eastern England, two of the five regions into which the NHS has been divided for IT purposes. Like other prime contractors in the &pound;6bn programme, Accenture agreed to be paid only on delivery of working systems - a novelty in government IT contracts.The man who drew up those terms, Richard Granger, chief executive of NHS Connecting for Health, last week said that Accenture's woes demonstrate the value of getting the IT industry to take on the risk of developing public sector IT systems. Speaking at a conference in Paris, he contrasted the NHS's approach with attempts to transfer risks to the City through the private finance initiative. With the latter contracts, Granger said, "the only thing that is guaranteed is that the banks will get paid".While British taxpayers may be relieved that the penalty for late delivery of IT systems is falling on a Bermuda-headquartered multinational rather than on hard-pressed NHS trusts, Accenture's woes raise difficult questions.The company's admission that its NHS contracts are not going to plan contrasts with the relentlessly upbeat tone of government announcements. Ministers insist that while some activity is being rescheduled, the programme remains on track.Last week, Ian Watmore, head of the Prime Minister's Delivery Unit, cited the NHS programme as a success story in joining up public services with IT. The plan cites impressive numbers: 202,860 users registered on the health records spine, 625,427 prescriptions transmitted electronically, 17,771,776 clinical images stored electronically. On their own, however, these figures are meaningless. Watmore (formerly chief executive of Accenture UK) does not say, for example, that the figure for electronic prescriptions represents just 0.2% of all prescriptions written in the NHS this year.A more accurate picture of the programme, launched in 2002, is that it is too large and complex to be classed as a success or a failure - some parts are running more smoothly than others. Simon Eccles, the programme's clinical lead for hospital doctors, says that one sign of success is the rate at which digital imaging is taking over from film-based X-rays: "Picture archiving and digital imaging are rolling out at the rate of two hospitals a week." This is a boon to doctors who no longer have to chase up missing films, or order unnecessary repeat X-rays.The delay highlighted by Accenture's announcement, however, is pivotal. As a prime contractor, Accenture is responsible for ensuring that hospital trusts and GP surgeries in its area replace their mixtures of IT systems with integrated suites from a single supplier that will be able to exchange data via the spine.Replacing systems, however, is disruptive and expensive. Although the new software is centrally funded, hospitals have to bear the costs of upgrading local networks, training and inputting data from patient records. Only a handful of large hospitals have gone through the process. In Accenture's areas of responsibility, the problem is exacerbated by the fact that the new software has not been ready on time.Accenture's main software contractor is the UK-based specialist firm iSoft. In January, it warned the stock exchange that delays in the NHS programme would hit its profits this year. In response, Connecting for Health said that some activity was being rescheduled because "suppliers and their subcontractors, including iSoft, have taken longer than anticipated to deliver effective software solutions".Accenture has other worries about the programme. In 2003, when it negotiated its contracts, government ministers were talking about the NHS as a single entity and talking of "ruthless standardisation" in information systems. Although details of the contracts are secret, the firm is understood to have based its bids on the assumption that every NHS organisation in its geographical patch would be compelled to install its systems.Following the latest wave of NHS reforms, which encourage local autonomy and the role of private health firms, that looks unlikely. Last month, the NHS announced that GPs - who traditionally have been responsible for choosing their own systems - would have a choice of up to a dozen systems, providing they met national standards. In its statement to shareholders, Accenture said that government plans to "allow local healthcare providers to choose alternate systems" would hit profits.Granger (who began his career at Andersen Consulting, as Accenture was formerly known) has shown little public sympathy for his old firm's plight. Like all prime contractors in the programme, Accenture had to sign a guarantee committing it to honour penalty clauses. Granger told the Paris conference that the cost of walking away would be 50% of the total contract value - &pound;1bn.Renegotiations likelyEven without the penalty, it is unlikely to come to that. What is more likely is that Accenture - and other prime contractors, including BT, CSC and Fujitsu - will try to renegotiate terms to take into account changes in the NHS. One opportunity will be a "refresh" in the programme, likely to be unveiled before the summer.That refresh may coincide with two further developments. The first is a long-delayed report from the national audit office into the value for money obtained by Granger's "cash on delivery" style of contracting. The second is a &pound;5m information campaign to inform patients about the new joined-up electronic health records the programme is creating. Both will attract wide comment.To date, for all its tribulations, the NHS National Programme for IT has played to a fringe audience. From this year, it will be top of the bill at the computing equivalent of the West End - and nationwide.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Much more government data should now be available free, after the agency charged with opening up access to public sector information had its powers extended last week.As of April 1, local councils, NHS organisations, police and other emergency services can offer their data to the public for free via a simple licensing scheme called Click-Use (www.opsi.gov.uk/click-use/). This allows the re-use of Crown copyright data if the user promises to conform to certain conditions, such as not pretending to be the data's "official" source.Previously, the Click-Use scheme run by the Office of Public Sector Information had applied only to central government information such as parliamentary acts. Some 9,000 Click-Use licences have been taken out since the scheme's launch in 2001. Carol Tullo, director of the office and holder of the title "Queen's Printer", said the extension of Click-Use would encourage more public bodies to make data available: "We will be providing very strong encouragement," she said.However, Click-Use applies only to raw data collected as part of a body's "public task", not to value-added products such as computer programs. Its use by local authorities is voluntary. And, crucially, the scheme does not cover government-owned trading funds, which are required by law to generate revenues from sales of information products; Tullo said the government had no intention of changing its "user pays" policy for public sector information.Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign argues that this policy stifles innovation by requiring businesses and individuals to pay twice for data collected at taxpayers' expense. A study in 2002 by Peter Weiss of the US National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration found that such policies stifle economic activity (http://tinyurl.com/cby55).Tullo said she hoped that most local authorities would adopt the scheme rather than drawing up their own licence terms for the re-use of information.Free data licensing appears to conflict with the government's core policy for councils, which is to encourage them to behave as commercially as possible. The Local Government Act 2003 gives authorities the "power to trade", to set up money-making ventures based on any activity that it would carry out as part of its ordinary functions.One authority that has signed up to Click-Use is Essex county council. However, it runs four tiers of re-use licences, ranging from "no restrictions" to "full charges". The latter applies to information or data where the council has determined that "some attempt should be made to recover a return on investment, for example, if there is significant professional or technical input beyond the simple collection and collation of information".The council already makes a one-off charge to other public bodies wanting to re-use technical directories and manuals.Tullo said that persuading councils to release their information may be a struggle, particularly as many are still reeling from the effects of implementing the Freedom of Information Act. "The burden has coloured their view."One area of contention may be whether addresses and data collected in local land and property gazetteers should be made freely available. At the moment, these appear to be classified as "value-added".Of the campaign, Tullo said: "It's not as simple as saying 'free all our data'." The government has shown no sign of abandoning the "user pays" principle, she said. Under that framework, however, she hinted at some flexibility, especially when the Office of Fair Trading reports on the issue of public-sector information later this year. Join the debate atwww.freeourdata.org.uk.Award nominationAfter just four weeks, Technology Guardian's "Free Our Data" campaign has been nominated under "advocacy" in New Statesman magazine's New Media awards - for sites that "most effectively influenced opinions and behaviour through new media technology".&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Trading spacesThe C partition on my hard disk has only about 750MB free but the D partition is unused. How can I make full use of the hard drive, and will this speed up the computer?Helen GazeleyJack Schofield replies:First, use the Add or Remove Programs utility to find out if you have any programs you don't need, and uninstall them. Then run a program such as SpaceMonger (http://tinyurl.com/34q8f) or Sequoia View (www.win.tue.nl/sequoiaview) to find out which folders are taking up the most space. If you have a large folder of photographs or movies, you can use Windows Explorer to move this to the D drive - select the folder, hold down the right mouse button, drag the folder to the other partition, then select Move Here from the menu.You can also move programs to the D drive, but I would strongly recommend against moving any of Windows (including Outlook Express and the Documents and Settings folder), the swap file (pagefile.sys) and hibernation file (hiberfil.sys). When Windows is restarted, it can "forget" these are on D, attempt to recreate them on C, find there isn't enough room, and fall over.To move a program, copy the program's folder from C to D, making sure the path is the same (ie including Program Files etc). Then uninstall the program from C, and reinstall it to the same directory on D, changing only the drive letter. This should preserve all your settings and data. However, there are commercial utilities that will move programs for you, such as Iolo's System Mechanic 6 (www.iolo.com./sm/6).Another alternative is to make the C partition larger, and the D partition smaller. There are not many programs I'd trust to do this, but I've done it with Partition Magic (http://tinyurl.com/bhsrq). This includes Magic Mover, a utility to move programs.In general, this will not speed up your computer. However, if Windows runs out of temporary swap space on the hard drive, it will slow down dramatically. I recommend never having less than a gigabyte of free space on the C drive of an XP PC.Hidden textWhen I printed out a phishing email to show to my local Barclays Bank, the printed version showed an additional paragraph which was not on the screen. Furthermore, the content is a strange, bizarre and incomplete piece. Why?Philip RobertsonJS:Many spam and fishing emails contain invisible text, often random paragraphs copied from novels or reference books, to help them evade spam filters. You don't usually see it because the spammer uses HTML and sets the text colour to the same value as the background colour. You can reveal the hidden text in your mail software by selecting it with your mouse or pressing Ctrl-A for Select All.Genuine advantage?When I follow the link to updates, I am asked to validate my copy of Windows XP by installing some software called Windows Genuine Advantage. Is this a good idea?Matt O'DriscollJS:Microsoft wants to reward people with legitimate copies of Windows, not just punish the ones with pirate copies. Windows Genuine Advantage offers free downloads such as Photo Story 3, a video screensaver and the Match-Up game, plus discounts on commercial programs (http://catalog.microsoft.com/genuine/offers). It works using a small ActiveX control that runs in the browser, though there's also an alternative standalone program if ActiveX is blocked. It collects your Windows product key, Product Identification Locator (PID), PC manufacturer's name and BIOS chip details. If you refuse WGA, you should still be able to get security updates by turning on Windows' AutoUpdate feature. The free downloads are available without validation to people running Windows 98/SE/Me and Windows 2000. Seewww.microsoft.com/genuine/downloads/FAQ.aspx.BackchatDr Philip Rayner asked how he could tell which versions of programs he was using. Tony Sweeney suggests running the free program, Belarc Advisor (www.belarc.com/free_download.html). He says: "This will determine the version number of every single piece of software on your machine, including patches, verify that all hotfixes are complete and correct, and, when printed from the generated browser page, gives you an invaluable hardcopy record of all your application license keys. It also identifies precisely all the hardware in your machine."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Given that he spent $580m (&pound;334m) acquiring the site last year, one must think that Murdoch Has A Plan. After all, MySpace is the internet phenomenon du jour - a rapidly expanding social site where users make friends and hang out. It's the online equivalent of a ringtone; a conspicuous display of personal preferences for today's teenager.But last week, when it emerged that Rupert Murdoch's footsoldiers were purging the site of 200,000 "objectionable" user profiles, a lot of people wondered what it meant for the network. Probably not a lot, when you consider there are 65m registered users, that it serves 1.5bn pages per day, that there are 2.3m concurrent users, and that it adds, on average, 260,000 users each day - so the "cull" was equivalent to an 18-hour power outage in terms of users lost.The cull is just a kneejerk reaction to public outcry: MySpace has become the latest website to instil fear in parents who aren't savvy enough to understand what their children are doing online. Google News has a number of security-related MySpace stories; and where America goes, Britain is not far behind.As the internet pundit Danah Boyd observed recently (http://tinyurl.com/fsgoh), "MySpace is in trouble because of its size and rapid growth ... There are so many conflicting practices that people are panicking. Even if your kid has a perfectly PG profile, the idea that s/he can hang out with R-rated ones is flipping people out." If enough people flip out, it could turn nasty - and repel the advertisers MySpace needs to attract.Conveniently, News Corporation owns many of the papers that might otherwise drum up the most vehement anti-MySpace rhetoric. But those servers cost money; without a clever marketing plan, MySpace is likely to haemorrhage it. Nearly every major social networking site has failed to weather the mixture of media aggression, corporate interference or heavy advertising.Nobody doubts that Murdoch wants to make money from the site. But, considering the facts on the ground, surely the question is not "is this possible?" but "why does anyone think he knows how to do it?"If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you liked Apple's ad when itstarted using Intel chips, you'll surely love the only-slightly-tweaked version now on YouTubeof what happens when you run Boot Camp to run Windows on your Mac. (Does that make sense?)Oh, let's frame it here then...
Apple Computer, the maker of the iPod, yesterday announced a new program which allows its computers to run Microsoft's Windows operating system.The surprise move - which some analysts imagined could never happen - is seen as an attempt by Apple to capitalise on the phenomenal success of its iPod digital music player, which has sold more than 40m units around the world.The new software, called Boot Camp, lets customers run the Windows system alongside existing Apple programs. "Apple has no desire or plan to sell or support Windows," said Phil Schiller, a senior vice-president at Apple. "But many customers have expressed their interest to run Windows on Apple's superior hardware."Microsoft's Windows system runs on 95% of the world's computers. But Apple has long been designed to reject any attempt to run Windows. Although Apple's computers have versions of popular Microsoft programs - such as Word and Excel - they have been unable to run all of Microsoft's applications.Apple, which celebrated its 30th birthday last weekend, is hoping that the change will encourage many users of Windows PCs to give their fashionable machines a test drive."I think this is exciting news," said David Mitchell, an analyst with Ovum. "For the switcher this removes one of the final impediments."Despite phenomenal sales of the iPod, the so-called "halo effect" of the success of the digital music player has failed to give much of a boost to Apple's share of the computer market, which is around 4% in the UK.Microsoft executives, meanwhile, are understood to be pleased with the decision, since it will allow them to get more of their software to a previously unavailable segment of the computer market.Hackers had recently discovered methods of running both systems on a single machine, but Mr Mitchell said the decision to legitimise the practice could pay off for Apple. "I think this, in addition to the halo effect of the iPod, could help Apple reach somewhere as high as 8%-10% of the market," he said.Representations continued in the high court in London yesterday in a case brought against Apple Computer by the Beatles' record label, Apple Corps. Anthony Grabiner, for Apple Computer, denied that the use of the apple logo on adverts for the iTunes Music Store constituted a breach of a trademark agreement made between the two companies in 1991. Mr Grabiner said: "Viewers aren't ignorant people, but ... have significant understanding of what Apple Computer does."
But then again, it could be between $600 and $750. No one really knows. However, George Fornay, president of Sony Computer Entertainment France, has told the Europe 1 radio station that the PlayStation 3 will cost between €500 and €600, so you can make your own guess at the US price. If Merrill Lynch's estimate of the cost of parts is accurate, Sony could be losing $250 to $500 on each console. And you know how it is: lose a billion here and a billion there and pretty soon we're talking real money....For comparison, the the Xbox 360 costs €399 in most of Europe, and $399 in the US, with the bare system at €299, and Nintendo's low-spec Revolution should come in at an even lower price.There is, of course, the argument that you're getting a cheap Blu-ray player in your PS3, with a games console thrown in free. But with only a small number of Blu-ray movies due to reach the market, and those costing $40 or $50 each, there's no compelling argument to buy a Blu-ray player, even if you have the required HDTV. Everybody knows that prices come down dramatically if you wait a bit, which is what most people did with CD and DVD.
You don't come across cobbles much any more. Occasionally, you see a little patch of them showing through in a spot where the Tarmac has broken up - which always makes me think of that line of TS Eliot's about "the skull beneath the skin". In fact, there is a little street behind the Guardian building, Back Hill, which is pure cobbles. It's steep, too, but with the bumps it's hard to say which is worse - going up slowly or down quickly. It's picturesque, but I tend to go the long way round to avoid it.In Belgium, this is generally not an option. There, cobbles have never gone out of fashion. Only they're not called cobbles; it's pav&eacute;. In fact, the Belgians like their pav&eacute; so much, they have bike races organised specifically to go over the cobbles. Of these, the greatest is the Paris-Roubaix - also known as the Queen of Classics, the Hell of the North, La Pascale.The association with Easter is appropriate (it takes place this Sunday). The Paris-Roubaix is the toughest, most cruel race in the calendar - though one-day only, it is harder in its way than the Tour de France. But like the Easter story, this epic of suffering has a redemptive theme. As the great Irish cyclist Sean Kelly (twice a winner) will tell you, it is the hardest race of all - and "the most beautiful to win". But, as he often found, it hurt to pee for three days afterwards.The race begins in the flattish but rolling farmland of north-eastern France, traverses the mining region in which Zola's novel Germinal was set, and ends in an unprepossessing concrete velodrome in the industrial town of Roubaix in France. None of it is pretty, but that's not the point. The cobbles are the point, some sections dating back to the days of Napoleon. In dry conditions, you will see riders racing on the packed-mud shoulder rather than endure the bone-jarring pav&eacute;. But in the wet, the verge turns into a quagmire and there is no option but to bounce over the treacherously slippery cobbles.The Paris-Roubaix takes no prisoners. When the Flemish rider Johan Museeuw won in 2000, he pointed to his knee as he crossed the line: after crashing on the cobbles the year before, he had contracted gangrene in the smashed joint - an incident that nearly cost him not only his career but also his leg. The grim purgatory of the race was memorably captured by the Danish director Jorgen Leth in his 1976 documentary A Sunday in Hell: the riders looked like coalminers after a 10-hour shift as they scrubbed themselves down in the shower stalls.The winner of the Paris-Roubaix gets not a trophy, but a lump of granite - which tells you all you need to know about the meaning of this race. No event captures cycle racing's strange romance with pain so well as the Paris-Roubaix. Perhaps I will ride up Back Hill on my way home, after all.
With the World Cup approaching, mobile game publishers throughout the world are busy producing football sims, hoping that they can cash-in on just a fraction of the inevitable global footie frenzy. EA, of course, is right in the midst of it all, promoting not only a mobile version of FIFA World Cup 2006, but also a first handheld outing for its FIFA Street franchise.Meanwhile, Gameloft has the 2006 edition of its respected Real Football series, Finnish developer Mr Goodliving is pushing the well-made Playman World Cup and Superscape is going with Pele Soccer Skills. Of course, all of them claim to offer the most accurate and authentic football experience on the mobile format.But two publishers have veered off on an intriguing tangent - and it is a tangent that leads to porn. Well, not real porn, but the sort of Carry On seaside postcard smut that we're invited to laugh at rather than get off on.InfoSpace, for example, has developed Sexy Football, a collection of skill-based footie mini-games in which the successful player is rewarded with digital snapshots of three models in various states of undress (and for authenticity, they're posing with footballs). And last month, German developerHandygameslaunched Flitzer, a 'streaking' game, in which you run around a football pitch with no clothes on avoiding the police and performing silly dances for pants, sorry, points...At first this sounds like a daft and rather sleazy idea, but really, it's just good business. As Stuart Dredge, a mobile entertainment analyst atInforma, points out:"This summer, every developer and their dog is planning to release a mobile football game to tie in with the world cup. And realistically, most operators are going to promote FIFA, Real Football and maybe a couple of others. So Infospace and Handygames are actually being quite clever in ignoring realistic simulation in favour of boobs and bums - it may help them squeeze onto the operator portals as something different, and thus sell more downloads."So the thinking is actually extremely sound: sex sells. And not only that, but selling sex is a lot cheaper and easier than going down the traditional videogame publisher route of seeking out a seductive brand, license or celebrity endorsement. There is an implicit understanding here, too, that most people don't go to mobile entertainment for deep, authentic and challenging experiences. They go for cheap, quick, funny hits.At the same time, the mobile phone has proved a remarkably profitable platform for adult entertainment - according to Informa, adult services generated $973.7 million globally in 2005, and the figure is expected to reach $2.34 billion by 2010. While the traditional videogame industry has never been comfortable with its sexuality, the telecoms business is a comparative libertine. Peruse the back of any lads mag and you'll be virtually accosted by ads for explicit screensavers, logos and mini-videoclips. For most customers, it's not really about sex, it's about sauce - it's sex miniaturised until it becomes funny. So games like Flitzer and Sexy Soccer are the perfect fit. They're daft, they're throwaway... and they're fruity.Unsurprisingly, the publishers are confident about this offbeat strategy. Speaking in industry magazine, Mobile Entertainment, recently, Handygames CEO Christopher Kassulke boasted, "Precisely because it is unique, the mobile version of Flitzer has received more primetime TV coverage than a conventional soccer game like FIFA ever will". The company is now producing a budget PC version. Perhaps more surprising (at least to those who haven't played it) is the fact that Flitzer is picking up critical plaudits too - it was voted one of the top ten most innovative games at this year's GDC.This strategy is not confined to the football sim genre. Gameloft, another large, well-respected publisher has arangeof Sexy Poker titles, while India Games boasts a sports sim series entitled Sexy Pool. The thinking remains the same - to create awareness of (or notoriety for) specific titles within extremely overcrowded markets. Glu has gone a step further, inventing new game genres to house vaguely libidinous content - the company is soon to release the rather strange Sexy Babes Wild Waterslides in which you control a selection of bikini-clad women as they, yes, whiz down waterslides and get squirted with water cannons...Whatever is going on here, not every territory gets it. As Stuart Dredge reveals, "I talked to a mainstream European mobile games publisher recently, who described the experience of trying to persuade an American mobile operator to sell their tame adult game. He told me that they just looked at him clearly thinking 'You degenerate European bastards!'"...
Accordingto Gamasutra, several French consumer sites have posted reports concerning a radio interview given by Sony Computer Entertainment France president, George Fornay, in which he seems to reveal the retail price of PS3 in Europe. Or at least a vague idea of the retail price - somewhere between €499 and €599. In pounds that works out at between £350 and £420. Not quite as costly as some early estimations, but still around £100 higher than the current Xbox 360 price point, which is likely to drop again before Sony's machine arrives in November...
Too late for April 1, Apple has announced thepublic beta of Boot Camp software, which enables Intel-based Macs to run Windows XP. Apple says that "once installation is complete, users can restart their computer to run either Mac OS X or Windows XP. Boot Camp will be a feature in Leopard, Apple's next major release of Mac OS X, that will be previewed at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference in August." According to thepress release:"Apple has no desire or plan to sell or support Windows, but many customers have expressed their interest to run Windows on Apple's superior hardware now that we use Intel processors," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Product Marketing. "We think Boot Camp makes the Mac even more appealing to Windows users considering making the switch."Comment: So all that hacking was ultimately in vain.... Andas I wrote in January, I think this will be great for Apple hardware sales.
It's time to chat.
Further to Jack's post on the limitations of the $100 Laptop - a subject we'vewrittenaboutbefore- Nicholas Negroponte also had some words for his detractors.The initiative has come in for some stick from various quarters - most notably from Bill Gates, who scoffed at its low spec, saying "Jeez... get a decent computer where you can actually read the text and you're not sitting there cranking the thing while you're trying to type".Negroponte responded by sayingthat"when you have both Intel and Microsoft on your case, you know you're doing something right".But others have argued that the money would be better spent elsewhere - on getting much-needed infrastructural changes made, for example, or on more basic education requirements, like paying teachers. A $100 laptop is great, they argue, but it puts the cart before the horse.I've often wondered about this initiative: is it worthwhile? Is it just a bunch of techie do-gooders who don't realise what's going on in the real world? Would the money be better spent elsewhere?Let me know what you think.
MIT's Nicholas Negroponte, chairman of the One Laptop Per Child nonprofit association, gave a speech at LinuxWorld in Boston where he complained that Linux had become bloated -- which is true if you take a popular business distro, and OLPC was supposed to use Red Hat. But someone at LinuxWorld may well have pointed him to a few of the more suitable versions.More interesting is the news that the "$100 laptop" (not a real price) will not have a handle.News.com reports:As initially envisioned, the laptops sported a hand crank on the side to generate power, but Negroponte has scrapped that idea because the twisting forces that would be bad for the machine. Instead, some form of power generation device, likely a pedal, will be attached to the AC power adapter, he said."I was the longest holdout for the crank being on the laptop. I was wrong," he said, adding, "If you're a 10-year-old, maybe you can get your four-year-old to pedal for you."Comment: And it was going to be on sale this year? From this, I wouldn't even bet on 2007....
Photo: Fortune magazineFortune magazine hasa first-person piece from Bill Gatesabout how he works -- and you could well have similar or better equipment, except for the three 21-inch NEC flat screens. His main computers are a Dell desktop and a Motion Tablet PC, and he also has a Logitech webcam.You probably don't have the same software, except possibly for Outlook. Gates also uses OneNote and SharePoint collaboration software, about which practically everyone is sadly ignorant. OneNote runs on any PC but is mainly used on Tablet PCs, and it's great for journalists, because it can synchronise a direct-to-PC recording with your handwritten (on-screen) notes. Not having a Tablet, I keep meaning to try it on a desktop. I'm not sure who uses Sharepoint Portal Server -- mostly big companies, I expect. However, many more people will be able to use it when the Office Live website opens for business.The advantages of using two or prefereably three screens have been researched and should be widely known by now -- if not, Mary Branscombe dida piece in Guardian Onlinein 2003. As she says, the showstopper is usually finding the desk space.Otherwise, I expect Gates's choice of software will get a kicking in the blogosphere, and that in more than 99% of cases, it will be by people who have never actually used it.If I could add a question, it would be: Hey, Bill, why aren't you using Vista?
So, anyone splashed out on Oblivion's new horse armour yet? For the princely sum of about 2 quid you can download said protection for your virtual gee-gee, safe in the knowledge that not only is your ride likely to survive attack, but that you're proving to the games industry bean counters that micropayments and downloads are a viable business proposition. Word is that developers Bethesda - and presumably Microsoft - are monitoring the situation. And so they should as there has beengenuine dismayamongst some gamers. Horse armour was a clear feature of the game when in the preview stage. So to remove it at the last minute and then charge 360 owners - who have already paid a premium for their version - to access this comes across as highly cynical.Of course, you can argue that the cost is small - it is - and that the armour is a non-essential item - you don't need it to finish the game - but it still rankles. Episodic gaming, value-add downloads? Bring them on, it's the future after all. But this download is an opportunistic exploitation of Oblivion addicts - we need help, not armour - and if successful is likely to lead to similar stunts in other triple AAA titles. Pay to download go-faster stripes for your Warthog in Halo 3? Just you wait.
We've told ofIan Bogost'sprevious forays into hard-hitting, topic-driven interactivity before, but his latest project announced at theGame Developers Conferencein California a couple of weeks ago is sure to grab headlines of shock and awe when a working prototype is available in October 2006.viaMTV:Bogost recalled brainstorming the idea with design partner and founder of Georgia Tech's Experimental Game Lab, Michael Mateas. "Let's take on the most complicated, difficult problem that we could possibly take on in contemporary American political discourse," Bogost said. "We'll make an abortion game."Bogost is not one to sidestep issues which he feels are important. In the recent past, we've covered two of his titles,Airport InsecurityandDisaffected. We've also demanded answers about the role of game makers' agendas in an interviewhere.But abortion is far more of a political hot potato in mainstream America than workers' rights and the Transportation Security Authority. The European equivalent might be to draw on immigration policy, from the Netherlands' controversial video to the UK's "culture test". Even then, the tempers are more tepid than what's happening in the hearts and bodies of the morally-divided US.Such a proposal requires a profound amount of sensitivity to both sides, lest Bogost become a casualty in an ideological turf war. Indeed, the proposed mechanics of the game, whilst leaning mildly towards one side of the fence, do try to tackle the issue from various angles.A series of mini-games, each is designed to give the player a chance to consider another issue related to the abortion debate. Bogost showed examples that included a teen-motherhood game that charges the player with balancing the mother's reputation with her friends, the baby's health and future earning power. Another mini-game seemed more action-based, tasking players to search a household in a "find a condom" game. A mini-game set in a city was labeled with the premise, "What would the city look like if all forms of birth control were illegal?"Bogost argues that his intent is to prove that games can provide a window into others' perspectives on an issue. He remains adamant that his purpose is not to change opinions, rather to expose the population to others' understandings. A similar point was raised later in the conference atEric Zimmerman'sannualGame Developer's Challenge: to design a game which could win a Nobel Peace Prize.Yet Bogosts' game begs the question: are there places which games shouldn't go? Or, will a title like an abortion game going to open the floodgates for hard-hitting, emotion-driven, real-world relevant interactivity that may in future set the foundations for powerful messages and meaty entertainment?Bogost's game plan was unveiled during the Serious Games track of the GDC, which kicked off the conference before the announcements and keynotes that dominated later press coverage got underway.
Emerging mobile game giant,Glu, yesterday announced that it had acquired UK publisher, iFone. It's a double win for Glu which will benefit both from iFone's strong European sales and marketing set-up and its range of licenses including Monopoly, Lemmings, loads of old Atari stuff and a range of Sega properties including Sonic the Hedgehog.This is the latest in a slew of mergers and acquisitions that have redefined the mobile games industry over the last two years. In December 2004, Glu, previously known as Sorrent,boughtUK developer Macrospace to gain a foothold in the European market. At around the same time, US technology company, InfoSpace, barged its way into the global games industry with purchases of Iomo and Elkware. More recently, EA paid out for Jamdat, RealNetworksmoved in onFinnish developer Mr Goodliving and THQ bought Juice, partly for the developer's mobile game output.In many ways this reflects the torrent of m&amp;a activity that took place throughout the traditional games industry during the mid-nineties. At that time, smaller studios and publishers were finding themselves unable to compete in the more expensive PlayStation era. Meanwhile, larger companies were on the prowl, looking to improve their global reach by quickly acquiring local talent in key territories. The resulting frenzy of buy-outs and takeovers spelled the end for UK names like Gremlin Interactive, Domark and Psygnosis.
My girlfriend and I both cycle a lot, but she infuriates me by refusing to wear a helmet. Her only reason is pure vanity - it would ruin her look. Contemporary helmets look too "spacey" or "sporty", she says, asking why no one designs helmets for fashion-conscious young women. I have been unable to track one down. Can you help me protect my girlfriend's valuable, if stubborn, brain?Tom Simonite,via emailTricky. The main choice in helmet aesthetics is between the sporty look and the grunge-o-matic snowboarder style. Either way, a coiffure catastrophe, I fear.All you can do, Tom, is relax about your girlfriend not wearing a helmet. It has to be a matter of personal conscience. Rationally, yes, cyclists should wear helmets; but rationally, so should motorists - 14 times as many car passengers as cyclists per year die of head injuries. In the scheme of things, life years gained by the health benefits of cycling outweigh years lost by accident fatalities by 20:1.Obviously, though, there ought to be haute-couture millinery in expanded polystyrene. Hatmaker to the stars, Philip Treacy, where are you when we need you?
Cars don't come a lot more handsome than the new Brera from Alfa Romeo, which, with good reason, fancies itself as something of a George Clooney among automobiles - nonchalantly contemporary, but with more than a flicker of an earlier, more charismatic era about it.Check out those cool, three-in-a-line headlamp clusters in their deep recess, which makes the car seem to appraise the world from behind coolly lowered eyelids. Note the immaculate grooming, whereby the cosmetic steel rod that forms a glinting line between those headlamps threads through the triangular grille at the top. And, oh, that casually worn registration plate, adrift to the left, in the rakish Alfa Romeo tradition - the company's equivalent of a slackened tie. If the Brera swept past trailing pricey aftershave, it would not be a surprise.In fact, mine swept past trailing reasonably priced diesel exhaust. Petrol-driven versions were available to journalists at the recent launch of the Brera, but I solemnly nominated myself for a three-hour spin in the 2.4 JTD model. Which is what you call reaching past the custard creams to get to the digestive. This was partly an eager willingness on my part to play up to the eco-conscious and fun-resistant Guardian stereotype. (For the same reason, you are to imagine me, during the paragraphs that follow, testing the car in a pair of open-toed sandals, having noisily breakfasted on muesli at the launch hotel.)But it was also because Alfa Romeo were claiming that the diesel engine they had developed for the Brera was a small kind of engineering miracle, enabling the driver to accelerate without noticeable loss of thrill and without hatching the suspicion (traditionally a danger with diesels) that what he was steering was, in fact, a street-cleaning device. The diesel version also has, naturally, frugality on its side, and the idea of driving a sports coupe that didn't indirectly contrive to torch an entire species of rare fauna every time you took it above 2,000 revs seemed like something worth inspecting, at the very least.And, true enough, the 2.4 JTD was quick and attractively quiet, and - like everything else about the car, from the steering to the air-conditioning - snappily responsive. Of course, what it won't do is play a catchy tune, like the best Alfa petrol engines. In particular, it won't play the famous one that goes, "Raaaaah." Ah well, you can always fall back on the stereo for company. It's by Bose and will play all sorts of tunes, very stylishly.In 2002, the Brera appeared at the Geneva motor show as a concept car, designed by Giorgetto Guigiaro, who says, of this only mildly adapted road version, "This is a flower about to bloom, and not a tormented spirit." Well, thanks for that, Giorgetto. But certainly the sight of one of these broad, low, smooth sports cars appearing in the rear-view mirror can't help but cause a little quickening in the heart of anyone who likes cars. The sight of that mildly Porsche-like rear end, with its plectrum-shaped window, disappearing ahead of you, is similarly wilting.The seating is in a "2+2" configuration, which is motor industry-speak for two proper seats and a partly melted parcel shelf. Note that if your life regularly requires you to hump around more than two adults and a pair of squirrels, then the Brera is unlikely to be your first-choice motoring solution.For the less encumbered, however, selection of the Brera is a near-automatic choice in this price range. The key disadvantage remains what it has always been. Initially, you will have to find a dealer who can be bothered to stock Alfa Romeo cars in the first place. Additionally, you will have to find a dealer who can be bothered to stock the spare parts for them, so that when some freelance car spoiler twists one of your perky wing-mirrors off, you aren't reduced to casting about for a replacement on eBay. For some reason, basic problems with the UK supply line have dogged Alfa Romeo for upwards of 20 years, though they now claim to be properly doing something about it and have begun both appointing committed new dealers and saying a less than fond farewell to some of the rubbishy ones.At least the Brera is doing its share of the work, making the Audi TT and the Nissan 350Z look clumpy and woefully heavy on their wheels, and leaving the Mercedes SLK to resemble a burst Christmas cracker. Be sure to opt for the "panoramic glass roof" that floods the cabin with light and enables you to look up at the people who are looking admiringly down on you from buildings and other cars. I suggest a modest shrug and a wryly self-deprecating twist of the mouth. After all, you can't help your car being so handsome.
Model Alfa Romeo Brera 2.4 JTD SVPriceFrom &pound;27,500Top speed142mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.1 secsConsumption41.5mpg (combined)Emissions179g/km (band E)At the wheelDean MartinThey'd rather walkPerry ComoOn the stereoSammy Davis JrEn route forMilan
Forbes magazine has tempered its celebratory coverage of the fruit company's 30th birthday with a brief look at some ofApple's unsuccessful efforts, described in a clunky pop-up slide show.On the product front, Forbes covers the Lisa and the Newton handheld, neither of which worked adequately when they were launched, plus the amazingly awful Apple Portable. It also includes the ROKR phone, which is hardly Apple's responsibility. But it misses lots of screwed-up products, such as the Apple III, the Apple IIc, the PowerBook Duo Dock, the Pippin, the absurdly pretentious Twentieth Anniversary Mac (code-named Spartacus), Jobs's unsaleable G4 Cube, and the original iBook, the first computer modelled after a toilet seat. The eMate might have been a failed product too, but at least it was cute.Taligent -- a spin-off backed jointly by IBM as part of the price of getting Apple's chip business -- is listed as a dud, but its sister company, Kaleida, did even worse.Forbes's other duds include "The Ineffectual CEOs": John Sculley, Mike Spindler and Gil Amelio. But the text says: "Sculley eventually displaced the Apple co-founder in 1986," which is simply wrong. Sculley joined as chief executive officer and president in 1983, before the launch of the Mac, and those are not junior roles. Jobs was stripped of his operating responsibilities in the first half of 1985, following miserable Mac sales, and he left in the second half of that year. He certainly wasn't "displaced" in 1986."For the next 11 years, Apple's fate -- and market share -- drifted," claims Forbes. This is a travesty. When Sculley joined Apple, it had sold precisely zero Macs and its turnover was around $1 billion. Sculley left at the start of 1995, and that year Apple's sales were just over $11 billion, and Mac sales hit a high of around 4.5 million a year. I certainly don't think that was the best possible result, but it's taken Steve Jobs the thick end of a decade to bring in a better number. Mac sales finally got back to 4.5m units in 2005, and revenues reached an all-time high of almost $14 billion... but that was thanks mainly to the iPod.During the nine years of Steve Jobs's Second Coming, from the start of 1997 to the end of 2005, Apple's revenues roughly doubled from $7.1 billion to $14 billion. For comparison, Dell's sales exploded from $7.8 billion to $56 billion. Sure, Steve Jobs is a major deity who regularly performs miracles, and one of them was saving Apple. But if it hadn't been for Sculley, there probably wouldn't have been anything to save.
Chatting time.
Guardian Technology's 'Free Our Data' campaign - which argues that data from organisations such as the Ordnance Survey, UK Hydrographic Agency and so on should be made available for free, rather than charged for - has been nominated for a New Statesman New Media Award under the "Advocacy" category. (If you've seen the Free Our Data website, you'll realise quickly that it's not for design. Any willing coders out there?)The Advocacy award "will go to the individual or organisation that has most effectively influenced opinions and behaviour through the use of new media technology." OK, we'll work on getting the wiki and the forums up now...We're pleased to be nominated; we'll be even more pleased if we win; but what we'd really like is, of course, to get our hands on all that data collected by government organisations yet then treated as treasure that will get more valuable if it's hoarded - when we know that what happens with data is that sharing it makes it more useful and increases its value.There's also afull list of New Statesman NMA award nominees.(I considered creating a category of 'blowing our own trumpet' for this one but figured it wouldn't make sense in the tagging folksonomy..)
Justlast weekthe Japanese publisher thrashed out a partnership deal with US developer, Obsidian Entertainment. Now Sega has pounced again, this time buying Sports Interactive, the Islington studio behind Football Manager - and, of course, the creator of Championship Manager. When SI and Eidos parted company a couple of years ago, Sega leapt in to offer the developer a five-year publishing deal, but shifting 1.5 million copies of the first two Football Manager titles has clearly heightened the publisher's interest.Having also bought Creative Assembly recently, Sega is rapidly turning into the Roman Abramovich of Western games development. It is perhaps the company's most sensible business endeavour since pulling out of the crippling console manufacturing game after the failure of Dreamcast (sniff). According to the press release, Naoya Tsurumi, CEO of SEGA Europe and SEGA of America, commented:"Football Manager is an extremely successful brand for SEGA and one of the most significant titles for our European line-up. This acquisition illustrates that we are achieving our objectives and have our strategic planning up and running. Although we still have a lot more to do, we feel that this is yet another huge step towards strengthening our standing within the European market.""[We] have our strategic planning up and running"?! Sega fans have been waiting fifteen years to hear that said with any conviction!Football Manager 2006 is coming to Xbox 360 and PSP on April 13.
Hey folks, as some of you may know I'm doing my PhD in virtual worldSecond Lifeand am launching a survey to capture information about the experiences of SL Residents.Who controls the information in virtual worlds? How do fads and trends spread around them? And how important are chance encounters at game parlours, rest areas or marketplaces?My research aims to answer these questions by describing the social networks of Second Life. The goals are to understand who talks with whom, to follow information as it spreads around the virtual world, and to uncover which groups and cliques are most integral to the social workings of this online space.I need to poll as many Residents as possible. Who areyourfriends and acquaintances?Anyone with an account in Second Life can participate by filling out an online survey which you can access fromthe in-world Social Simulation Research Lab(curious non-SL residents can find out where I'm talking about by clickinghere). It should take less than 30 minutes of your time. All responses will be kept confidential and you have the right to terminate your participation at any point.If you would like to find out more about this research, visit theresearch websiteor the Social Simulation Research Lab. You can also come along to a meeting at theSocial Simulation Research Labon Thursday 6th April 2006 at 2pm Linden Time (8pm GMT) to discuss the research, ask questions and collect a survey. While you're there, you can take in the knowledge of the library, which features a bounty of books on cyber-research, including papers, homepages of notable researchers, web resources and online journals.This research has the support of Second Life developersLinden Lab, and is conducted in accordance with the Second Life Research Agreement.
For those who already subscribe to the podcasts of the BBC's technology programme Digital Planet (formerly Go Digital), you'll already know that aUK universityis testing the use of video games for children who suffer fromamblyopia, or "lazy eye". For the rest of you, you can "Listen Again" to last week's programmehere.Already videogames have been used todetectthe condition, but according to Digital Planet, now researchers at theUniversity of Nottinghamare using games to treat it too. The hypothesis is that the interactivity of games is more effective than the traditional treatment (covering the amblopic eye with an eye patch), because the game stimulates the correct areas of both the affected optic nerve/eye muscles and the non-amblopic eye, thus requiring both eyes to work together.
Not sure what to do with yourself this lunchtime? Online games publisherWildsnakehas just made the latest puzzle title from Tetris creator Alexey Pajitnov available for download. Dwice is a rather familiar looking block-sorter, in which you save villagers from an avalanche of snowy shapes. The press release elaborates:"Match together the icy blocks that are the same shape or isolate them from their chilly friends to eliminate them from the board. Move fast because more blocks are always sliding down the mountain. Collect special power ups, like explosives, fire lines, and ice picks to help clear the blocks."I admire Pajitnov's tenacity. For twenty years he has been designing games that involve irregular shapes succumbing to gravity and he clearly sees no reason to stop. This new human interest element adds a certain frisson to the recipe - I for one will be less inclined to masochistically let the shapes pile up at the bottom of the screen if I know that there are villagers trapped underneath.
Xbox Live has really come into its own since the launch of 360. But it isn't just the marketplace and achievements that appeal - checking out what your friends have been up to is equally addictive. This has become especially relevant recently as a number of my friends have finally got 360s and have signed up to Microsoft's excellent online gaming service. Oblivion seems to be the oneeveryone is playingbut there's always some leftfield addiction open for all to see. A friend of mine, for example, has all the latest games but spends hours on the mediocreFull Auto. Checking out particular achievements or what level has been reached has become part of my pre-gaming ritual (along with stretching the thumbs, clicking the wrists and attaining a Zen-like meditative state, obviously) Anyone else do this?
YouTubehas been a fantastic phenomenon, as you might have deduced from seeing me post YouTube videos here. (It's grown six-fold already this year.) YouTube also offers an interesting contrast with Google Video, which is rubbish. Now Techcrunch reckonsMotionboxcould be theBest Online Video Sharing So Far, and Michael Arrington has written a mini-review of it. However, all the rest of us can do at the moment is sign up for a not-yet-available beta.Oh, if you really haven't been to YouTube before, go watch theReal Life Simpsons Intro
I just got a note from old pal Alex Dawson (one of theLondonistcrew) who points out an event which they are holding at the Apple Store this Wednesday:Blogging Demystified.The idea is to get a mix of successful UK bloggers to talk about why, what, where, and how they blog in order to try and drag blogging out into the open and hopefully give a clearer picture of the community than the muddied, somewhat cliched version that gets reflected sometimes by the mainstream mediaI have no idea what they're going on about with that last bit (muddied? cliched? ahem!) but Mr D promises that between 7 and 9pm all will be revealed, with help from London luminaries such asAnnie Mole, TomsCoatesandReynoldsand theInkycircusgirls. Look closely and you may even see me lurking in the background.
Mario Question Blocks at UC Berkeley"Five teenage girls from Portage County face potential criminal charges after attempting to play a real-life version of Super Mario Bros. The Portage County Hazardous Materials Unit and Bomb Detection Unit were called in to downtown Ravenna on Friday morning after seventeen suspicious packages -- boxes wrapped in gold wrapping paper with question marks spray painted on them -- had alarmed residents," reports theAkron Beacon Journal.The girls, aged 16 and 17, could face prosecution. "The Ravenna Police Department will be working with the Portage County Prosecutor's Office regarding possible criminal charges as a result of the game," says the paper.Comment: Much of America appears to be operating with the the mind-numbing stupidity frequently associated withZero Toleranceideas, which suggests this could end badly. It has prompted Ryan to put a warning notice about theseMario Question BlocksatDinosaur Comics. He notes:This is not a sinister 'game', it is supposed to be a comment on public spaces being routinely used for advertising (billboards, etc) but not for art (these boxes). Also, despite what Ravenna Police Chief Randall McCoy says, the purpose of these boxes is not "just to see what kind of response you get". It is to bring a smile to people's faces, to get them to connect with their neighbours, to bring colour into an otherwise grey urban landscape.See thisFlickr photo setto see just how scary Mario Question Blocks really are.
The New York Times site has had a bit of aredesign, and asAnil Dashpoints out: "There's a few lessons for bloggers to learn from the redesign, as well as some evidence that the Times itself has been learning from bloggers."The main difference is that it's wider, but the menu system has been greatly improved, and the unweildy drop-downs have, thankfully, gone. Video works a treat. But the best thing of all -- and one that nobody seems to mention -- is that it's blisteringly fast. Here, switching sections (eg from Sports to Arts) takes less than two seconds. Subjectively, it seems about twice as fast as the Guardian, maybe more.There's alsoMyTimes, which isn't yet available:Finally, we are very excited about a personalized page called MyTimes that will let you organize your favorite Web sources of information -- from NYTimes.com and elsewhere -- and view them at a glance. Personalized pages aren't new on the Web but ones offering the guidance of Times editors, reporters and critics are. More than two dozen Times journalists are offering their picks of sites that should engage you, whether you're interested in baseball or climate change, politics or recipes. MyTimes is currently under development but will be opening to a wider audience later this month. You can sign up now to be among the first invited to try it.Giving every MyTimes user their own MySpace-style spot might also be interesting, but I don't expect that.
The squabble between Apple and the music industry over how much iTunes downloads should cost is one that's been going on for some time. Last year, at a press conference in Paris (and later in aninterviewI did with him), Steve Jobs said the result of variable pricing would be more piracy. "If they want to raise prices, it's because they're greedy. If the price goes up, people turn back to piracy - and everybody loses."Now a note on thePaidContentblog suggests that the debate between music labels and Apple over variable pricingis unlikely to be resolved soon.The AP's thesis -- "any moves to abandon uniform pricing will test whether music fans are willing to pay more to download music that many only a few years ago acquired for free" -- tracks Jobs' contention that variable pricing only encourages piracy. Analysts give Apple's market share the edge in this debate.Variable pricing is a big issue, and labels are lobbying hard to change the iTunes model. They say it will let them sell music at a lower price. Of course, the converse is also true: selling in-demand music at a higher premium is really what the industry is after. Flogging off cheaper niche tracks is just a fringe benefit.Last year a thought-provoking piece byJoel Spolskyalso referred to this issue. In it, Spolsky said that variable pricing shouldn't be adopted because it implies that the cheaper product is worse.Pricing sends a signal. People have come to believe that "you get what you pay for." If you lowered the price of a movie, people would immediately infer from the low price that it's a crappy movie and they wouldn't go see it. If you had different prices for movies, the $4 movies would have a lot less customers than they get anyway.I think he's wrong in many ways. Most cinemas do charge different prices for movies; usually dependent on the time, or the nature of the show (for example I went to a two-for-one double bill last weekend of His Girl Friday and Some Like It Hot at theCurzon- both genuine classics, but I saw both for £6.50.)Similarly, if I walk into a high street music shop, I don't expect to see every CD on sale for £9.99 (in fact, I'm bombarded with variable prices). But Spolsky's argument does raise an interesting point, because ultimately variable prices rely on supply and demand. It doesn't take an economics professor to realise that popular tracks would increase in price and unpopular ones would decrease.But because we're not dealing in physical formats, why should higher demand mean higher cost? After all, there's no scarcity of stock for popular music sold on iTunes: in theory, it can be downloaded by an infinite number of people (indeed, this week's top-selling single wasdownload-only). Similarly, selling less popular downloads for a lower price is about making a sale full stop, not about selling existing stock.We shouldn't naively expect that variable pricing would keep prices at the same mean price - but would such a change be worth it for you?
Turns out that there's already more than a hundred Digg-style sites, since each special interest group can have its own, as 3Spots points outhere. The site is compiling a great list, including diggalikes for videos, games, photographers and Canadian political news. There are also digg-style sites for different regions and different languages, which could ultimately add thousands more. Maybe it's time for the people behindDogpileto do a Digpile!
So what did you play this weekend? For me, it was hours of unremitting joy with OutRun 2006 Coast-2-Coast on PS2. Released last week, it is another rip-roaring reinterpretation of the AM2 arcade legend from UK developerSumo Digital, previously responsible for Outrun 2 on Xbox.I love it because it is totally out of step with modern driving game design sensibilities - it utterly lacks the prissy handling realism of Gran Turismo, the lascivious crash physics of Burnout and the underworld urban street gang hysterics of Need For Speed: Most Wanted. If you hit another car in Coast-2-Coast it cannons 100 meters down the track and keeps driving. If you hit a barrier at anything other than head-on, your vehicle will skip back onto the track, undamaged and still accelerating. Too forgiving for some perhaps, but the emphasis here is on pure driving thrills. It is the very spirit of OutRun, perfectly continuing Yu Suzuki's original fantasy of an open freeway, a Ferrari and a hot Californian girl at your side...The sense of fun is there in other facets of the handling engine. There's so much drift, one well-timed powerslide can see you through hundreds of metres of Tarmac. The oversteer is so epic, Wagner could have crafted an opera out of it. If you drove like this in real-life you'd have more pranged Ferraris than a Gizmondo exec.The 30 tracks (15 from OutRun 2, 15 more from the OutRun 2 Special Tours coin-op) fling lovingly structured arcade landscapes at you - looming cities, sun-drenched coastal routes, dense forest passes - all bright and clean and shamelessly idealised. Overhead, jet fighters zoom and migrating flocks swoop past. At times the lens flare is so bright it's like driving into a nuclear explosion. Lighting subtlety is for wimps.The structure is good too, offering an abundance of game options. The Coast-2-Coast mode is the main event, providing four 'Flag Man' racing challenges, each split into multi-path routes, and a selection of Girlfriend challenges where you race through the circuits performing driving tasks to impress your co-passenger. These range from zig-zagging between trucks to running over ghosts and avoiding meteors. While progress through the Flag Man events is pretty fast, the girlfriend events are tougher, requiring you to play against a typically strict OutRun timer though a series of branching routes while also earning high scores with those strange tricks.Throughout Coast-2-Coast you earn OutRun points which can be used to buy new cars (there are 12 licensed Ferrari models), music tracks and reversed circuits. Other modes include the original OutRun 2 experience, plus a port of the coin-op variant, OutRun 2 SP. I've yet to try the six player online mode, but will give it a go this week.So yes, OutRun is back. Again. And, like Mutant Storm and Geometry Wars - which have proved to Xbox Live players that 2D shooters still have a role in the FPS era - it is an invigorating testament to classic game design.
