"Hydrogen fuel cell cars from nine automakers completed a 13-day cross-country trip this weekend, in the first such mass US crossing for vehicles powered by a zero-emission technology still in its infancy," reportsReuters.The cars visited 31 cities in 18 states, but apparently they didn't drive all the way. Sometimes they travelled on flatbed trucks, including the stretch from Rolla, Missouri, to Albuquerque, New Mexico. The problem is refuelling. The story says: "There are about 60 hydrogen stations in the United States, and only two are open to the public without prior arrangement."But then one of the goals of theHydrogen Road Tour '08was to demonstrate the need to build more fueling stations if the nascent technology is to develop, said Paul Brubaker, administrator for research and innovative technology for the US Department of Transportation.However: "Linde and Air Products showed off their hydrogen-making machines to the public and at times refueled the autos."
Ah, the August Bank Holiday Monday - traditionally a day in which we all pack up our stuff and head home after a damp weekend of over-priced accommodation and breath-takingly mediocore pub grub. And while you're stuck in a traffic jam or at engineering works outside Oxford, just think - you could be playing mobile games. As long as you're not driving anything, of course.So here's what's been happening...UK publisherPlayer Xhas secured the rights to create mobile versions of Sony's Buzz and Destruction Derby games. The hugely successful quiz brand will do well on mobile - licensed trivia games always do - and the company behind such hit mobile quiz conversions as Bullseye and Family Fortunes should provide a decent interpretation. It will be interesting to see if there's at least Bluetooth support for multiplayer gaming - a full online mode would be even better. Destruction Derby, the smash 'n' crash racing series which started out on PS1, is a less obvious fit, though driving games are doing decent business on mobile, despite being overwhelmingly rubbish. (There are a few exceptions - I loved the Mario Kart-esqueOpposite Lock, while Project Gotham Racing and Asphalt GT are as close as mobile gets to proper urban racers.)On the subject of quiz conversions (which I was a minute ago), EA has brought the rights to Deal or No Deal and has a mobile version lined up. I know this because they sent me a big red box through the post, designed in the style of the iconic money containers on the show, but filled with press releases and promotional gifts (anyone want a Deal or No Deal polo shirt?). Apparently, you'll get to play, not just as a contestant, but also as the banker and, weirdly, one of the chaps who opens the boxes. The aim is to simulate the complete DOND experience, unlike the current, and not brilliant, Gameloft translation.Other stuff... PES 2009 won in the mobile games category of the'Best of GC'awards. Last year's miniature tie-in with the legendary sim was surprisingly accomplished with an intuitive control system that managed to provide a compelling glimpse of the console series, but on a fiddly mobile keypad. Due in autumn, the 2009 edition features Bluetooth two-player as well as unlockable bonuses and training challenges.Meanwhile, iPhone watches have been getting excited aboutReal Racing, a driving game by Australian developer, Firemint, with impressive 3D visuals and tilt controls. But that's not all - the game offers Wi-Fi multiplayer gaming and Facebook and YouTube applications so you can show off your best moves to pals in your social networking and user-gen content communities. Surely, the future of mobile gaming...Also hoping to play its part in the evolution of this embattled gaming sector isZeemote. The company's JS1 controller - a wireless joystick which hooks up to compatible games via Bluetooth and offers a much more comfortable control experience - has recently been launched in several territories and is picking up support from both hardware manufacturers (notably Sony Ericsson - a JS1 is bundled with the W760i Walkman phone in the Netherlands) and developers, including Gameloft, EA, Glu and Digital Chocolate. No Uk release yet, though.Finally, I asked veteran mobile games journalist Stuart Dredge to come up with a quick top five of recommended recent releases, drawn from his section of excellent portable gaming site,Pocket Gamer. If you're still stuck somewhere horrible and looking for a few moments respite - any of these will do the trick...The Dredge Report: five unmissable mobile titles from thePocket Gamerreviews section.Toy Bot Diaries Entry 1"Intriguing iPhone game where you control a cutesy robot through tilt and touch alone. It's full of character, but also ninja-hard, so will take some beating. It's also innovative for its planned episodic nature - this is the first in a series."GTS World Racing"Another iPhone game, this time a 3D racer. The controls are entirely accelerometer-based, and are pretty bang on - certainly less frustrating than Super Monkey Ball."Tony Hawk's Proving Ground"Mobile Tony Hawk games were once fiddly and distinctly un-fun, but this continues the trend set by Tony Hawk's Project 8 of being a great mobile game, designed around the handset's limitations rather than fighting them."Circulate"A good example of one of the genres mobile does best - a brain-bending puzzler with simple controls, but a well-planned learning curve introducing new features as you progress."Song Summoner: The Unsung Heroes"iPod games are fairly low-profile compared to iPhone at the moment, but this from Square Enix is genuinely innovative. You turn your own songs into warriors for the Final Fantasy Tactics style gameplay."
When I heard that Arianna Huffington was setting upThe Huffington Postin 2005, I thought it was a joke. It sounded like the personal indulgence of a millionaire socialite who "didn't get the web" or she'd have started 10 years earlier.But it didn't take long to find out how wrong I was. HuffPo, as it's known, rapidly became a major force. The Observer called it the world's most influential blog, and it helped inspirethe Guardian's own Comment is Free.Huffington was born in Athens in 1950 as Arianna Stassinopoulos and made her initial impact in the UK. At university she was president of the Cambridge Union, before becoming a TV and radio personality and moving in with the late Bernard Levin, the sharpest newspaper columnist of the age.She then left for the US, where she married Houston oil millionaire Michael Huffington. And when he ran for Congress as a Republican, Arianna got into American politics. It was an interest she retained after they divorced in 1998 – following 11 years of marriage – along with a chunk of his money and his surname.Although The Huffington Post wasn't a personal ego trip, plenty ofegos were involved. Arianna got everyone's attention by enrolling lots of celebrities – initially, perhaps, her friends and contacts – to blog opinions and serious political commentaries.Nor was HuffPo on the conservative right, like her former husband. Arianna had moved to the left and was closer to the Democrats. As it tuned out, an independent liberal voice was just what America wanted.Today, HuffPo has so much content that it has turned into a newspaper, and that is how it styles itself: it uses a three-column newspaper-style grid with lots of small index pictures. It also has various newspapery departments including politics, business, entertainment and living.And it has Green, an ecological section that takes in the environment, climate change, "crazy weather" and so on.The main sections are supplemented by the Huffpost's Big News Pages, which bring together all the stories about a particular topic. Examples include Russia Georgia War, Iran, Barack Obama, Oprah, Apple, Britney Spears, Sex, and Green Living. If you don't see what you want, there's aHuffington indexthat is somewhat likeThe New York Times.Unlike most newspapers, readers can leave comments on any story, and they do. One piece on the current front page has accumulated almost 6,000 of them. HuffPo may have started hiring reporters and video makers, but the blog-based community is still an important part of the mix.This month, more surprisingly, HuffPo has added Chicago, which marks its first attempt at providing a local newspaper within an internet newspaper. It has local information, local bloggers, and is edited by someone who used to work for the local paper. Huffington says: "We plan to roll out local versions of HuffPost in dozens of cities."Tomorrow, the world? Arianna has already conquered England, America and a large slice of the web, so why not ...
Barack Obama's running mate has been fingered by CNet's Declan McCullagh in a post headedJoe Biden's pro-RIAA, pro-FBI tech voting record. The story says:After taking over the Foreign Relations committee, Biden became a staunch ally of Hollywood and the recording industry in their efforts to expand copyright law. He sponsored a bill in 2002 that would have make it a federal felony to trick certain types of devices into playing unauthorized music or executing unapproved computer programs. Biden's bill was backed by content companies including News Corp. but eventually died after Verizon, Microsoft, Apple, eBay, and Yahoo lobbied against it.Also:Last year, Biden sponsored an RIAA-backed bill called the Perform Act aimed at restricting Americans' ability to record and play back individual songs from satellite and Internet radio services. (The RIAA sued XM Satellite Radio over precisely this point.)Biden's other bills range from theOmnibus Counterterrorism Act of 1995to theBiden Crime Bill of 2007. Of the latter, CNet says:One section expands electronic surveillance law to permit police wiretaps in "crimes dangerous to the life, limb, and well-being of minor children." Another takes aim at Internet-based telemedicine and online pharmacies, saying that physicians must have conducted "at least one in-person medical evaluation of the patient" to prescribe medicine.Whether the Obama/Biden ticket is more liberal than the Republican presidential candidateJohn McCainis open to discussion. McCain wants to expand the Patent Office and "supports efforts to crack down on piracy, both on the Internet and off".
He is a motivational speaker from Ohio who wears an orange T-shirt and loves to dance. She is a guitar-thrashing pop princess and icon for millions of angst-ridden teenagers. Together they are locked in a David and Goliath struggle for the crown of the world's number one internet video – and the accolade of being watched 100 million times.After more than two years at the top, Judson Laipply's low-budget video,Evolution of Dance, has lost its status as the most watched clip of all time on YouTube. It has been overtaken byGirlfriend, a glossy music video that accompanies the hit record by millionaire singer Avril Lavigne.Amid allegations of dirty tricks, fans of both artists are trying to make their favourite the first to achieve the landmark in internet history, given that YouTube was only launched in 2005. The battle also reflects the split within YouTube's content between amateur film footage and slick commercial clips. The site's top 20 most viewed list features professional music videos by stars such as Leona Lewis and Alicia Keys, but also home-made footage of a baby laughing uproariously from a high chair.Laipply is the underdog in the duel. At the time of going to press his total YouTube views had reached 96,421,205.Lavigne was already being dubbed the new Britney Spears before her punk-flavoured song Girlfriend, from her album The Best Damn Thing, topped the charts in America, and her total views hit 98,191,917.In June the fansiteAvril Bandaidsclaimed to have found a way to cheat the  system and urged fans to follow a link to help boost ratings by viewing it thousands of times a day. Later it admitted that the link was a hoax.
Mitsubishi L200 Warrior&pound;18,499MPG:32.8Top speed:103Seats:5Looking like a cross between Darth Vader's helmet and a reject from Pimp My Ride, the Mitsubishi L200 Warrior is an acquired taste. Its bulging wheels, super-high suspension, chrome piping, four-pronged bash plate and Dakar rally-inspired styling means you stand out on a suburban road like a cold sore on a newsreader's face. But, heck, what did I care. Donning checked shirt, baseball cap and stained teeth, I kissed my sister, I mean, wife goodbye and hauled myself into the luxurious cab. Two neighbours gawked on the pavement, hugging themselves with delight as they sharpened their witty one-liners: 'Are you secretly from Kentucky, Billy Bob?' and, 'There's room for a moose in the back, pardner.'I took no notice, turned up the country &amp; western and twisted the key. I wasn't expecting a smooth ride. But the L200's 2.5-litre diesel makes porridge look silky. The whole car shook and rattled as we grunted out of the drive towards open country - well, the South Circular anyway.Built for the outdoors, the handling is blunter than John Prescott. Add poor rear vision, an inordinately wide stance and a gearbox which feels like you're arm-wrestling and you have a recipe for disaster. Catching the eyes of oncoming drivers and giving them your best 'excuse me' grimace becomes so exhausting you end up just ignoring them - which I suppose is the point. Parking on the other hand is easy, but that's only because incidentals such as kerbs, pedestrians and wheelie bins barely trouble you...Clearly this pimped up pick-up is not going to appeal to everyone, or indeed anyone. There are two sub-groups, however, who seem to hold the car's testosterone-boosting features in high regard. The first is schoolboys. I drove my 11-year-old son to a cricket match in it and I couldn't have made more friends if I'd been George Bush attending an arms convention. The entire team climbed into the back - where the dead moose should have been - and started jumping up and down. The second group, more worryingly, are adults. More precisely, the 4,376 members of the L200 Owners' Club ('&pound;15 for lifetime membership'). The only entry criteria, plenty of facial hair.The L200 has been around for almost 20 years. To start with it was the 'what it says on the tin' choice for builders, farmers and anyone with a yearning to transport heavy furniture over rugged terrain. But when Mitsubishi added a double cab, a stereo, aircon, cupholders and a slathering of lifestyle attitude, their no-nonsense pick-up was transformed into a chrome-effect city slicker. Or, as the admen would have it, a classy vehicle for rough valleys and smooth valets.Still, with the engine ticking along, the 4WD's traction control making mincemeat of a slippery track and a family's worth of muddy bikes in the back, I began to see the point. Maybe I'd suit a moustache after all...martin.love@observer.co.uk
Atari 800 home computerGamasutra has published the second installment of Steve Fulton's history of Atari, the pioneering games company. In 20 pages he coversthe golden yearsfrom 1977 to 1981, where the highlights include a range of coin-ops, the Atari Video Computer System (or 2600), the Atari 400/800 line of personal computers, and games such as Space Invaders, Asteroids, Centipede, Tempest and Star Raiders.The Atari 800 was a fantastic machine architected by the late Jay Miner and others, who later repeated the concept to create the Amiga 1000.IBM thought about buying the Ataris as the basis for its entry into the home computing market, but Atari's owner, Warner Bros, had already sabotaged the machine. As Atari founder Nolan Bushnell says:Warner ... said, 'Not only are we not going to help third-party developers, we're going to sue you if you use our operating environment.' So everybody that wanted to get into the software business supported Apple over Atari. So basically Warner drove the coffin nail in the Atari 800, despite it having a clearly superior chipset, a better operating environment... We had a lot of innovations in the Atari 800 that became standard later on.There's obviously a lot of wishful thinking in that: the Apple II (1977) owned the market well before the Atari 800 appeared, and the 800 lacked expansion slots. Another thing that didn't help was the huge success of Doug Neubauer'sStar Raidersgame, which was pretty astonishing for its time. People bought Atari computers just to run it. But as Fulton says:Of course, the success of Star Raiders had a serious downside for the Atari home computer division: it solidified the industry misconception that the 400 and 800 were not serious computers.The story has an amusing quote from Activision co-founderDavid Crane, ofLittle Computer Peoplefame:Atari had contracted with a young programmer named Bill Gates to modify a BASIC compiler that he had for another system to be used on the 800. After that project stalled for over a year Al [Miller] was called upon to replace him with another developer. So, while Al is the only person I know ever to have fired Bill Gates, I suspect that rather than work on Atari BASIC, Gates was spending all his time onDOS* for IBM. Probably not a bad career choice for him, do you think?The company that uses the Atari name today has no connection with the one that pioneered the video games business.....* Bill didn't write DOS but he was heavily involved with providing DOS and Microsoft Basic for the IBM PC, launched in 1981.
Liliputing has agreat list of liliputers like the Asus Eee PC-- ie mini-notes or netbooks or whatever, but not other subnotebooks like UMPCs and OQO-style machines -- with little pictures and good specifications. So far there are 43 on the list, though this includes variants of the same model.Like a spreadsheet, you can sort it by column, though it doesn't actually sort properly. It would be nice to be able to download and/or convert it into a little database, for offline use, but pasting it into Excel 2008 works reasonably well. Either way, it should be useful if you are in the market for this sort of thing.
A few things I've noticed about getting older. You start to think about the past more than the future, except for death which you think about often. (By "you", of course, I mean "I".) The world gets increasingly and irritatingly noisy. Adverts are more and more confusing. As are new cars...For example, I'm sitting in this Mitsubishi Lancer and my wing mirrors have folded back, presumably to prevent themselves being knocked off by the number 226 bus which goes along my road. Very sensible. But now that I want to drive somewhere, I'd like them to fold out again. I don't know how to do that, though. Every button I press does something else.Oh well, what's behind is past. Maybe not having wing mirrors will encourage me to look to the future. And the one in the windscreen seems to be working, although the view is slightly spoilt by the rear spoiler.Ah, that spoiler. It made my heart miss a beat when I first saw it on my test car, parked down the street. Crikey, I thought, they've only gone and sent me an Evo. (If you don't read Max Power magazine, the Evolution is the loopily fast and immensely vulgar version of this car. I've always wanted to drive one, simply because it would, I imagine, be a bit like actually stepping into Gran Turismo 5.) I skipped back into the house, grabbed a Beastie Boys CD and prepared to burn a lot of rubber on the way to Southend where I would take part in some illegal races and perform doughnuts on the seafront...On approaching the car, it became clear that it wasn't an Evo after all (spoiler too small, no scoops or vents in the bonnet). In fact, it's a diesel, a sheep in wolf's clothing. I returned sadly to the house and swapped the Beasties for Duffy.But now I can't find anywhere to stick her. I press various things, expecting a CD player to slide out of somewhere, but nothing. Except that I seem to have unfolded the wing mirrors! A result of sorts. Now I'll be able to drive slowly, in silence, while looking into the past. This is the perfect car for an old man.That's a little unfair. It may be a diesel, but the 16-valve turbocharged engine has just enough welly to tickle your inner boy racer. And as time goes on, I learn how more and more things work. It turns out the screen in the dashboard does everything. The satnav, once I've figured it out, is brilliant (apart from not having heard of Heathrow's Terminal 5). I am told how economically I'm driving and how far it is until I need to fill up. Although it still won't play my Duffy CD, there is a hard disk music server on to which I imagine I'm supposed to download the contents of my iPod. This is way beyond me, so I'm stuck with what Mitsubishi has provided - a cheesy collection of club anthems (possibly to remind us that Mitsubishis are, of course, named after a brand of ecstasy popular in the 1990s).Everything is good about this car. It's comfy and roomy, everything works fantastically. But you wouldn't want one (unless it was an evil Evo). There's just nothing very likable about it, it's too... too nothing.Oh, one thing I never figured out was how to deactivate the alarm. Which means that all my neighbours didn't just dislike it, they loathed it with a passion. Every time a 226 went past, off it went. To the residents of Hamilton Road, I apologise.Mitsubishi Lancer 2.0 GS4Price£18,499Top speed129mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.3 secondsAverage consumption44.8mpgCO² emissions165g/kmEco rating6/10At the wheelMichael ParkinsonBound forFrinton-on- Sea
"I Nintendo live for ever, or die trying" - Mario Marx.Poor Nintendo. Those clever little handheld games in the 80s: small, orange, plastic "Game &amp; Watch" devices that opened up like a book. A gorilla threw barrels down at you while you leapt about a beeping LCD world. Then came the NES Game Console, followed by the highly successful Game Boy. After that, things began to go wrong: the Nintendo 64 and its successor, the GameCube, failed to penetrate what was now an enormous market. The oldest video games company of them all was in trouble: Donkey Kong and the Mario Brothers seemed destined to go the way of Atari and Sega, Pong and Sonic the Hedgehog, while the big boys would be left to slug it out with their PlayStations and Xboxes. That was Sony and Microsoft's plan, and no one doubted it would be so. Nintendo, as a games brand, was about as hot as Waddingtons.And then came its "seventh generation" offerings, the DS and the Wii (pronounced "wee"). The assumption made by Sony and Microsoft was that awesome processing power, state-of-the-art graphics, smooth animation and voluminous storage would make their big beasts market leaders. Nintendo staked all on cheaper devices that stressed a personal relationship between player and machine. The DS was all about a highly portable, stylus-driven environment, while the Wii – well, the Wii changed the rules completely.The DS and its more streamlined successor, the DS Lite, reached out to women and the middle-aged, and managed to do this without alienating the core gaming audience. Games for teenage girls, games for sudoku-playing commuters, "brain trainer" games for fortysomethings – whole new audiences were being reached, and the units sold in their millions.My DS Lite is pink. There was so much demand earlier this year that they couldn't be had for bribes, sexual favours or worse. Unless you accepted girly pink. The moment you open it, you are taken back to the old Game &amp; Watch days but can see why the DS has succeeded so well with the middle class, the middle-aged and the Hello Kitty/My Little Strawberry Shortcake Pony set. You set up in a twinkle and then play on two screens, one of which accepts stylus input and touches.As well as being backwardly compatible with the Game Boy Advance, there are hundreds of DS-specific games to choose from, some available on all platforms, such as Lego Star Wars; others proprietary and particular, such as Mario Kart. Fashion Dogz, Hannah Montana: Music Jam and Imagine Girl Band look after the all-important little girl sector, while Call of Duty, Race Driver: Grid and endless sports implementations show that your classic boy gamer isn't left out either. He will prefer the versions on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, of course, but Nintendo's whole strategy is to encourage crossover. Adults are turned on to the joys of shoot 'em ups and RPGs, the young discover Space Invaders and Scrabble. That's the theory, and more than 100m units sold make it hard to disprove. The DS is nothing like as feature rich as the PlayStation Portable, but it isn't trying to be. The philosophy seems so counterintuitive at first blush: surely today's digital devices demand the Swiss Army knife approach? If the DS has a touch screen, speakers and controls, then it should offer USB connections, AV and HDMI in and out sockets, memory cards, MP3 and movie playback, Wi-Fi and texting. Convergence is all, no? Well, we humans can be so ornery. A simple pocket knife can be more appealing and usable than a bristling Victorinox, and a dedicated little games machine like the DS can engage us far more than the sleek power of the PSP. You can feel admiration and even awe for the big power boxes, but for the DS you feel affection - and that, in marketing terms, is worth a whole heap more.Next wiik, wii'll take a wii look at Nintendo's other phenomenally successful platform...Acronym of the weekHDMIHigh Definition Multimedia Interface. Says it all, really. Neat single cable attachment for HD TVs, Blu-ray players and modern gaming consoles.·stephenfry.com/blog
I'm returning to university and wonder if you could recommend a gadget for note taking? I'd like to use my MacBook - typing would be easier than writing - but I'm not sure it would be practical. Is there a device designed for note taking?You could easily try using a low-cost PDA (personal digital assistant) or a clever digital voice recorder, but I'd suggest sticking with your laptop: typing on a larger keyboard is much faster than inputting on to a small screen, and most universities have no problem with students bashing away on keyboards during lectures.If that's impractical, consider buying a smartphone (such as the Nokia Nseries), then getting a keyboard that plugs into it. That way you combine a pocket-sized gizmo with a proper typing set-up.The crucial thing, though, is good note-taking software. A number of people I know swear by Microsoft's OneNote; however, that's available only for Windows machines. Perhaps, instead, you could look at Evernote, which works across most platforms such as Mac, Windows, iPhone, Windows mobile phones and PDAs.Just remember that everyone takes a while to find the method that suits them, so be prepared to experiment.
It's been a while since the last piece of properly uninformed outrage about a game, which is why it's almost a relief that self-styled campaigners for "decency and accountability", Mediawatch UK, has weighed in with its amusingly hysterical views on SEGA's upcoming Wii release,Mad World. This is a game that admittedly promises to feature various forms of death by chainsaw impalement, however it does so in cartoon-like black and white, styled in such a way that its violence is as removed from real life as Tom &amp; Jerry. Spokesman John Beyer says on the group's website, "It seems a shame that the game's manufacturer has decided to exclusively release this game on the Wii," apparently blissfully unaware that games receive ratings in the same way as films, ensuring only grown-up Wii gamers will be allowed to witness this particular slice of comic-book bloodshed when it arrives next spring.
Just a few years ago, government departments relied on whole buildings full of files rather than a collection of virtual folders on a computer. In those days, it would have taken a feat of awesome incompetence to lose thousands of people's information. After all, it is difficult to imagine a Whitehall mandarin managing to leave a room full of filing cabinets on the train.Today, however, the digital revolution is causing headaches for the government's database gurus. When a memory stick smaller than a cigarette lighter can easily store thousands of pieces of information, the scope for error is increasing by the day: last year, details of 25 million people were lost after being stored on just two CDs.With the government promising a thorough investigation, experts have warned that ministers should react to the real problem - a lack of basic security protocol - rather than the perceived threat of technology. "Had the data on the memory stick been encrypted, its loss would have posed no risk," said Greg Day, a security analyst with internet company McAfee.Some fear a ban by some government departments on workers using gadgets such as mobile phones and iPods focuses on the wrong part of the problem. "There is nothing illegal in storing information on a memory stick, provided the information is encrypted or not taken off the premises," said Peter Carey, editor of the Privacy &amp; Data Protection Journal.
ATV Offroad Fury ProPSPThe word "pro" as applied to video game titles, like the words "extreme" and "championship edition", is so devoid of meaning that its usage is entirely irrelevant. It serves only to cause a small inward sigh and the sense that if baby Jesus really does cry over things we do, then this would be one of those things. ATV Offroad Fury Pro's hand portable racing thrills put you in a variety of all-terrain vehicles, from quad bikes to trucks via bikes and peculiar little dune buggies, on a succession of appropriately lumpy courses strewn with trees, rocks and slidey hairpins around which to fire your floaty vehicles. Its soundtrack features the hardcore rawk and hip-hop beloved of angry teens and mildly offensive to others - it is easily muted. Races and challenges are likable, with pleasantly spongy handling and the need to use some light tactics, but the game is endlessly samey, with the undulating terrain and zero-G physics eventually becoming almost hypnotic. Life: it's too short.&#183;SCEE, &pound;30Buzz! Master QuizPSPJason Donovan reprises his role as Buzz, the mildly caustic quiz show host (sample commentary, "Life's not just about rewards and respect"), this time occupying a much smaller screen and still resembling a Sesame Street character in a suit. Unlike its forebears this has a reasonably chunky single-player mode, in this case featuring a multiround competition to play through with your chosen silly avatar, revelling in each one's comedy buzzer sound and a general knowledge question set you might call accessible. Levels vary by rules and topic, with only one that really grates: Virus round. In it, your score drops until you can identify a blurred image that resolves so gradually any fleeting moments of victory are the result of desperate semi-random guesses. At a very minimum this process is bloody irritating. Other rounds fare better but the truth is that, on your own, Buzz! is half a game.&#183;SCEE, &pound;30
Virtual desktops have been around for decades, and I'm sure I never threw out my copy ofXerox Rooms. However, they have never been popular with Windows users, in spite of Microsoft providing a free one as a PowerToy. It suggests there isn't a large market for the idea of having different desktops for different purposes and switching between them.....However, if you fancy the idea, have a look atDesktops v1.0by Mark Russinovich and Bryce Cogswell. It's only 62K. It's an MSDN developer tool, but anybody can download it.Desktops provides access to four virtual desktops, where No 1 is the one you already have. You can switch to the others via keystrokes or using a popup from the SysTray next to the clock, as shown here....Russinovich and Cogswell are best known for producing great little utilities at SysInternals, including Process Explorer and Autoruns. You can download more than 60 as abundlefrom Microsoft TechNet.
MondayToo Human review soonGaming surgeons are betterXbox 360 vs PS3TuesdayToo Human reviewCompetition: Rough Guide to VideogamesWii more traditional than you think?PS3 has cost Sony more than it made from PS2 salesWednesdayKokoromi competition: a 3D gameToo Human is innovative says Denis DyackFIFA 09 to feature live updatesSony announces 160GB PS3ThursdayPlay: User Experience and gamingPSP 3000 and Everyday ShooterFridayHow would you re-name Xbox?
What's your favourite piece of technology?My multi-roomSonos music system– which consists of small wireless white boxes in each room hooked up to speakers. I control them with a handheld remote so I can pick whichever tracks I want in each room – or have the same heady tones piped throughout my pad!How has it improved your life?As it streams music from myNapsteraccount as well as my own collection, I find myself with a virtual jukebox of millions of songs on demand anywhere within my four walls. And that's pure nirvana.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Last night, for listening to a Napster-selected chillout playlist.What additional features would you add if you could?Better support for song lyrics and podcasts, as well as display of RSS feeds of news items (or any other info) for the controller.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Not exactly – around the house music streaming will be incorporated into more sophisticated setups which stream multiple channels of HD video. And in metropolitan areas we'll be living under one enormous internet cloud, which really will make the cliché of "media ubiquity" a reality.What one tip would you give to non-Sonos users?Buy lots of iPod docks.  Or if you're really skint, then invest a fiver in an FM transmitter, hook it up to your PC and stream your audio that way.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?Neither. Though my friends are increasingly telling me I've become a nerd, which is regrettable because I occasionally use deodorant and see daylight twice a month – sometimes more.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A Korg M1 synthesiser. It cost me about £1,500 in 1988, but it became legendary so it was money well spent.Mac or PC?Traditionally PC, but now that Apple support booting into Windows, I'm getting ever-closer to taking the plunge.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Strawberry Swing by Coldplay. It's utterly addictive.Will robots rule the world?Seeing as they still struggle to climb stairs, I'm not overly concerned about any imminent danger to humanity. Longer-term though they may eventually be smart enough to serve us up a nice brew, which is the way it should be.What piece of technology would you most like to own?An invisibility cloak. Or failing that, a personaljetpack.Richard Tayloris the editor and series producer of Click, which airs on BBC ONE, the BBC News Channel and BBC World News
Goaded repeatedly by theI'm a Mac, I'm a PCadvertising campaign, Microsoft has recruited Jerry Seinfeld to star in a rebranding exercise in an attempt to finally bury the cumbersome, besuited and backward image of the PC user as opposed to the fluent, T-shirted, laidback, cool user of a Mac.You could argue that hiring a comedian who was at the height of his fame in the 1990s in an attempt to make Microsoft cutting edge is doomed to fail, but over on the Blogging Stocks site there is optimism.Steven Mallas thinks a campaign using Seinfeld, if it turns up the creative energy to the max, could do amazing things for the Windows for Walls campaign – which apparently will attempt to stress the breaking down of barriers that prevent people from connecting."Seinfeld is popular, his old TV show is a hallowed member of the broadcasting zeitgeist,and an investment in his celebrity could yield a decent return.''The plan is reportedly to pay Seinfeld $10m (£5.3m) to joke around with Bill Gates in the $300m marketing campaign."There's a simple aim,'' writes Steve Foley from NY in the Indy, ''to stop Microsoft's troubled operating system Windows Vista from being a laughing stock. If the mooted slogan for the campaign is anything to go by – the rather clunky Windows not Walls – Microsoft is going to be making very heavy weather of it."PC World has put together a history of Microsoft's''Top Ten most memorable Ads''which helpfully takes us through much of the backstory.The Silicon Valley blogger Henry Blodget thinks Microsoft is attempting the impossible."Microsoft will never be cool in the same way that Apple is cool. Companies with 90% market share are almost never cool. Sorry, but nine out of 10 kids in the class can't be cool."This is an extended extract from the Wrap, our daily digest of the day's papers.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft Live LabsreleasedPhotosynthyesterday, and as itsblogadmitted, quickly went down under the weight of traffic. Well, it's computationally intensive -- the basic idea is that it you take lots of photos and it combines them into a whole. Also, it's already pretty well known. Photosynth was developed partly from technology that Microsoft bought along with Seadragon, and it was used more than a year ago in aBBC projectto synthesise Britain.Photosynth was alsoshown at TEDby its designer, Blaise Aguera y Arcas. If you have not seen it, it is an excellent way to spend 7 minutes 42 seconds. Two of the things he demonstrates are a zoomable issue of The Guardian, and the way that you can collect a huge number of pictures from different people (he uses pictures ofNotre Damefrom Flickr) and blend them into a whole. It's a transformation, and really makes photography social.Another video on Microsoft'sChannel 10service lets you meet more of the team, and there's a more recent introduction,Photosynth: A global 3D world on your PC!For people who want to know more about the code, there's almost 40 minutes of video with Blaise Aguera y Arcas on Channel 9 inPhotoSynth: What. How. Why.What I'd love to Microsoft do next is start one or two group projects based on some of the world's more accessible "photo opportunities" -- my choice would be theGrand Canalin Venice. Millions of people have photographed it, and if we all shared our images, the results should be truly spectacular.Photosynth could also be added to mapping systems to enhance street views, but privacy campaigners might well have hysterics.....
The snarky headlines for this one almost write themselves... Microsoft has enlisted Americancomedian Jerry Seinfeld to be the face of a new $300m publicity campaign. What can we expect? Perhaps he'll appear alongside well-known funnyman Bill Gates in a double act to rival Apple's insufferably smug "I'm a Mac" adverts.
I've been at the Leipzig game Convention this week - more on that soon - but one thing that really stuck out was Microsoft's stand. Historically the focus would have been on the core stuff - think Halo, Gears of War and the rest. This year the core games were hidden away - Fable 2 and Too Human, for example - while the stand was dominated by Rock Band and You're in The Movies. The message was clear - Xbox is for everyone! Hmm. You convinced? I'm not so sure. What does the Xbox brand conjure up to you? Family friendly gaming? Post pub gaming with a host of attractive model types? Or, in fact an overcaffeinated teen with a headset and an accurate trigger finger?But, for the sake of this blog, let's roll with the idea that the 360 is about to enter Wii-like mainstream popularity for a moment. Let's assume the lineup gets increasingly inclusive - more SceneIt and the like. What could be the one thing that puts the mainstream market off? Yup, the name. "Xbox" may have sounded edgy and exciting in 2001 when Microsoft needed core gamers onboard. But now it sounds slightly naff and, more importantly, is likely to put off casual gamers. Oh go on then - it's Friday. Ybox? Every1Box? How would you rename the Xbox to make it more appealing to casual/family gamers?
With the games industry reportedly threatening to sue25,000 people who illegally downloaded games, it seems that the war against pirates is cranking up. But 25,000 - that's alotof people. It's not clear if we're going to see a similar situation to one a few years ago, when scores ofparents suddenly found themselves footing the billwhen the music industry went on a similar attack? We want to hear from you: Have you received a letter? Have you been forced to pay out for your kids' piracy - or know anybody who has?
The BlackBerry Bold has attracted attention as a smarter, sleeker BlackBerry, with a much better web browser. AsMobile Computersays: "Thanks to added support for a whole host of recent web standards (CSS 2.1, HTML 4.01 and JavaScript 1.5, to name three), web pages now render flawlessly and look fantastic on the razor-sharp 480 x 320 screen."However, MC then put two devices side by side -- a Bold and an old 2.5G iPhone -- on Wi-Fi and showed the difference. The result, above, is that the iPhone does a Usain Bolt while the Bold runs more like me after a double helping of pizza. As MC says:Even with just its 3G connection active, the Bold still lagged behind the iPhone 2G with its EDGE connection. Either Apple is doing something right or RIM is doing something wrong with their respective web browsers, but whatever the case, it's a pretty poor show for the Bold.One problem is that the BlackBerry Bold wasn't actually using the Wi-Fi connection. As madseeg says on YouTube:In this test i'm connected to Wifi, which is evidenced by the white wifi indication being lit the whole test. You'll also notice the absense of the EEEeeeEEEE gsm noise that was in their video indicating that the bold was in fact not on wifi for browsing, but was on 3G then dropped down to EDGE and was interfering with the camera's mic.But even on thisBlackBerry-only video, the BlackBerry page download is still much slower. The iPhone is, therefore, still the champ.... unless someone can show otherwise.
Cripes, Sony went all out at Leipzig. I covered the 160GB PS3 yesterday, but didn't have time to mention PSP 3000, an updated version of the successful handheld console, complete with a slightly tweaked chassis, improved screen (capable of showing more colours) and built-in microphone for Skype chat as well as Nintendo DS-style voice game controls, I suspect. It'll be released on October 15, retailing at around £150.No doubt people will be saying, 'yeah fine, redesign away, but what about games?'I wasn't hugely interested in this until I found at that,at least in the States, the new machine will be available as part of a 4GB Memory Entertainment Pack, which also includes a voucher to download a PSP version of brilliant indie title, Everyday Shooter.Jonathan Mak's abstract, music-based blaster is already on PSN and PC, and will work well on PSP where Space Invaders Extreme and Gradius Collection have worked well.It looks like the UK is getting Buzz!: Master Quiz, FIFA '09 and Harry Potter bundles. Let's hope we see this lovely game in some capacity - especially after the critical plaudits handed out to fellow indie veteran, Braid.
IMRG-Hitwisehas just published its Hot Shops List for the UK for August 2008. The list has a Top 50 but here's the Top 20:1. Amazon UK 2. Argos 3. Play.com 4. Tesco.com 5. Next 6. Amazon.com 7. Thomson Holidays 8. Marks &amp; Spencer 9. Tesco Direct 10. easyJet 11. Expedia.co.uk 12. lastminute.com 13. RyanAir 14. John Lewis 15. PC World 16.ASOS17. Dell EMEA 18. Currys 19. Apple Computer 20. HMV.co.ukI think I've only spent money at three of them, so I must be either poor or slacking. However, I've shopped in at least nine of those with bricks and mortar stores.....
"A federal judge in San Jose [Jeremy Fogel] handed a victory to fair-use advocates today, refusing to dismiss a lawsuit that a Pennsylvania woman filed after Universal Music Publishing forced YouTube to remove a video of her children cavorting to an old Prince hit," reports theLA Times technology blog.In this case: "The legal skirmish centers on a 29-second video that Stephanie Lenz posted to YouTube last year that features her then-13-month-old son racing around the kitchen. The video includes a decidedly low-fi recording of Prince's Let's Go Crazy."At the moment, the ideal solution for giant copyright owners is to use automated software to check sites, then fire off takedown orders. If a human being had to make a "fair use" judgment about every single image, music or video file, this would involve a lot of work, and in many cases, the cost could be prohibitive.However, that may not be how the case turns out. The post says:But even if Fogel's decision goes unchallenged, the prohibition may be difficult to enforce. That's because, as Fogel noted, proving the kind of misrepresentation claim that Lenz is pursuing requires a plaintiff to show the copyright holder knew it was making a groundless claim of infringement (ie, it was acting in "subjective bad faith"). It's not what Universal should have known about the video, but what it actually knew.On the other hand, some companies may not be quite as dimwitted as Universal Music Publishing, which would have been better off regarding Lenz's "crime" as a valuable piece of promotional material. This is already happening on YouTube, where new Video ID software identifies videos that appear to infringe copyright. Instead of removing these (often popular) videos, the copyright owner can "claim" them. The LA Times story,YouTube and the irrepressible dream of Video ID, says:By "claiming" the user-submitted copy of their content, they effectively take ownership of it and from then on can use it to glean demographic information about who's watching or even to sell advertising alongside the video and divvy up the proceeds with YouTube.This is also a good solution for the Google-owned YouTube, which has been wary of putting adverts on videos that infringe copyrights, and which therefore isn't making any money out of hosting them.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Apple is planning to refresh it's line of iPod portable MP3 players, saysApple Insider:Stateside, people familiar with the inventory management systems of mass merchandizer Target say all current iPod models have recently seen their status shift from "Active" to "Discontinued" when scanned with handheld PDA scanners used by employees.Separately, big-box retailer Argos in the UK is preparing to clear out its remaining iPod inventory in anticipation of new models in the coming weeks. A person familiar with the plans says the company recently took receipt of new point-of-sale displays promoting "price cuts" that should hit the retail floor during the last week of August or first week of September.The story also quotes a note from Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster, who says:"Specifically, we believe Apple will increase the capacity of the iPod shuffles as well as the iPod nanos (but maintain current price points); redesigned form factors for the shuffles and nanos are unlikely," the analyst wrote. "We believe the iPod touch may be redesigned and may enter the $199 price point, in line with the iPhone."
The User Experience community is awfully curious about the games industry. How do games developers make products so darn sticky? How do they make them so darn fun?Well, in a a free talk disarmingly similar to mytalkatdConstructcoming up a week later, the team atUse 8intend to tackle these questions at an event in Brighton next Friday.From theblurb:Unlike traditional software, where more traditional performance metrics can be applied, measuring experiential dimensions such as 'fun' and 'playability' becomes a daunting task. Games are a tremendously varied set of applications, defying a one-size-fits-all approach. Even a broad and relevant concept such as flow falls short of capturing all classes of game experience.'Play' will go beyond simple usability issues exploring different dimensions of User Experience that make games enjoyable.There is a surprising lack of cross-pollination between the games and the web industries (I've harped on about this before), yet the interest is clearly there, at least on the part of the web community. Games companies can surely learn from the web's ability to create solid and mainstream communities (MySpace? Facebook? LambdaMOO?), and we should see the outcome agame-web collaborationsoon on the release of Little Big Planet on the PS3.cheersAndy!
While timed to coincide with the release of the movie sequel, Hellboy: The Science of Evil tries to avoid standard tie-in pitfalls by going back to the original comics. As you'd imagine, with Guillermo del Toro and creator Mike Mignola as creative directors, and Ron Perlman on vocal duties, it looks and sounds great. The cut scenes are faultless, the graphics are spot on ... a shame then that the gameplay is one dull, repetitive brawl after another. Hellboy may have a variety of moves available – and an arsenal of guns – but you can pretty much complete the game by punching. Again and again and again. There's a novel twist for the enemy AI – taking out the leader reduces group morale – but you'll soon forget it in favour of punch and hope. Not even close, and certainly no cigar.
Here's one to file under "silly season". According toCollege Humor/Vimeo founder Zach Klein, the Mormon church was preparing a buyout of Facebook. No shock when the church responded by saying"this rumor has no foundation whatsoever."At least it got nipped in the bud - even if Venturebeat's Eric Eldon isgetting some flackfor choosing to ask Facebook, rather than the church, whether the rumour was true.
My son is about to go to university to study architecture. What sort of laptop would you recommend, for up to £600?Cathy MathesonThe final choice depends on the use, and there are at least three possibilities, so you will need to talk to your son and perhaps to his university. The first idea would be to get a lightweight portable to carry everywhere for note-taking, email and web browsing. A good cheap example would be the Acer Aspire One running Windows XP on a 10-inch screen. The keyboard beats the Asus Eee PC version. A spare battery would be useful.The second option would be a desktop replacement laptop that he could use in his room. This would provide computer functions plus home entertainment, doubling as a DVD player, sound system, and games machine. There are plenty of portables with 15.4in widescreens from Dell, HP/Compaq, Toshiba and other suppliers, but aim for a Core 2 Duo processor and 2GB or more memory for Windows Vista. Look for a Kensington lock to tie it down.The third option would be a portable workstation, intended to run specific software that is used on the course. Unfortunately, the software used for serious architectural work - such as Autodesk's AutoCAD and Bentley MicroStation - needs lots of memory and a separate graphics card, rather than the Intel integrated graphics chips built into cheap laptops. To handle complex models with AutoCAD 2008, I'd be looking for something like a Dell Latitude D830 with 4GB of memory, 64bit Windows Vista Ultimate, nVidia Quadro or similar graphics, and probably a screen upgrade: Autodesk recommends 1,280 x 1,024 pixels. You might not get much change out of £1,000, and it's not worth cutting corners: having 2GB instead of 4GB saves £40, and having 32bit XP Pro or Vista Business only saves £34. Before spending this sort of money, your son should talk to his university department and preferably to more advanced students to find out exactly what is required. A simpler and cheaper laptop may well do.If a course involves the use of specialist software such as AutoCAD, the university will usually provide access to shared computers that have it installed. Students who want to run it themselves can usually obtain an educational version at a reduced price. The cheap LT version of AutoCAD 2008 costs around £1,500, whereas the student version costs about £100 for a 14-month licence.
I am considering an Amazon Kindle. However, I'd like to use it for ebooks freely available in text format, and others in Microsoft's Reader format.John BorgoyThe Kindle can handle books in plain text (.txt) plus the Amazon (.azw) and Mobipocket (.mobi; .prc) formats. It can also handle Microsoft Word documents and web pages, but you have to email these to your kindle.com address. Amazon will convert them and send them wirelessly to your Kindle for a small fee. You can convert Microsoft Reader (.lit) files by using a free converter such asABC Amber LIT.
My DigiFusion Freeview recorder died when its power unit fried after a power cut. Is there any way I can transfer the movies and recorded programmes to my PC from the hard drive?John RogersIf you remove the hard drive from the recorder, you should be able to mount it in an external drive enclosure and connect it to your PC via a USB port. I'd guess it's a 3.5in drive. If you are lucky, it will be in the FAT32 file format used in Microsoft MS DOS and recognised by most operating systems. If you have a proper desktop PC, a cheaper alternative is to fit the driveinternally, but this can be a little trickier.
My computer died suddenly and I had to get another. I can read the hard disk of the old machine via USB, but how do I get at emails and the address book?Alec WilliamsYou should be able to copy the old data from your backup CDs or external hard drive! Since the hard drive still works, however, you can copy the data to your new PC in the usual way and then import it. You can find the data by running a disk-wide search for the types of storage file your software uses. If you used the Windows address book, search for *.wab (with an asterisk) files. If your email program was Outlook Express, search for the Inbox.dbx and Folders.dbx files and copy that whole folder across. For help, read the Microsoft Knowledge Base articles onHow To Import Contacts into Your Address Book in Windows XPandHow to back up and to restore Outlook Express data.Backchat: John Davies says: "I bought Transfer MyPC from Dell to move all my old data across. It did the job very well." Windows Vista has a built-in program, Windows Easy Transfer, and you can downloadWindows Easy Transfer Companionto move programs.Update: Sorry, Microsoft has withdrawn Windows Easy Transfer Companion. A Microsoft staff member saidin a forum: "I think the download link is removed because [it] is not compatible with Windows Vista Service Pack 1 or Windows XP Service Pack 3."
DreamWorks Animation chief executive Jeffrey Katzenberg appeared at the Intel Developer Forum to show the "greatest innovation to occur in the movie business in 70 years," reportsVentureBeat. It's 3D, of course. But as he said: "This is not your father's 3D."Dreamworks is using Intel's Intru3D technology withRealDglasses. The story says:During his presentation, Katzenberg had a giant movie screen wheeled out and asked everyone to reach under their seats. Taped under them were the RealD glasses which he then asked us to put on. He proceeded to show a clip from DreamWorks' hit film Kung Fu Panda -- fully rendered in 3D.It was amazing.I was sitting towards the back right corner of a huge room filled with thousands of people -- hardly the ideal movie theater experience -- and still, by the end of the several minute clip I felt totally immersed in the film.According toWikipedia: "The first film released using this format was 2005's Chicken Little. For this release, the computer-animated film was re-rendered in 3-D by Industrial Light and Magic and exhibited on RealD Cinema Systems using Dolby Digital Cinema servers."Anyone seen one of the new 3D movies? Is this the future, or a pasing fad?
Yes: malware, spam and general internet crap. Possibly the most annoying is the rise in spam bearing subject lines such as "Beijing Olympics cancelled".At best, or at least bad, these emails just contain advertising for dodgy pharmaceuticals, but more worrying is that they also contain links to malware-bearing websites. And these can be real websites that have been hijacked, says security group Symantec.Websites are being attacked with malicious SQL injections, notes Sophos, another security group. These are tags hidden in the code of a page hosted on a vulnerable server which then loads a malicious script from a remote site.Sophospointed out last week that it had seen a spate of such attacks on news sites, including Indian TV websitendtv.comand Agence-France Presse: anyone reading about the Games on those sites risked infection.It's not just iffy emails and websites that have been causing concern. Fears arose that a screensaver hosted on the official Beijing website contained akeylogger, while Microsoft reported that a Beijing screensaver attackedInternet Explorer's codeto install a keylogger. And even as the opening ceremony was under way, McAfee, which makes security software, was reporting that it had received aslideshowof images from the spectacular opening ceremony. Contained in the slideshow was a Trojan, BackDoor-CKB, which communicates with a server in China.This may be an ironic coincidence, but it's not a surprise to the malware community, as last year China accounted for 51.4% of infected websites, says Sophos.And if you're reading this online in Beijing, be careful, says Sophos. Sports fans are warned not forget their "usual security measures in their haste to access the web", it says. "The problem is compounded in China as many security companies find it more difficult to monitor Chinese sites."
An extraordinary picture of a state body carrying out political lobbying on the issue of free data has emerged from documents obtained by the Guardian.The correspondence reveals that Ordnance Survey (OS) is targeting MPs from Westminster and devolved assemblies, civil servants and leading figures in the free data debate. The agency openly attends party conferences and other political events to promote the value of geographical data. However, earlier this year a Parliamentary question revealed that it had paid a company called Mandate &pound;42,076.20 plus VAT since August 2007.Ordnance Survey said: "Mandate Communications provides Ordnance Survey with strategic communications advice." Mandate is a well-known political lobbyist. According to its website, its skills include "winning over the decision makers who matter". We thought it would be interesting to find out how and why a state agency, whose director-general is the government's chief adviser on surveying, mapping and geographical information, might want to win over decisionmakers.OS responded to a Freedom of Information request for correspondence with Mandate. However, it refused to release emails on backup tapes on the grounds of cost, &pound;11,250. The correspondence released - mainly between Nicole Perry, head of public affairs, and Mandate executives whose names have been blanked out - reveals a busy programme of meetings with politicians, especially those who have asked questions in Parliament about OS's corporate affairs, or about free data.Among MPs named are Labour's David Taylor - "you might recall that he'd (sic) raised the issue of free data" - Conservatives Anne McIntosh and Paul Beresford, and several Welsh Assembly members. According to Mandate, Robert Kee (Conservative, Salisbury) "is a big supporter of OS, so I don't think this [a Parliamentary question] is anything to worry about".The correspondence includes requests for background information on civil servants including Sir David Varney, the prime minister's adviser on public service reform, and William Perring (sic), presumably William Perrin, a Cabinet Office official responsible for the "Power of Information" strategy which questions OS's trading fund model.Tom Steinberg, the author of the strategy, also falls under the spotlight. An email notes that "Steinberg also has close links with Gordon Brown" and that he and his co-author, Ed Mayo, responded with a letter to the Guardian about our Free Our Data campaign.The correspondence suggests that some creativity has gone in to winning political friends. For this year's party conferences, an unnamed executive suggests handing out 3,000 badges with slogans including: "Which way to the bar?"&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog"
Now in version 2, Adobe's Lightroom  is a tool both for the professional and for the well-heeled and/or serious enthusiast (&pound;189.98 onAmazon.co.uk, upgrade &pound;79.98). If you've got Photoshop, it integrates well with that application, allowing you to flip between the pixel-level editing of Photoshop and the (I think) more useful workflow management tools of Lightroom. If you haven't got Photoshop, you've got enough editing tools in Lightroom not to need another program.Rather than faff about with single images in Photoshop or another application, you can deal with multiple images. Lightroom imports your images and then offers you five views. Library gives you quick access to all your files across multiple hard drives. This is where you organise images by metadata such as the shooting date, the lens and camera you used and keywords; and also where you search for images.The Develop view is where you apply presets, tweak images, adjust histograms, fix red-eye, fiddle with the tone curve and so on. What is particularly nice about Lightroom is that all your edits are non-destructive: your changes are stored as metadata with the original file. Slideshow is - yes, you guessed it - where you create slideshows. There are some presets and you can download more user-created ones via theLightroom Exchange website. Slideshows can be exported as JPegs or as PDFs, though more fun are the web pages you can produce quickly in the Web view.These use Flash to create pages that you can upload to your website, or, using plug-ins created by the user community, export to Gallery-driven websites or more mainstream sharing sites such as Picasa and Flickr.Finally, the Print view sets up printing for you, with lots of options such as mix-and-match sizes on one sheet, photo borders, print resolution and sharpening. Again, you can use the presets or create your own.As with all Adobe software, there's a lot to get to grips with and that is one of the downsides: unless you're a seasoned professional, you're unlikely to do much more than scratch the surface of its possibilities. It's also quite hard on the computer: my Vista PC reported that it was using 1.47GB of my 2GB of RAM at one point. It says the minimum specs are 1GB of RAM (both Mac and PC). On the upside, Version 2 now works with 64bit operating systems (both Mac and PC) and it supports multiple monitor setups.I like it, and have done for a long time. It's reasonably intuitive, so long as you're familiar with both digital and film photography jargon, and you can be up and running in it pretty quickly from a standing start. Pricewise, well, it's not the cheapest package you'll find but it's one of the most versatile.Pros:One-stop shop for printing, processing and sharing imagesCons:Uses a lot of RAM; potentially confusing for the noviceadobe.com/lightroom
Student laptopMy son is about to go to university to study architecture. What sort of laptop would you recommend, for up to &pound;600?Cathy MathesonJS:The final choice depends on the use, and there are at least three possibilities, so you will need to talk to your son and perhaps to his university. The first idea would be to get a lightweight portable to carry everywhere for note-taking, email and web browsing. A good cheap example would be the Acer Aspire One running Windows XP on a 10-inch screen. The keyboard beats the Asus Eee PC version. A spare battery would be useful.The second option would be a desktop replacement laptop that he could use in his room. This would provide computer functions plus home entertainment, doubling as a DVD player, sound system, and games machine. There are plenty of portables with 15.4in widescreens from Dell, HP/Compaq, Toshiba and other suppliers, but aim for a Core 2 Duo processor and 2GB or more memory for Windows Vista. Look for a Kensington lock to tie it down.The third option would be a portable workstation, intended to run specific software that is used on the course. Unfortunately, the software used for serious architectural work - such as Autodesk's AutoCAD and Bentley MicroStation - needs lots of memory and a separate graphics card, rather than the Intel integrated graphics chips built into cheap laptops. To handle complex models with AutoCAD 2008, I'd be looking for something like a Dell Latitude D830 with 4GB of memory, 64bit Windows Vista Ultimate, nVidia Quadro or similar graphics, and probably a screen upgrade: Autodesk recommends 1,280 x 1,024 pixels. You might not get much change out of &pound;1,000, and it's not worth cutting corners: having 2GB instead of 4GB saves &pound;40, and having 32bit XP Pro or Vista Business only saves &pound;34. Before spending this sort of money, your son should talk to his university department and preferably to more advanced students to find out exactly what is required. A simpler and cheaper laptop may well do.If a course involves the use of specialist software such as AutoCAD, the university will usually provide access to shared computers that have it installed. Students who want to run it themselves can usually obtain an educational version at a reduced price. The cheap LT version of AutoCAD 2008 costs around &pound;1,500, whereas the student version costs about &pound;100 for a 14-month licence.Books for KindlesI am considering an Amazon Kindle. However, I'd like to use it for ebooks freely available in text format, and others in Microsoft's Reader format.John BorgoyJS:The Kindle can handle books in plain text (.txt) plus the Amazon (.azw) and Mobipocket (.mobi; .prc) formats. It can also handle Microsoft Word documents and web pages, but you have to email these to your kindle.com address. Amazon will convert them and send them wirelessly to your Kindle for a small fee. You can convert Microsoft Reader (.lit) files by using a free converter such asABC Amber LIT.Movie rescueMy DigiFusion Freeview recorder died when its power unit fried after a power cut. Is there any way I can transfer the movies and recorded programmes to my PC from the hard drive?John RogersJS:If you remove the hard drive from the recorder, you should be able to mount it in an external drive enclosure and connect it to your PC via a USB port. I'd guess it's a 3.5in drive. If you are lucky, it will be in the FAT32 file format used in Microsoft MS DOS and recognised by most operating systems. If you have a proper desktop PC, a cheaper alternative is tofit the drive internally, but this can be a little trickier.Searching for dataMy computer died suddenly and I had to get another. I can read the hard disk of the old machine via USB, but how do I get at emails and the address book?Alec WilliamsJS:You should be able to copy the old data from your backup CDs or external hard drive! Since the hard drive still works, however, you can copy the data to your new PC in the usual way and then import it. You can find the data by running a disk-wide search for the types of storage file your software uses. If you used the Windows address book, search for *.wab (with an asterisk) files. If your email program was Outlook Express, search for the Inbox.dbx and Folders.dbx files and copy that whole folder across. For help, clickhereandhereto read the Microsoft Knowledge Base articles.BackchatAs mentioned in Technophile (August 7), I struggled with the Linpus version of Linux on an Acer Aspire One subnotebook. Alan Cocks comments: "Information forums are appearing.This onemight have helped some of your frustrations".On copying cassette tapes etc using Audacity software, Tim Gossling points out that it does have track splitting: go to Analyze and select Silence finder to automate the process "with probably varying degrees of success, particularly for classical music," he says. "Manual splitting is done via Project and Add label at selection: click in the label field and type in a title. File|Export multiple will then generate multiple files, each named with the track label."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
So-called "cloud computing" has taken a beating over the past few weeks. The concept is simple enough, and hundreds of millions of people have been doing it for many years via Microsoft Hotmail. It just means accessing an online application - in this case, email - via a web browser, instead of running a separate program on your personal computer.Of course, the number of online applications has grown tremendously. It now stretches from simple to-do lists via office-style programs such as spreadsheets and project management to more specialised business services such as accounting and customer relationship management. Users can also store their photos and movies online.This certainly has advantages. People can access their online applications from any computer at any time, and collaborative work becomes easier. Often, too, these online applications are "free" (paid for by advertising).But cloud computing also has drawbacks, which the pundits may be much less keen to tell you about. One has been highlighted recently: reliability. Google Docs, Gmail, Twitter and Amazon's S3 service have all been out of action, and some of Apple's MobileMe users have had a torrid time. At Webware, Rafe Needleman has posted a list of the10 Worst Web glitches of 2008so far.Alas, even if the online application works, users may not be able to get to it. They may have local problems with their browser or their internet connection. Their internet service provider may have network problems. Remember, the internet is never guaranteed to work: it just operates on the principle of "best efforts". (We tried. We failed. Hard luck.)Even if an online application works and you can get to it, things can still go wrong. The company that provides the application can change it in any way (turning the interface you loved into one you hate, for example), without asking, or they can simply close it. Nikon is about to close its Fotoshare photo service, and AOL may well close its Xdrive online storage. If you were a paying Streamload user, all your data has already been dumped. Hard luck.Still, at least when services close, users are usually given a few weeks to rescue their stuff. It's much worse when people are locked out because the supplier thinks they have done something wrong, or because their account has been hacked.Nick Saber, for example, recently found himself locked out of Gmail. That was bad. What was worse was that he was automatically locked out of every other Google service that uses the same logon. If it happens to you, you won't be able to use Gmail, Google Talk, Google Docs or your calendar; you won't have access to your photos at Picasa, and so on. It's devastating.Yes, people can also lose access to their data when they fail to back up their PCs. We've been telling them that for decades. But online data also needs to be backed up, and supporters of cloud computing should be telling people that as well.How far cloud computing can go is another matter. Applications run much slower online than they do on a local PC, and a browser provides a much more limited interface than a desktop application, so there are sacrifices as well as advantages. Still, it's not either/or: I think there's plenty of room for both.But anybody who thinks the cloud is going to replace personal computers completely is welcome to put their PC in the bin. Indeed, if you have a very recent high-end PC or Mac, I might take it off your hands for free.
Small robots working in swarms have finally moved out of the laboratory and into the real world. That was the most significant feature of theMinistry of Defence's Grand Challenge competition, held over the weekend. It's an idea that is also being pursued by the US military.The advantages of a decentralised swarm have long been apparent to researchers. After all, it's a strategy that has proven effective for ants, bees and other social insects for millions of years. However, until now, robot swarms have been experimental rather than practical.Flying robotsThe Grand Challenge took place at the MoD's urban combat training village on Salisbury Plain, and for the event it was bristling with threats - including hidden snipers and roadside bombs. Eleven teams competed in trying to locate the threats using robotic systems.Several of the teams used robots working together and at least three could be classed as true swarms. Mindsheet fielded a fleet of mini-buggies and Locust a squadron of flying robots. Swarm Systems Ltd deployed a flock of eight small quad-rotor helicopters, called Owls."The principle advantage is robustness," says Stephen Crampton of Swarm Systems. "If eight vehicles go out and two are lost, then the other six can reform to carry out the whole task." Robustness is vital when otherwise the mission might fail because of a breakdown or accident. In a hazardous military situation, the system must be able to absorb damage. Additionally, multiple small units are cheap and easy to replace. They can also cover an area quickly and reduce mission time.The Swarm Systems team was assisted by Professor Owen Holland of the University of Essex. Holland has previously worked on the idea of an UltraSwarm, described as a flying cluster computer in which multiple units combine their computing power. The Owls each have a spare processor, so they could be integrated into an UltraSwarm capable of processing data collected by swarm members. For example, it could map the dispersal pattern of airborne pollutants, allowing the swarm to follow them back to their source.In the next year the Owls will also have a flocking algorithm. Researchers have found that birds use surprisingly simple rules in order to maintain their formation, and this technique has already been tested for parachute supply drops by US company Atair Aerospace. ItsOnyx precision airdrop systemallows GPS-guided aerofoil parachutes to fly together to the same spot without colliding. The same type of algorithm would allow a large number of Owls to operate autonomously in the same airspace.Crampton says that a commercial version of the Owl swarm will be marketed next year. The possible applications include the military as well as police work, environmental monitoring and emergency search and rescue.As might be expected, the US military is investing heavily in swarming robots, including the US army's Micro Autonomous Systems and Technology (Mast) programme.BAE Systemswon a $38m (&pound;20m) contract this year to lead an alliance of researchers from industry, academia and the military. Mast aims to provide a soldier with a swarm of insect-sized robots that can operate with "little or no direct human supervision" and provide intelligence about what is waiting around the corner or inside buildings. "The aim is to have a group of dissimilar robots working co-operatively," explains Aaron Penkacik of Advanced System.One artist's impression released by BAE looks like a dragonfly, left; another is a spider-like robot, above. Each would have different roles, says Penkacik. The spider would be cheap and expendable, able to crawl through narrow openings and climb walls. When the spiders detect something of interest (such as a person), a dragonfly would be summoned to investigate with a video camera. The dragonflies, more expensive and capable, would be re-usable.Other robots would be included depending on the task. Specialised units could be capable of sniffing out chemicals, radiation or explosives, or intercepting and locating radio communications.Heart and nodeThe heart of the Mast architecture is Decentralised Data Fusion. Each robot is a node which only exchanges information with adjacent nodes. A node processes its own sensory data and combines it with incoming data to produce useful information, which is then shared with its neighbours. Any piece of information is only sent once, minimising the bandwidth needed. This scheme has no centralised data processing. The network is infinitely scaleable, and as Penkacik points out, if units are lost the network is self-healing.Mast aims to advance the technology in this area rather than to develop a finished product. However, the growth in unmanned systems has been rapid, with the US military's force of airborne robots increasing from just 167 in 2002 to more than 3,000 today. Swarming robots look like a natural fit for tactical reconnaissance needs and are likely to be adopted swiftly.The Grand Challenge demonstrated what swarms of small, low-cost units can already achieve. "The UK defence industry now has a new capability that can be taken to the front line," says Crampton. "In just over five years, the swarms of robots in the British armed forces will outnumber the soldiers."Grand Challenge resultsOverall Winner, awarded the R J Mitchell Trophy for InnovationTeam StellarAdditional awards for technical excellence or innovationMost innovative solutionTeam SwarmBest use of autonomyTeam MiraBest systems integrationNo winnerJudges' merit awardTeam CortexMost imaginative use of national talentTeam Thales
Dream phoneThe HTC Dream, a so-called "Google phone" based on the company's Android software, has been approved by theUS Federal Communications Commission, and should be on the market before Christmas.Dell plans netbookGizmodo has published leaked details of Dell's forthcoming mini-notebook computer, theInspiron 910, which may be announced tomorrow.Government guideMyGuideis now providing online tuition in how to use government (including local council) websites.Toshiba enhances DVDsToshiba is introducingDVD players with XDE(eXtended Detail Enhancement) upscaling technology to provide better images on HD TV sets, reports AP.Power-assisted X-bykePowabyke's latest battery-poweredX-bykehas a compact Lithium Lite 36v battery disguised as a water bottle.Image trackerTinEyeis beta testing an image search system: upload an image and it will tell you where it appears on the web.Aospheric testingIdentifictionis looking for people to test Aosphere, its forthcoming science fiction saga.YouTube for Top GearThe BBC has launched aYouTube channelfor its Top Gear programme.
The original Geometry Wars summed up what Xbox Live Arcade is all about: a stunningly simple effort combining the essence of Asteroids and Robotron, which left a generation of 21st-century gamers addicted to the simpler pleasures of yesteryear. Surely it couldn't be improved upon? Apparently it could. GWRE2's basic ingredients differ little from those of its predecessor, but much thought has gone into developing new game modes, such as King, in which you can only shoot when inside circles that swiftly decay, prompting bursts of shooting during which you must think ahead about which route to take to the next circle to maximise your points-multiplier. The most fearsome new mode, Sequence, requires you to learn the patterns of wave after wave of attackers. You can take on up to four players and even play co-operatively with one person moving and the other firing. If you download just one game from Xbox Live Arcade, make it this one.
It's taken decades for the message to get through, but at last we are turning to greener motoring. The demand for hybrid cars in the UK is at an all-time high and waiting lists for the proven technology are long.In Japan, drivers have been shaken so seriously by the oil shocks that they became the first in the developed world to experience declining car ownership. They are also poised to benefit from the biggest experiment with electric cars since the milk float.This is all terribly green and worthy, but these solutions mean forking out for another car. Wouldn't it be better to adapt our existing vehicles? And while giving up our gas-guzzlers is one thing, what should we do with the billions of old-tech cars already on the road? After all, simply to scrap them means building new cars. As Conor Faughnan of the AA points out: "Most of the pollution associated with cars actually relates to their construction."In first gearA Japanese start-up company says it might have the answer. It is proposing to retrofit our existing cars with tiny hydrogen generators that work off the car exhaust and supplement existing combustion.Makoto Okuda, director of Hrein Energy, says: "Adding about 3% of hydrogen to the intake air results in a lean burn, which has never been made possible with gasoline alone." His company, based in Hokkaido, develops systems to make, store and supply hydrogen. He says "We have improved fuel efficiency by 30% and reduced CO2 emissions by 30% in recent tests." Now working with Japanese carmakers, Okuda says he hopes to have a system on the market in two to three years.The beauty of the new system is that it employs the otherwise wasted heat generated by car engines - up to 40%  in some cases - to convert an easily transportable liquid organic hydride (a hydrogen-storing chemical) into a gaseous state. This hydrogen is then added to the intake air resulting, says Okuda, in reduced emissions.The emissions are so low, claims the company, that they will conform to the new EU regulations expected on CO2 emissions in 2012. Hrein suggests retro-fitting all cars with the system.Scientists agree that transporting hydrogen in a liquid state makes more sense than filling up from service stations equipped to handle frozen hydrogen."Hydrogen does have fantastic potential, says Faye Sunderland ofgreencarwebsite.co.uk. "Retail network distribution is always a problem with new alternative fuels. A UK company called ITM recently announced they had developed a home refuelling unit for hydrogen cars. So a solution is forming."Says Sunderland: "The key problem with hydrogen technology so far has been retail distribution of hydrogen and economic and environmental viability of the technology. So far hydrogen has been held back because the easiest way to produce hydrogen was to burn fossil fuels which meant the well-to-wheel CO2 emissions were actually higher than if you just put the fossil fuels directly into the car. As a result, it was a bit of an expensive non-starter."Hrein says all its hydrogen production comes from wind-generated sources on Hokkaido, Japan's most northerly island. But although Japan is the home of the hybrid and host to more electric plug-in cars than the rest of the planet put together, as well as being a leader in the number of hydrogen outlets for vehicles, renewable energy is not something Japan has been strong on so far. There are doubts about whether it would be possible to scale up renewable operations to meet the demand necessary for all this hydrogen needed to be mixed with petro-fuel at service stations.Hydrogen storing technology, however, does have potential, according to papers published on the technology since the 1970s. The system, they generally conclude, "appears feasible"."Organic hydrides are a high-efficiency high-density storage media for hydrogen," says Masaru Ichikawa of Hokkaido University, who worked with Hrein on the formula. "The end product can be transported alongside petrol in fuel delivery lorries and deposited at petrol stations just like today's conventional fuels."But if the technology has been available since the 1970s, asks John Turner, a research fellow at the US's National Renewable Energy Laboratory, why didn't the automakers turn to it to provide themselves with an edge over competitors?Dirty work"Conspiracy theories aside, the automakers have some very smart engineers and if they see something that will easily give them a 30% boost in fuel economy then they are going to take a hard look at it," he says. "Modifying an existing technology, unless it is mandated by some government agency, will not likely go anywhere."Hrein, with its take on delivering a little hydrogen to clean up the dirty work of gasoline, may be about to do that, according to the company's representative in the UK. Hrein is talking to the UK government to discuss bringing the technology to the UK. Should Downing Street give the system a green light, it could provide a stopgap in the march towards the zero emission car. It would certainly provide many of us who can only afford second-hand bangers with a cleaner conscience, if not a cleaner engine.
Professor Karen Kirkby, of the University of Surrey, has been working hard in the past two years. Determined to help develop new charged particle beam therapies for cancer treatment, she's been involved with the assembly of the world's first vertical scanning nanobeam in a new building. And now she's almost ready to start an exciting series of experiments with cancer-killing protons.The new facilities at the Surrey Ion Beam Centre are for basic research to underpin the next generation of proton therapy. Precisely aimed protons (a positively charged hydrogen ion) can destroy cancerous tissue without harming anything else.The technique is used to treat eye cancers at the Clatterbridge Centre for Oncology, although the UK still lags other countries in providing high-energy proton therapy facilities for other cancers (Beaming in on a deadly disease, August 10 2006).Fitting out the new four-storey building with the 12-metre beamline has given Kirkby a big challenge. "We were hoping to have the beamline in operation by now," she says. "This is likely to be a problem when you are building equipment that is the first of its kind in the world and pushing the frontiers of technology. Some of the companies and groups we have been working with have been wonderful and helped us find innovative solutions."Kirkby, who is a physicist, believes that the vertical scanning nanobeam (producing a 10-nanometre diameter beam of protons to scan individual cells) will offer a "world-class facility" for researchers. "It's also a collaboration between the clinical community and scientists working in the physical and biological sciences and engineers. We have particularly strong links with clinicians in the neuro-oncology group in Cambridge and the Gray Cancer Institute" - which is moving to the University of Oxford.Why do these scientists feel so motivated to do this demanding research? The answer is simple: high-energy proton therapy has already saved the lives of UK patients like Jackie Jennings, who was successfully treated for chondrosarcoma, a rare cancerous tumour, at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.The new beamline will help understand how radiation affects living cells and show reactions between drugs and radiation. Its proton nanobeam is capable of scanning 100,000 cells per hour and, using experimental data, computational research will construct virtual tumours and devise new treatment strategies.Kirkby is looking forward to some significant discoveries. "We've got plenty of exciting experiments lined up."12Length in metres of the beamline of the world's first vertical scanning nanobeam being assembled in a new Surrey facility
Rock around the Game BoyAre you ready for the Chiptune scene? Until tomorrow only,Pitchfork TVis showing a video from the Blip festival featuring the awesome new genre (sic) of sequencing with 8bit chips.Eight monitors set for take-offEverybody knows that having more than one sceen increases productivity. But get eight and you can forget work altogether, and just have fun flyingMicrosoft Flight Simulator.Games are more than sew sewAmassage-based games controllerand other examples of Fashionable Technology were shown in New York.&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
When Russian tanks rolled into Georgia, it brought back memories of Soviet-era military conquest - a reminder of the cold war. But whether by accident or design, the fight for South Ossettia appears to have given us a taste of the future as well, with internet attacks on Georgian computer systems resulting in theories about 21st-century warfare spilling out everywhere. The BBC said the situation represented a "virtual echo of battles being fought on the ground", whileSlate.com's Evgeny Morozov even enlisted as a Russian cybersoldier to see what was really happening. But while the past fortnight has seen plenty of conjecture, there's been very little hard evidence about the conflict that's taking place in cyberspace.We do know a few things, though. After the military situation escalated, some prominent Georgian websites came under attack - though right now we cannot quite be sure where the strikes came from. We also know that the Georgian government enlisted the help of the regional experts in Estonia (themselves hardly bosom pals with Russia) as well as using the might of Google as a deterrent by shifting some important government websites on toBlogger.com.Everything beyond this has largely been the product of rumour or chin-scratching - which, in turn, has led to some backlash. Ethan Zuckerman, a fellow at Harvard's Berkman Center for Internet and Society, is scathing about the idea that online battles can have a big role to play in war. "It's worth remembering that in this 'cyberwar', the most serious consequence is that a website becomes temporarily inaccessible to viewers," he wrote on his blog. "It's a war being fought with paintballs, not with live rounds." In some ways he's right to be snooty - after all, when people are dying, a blocked web connection is pretty insignificant.But the long-term threat of online attack, particularly on countries that try to use the net to leapfrog the developmental cycles that the western world takes for granted, is growing. Remember: if the low-cost, global-reach approach of the internet helps governments to accelerate economic development, it also leaves them too reliant on the public system. That's a potentially perilous situation - just look at Estonia, which saw its entire banking system struck by a denial of service attack last year. As enemies probe for weakness, we're only going to see more of this in the future.I think the real problem isn't understanding the damage a cyberwar could cause, but in grasping what it really looks like. It's an odd concept because even in these days of international terrorism, we're still used to the idea of military coordination. Instead, many of these strikes seem to be cases of so-called "hacktivism": gangs of angry nationalists and script kiddies who launch ad hoc strikes on their "enemies" as part of a propaganda push. And the troubling thing is that this sort of collective grassroots movement - a sort of "click for victory" campaign - isn't the hi-tech descendant of the local militia, but the inheritor of the internet's worst excesses.Because while it's easy to imagine internet conflict in terms of the wars we're used to in history - grand struggles between two opposing sides - this isn't organised conflict. In fact, it's hardly even guerrilla warfare. It, like the fringes of the internet, is pure chaos - peopled by bullies. Indeed, the angry cybernationalists of Russia and elsewhere have less in common with their nation's armies than they do with the other griefers who make online life a misery. They're the geopolitical equivalent of the childish "anonymous" collective who swarm over messageboards and websites - a mob of untraceable louts who cause havoc for no real reason other than they can. Think of them as unruly, unhinged and unrepentant - just like the worst trolls you've encountered.Right now we think we can understand them because they're fighting nationalist wars, when the truth is that in the future they could turn their gaze in any direction they feel like. And that, above all else, is what makes cyberwar a truly frightening prospect.bobbie.johnson@guardian.co.uk
I don't envy the dozen or so friends who are about to start making moral decisions about the media habits of their children. These are the same people, of course, who spent their university careers playing PlayStation games rather than attending lectures. Suddenly they're about to turn into their own parents.Contradicting and often confusing pronouncements from the wider moral sphere appear in my inbox almost weekly. Emotionally loaded press releases gloat about the benefits of games or condemn them for their lack of moral fibre. There's no in-between, and parents who read the newspaper stories or who tune into the radio and TV reports off the back of these press releases (which are usually supported by the latest research from some vested interest or another) have no way of sifting through the mountain of rhetoric. Unfortunately, we all know too well which stories end up on the 10 o'clock news.Those who do take the moral high ground and try to ban the sick filth are often the same ones who surreptitiously listened to rock'n'roll on Radio Luxembourg after lights out, or were told off for their long hair. How quickly they forget that part of the growing-up experience involves seeing how far boundaries will stretch before they break.There are fewer opportunities in the so-called real world for kids to learn their own limitations. This trend constricts kids' development, according to one of the reports that made it through my spam filter. Play England argues against parents who don't allow their kids to climb trees or play Tig for fear that they'll skin their knees or break their bones. Kids these days (that hackneyed phrase) are too fiercely observed; their play boundaries have shrunk in size along with the freedom to explore their worlds. Exploration is now only allowed in sanctioned areas, and only where parents are aware of the potential risks.In contrast, boundary-breaking is beautifully explored in gameplay, where people are actively encouraged to try things out, and to see where they fail. Indeed, the joy involved in playing a truly great game lies in the extraordinary size of its world and the freedoms which the designers have offered players to explore it. MIT professor Henry Jenkins celebrates games for this very reason; unfortunately, headlines tend to focus on the content of the few who choose to push the moral boundaries to their limits.Unless this generation reclaims the streets from stranger danger, kids will continue to escape into games and other places free from grown-ups where they can explore their contexts. We would do best not to follow them there.&#183;Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggers atblogs.guardian.co.uk/games
