Pretty much the first thing you say when you turn on the Sony Walkman X-series is "wow". A simple Home button at the bottom illuminates a touchscreen that has a set of simple logos – only one of which, for YouTube, requires words. Touch an icon and it beeps (you can turn the beep off) and lights up and you're into the next level.The 432 x 240-dot screen, which uses OLED (organic light-emitting diode) technology, is marvellous. It seems to have an inward glow, with incredible detail; the film clips come up more than pin sharp. Photos too. The designers have clearly learned from the iPod Touch interface: if you have a long list of photos, films or songs ,you can flick through it and the list will scroll easily; or choose a letter. The FM tuner, too, has a neat visual scroll.Stop a moment and admire the outside. It's smaller than an iPod Touch (the comparison is inevitable): the 3in screen (measured diagonally) looks small against the 3.5in iPod Touch. It's thicker than the iPod, with a texture that suggests stone. There are buttons for noise cancellation, volume, skip back, play/pause, skip forward and, finally, hold. You can get it in five colours (black, white, pink, green, violet).The sound quality, like the screen, is excellent. (The close-fitting earbuds too.) And Sony is supporting not only MP3, but also AAC (used by iTunes), WMA (for Windows) and Linear PCM. The YouTube screen quality from the dedicated app – there's built-in Wi-Fi – is great, especially with HD videos. And it can play back downloads from the BBC's iPlayer service. It comes in 16GB or 32GB flavours; the prices are comparable to an iPod Touch (£209 v £214).But hell, this is a Sony. Its designers always get something wrong. What could it be? Then I tried the browser, which is lamentable. "Slow" doesn't begin to describe it. I tried loading the Guardian Technology page side by side on an iPod Touch and an X-Series, using the same Wi-Fi network. The iPod was done and ready to go while the X-Series was still putting its boots on. Entering text isn't much fun either: the text-message style entry system is puzzling. And it won't automatically join Wi-Fi networks it already knows about.That's only the first part of a list of Things the X-Series Doesn't Have That the iPod Touch Does. Such as email, Google Maps, a contacts database, a calendar, and the bazillion apps, free or paid, from the iPhone App Store. One other thing it doesn't have: a sensible name. "NWZX1050B.CE7"? (That's black, 16GB.) Oh, Sony. Before the iPod Touch this would have been great. But now it's an also-ran – despite that lovely, lovely screen.Pros:beautiful OLED screen, great sound, slick UICons:awful browser, no email or apps, small screen compared with iPod Touchsony.co.uk/walkman
Maybe – but even if you get into the charts, it may not be enough. Since Apple launched its application store last summer, a string of stories in the press have highlighted the lucky developers and programmers who have struck it rich through their iPhone programs.But becoming an iPhone mogul is much harder than just hitting the charts, according to the LA-based developer Rick Strom. His applications do fairly well in the charts – Zen Jar (costing 99c) ranks around 30th in the App Store's social networking countdown, for example. However, he says, that means little in terms of downloads: roughly 35 a day, making little more than a dollar an hour after Apple takes its cut."Keep in mind there are over 36,000 apps in the App Store," he wrote onhis blog. "If the apps on the category charts are doing those sorts of numbers, what do you think the rest of them are doing? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. They aren't selling at all."Despite Strom's numbers, however, he admits that the figures start to rise sharply as you get towards the top end of the chart. For a start, hitting the top 25 gets you a far higher level of exposure, and a corresponding boost in downloads. In addition, some genres of applications are more profitable than others – games, for example, account for half of all the top downloads.And they can accelerate quickly. According to Comscore, top titles have been downloaded by as many as 30% of users – and from an estimated user base of 15 million people in the US alone, that's around 5m purchases for No1 names such as Tap Tap Revenge.There's no doubt that for the tiny echelon of top-selling apps, there is big money – but most of the sales and downloads are skewed towards the top of the charts.The real problem, Strom says, is that "as software entrepreneurs … we measure the market by its huge successes" – and don't take into account the slim chance of success when spending thousands on developing a new program.It's a classic situation familiar to every­one who's ever wondered why certain albums get glued to the top of the charts for weeks, while some musicians plug away for years in obscurity. Or how some books stick around the bestseller lists for long periods while good novels languish at the back of the shop. And it's a useful lesson to anyone preparing to buy into the plethora of other mobile app stores on the way, from the likes of Vodafone, Palm, Nokia and BlackBerry.But whatever happens, you should be thankful that your app doesn't cause a different kind of trouble: just take the Fake Watch application, which riled the jewellery giant Cartier so much that it launched a lawsuit against Apple. In some cases, even getting on to the App Store at all could prove a lot more expensive than you think.
If you want to save money during the recession, then look no further than your mobile phone. We all pay far too much for our calls, mainly because we don't think we can do much about it. We can now. High prices come from two sources and both are now under attack. It is partly the oligopolistic market power of the mobile operators, and partly the complexity of working out your best deal from the 119,000 tariffs said to be on offer. You can avoid much of the complexity simply by purchasing a cheap phone with a pay-as-you-go sim card. Mobile shops sell phones for less than &pound;10, plus &pound;10 in top-up credits - a real bargain. I recently went on to pay-as-you go and was impressed by the savings compared with monthly contract charges of between &pound;30 and &pound;40. This is partly because it makes you think before you use it - especially about ludicrous data charges for those not on "all-you-can-eat" tariffs - but also you can get an instant reminder of what you have spent. It won't, however, say whether you have the best tariff for you.Fortunately, last week's launch ofbillmonitor.comwill do just that. It is the first site endorsed by Ofcom, and claims 82% of us are on plans with inclusive minutes we don't use, and that 88% of us could save 39% on our bills - worth &pound;197 a year. This comes with operators under scrutiny over how they have been milking consumers through roaming and termination charges. But that may now be starting to change.Operators have done a great job in building mobile networks; but their desire to recoup more of the &pound;22.5bn they overpaid for spectrum in the auction a few years ago has led them to adopt a succession of barmy business models that will be debated in business schools for years to come. The first mistake was to build walled gardens around products to maximise revenues from a captive user base while giving a paltry percentage to developers. That has changed now, largely thanks to an outside company, Apple, giving freer rein to developers and letting them keep 70% of the proceeds. The result? A booming market, and a whole new industry born as Google, Nokia and many more climb on to the bandwagon. Vodafone is the latest to offer an online store complete with cross-platform developer kit while enabling developers to charge through the company's billing system. It's still a walled garden, but much freer.The second mistake was to give preference to promiscuous new customers at the expense of existing loyal ones, as I discovered when I lastchanged my phone. The third is to charge customers excessive amounts not only when they "roam" abroad from one operator to another but when they download data - a process that could actually involve paying up to &pound;10 or more for downloading a music track which would have cost nothing on an unlimited tariff at home. Brands are supposed to be about building communities not alienating customers.Help is at hand. The European Commission is capping calls made to, or received from, the UK (and other EU countries) at the euro equivalent of around 39p and 17p respectively from the start of July. Doubtless influenced by this, Vodafone is abolishing roaming charges from June 1 for three months - if you sign up to its Passport Service. This could trigger a matching response from other operators.Meanwhile, BT and 3 have launched a campaign to get rid of termination charges - the amount a network has to pay for receiving calls from another network. BT and 3 are net losers from this system but other operators won't easily give up a perk worth 14% of mobile revenues. Actually, the abolition of these charges will be good for the industry, as it will unleash a surge of suppressed demand from people reluctant to use mobiles abroad. Sweeping away such practices is vital to maximise the potential of the mobile revolution. It will also leave more in our pockets to spend on other things.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
I am not a pilot, so I didn't write Flights of a Coast Dog: A Pilot's Log. Also, I'm not standing for Congress in Nevada, and I don't work for Mad Cat Digital. But if you happen to find a Jack Schofield who edited Photo Technique and The Darkroom Book, who used to go to work on a skateboard, and wrote a thesis on allegorical dream fantasy, all of those are me.Being Jack Schofield isn't that difficult because there are probably only a couple of hundred of us. Being Tom Jones or Gordon Brown must be harder, because there are thousands of them, and in each case, only one is really famous. Famous people tend to swamp the search results for everybody else.There are benefits to being hard to find on Google, Facebook, MySpace, LinkedIn, Twitter and similar sites. There are also costs. Many of us routinely name-surf people who invite us out for lunch, "friend us" on Facebook or try to sell us things. If I can't find you, I don't have any reason to trust you.Parents choosing baby names can now Google their favourites to find how common they are, and I think that will lead to babies with more unusual and original names. But most of us got our monikers before search engines came along, and we're stuck with them.While adopting an unusual name is the simplest way to raise your searchability, there are other approaches. You can do it by traditional routes such as using your middle name or initial, if you have one (an IBM computer database once turned me into Jack NMI Schofield - No Middle Initial - but I didn't fancy it) or by hyphenating your mother's maiden name. You can even have a nickname, such as Steve "Interesting" Davis, though that might not work out too well if you are an accountant or estate agent.Google is well aware of the problem, as its corporate mission is to uniquely identify everybody on the planet, and serve us adverts precisely tailored to our needs. Last month it tried to help by introducing a system to "give you more of a voice".Google wants everybody to set up their own publicGoogle Profilecomplete with a photograph. This has an "About me" section where you can fill in where you grew up, places you have lived, schools attended and companies you have worked for. It also offers to link to other sources such as your Facebook page.A Profile page doesn't remove the problem of thousands of people having the same name. In the long run, however, it should help people find who they want based on other criteria. This is something Facebook does badly.Whether it will take off is another matter. Very few people seem to have Profile pages, and they rarely show up - not even when I search for my own name. Profile pages do have a box that lets you search other profile pages, but the results are uninspiring. For example, searching for "Tom Jones" only finds a dozen people with that name (Facebook must have hundreds) and four of those profiles contain no information.It makes more sense if your name is already your Gmail address, as then you can have what amounts to a vanity address at Google. Google is promoting this by giving away 10,000 sets of iPrint business cards (in the US) bearing the URL and a Google logo. But that smacks more of desperation than success.Either way, the days of inventing a fancy handle and an even more fanciful history for internet use are fading fast, except in alternate worlds such as World of Warcraft. As the web becomes integrated with everyday life, your real name will be online whether you like it or not. The only question will be whether you own it.
The sun is finally out and, confession time, the last place I want to be is inside playing a computer game. Yes, making such a statement under the heading Game Theory may seem treasonous, or at least the end of my tenure on these pages, but I assure you, I'm not letting the side down. I'm still playing - I've just taken my playthings outside.It's not what you think. Despite the plethora of PR pitches for game-y mobile apps that somehow slime their way through the spam filter in my inbox, I eschew playing games on my phone. I don't care that its tilt-sensitive, touch-screen, 3D-graphic, super-processor could take me to portable nirvana: I'm just not interested. I'd rather succumb to self-obsessed tweeting about next-to-nothing on Twitterfon than haggle with computer-generated hoo-hahs via an unsatisfying interface on a machine that is far better designed for communication with other people. That's what it's there for. Allow it to self-actualise.I'm also really not that bothered about handheld games consoles. They're too all-consuming. For goodness sake, doctors give them to patients in surgery to save on anaesthetic costs. No, when I'm outside I'd rather look around me, if only to avoid being hit by cars and stray footballs. Besides, the screens on those things are calibrated for Scottish weather, so unless you're north of the border, your outdoor handheld gaming experience is hopelessly marred by eyestrain.Instead, when the sun comes out, pervasive games projects swarm into public spaces like aphids on early lettuce. Yes, my summertime interactive poison is technologically enhanced fun in the great outdoors. Bring me your embedded RFID chips, show me your QR codes, hit me with your location-based web apps. But please, don't take away my link to the System; I might be unable to reconnect with my computerised masters when the weather turns dark and wintry.Already this year there have been Iglab pervasive gaming workshops in Bristol, London has hosted the first UK outing for the US veterans The Go Game and the Hide and Seek team have been busy in their Sandpits in the capital. Meanwhile, Brighton's first Outdoor Games festival had them running around the Laines during the scorching bank holiday weekend and Jane McGonigal, aka Dr Pervasive Gaming, has been challenging random strangers to dance in the streets for months via the web in Top Secret Dance Off.You know what they say: game designers do it better outdoors. OK, maybe that's not quite right. But game players, put down your controllers and blink into the light. There are stories on the streets, and the game is to find them.
When do commercial pressures affect ideals? Testing that proposition was an unexpected result of the "Wikipedia Art" project. Two artists,Scott KildallandNathaniel Stern, created a self-referential article on Wikipedia, about the self-same article. Simultaneously, they had several blogs write about the project. Theystated: "Wikipedia Art is a conceptual artwork composed on Wikipedia, and is thus art that anyone can edit. As a consequence of such collaborative and consensus-driven edits to the page, Wikipedia Art, itself, changes over time."In reading their goals and intentions, I was struck by how some observations covered well-trodden ground among Wikipedia critics, though I wouldn't want to disparage the validity of making these points to an audience that might find the ideas novel.One messagegave a litany of flaws: everything from (my paraphrases) the tension around the Wikipedia slogan – "anyone can edit" (yet a very small number of gatekeepers will determine if contributions are accepted) – to the focus on pop culture and neglect of high culture.However, their points tended to be expressed in an obscure and frankly irritating manner, where the artists could not seem to grasp a basic, if often rudely put, objection – they were nowhere near as clever as they seemed to think they were. People familiar with some of the darker aspects of Wikipedia wouldn't find it surprising that naive believers in the PR line of love and community don't fare well when they run into a reality of a cult filled with suspicion, fanaticism, and group dysfunction.But it all would have been another long-winded Wikipedia debate, had the matter not turned into a dispute over trademark rights v fair use of trademarks as references.Funding has always been a problem for Wikipedia. Its owner, the Wikimedia Foundation, "continues to explore strategic partnerships".One such recent arrangementwith Orange (France Telecom) describes how: "This partnership will extend co-branding opportunities … This is an additional revenue stream to build on our most important revenue stream – our successful fundraising campaigns." This makes its trademarks valuable commercial property. And ­creates pressure to be aggressive regarding any possible infringement.The artists had a website, wikipedia­art.org, also using the title "Wikipedia Art" to discuss their efforts. Theyreceiveda formal law firmletterfrom a lawyer, stating in part, "Wikimedia has asked me to investigate whether your actions violate [many trademark laws listed]."The letter requested they "transfer [the domain wikipediaart.org] to Wikimedia and cease using the Wikipedia trademark." This led to pro-bonolegal defencefrom the organisationPublic Citizen. "With respect, I am very disappointed to learn that an entity group that I res­pect … nevertheless sent out a demand letter predicated on a view of trademark law that we have been fighting for years, with a fair amount of success … "Andremarksfrom the Electronic Frontier Foundation (eff.org): "Can a noncommercial critical website use the trademark of the entity it critiques in its domain name? It appears the usually open-minded folks at Wikipedia think not."Reacting in part to the bad publicity, Wikimedia's general counsel claimed: "No litigation was threatened or commenced." AndWikipedia's co-founder Jimmy Wales) alleged: "There was never a legal threat, no action of any kind, and there is no intention to take action of any kind. We asked them politely to put up a legal notice distinguishing themselves from Wikipedia, and they did … A group of trolls managed tomanufacture for the media a publicity stunt."Kildallcommented on a mailing list: "It's weird to see how they've framed this issue as Nathaniel and myself as 'performance artists' who have somehow hoodwinked the EFF, but I assume this is a media-spinning tactic."While the Wikimedia Foundation has backed off, the moral of the story is: money changes everything. And, as more "revenue streams" are sought, more clashes of values may occur.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Ordnance Survey did not consult the South African mapping agency – a high-profile example of the success of the free data model – in carrying out its review last year of alternative funding methods, the Guardian has established.The discovery calls into question the public assertion by OS's chairman, Sir Rob Margetts, this month that: "We did, with outside help, a review of equivalent organisations around the world", before drawing up a new "hybrid" business ­strategy some critics find indistinguishable from its former one.Derek Clarke, the head of South Africa's mapping agency, the CDSM – which moved from a "paid for" to a "free" data model in 2000 through a government edict – told the Guardian: "I was never contacted by OS regarding our experiences.".Instead, OS appears to have directly consulted only the mapping agencies of Canada, Estonia, Finland and New Zealand.That casts doubt on the rigour behind OS's review, in which Margetts said: "We came to the conclusion that at nearly every organisation that had gone to a free data model, the quality had declined and that users and customers were increasingly dissatisfied with the product."He added: "The attractiveness to staff and recruitment and retention [at organisations operating a free data model] had also reduced. We found no evidence that this model actually worked elsewhere."Asked if he had noticed any of these effects, Clarke told the Guardian: "The [South African] funding model has had no impact on the quality of our products. Neither has it had an impact on recruitment and retention of employees. It is possible that there has been no impact because we have always received all our funding from the fiscus [parliamentary voted funds] – and any revenue collected has been returned to the fiscus. We have used the funds available to us to be innovative and to improve our products."South Africaswitched from a paid-for mapping system to a free model in 2000. This increased usage of maps sixfold and cut administrative wastage caused by charging and licensing other government agencies to use government-owned data. It is a high-profile example of the potential benefits of the free data model – making it all the more surprising that OS apparently ignored it.Adocument released to parliament(bit.ly/freedata23) implies that OS consulted mapping agencies in Finland, Canada, Estonia and New Zealand. The "outside help" recruited by OS may have spoken to&nbsp;other organisations – but OS has not specified who, or what, gave that help.In 2008a government report suggested that shifting OS to a free data modelwould benefit the economy by £156m annually, while costing the government only £12m.Margetts said the study was "fully costed for the [UK] government, calculating the costs of change to the residual value [of OS]. We came to the conclusion that the cost to government in the first five years would be between £500m and £1bn." No supporting data was provided and the wide range of error adds to the ­mystery. The Guardian has asked Iain Wright, the minister responsible for OS, to publish the study.Instead, OS is proposing a "hybrid" model that aims to commercialise its brand, and create tiers of access to online mapping through its OpenSpace API: low levels of use will incur no cost, but heavier use attracts licensing fees.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
How much security?What is the optimum amount of security software to load at any one time to ensure a reasonable level of safety online? I have an AMD Athlon 64 3200+ PC with 2GB of memory, and performance is a little lacklustre, because of the number of processes it is running.Marcus R JamesJS:There is no optimum amount of security because it depends what you do with your PC, and how well you recognise threats. It's possible to run Windows XP out of the box with no security at all, except a firewall and a NAT router. I did this for more than a year, but I don't recommend it. Someone who is less vigilant, who frequents riskier parts of the web (pirate software, pornography, hacking sites) or uses file sharing would be better advised to load XP with lots of defensive software. This could well include using Firefox withthe NoScript extension, because web-hosted scripts are now the most common mode of attack. Switching to Vista or Windows 7RC also brings a useful increase in security.However, I would expect an average but reasonably careful user to be adequately protected by having Windows set to auto-update and running a good free antivirus program such as Avira AntiVir, Avast! or AVG with a firewall and perhaps SuperAntiSpyware or Windows Defender. None of these should significantly affect performance with today's PCs, if you run scans when your PC is not in use. Periodically double-check your security by running programs such asKaspersky's free Virus Removal Tool, or by running an online scanner overnight. It's also a very good idea to runSecunia's Personal Software Inspector) to check that your non-Microsoft programs are up to date. These have increasingly been targeted as Microsoft has made its code more secure, and now represent a significant risk.Having said that, your PC may well be running unnecessary background programs that slow it down. I use AnVir Task Manager Free to check processes, disable ones that I don't want, and block applications that try to put themselves in the startup sequence. It also provides a continuous readout of CPU use, memory use and disk load via small icons in the SysTray. Go toPC Pitstop and run the free Full Tests. In five minutes, it will tell you how your PC's performance compares, and suggest ways to improve it. This includes spotting out-of-date drivers. If you open an account at PC Pitstop with a new PC, you can check later to see if its performance has deteriorated. However, it is possible to run the tests anonymously, without opening an account.Personal email adsI have entrusted Gmail with my personal correspondence. What bothers me is that the accompanying ads have clearly been derived from trawling my mail. OK, this is how I pay for my free service, but isn't there a way I can be assured of some privacy?David ByeJS:Well, you can use a browser add-on to block the display of Google ads in Gmail, but the fact that you can't see them doesn't mean Google isn't trawling your email to serve them. However, the trawling is being done by computers, not by people, and you are probably pleased to have Google's computers trawl your email to eliminate spam. Otherwise, you can see how much you are willing to pay for your privacy by signing up for a commercial email service such asFastmail.Capturing conversationsCould you recommend any reliable voice-recognition software packages that can covert speech into text for use in transcribing discussions?Jacqui PatienceJS:Dragon NaturallySpeaking 10 is the best speech recognition package I know, but it won't transcribe conversations. It works best when trained for a single speaker, and some people seem to have a natural aptitude for this that others lack. A good speaker could listen to the conversation on headphones and repeat the text into a PC microphone for NaturallySpeaking. However, a trained transcriber with suitable equipment (including a foot pedal) may well do the job more reliably, quickly and cheaply.Trying ChromeDo you think Google's Chrome browser is stable on Windows XP yet?Jean MorganJS:I'm running Chrome on XP SP3 and have never found it unstable, though it often gets updated in the background. However, for most XP users it's a third choice browser, and I can't say I use it very often.Fake security softwareMy daughter's computer has been infected by malware that continually pops up a warning that an infection has occurred and directs her to securityhelpcenter.com. She has Norton antivirus and antispyware software, but neither identifies any problem.Pete WallJS: The free versions of SuperAntiSpyware andMalwareBytes Anti-Malwareshould remove it. Try SuperAntiSpyware first, before bringing in the "heavy artillery". However, MalwareBytes currently seems to do the best job of removing these fake security programs.Backchat• On PC batteries, a reader adds that hearing-aid batteries (zinc-air, 1.5v) and watch batteries (silver-oxide or related types; 1.5v) "have nothing to do with PC clock batteries, which are lithium, non-rechargeable 'coin cells'. The voltage is 3.0 volts; the higher voltage is important. The current taken by the clock is extremely small. The battery doesn't get 'used up': it slowly self-discharges. A life of 10 years is not uncommon. A good source in the UK for these batteries is any Maplin shop (at the new increased price of £2.49 each). They are made ­specially for data backup use."
Well, it could possibly have been more timely, but a Wii tie-in with J-horror classic, Ju-On: The Grudge, is coming to Europe at the end of the year, courtesy ofRising Star Games, a publisher specialising in bringing Japanese titles to Europe. The haunted house sim is apparently being developed with the 'heavy involvement' of Takashi Shimizu who directed the movies. Shimizu is, of course, joining a long list of directors, actors and screenwriters who've become involved with the games industry.From the press release:Using the Wii Remote as a flashlight, JU-ON: The Grudge has players move forward with the touch of a button and explore haunted areas such as an abandoned warehouse, a dimly lit hospital and a mannequin factory. With a story revolving around the unfortunate Yamada family, JU-ON: The Grudge features a new unique gameplay mechanic that measures your movements during play - the more you flinch and jump, the worse your success rate becomes. The player can progress through the game with bad scores, but it is those with a steady hand and nerves of steel that will have the most to gain from this experience.Is this the first Wii title to penalise players for involuntary physical movements? Perhaps the next step is a peripheral that measures heart rate and blood pressure?
Vic Gundotra and Tim O'Reilly at Google I/O, used under CC license byDesign By FrontGoogle believes we are closing in on a world where software delivered through the web can be as powerful - or even more powerful - than the programs running on your desktop.That's according to Google chief executive Eric Schmidt, who told 4,000 developers in San Francisco that the true power of the internet was only just starting to become apparent."We've been working for 20 years towards a new programming model, and we're finally there," he said. "I'm one of those people who believes that computer scientists are at the centre of the universe. Scalability and power, as evidenced by the internet, is just the beginning. We're at the beginning of this right now."To demonstrate its commitment to this vision of cloud computing, the Californian internet company took the opportunity to launch a variety of new initiatives today aimed at making it easier for people to use and build new ones.On stage this morning atGoogle I/O, a two-day event for programmers and software developers, vice president Vic Gundotra talked through a number of upcoming plans - in particular elements of HTML5, which he says can offer "new applications that go beyond Web 2.0".Gundotra showed off a variety of tools that the company hopes will make building web pages and internet services faster, cleaner and more powerful - including in-browser 3D animation, in-browser drawing and a new product called Web Elements that makes adding maps, news headlines and search to a website as simple as embedding a YouTube video.He likened the possible changes to Gmail - which helped change the way people thought about web applications, despite using technologies that already existed."Having the capabilities in the underlying platform isn't enough," he said. "It's up to you and Google and other companies to build applications that exploit those technologies."There were also substantial changes to Google's suite of tools for developers, including App Engine and Web Toolkit, which are at the heart of to become a fully-fledged platform company. The biggest round of applause for the day, however, came when Gundotra announced that every attendee would be walking away with a new HTC Android phone."I've always wanted an Oprah moment," he joked.
For some people it will be a relief. But for hundreds of thousands of online followers of the actor Ashton Kutcher's voluminous Twitter updates, the news that he may quit the site will come as a disappointment.Kutcher, who is married to Demi Moore, has collectednearly 2 million followerson Twitterand is the most high-profile celebrity user of the microblogging phenomenon.But plans by Twitter to help launch a television show have outraged Kutcher and other stars. Details of the project are a closely guarded secret, but it appears to be a reality show that celebrities fear may encourage members of the public to stalk them.In a brief announcement, Twitter's partners, Reveille and Brillstein Entertainment, said only that the show's "revolutionary" new format would involve "putting ordinary people on the trail of celebrities".That was enough for Kutcher, who tweeted: "Wow I hope this isn't true. I really don't like being sold out. May have to take a Twitter hiatus."Later, in response to a query from a fan explaining his fears, he said: "I don't want to be stalked!!!"His wife quickly followed suit, no doubt fearing an invasion of her privacy on top of that regularly caused on Twitter by her own postings and that of her husband. "Our Twitter time may come to a quick and sad end," she tweeted, only a few days after posting a photograph of herself minus a front tooth during dental surgery. Other stars also said they might leave.An exodus of celebrity users would be bad news for Twitter, which is still trying to work out how to become profitable despite the enormous amount of publicity it generates.
Just a quickie: fans of the Call of Duty series have an extra reason to watch tonight's Champions League final - Activision has booked an ad slot at some point in the evening to show off a new Modern Warfare 2 trailer (the one above is the 'revenge is like a ghost' movie released a couple of days ago). The publisher hasassured MCVthat it's, 'the most prominent single ad spot ever dedicated to a video game debut in the UK'.It's rumoured that, tonight, we'll get to see a group of dead-eyed mercenaries, battling it out in a depraved fight for tainted treasure. Not sure what the Modern Warfare 2 trailer will be about, though.
As anyone who has ever played on the wilder regions of Xbox Live knows, being called "gay" is par for the course. So what those users will make ofthe new Grand Theft Auto IV contentshould be interesting.  Due out this Autumn, The Ballad of Gay Tony will be available for download on Xbox 360 (1,600 MS points).More interestingly it will also come on a Xbox 360 disc – complete with original download-only content Lost and Damned – as a standalone product. This means you won't need to the original GTA IV game to play it. The only downer is the relatively high price of $39.99. Oh, and the lack of PS3 availability. So what can 360 owners expect from Tony and his friends?According to the release:Grand Theft Auto IV's second downloadable episode, The Ballad of Gay Tony injects Liberty City with an overdose of guns, glitz, and grime. As Luis Lopez, part-time hoodlum and full-time assistant to legendary nightclub impresario Tony Prince (aka "Gay Tony"), players will struggle with the competing loyalties of family and friends, and with the uncertainty about who is real and who is fake in a world in which everyone has a price.As usual, this sounds pretty interesting on paper and fans will certainly lap it up. For me, I'm waiting for GTA V and what will hopefully be a reinvention of the rather tired mission-based gameplay.What do you think then? A must-buy for your 360? Or had enough of GTA IV?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; For ages it's been rumoured that Microsoft is building a new search engine at Kumo.com - but now Advertising Age says it will be calledBing. Techcrunch, meanwhile, found that Redmond may haveinadvertently let slip the logo(which looks remarkably reminiscent ofBlinkx.&bull; As if to swat away the news that Microsoft is launchingnew, touchscreen, high-definition Zune, the Apple blogs are stuffed with reports about the next generation of iPods. iLounge suggests that we'll see three new iPhone models as well as anew iPod nano sporting a camera.&bull; I was always a big fan ofZe Frank, one of those people who made the internet feel a little bit nicer. He's been posting a few videos recently, including this oneof an optical illusion. It made me laugh.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Apple wants European officials to change the law so that iTunes customers across the continent can pay the same amount for their downloads no matter where they live. That's according to chief executive Steve Jobs, in documents released today by the European Commission.Right now, the price of music and video downloads from iTunes vary wildly depending on which country you live in. But according to a report (PDF) detailing meetings between senior business figures and EU competition commissioner Neelie Kroestowards the end of last year, Apple is lobbying Brussels to remove the complex series of agreements that it says prevents it from selling downloads for a single price.The document says that Jobs believes the current licensing system – in which music publishers can charge different rates in different countries - "might make it difficult to operate online stores accessible for any consumer, anywhere in the EU".In order to make pricing more straightforward, Jobs suggests harmonising the rights and creating a way in which digital can be sold anywhere in Europe for the same price. In addition, Jobs suggested that a single pricing model would allow Apple to launch iTunes in a number of eastern European countries where it does not currently have a presence.The problem is not a small one.British consumers have long been worried that they pay over the odds for music downloads – something that concerned European regulators so much that last year they forced Apple tobring down iTunes prices for the UK.Despite this change, however, prices across Europe still vary massively. For example, Britain's current No1 iTunes download is Boom Boom Pow by the Black Eyed Peas – a track that will set you back 99p if you buy it from the UK store.In Germany, the same track costs just €0.99 – the equivalent of 86p – while French iTunes users are asked to splash out €1.29 (£1.13) for exactly the same file.All this compares poorly to the US, of course, where the track is on sale for $1.29, a mere 81p – but it highlights the disparity between countries just miles apart from each other and, in some cases, using the same currency.The differences have become even more noticeable since Applerelaxed its rules on iTunes downloads– a move that saw rivals like Amazon try to capitalise on the rising price of some tracks byundercuttingApple's new prices.The meeting - which had attendees including Jobs, Mick Jagger, the head of EMI and eBay chief executive John Donahoe – addressed a number of issues concerning the way the internet changes cross-border sales.According to the documents, the panel concluded that a "one stop shop" for rights across the European Economic Area (EEA) was a good solution – but would require careful negotiation."All participants recognise the need for EEA wide licensing in the online environment," said the report. "It is the responsibility of the industry involved to develop workable licensing solutions."
Wheneven the endorsement of Barack Obamabrings you mockery, you may begin to suspect that your product has an image problem. But that's the kind of thing that seems to happen to Microsoft's Zune media player.Before its launch in the US in 2006, some pundits predicted that the Zune could do to the iPod what Windows PCs did to the Apple Mac.Mike Elgan of the US magazine Computerworldspoke of a "consumer media 'perfect storm'", with Apple facing the might of a Windows-and-Xbox "industrial complex".Instead, it emerged to questions about its muted case colour options ("The future's bright, the future's brown?"wondered Jack Schofield. "BROWN????") and suspicion of its digital rights management. One of the Zune's big innovations was its wireless connection – which, among other benefits, allows owners to share music with each other. But if you were passed a copyright song by another Zune user, you could play it only three times.The Zune's initial share of the total US market for digital music players was somewhere around 3%. By this time last year, 2m had sold.The iPod has shifted more than 163m. Time magazine nominated the Zune asone of the decade's 10 biggest tech launch failures.The publicity misfortunes continued beyond the launch. There was the self-nominated Zune superfan – the one who tattooed its logo on both shoulders, the one who posted to YouTube as "mszunefan" and claimed that he had tried to change his real-life name to "Microsoft Zune" – whopublicly switched to an iPod last summer. Then, on New Year's Eve, camea mass failure of one particular Zune model. (It turned out to have difficulties with the 366th day of a leap year,and the error wasn't Microsoft's.)Having seen speculation build around the idea of a Zune Phone, with much use of the phrase "iPhone killer", Microsoft must hope the pattern does not repeat itself.
Microsoft has announced plans to launch a new version of the Zune media player, its competitor to Apple's ubiquitous iPod - but only to customers in the United States.The Zune HD, which will go on sale in the US next month, is the latest addition to Microsoft's family of music and video players - a range which first launched in 2006 to mixed reviews. But instead of being able to get their hands on the new gadget, shoppers in Europe will have to make do with access to Zune Video, a revised version of Zune Marketplace - a download shop that Microsoft hopes can compete with Apple's popular iTunes store.Zune Video enables users to download movies to their Xbox 360, and existing subscribers to Xbox Live are expected to be offered unlimited access to Microsoft's video catalogue for a single extra payment each month. Music is not currently part of the Xbox Live offering.Chris Stephenson, a spokesman for the project, said that the news marked a "turning point" for Zune, and the first step in an international expansion plan."Eventually we'll offer the full digital entertainment experience spanning screens, devices, platforms and geographies," he said.That optimism comes despite estimates that the Zune has sold just 3 million units over the past three years - in comparison to Apple, which has sold 156 million iPods over the same period.Microsoft is still hoping it can make inroads into the lucrative media player market, however. The new Zune HD will include a low-power OLED screen, HD radio, Wi-Fi capabilities and high definition video output - enabling it to push pictures out to full-size HDTV sets.In an interview with the Guardian's Gamesblog, Stephenson said he thought the new Zune was well-matched against the most popular iPod models."This is a fantastic piece of hardware and absolutely it's going right up against iPod Touch; it's hyper competitive against that product. I think in many ways, we look at our consumers and what's really motivated them."The radio functionality is something that people really talk about – the HD radio receiver, with radio tagging, with track tagging, is a great differentiator for us. It's going to be an interesting and competitive year for us in the market – we think we've got a great product; we are going to compete."
UPDATE: This story has been updated to alter some technical inaccuracies. The service coming to Xbox Live is Zune Video NOT Zune Marketplace. Music is not part of the Xbox Live offering.Zune, Microsoft's 'end-to-end music and entertainment service' is coming to Xbox Live. Later today the mega-corp will officially announce its plans, which - although intriguing - are substantially less radical than the Zune mobile phone and/or Zune portable games player imagined by internet rumour-mongers over the weekend.Here's the deal.Up until now, the portable media player and its online iTunes Store equivalent, Zune Marketplace, have only been available in the US. From early Autumn, however, a revised service, Zune Video, will be available on Xbox Live in the US, UK, France, Italy, Germany, Ireland and Spain (with more countries coming aboard later). Xbox 360 owners in these territories will be able to go online and access video content and play it via their console. A variety of access options will be available, including instant streaming, download to rent and download to own. However, no Zune portable music players will be launched outside of the US - at least not yet. This is about the online service only.The finer details have not yet been announced, but the basics were revealed to me byChris Stephenson, Microsoft's General Manager of Consumer Marketing for TV, Video and Music Business. As with the current Zune set-up in the States, it looks like Xbox Live owners will be offered a subscription service, allowing them to download content from the Zune Video catalogue. Microsoft has yet to reveal its content partners, or a subscription rate for UK users, but further details will be revealed at next week's E3 event in Los Angeles."Xbox as a platform is broadening its audience, growing beyond games into living room entertainment," said Stephenson in a telephone interview yesterday afternoon. "That's what's driven the prioritisation of an enhanced Zune video service to Xbox… It's about changing the way people think about entertainment."It also sounds like Zune Video will be closely integrated with Xbox Live's community features. The current PC version of the service features lots of social sharing and discovery functionality and this will filter into the Live version, although again, the details are scant. Stephenson would only offer this: "The idea of having your LiveID sort of bringing together all of your experiences, all of your friends, and being able to create linear links between your content, is going to be really important."Zune, then, is essentially becoming the backbone of Microsoft's "Three Screens and a Cloud" philosophy of digital content availability. As Steve Ballmer, Robbie Bach and Ray Ozziehave been pointing out at events like CES and CTIA Wireless recently, it's all going to be about having your content available to you whether you're using a PC, TV or mobile device. Stephenson refers to, "a ubiquitous entertainment experience."In practical terms, it's a huge increase in the Zune user base. Microsoft reckons it has shifted three million Zune players in the US, but if the Marketplace service is opened up to Xbox Live, they're bringing in a potential new audience of some 17 million customers. Although Xbox Live currently offers video-on-demand functionality, different territories offer different content and the catalogue - at least in the UK - is not exactly gigantic.While I had him on the phone, I asked Stephenson if the Zune library would be made accessible within games, allowing users to create custom soundtracks. He said, "We recognise there are lots of different ways to integrate music into the platform and we're looking at all the different opportunities. Again, we don't have any announcements to make around that, but there are are definitely great opportunities." I also asked if Microsoft had any plans to integrate a TV Tuner and PVR features to round out the entertainment feature-set. "We don't have any announcements right now," was his carefully worded reply...Meanwhile, Microsoft will also be releasing a HD version of the Zune media player in the States this Autumn (and is clearly keeping an open mind on the possibility of a wider, if not global, launch further down the line). The new model will, as expected, feature a 16:9 widescreen OLED touch display, built-in HD Radio receiver, full-screen internet browser optimised for multi-touch and Wi-Fi functionality. There will also be HD video out capabilities: as the press release explains, "the HD compatible output lets Zune HD customers playback video from the device through a premium HDMI A/V docking station direct to an HDTV in 720p."I asked Stephenson if Microsoft will be announcing an enhanced range of compatible games for Zune HD (the existing media players offer a bunch of casual titles). He told me, "Well, gaming on the handheld device is definitely a big opportunity for us, we have the DNA in our business. We're not talking specifically about the gaming aspect of our hardware platform at the moment, but it's definitely something that over time, we want to step up, and we'll have more announcements around that in the future."Of course, the big question for Microsoft is whether the device can compete against the hugely well-established iPod Touch. Stephenson is predictably bullish."Yes. We've got a tremendous device – this is a fantastic piece of hardware and absolutely it's going right up against iPod Touch; it's hyper competitive against that product. I think in many ways, we look at our consumers and what's really motivated them, and the radio functionality is something that people really talk about – the HD radio receiver, with radio tagging, with track tagging, is a great differentiator for us. It's going to be an interesting and competitive year for us in the market – we think we've got a great product; we are going to compete..."
Jemima Kiss visits Bristol to meet the city's top tech talent.  We hear from South West Screen - an organisation that supports and develops creative media industries in the South West. Traditionally this would have been TV and film, but their remit is now wider, covering digital media like gaming, mobile and the web.We hear fromGavin Henderson of Presentable TVand Dan Efergan ofAardmananimations, Richard Wilson ofMobile Pie, Simon Johnson ofSimon Gamesand Hazel Grian who has written for ARGs includingKate Modern.More links from other people in this programme:http://www.swscreen.co.uk/http://www.pmstudio.co.uk/http://www.watershed.co.uk/http://www.thisisglobal.com/http://radioinschools.co.uk/http://www.nomosmedia.com/http://www.indie-mobile.com/http://www.wonkyfilms.com/http://www.joelhughes.co.uk/blog/http://www.s-cool.co.uk/http://chrisgarrettmedia.com/Tell us where we should go next!  Leave a comment below, telling us why your town or city is of interest, and Tech Weekly may come visit...Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Nokia hopes that soon users of its handsets will be joining Apple iPhone users in saying "there's an app for that". Apple's App Store seemed like a small detail when the iPhone launched, but it has made big enough waves that Google launched its ownAndroid marketfor its mobile OS and BlackBerry makerRIM launched an app store in March.Website and new service launches are always difficult things. Early interest often overwhelms fragile infrastructure still being put in place, and Ovi is no exception. The launch led to traffic spikes. They added more servers, "which resulted in intermittent performance improvements", theOvi team said on its blog. Let's hope for the launch team that intermittent performance improvements become a bit more permanent in the next few hours.The spike in traffic is leading to performance issues not just for internet users but for mobile users as well.Steve Litchfieldat theAll About Symbian blogran into "Socket closed" and "This operation could not be completed due to an error" errors, which he put down to "teething problems". He wishes that Nokia would list which applications are written in Sun Microsystems' Java language and which are native Nokia Symbian OS applications. There wasn't much content, but he did concede that the applications listed were specific to his phone and his region so your mileage will vary.Robin Wauters of TechCrunch was a little less forgiving, describing the launch as acomplete disaster. The site was down much of the time Wauters was trying to download applications to evaluate. Applications were disappearing from the site, and Wauters said: "The user experience sucks too."Terence Eden, a self-described mobile enthusiast, also gave the Ovi store a spin on his N95. (Eden works for the Vodafone Group, but he was writing on his personal blog and the standard disclaimers that the views are his own and not necessarily those of his employer apply.) Surfing to store.ovi.mobi on his phone, he got nothing but a blank page. He then went to the Download! application to get the Ovi application. He says this of the Download! application:On the surface it's a nice little App Store. If Nokia had given it some love and attention, it would have got the recognition it deserved as thefirstintegrated app store. As it is, it was left to die.He couldn't get the application to download and gave up, forcing him to reboot his phone. He went to Ovi, which also is the name of their over-the-air phone backup application with links to the Nokia music store. He was hoping that they would have added a link to the Ovi store. No. Google mobile search found the Ovi store, which led him back to where he started, a blank page. It prompted him to write a blog post listing25 mistakes that Nokia made with the Ovi storelaunch. Ouch.Vodafone UK users (like me) will want to download the Ovi Application because Voda's web compression technology basically renders the Ovi mobile website unusable. I got caught in an infinite loop of options to use an insecure or secure connection on my N82. As Eden said, you can get the Ovi store through the Download! application, one of the services that Ovi store is meant to replace. The store also replacesthe MOSH and WidSets services. I had a little bit better luck than Eden. I did manage to download the Ovi store application. However, that's about as far as I got with the mobile application. Although it said that I was signed in, it would go no further, complaining that: "The operation could not be completed due to an error."If you do manage to get into the store, note that the 20,000 "items" at launch aren't all applications. Many are bits of multimedia, often promoting films or other traditional content.It's not the kind of launch that Nokia ore any company would hope for, especially one that is being watched as closely.Reuters quoted analyst Tero Kuittinenas saying, "Ovi Store is in some ways the last castle for Nokia - both N-Gage and 'Comes with Music' are industry laughing stocks."The store will be where Nokia re-groups and musters its forces for a counter-attack. The opening of this battle is not going well for Finnish giant.
When the oil runs out, it will at least live on virtually. That seems to be Fuel's message: it's an open-world racing game set in a post-global warming America beset by flooding, typhoons, hurricanes and desertification, in which deserted areas have been occupied by racers with bikes, quads, buggies, cars and monster trucks, all competing to win fuel.Gameplay-wise, Fuel keeps it simple, with checkpoint, circuit, point-to-point and timed races plus helicopter chases to choose between; or you can just drive around in search of hidden stuff. The more races you win, the more territory you open up – and Fuel officially has the largest virtual environment of any game, weighing in at a staggering 14,400 square kilometres. The arcade-style vehicle handling is impeccable, but the terrain design and graphics detail elevate Fuel above its peers, setting new standards even for the next-gen consoles. And the ability to design your own races should make it a big hit on Xbox Live and the PSN. Impressive.
You'll know what to expect from this – a simple, undemanding game based on a simple, undemanding movie. The plot has you piecing together fragments of a pharaoh's tablet, each of which grants you a different ability that helps with completing the next mini-game.These range from jumping through paintings to riding a dinosaur skeleton to piloting a Lunar Lander, although dodgy controls and collision detection make them barely worth the effort. There's a smattering of historical trivia to appease parents, but it's as unconvincing as Ben Stiller's voiceover-by-numbers. With a running time that barely exceeds the movie itself, this is one museum you won't revisit in a hurry.
With a large array of co-op and team-based online options, Battlestations: Pacific is a marked improvement on 2007's Battlestations: Midway. There are some frustrations – long load times, poor voiceovers and a few tedious pacing issues – but get past those and you're still left with many hours of immersive, challenging gaming.As the name suggests, it's second world war-themed. But there's a twist: as well as controlling US forces to recreate famous Pacific naval battles, you can rewrite history by leading the Japanese campaign from Pearl Harbor onwards. Success – as either nation – requires the mastery of every­thing from fighter planes to submarines via battleships, destroyers, scout planes, etc, in action that blends arcade style shoot-em-up – roaming the skies or waters to blow stuff up – with deeply involved, nigh-Mensa-level strategy where you control hundreds of units. To blow stuff up. A vast, and generally impressive, experience.
My grandmother entered the job market in 1935, going to work as a secretary for an engineering journal in central London. Her boss, she used to tell me, would begin the day by going through his in-tray and correspondence to see how much work he had to get done that day. Once he had his day's priorities set, he'd send a postcard – yes, with a stamp, in the Royal Mail – to his wife at home in the suburbs telling her what time to expect him back that evening.This story is astonishing now, and not just because the idea of a postal service that efficient seems like a utopian daydream. For some of us, the idea of a working day that can be planned in advance, and that doesn't involve multiple surprises – both pleasant and unpleasant – is also just a blissful fantasy.The problem is the speed and frequency of modern communication. Even with several postal deliveries a day, a manager in that 1935 office could count on getting regular stretches of two hours at a time when no new demands would arrive by post.Research into "flow"suggests that we are happiest – and do our best work – when we are able to devote some uninterrupted time to a single task.But uninterrupted time is a luxury in a modern office. It's almost impossible to resist the temptation to keep checking the email inbox, to see if anything new has come in. Merlin Mann, the proponent ofInbox Zero, explains this phenomenon as thinking of email as: "A kind of communications slot machine whose hopeful beeping and lightshows habituate you into thinking 'just one more pull'".And because emails and telephone calls can be answered instantly, the expectation is that responses will be much more rapid. Far be it from me to criticise the thinking of Randy Pausch, the Carnegie Mellon University professor whose last lecturebecame an inspirational YouTube hit last year, but his assertion that"if someone doesn't respond [to email] in 48 hours, they'll probably never respond"filled me with horror – or possibly self-loathing.I try to clean my inbox out entirely once a week – on Sunday nights, so it doesn't immediately fill up again – but a week of illness or holiday can leave me struggling to catch up for a month or longer. And I don't think I'm alone. With dictums such as "must respond to everything within 48 hours" ringing in one's ears, email can become a guilt-generation engine. Half the emails I send or receive seem to start with the words "sorry for the delay". No wonderso many busy people are deciding to declare email bankruptcy, simply giving up on the idea of replying at all to the mountain of messages.Is there a solution? Probably not a permanent one, short of giving up on the modern world entirely. Butan idea suggested by Tim Ferriss&nbsp; is gaining popularity – let people know that you'll be checking your email only once or twice a day. It means giving up on the constant fruit-machine thrill that you might at any moment receive an exciting email but, with a return to 1935 frequency of communication, perhaps we'll all get more work done.
Online advertising companyOpenXis bucking the financial gloom by announcing today that it has raised $10m in new investment to try and take its business to the next level.The series C funding - which comes from Californian venture capital firm DAG, as well as previous investors Accel, Index and O'Reilly AlphaTech - is a surprise in a world where many startups are finding money hard to come by."The bottom line is that it feels great," OpenX's chief executive Tim Cadogan, a former senior vice president of advertising at Yahoo, told me. "We're kind of in a lucky position."He's not wrong. The service, which was originally based in London, has been through a series of name changes since it began life nine years ago as an open source project called phpAdsNew.Today - after a series of rebrandings, reorganisations and a relocation - it offers advertising software and tools to thousands of online publishers, and currently oversees an advertising network that gets more than 300 billion impressions each month.The $10m investment takes the company's total amount raised to more than $30m - but Cadogan believes that today's round of funding may be the final one for the business, which now runs from Pasadena, California."This should be the last round we need to raise to become profitable," he said. "You never say never on almost anything, but this should be enough to make us profitable and a much more valuable company."He says the offer of investment came as a surprise, given that the company's series B round - of more than $15m - was only raised 18 months ago."We still have a good chunk of that left, so we were in a position where we didn't need to raise more money," he said. "But we talk to people on an ongoing basis as things come up, and if the terms seem good it makes sense to bring in some additional capital."The company offers its open source software for free to most users, but charges high-end clients and offers support services to companies and individuals who use it. The model, says Cadogan, is a tip of the hat to open source companies like MySQL and Red Hat as well as advertising giants like DoubleClick, which was bought by Google in 2007 for $3.1bn.I pointed out that the open source model has taken a couple of big hits recently - in particularOracle's takeover of Sun Microsystems, after that company failed to make its freemium model bring in enough profit.That, said Cadogan, is about drawing the right line when you decide when to start charging for your product - set the bar too low, and nobody uses it, set the bar too high and you can't make enough money. It's useful too, he said, that online advertising companies like OpenX don't seem to have been hit by the collapse in the advertising market like larger rivals in traditional media."The market is obviously poor overall, but online advertising isn't that bad," he said. "Overall it's going to be flat, maybe slightly down, maybe slightly up. When you look at what's going on, that's not bad."
It has captured thebirth of a new baby,clashes at the G20 protests,London marathon runnersgasping for breath,cheery observations from Stephen Fryandbad jokes from Tony Blackburn. Less than three months since its launch, the sound-sharing websiteAudioBoo, is well on the way to becoming the YouTube of the spoken word.Its success has prompted media companies to incorporate it into coverage of this summer's festivals and sporting events. ITV's coverage of the FA Cup later this month, for example, will hear fans' views of the game and armchair commentaries via AudioBoo on their mobile phones. And the British Library wants to use it to capture dialects, accents, oral histories and neighbourhood soundscapes."It's not only a recording device, it's also a publishing device and that's its great appeal," saidRichard Ranft, the head of the library's sound archive. "It has fantastic potential – it allows people to easily capture an event as it happens. All you need is your phone, you don't have to use recording equipment."AudioBoo, which was partly funded by Channel 4, was launched in March as a website and free iPhone application, although it can now be used on other mobiles and landlines. It allows users to make "boos" – digital recordings – up to five minutes long. At the press of button, they can then be published online as a mini-podcast. The AudioBoo website allows users to comment on the recordings, share them on other sites, and follow other users.Its take-up has been encouraged by celebrities and the media's use of boos at news events, including theGuardian's coverage of the G20 protests.Stephen Fry's endorsement to his 450,000 followers on Twitter also helped. The broadcaster and gadget enthusiast has recorded boos, complete withaudience participation, while hosting TV show QI and at the recording of the new series of the Radio 4 programmeI'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue. At one pointFry's first boowas being listened to 46 times a second.Mark Rock, the head of a small team who devised AudioBoo in an office beside a railway line in south London, points to a graph that tracks growth over the last three months. "That's the G20 spike, that's the Stephen Fry spike, that's the Tony Blackburn spikette, and that's Chris Moyles," he said.Blackburn's transatlantic DJ's patter is currently one of the prolific voices on Audioboo. "It's reinvented him," said Rock. "He keeps ringing me up and now he wants to do radio phone-ins on AudioBoo." There have even beentribute boos to Blackburn.It was whenChris Moylesstarting using the service and playing Blackburn's boos on his Radio 1 breakfast show earlier this month that it began to go mainstream.In the last week alone more 66 hours of material were uploaded – almost a fifth of its total since March.This week the website is expected to top more than 1m page views since it launched and 30,000 downloads to mobiles, making it one of the most successful UK-made iPhone applications.Most of the users are in the UK, but a&nbsp;random 24-hour period last week illustrates how AudioBoo is being used and how it's spreading. Recordings included:a cat purring in Brooklyn;office banter in Kosovo;10-pin bowling in Cardiff;square dancing in Berlin;&nbsp;a steam train in Australia;two lads from Yorkshire talking on helium;clarinet practising in Ayrshire;the sound of the Dutch coast;the dawn chorus in Sefton;doing the laundry in Bangkok;a bootleg clip of a concert in Brighton; andswearing from a traffic jam on the M6.James Cridland, head of future media technology at the BBC, says such content is a goldmine for radio stations. "Letting your listeners generate great audio will reallytransform your radio station– far more than texts or emails ever will," he said.AudioBoo has been talked about as next thing in social networking. Some fear it will simply be a spoken version of banal Twitter updates. Or worse –boos on the lavatoryare disturbingly frequent.&nbsp;"The rubbish makes you appreciate the good ones," said Rock.Cridland said it would not compete with Twitter or radio. "It's probably going to be more niche than that – it's primarily audio so it's hard to play around with while you're at work. But it brings back the power of the spoken voice."Ranft agrees. "I'm pleased people are&nbsp; talking about in terms of it reinventing radio. It's difficult to convey emotions in text, but it comes across immediately in the voice," he said.He is talking to Rock about setting up AudioBoo channels for the library's sound archive to help members of the public build up its research collection. Schoolchildren could get involved to record how telltale words such as bath are pronounced in their area, Ranft says."It takes recording out of the realm of the specialist," he said.Rock imagines publishing daily boos from the library's archive. "If a recording of Queen Victoria popped up I'd listen to it, just as I listened to Tony Blackburn's first audioboo."
I was on holiday last week so missed thebig gaming weekendon Radio 1.  Actually I did hear the Tetris theme being played on a neighbour's radio but essentially I missed all of it. Of course being 36 – about the same age as Chris Moyles – I realise that the event wasn't aimed at me but you have to applaud the Beeb for finally realising that Radio 1 listeners are likely to be seriously into their games.   Unfortunately thelistener pollfor favourite game was sadly predictable. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare won, beating classics like Ocarina, World of Warcraft and, er, Fifa 09. Good game and all that but is COD4 really an all-time classic like Ocarina, Sensible Soccer and the rest?Maybe it's an age thing. After all the average 18 year old Radio 1 listener will have been – gulp - 9 or 10 years old when Metal Gear Solid , Ocarina and Goldeneye were released. What do you think of the list then? Any glaring,Paradroid-sized omissions?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The long weekend may have missed the report from my colleague Richard Wray thatO2 has snagged exclusive rights to bring the Palm Pre to the UK. Still no word on when the device - still not Euro-friendly - is due to launch outside north America, however.&bull; Is there life on Mars? Perhaps not, thanks to the robotic rovers sent by Nasa. According to New Scientist, plans to uncover lifeforms on the red planet could have backfired anddestroyed the evidence it was intended to discover.&bull; After a few days repose, what better than to catch up on some longer pieces that have been published over the past few days. Wired has a fun piece oneaster eggs in games; John Markoff in the New York Times has an overview ofartificial intelligence, while Businessweek takes a look at what it calls"the great ethanol scam".You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
It had to happen: Twitter is getting ready to take a trip to Hollywood.According to areport in Hollywood bible Variety, the social messaging website is linking up with tinseltown for a taste of the high life - with a planned Twitter TV series in the works."We've found a compelling way to bring the immediacy of Twitter to life on TV," [executive producer Jon] Liebman said.The project links up novelistAmy Ephronwith Reveille Productions, the studio behind the American version of The Office, and Brillstein Entertainment (The Sopranos). But what's it going to look like?For a second I wondered if Ephron might follow the model set by her older sister Nora, who is - among other things - the writer-director behind saccharine 1998 romance You've Got Mail. Just crank it up a bit for the 21st century and, well, You've Got Twitter.However, it doesn't look like the finished Twitter TV will end up looking that way: according to Variety, the programme will be "putting ordinary people on the trail of celebrities in a revolutionary competitive format". Celebrities have certainly helped push Twitter into the mainstream consciousness - the mentions of famous people's Twitter messages on American telly and in the celebrity magazines is in danger of reaching avalanche-style proportions - so it's no surprise that this angle is being looked at.And as for the production companies? Brillstein has a fairly illustrious TV record (The Sopranos, Larry Sanders) but it's not all good - the company is also responsible for inflicting the risible Scary Movie on innocent world. Reveille, similarly, has won plaudits as the studio behind the American version of The Office and comedy drama Ugly Betty, but it's also spawned hit reality shows like The Biggest Loser, and is now owned by British production company Shine (which, in turn, is run by Rupert Murdoch's daughter Elisabeth).While the fine detail on the series still appears to be determined, there's one person who might raise an eyebrow over the news: West Wing creator Aaron Sorkin,who is working on a Facebook movie. Given the recent acceleration that Twitter's experienced, he's probably hoping that the wheels of Hollywood don't turn so slowly that we've all forgotten what Facebook is by the time his movie hits the cinemas.UPDATE:Twitter co-founder Biz Stonesaysthe company has "a lightweight, non-exclusive, agreement with the producers which helps them move forward more freely".
It has captured thebirth of a new baby,clashes at the G20 protests,London marathon runnersgasping for breath,cheery observations from Stephen Fryandbad jokes from Tony Blackburn. Less than three months since its launch, the sound-sharing websiteAudioBoo, is well on the way to becoming the YouTube of the spoken word.Its success has prompted media companies to incorporate it into coverage of this summer's festivals and sporting events. ITV's coverage of the FA Cup later this month, for example, will hear fans' views of the game and armchair commentaries via AudioBoo on their mobile phones. And the British Library wants to use it to capture dialects, accents, oral histories and neighbourhood soundscapes."It's not only a recording device, it's also a publishing device and that's its great appeal," saidRichard Ranft, the head of the library's sound archive. "It has fantastic potential – it allows people to easily capture an event as it happens. All you need is your phone, you don't have to use recording equipment."AudioBoo, which was partly funded by Channel 4, was launched in March as a website and free iPhone application (it is not yet available for other mobiles). It allows users to make "boos" – digital recordings – up to five minutes long. At the press of button, they can then be published online as a mini-podcast. The AudioBoo website allows users to comment on the recordings, share them on other sites, and follow other users.Its take-up has been encouraged by celebrities and the media's use of boos at news events, including theGuardian's coverage of the G20 protests.Stephen Fry's endorsement to his 450,000 followers on Twitter also helped. The broadcaster and gadget enthusiast has recorded boos, complete withaudience participation, while hosting TV show QI and at the recording of the new series of the Radio 4 programmeI'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue. At one pointFry's first boowas being listened to 46 times a second.Mark Rock, the head of a small team who devised AudioBoo in an office beside a railway line in south London, points to a graph that tracks growth over the last three months. "That's the G20 spike, that's the Stephen Fry spike, that's the Tony Blackburn spikette, and that's Chris Moyles," he said.Blackburn's transatlantic DJ's patter is currently one of the prolific voices on Audioboo. "It's reinvented him," said Rock. "He keeps ringing me up and now he wants to do radio phone-ins on AudioBoo." There have even beentribute boos to Blackburn.It was whenChris Moylesstarting using the service and playing Blackburn's boos on his Radio 1 breakfast show earlier this month that it began to go mainstream.In the last week alone more 66 hours of material were uploaded – almost a fifth of its total since March.This week the website is expected to top more than 1m page views since it launched and 30,000 downloads to mobiles, making it one of the most successful UK-made iPhone applications.Most of the users are in the UK, but a&nbsp;random 24-hour period last week illustrates how AudioBoo is being used and how it's spreading. Recordings included:a cat purring in Brooklyn;office banter in Kosovo;10-pin bowling in Cardiff;square dancing in Berlin;&nbsp;a steam train in Australia;two lads from Yorkshire talking on helium;clarinet practising in Ayrshire;the sound of the Dutch coast;the dawn chorus in Sefton;doing the laundry in Bangkok;a bootleg clip of a concert in Brighton; andswearing from a traffic jam on the M6.James Cridland, head of future media technology at the BBC, says such content is a goldmine for radio stations. "Letting your listeners generate great audio will reallytransform your radio station– far more than texts or emails ever will," he said.AudioBoo has been talked about as next thing in social networking. Some fear it will simply be a spoken version of banal Twitter updates. Or worse –boos on the lavatoryare disturbingly frequent.&nbsp;"The rubbish makes you appreciate the good ones," said Rock.Cridland said it would not compete with Twitter or radio. "It's probably going to be more niche than that – it's primarily audio so it's hard to play around with while you're at work. But it brings back the power of the spoken voice."Ranft agrees. "I'm pleased people are&nbsp; talking about in terms of it reinventing radio. It's difficult to convey emotions in text, but it comes across immediately in the voice," he said.He is talking to Rock about setting up AudioBoo channels for the library's sound archive to help members of the public build up its research collection. Schoolchildren could get involved to record how telltale words such as bath are pronounced in their area, Ranft says."It takes recording out of the realm of the specialist," he said.Rock imagines publishing daily boos from the library's archive. "If a recording of Queen Victoria popped up I'd listen to it, just as I listened to Tony Blackburn's first audioboo."• The article was amended on 26 May 2009.  The original said that AudioBoo  could be used on non-iPhone mobiles and landlines. This has been corrected.
The web started with text, but the growth of broadband has led to a boom in online video. And while much of that is just television in a tiny frame, there are plenty of amateur productions available on blogs and on video sites such as YouTube, Vimeo and Metacafe. If that's the sort of thing you like, then you might well have come acrossRocketboomand perhaps even its new host, Caitlin Hill.Rocketboom was an early videoblog, or vlog, launched from Andrew Baron's tiny New York apartment in 2004. It was, in effect, a short daily news show, and it aped professional TV news by having an attractive female presenter sitting at a desk in front of a world map backdrop.It "aped" rather than copied TV news because much of Rocketboom's charm came from parodying the professional approach. The "news" was often flippant, being about internet memes and strange events, and the "newscaster" was flippant, too. Amanda Congdon, the actress/presenter found via Craigslist, did all the eye-rolling, hair-flicking, hand-waving things that would get a national news anchor fired.It was, of course, a huge success. Partly that was because it was funny, and partly because Congdon became an object of desire for the sort of internet nerd who probably doesn't know many real-life women.Congdon presented the show for two years, before falling out with Baron, and leaving to pursue her career on a bigger stage. She was replaced by Joanne Colan (2006-09), who has just been replaced by a girl from Brisbane, Caitlin Alexandra Hill. This looks like a masterstroke.Hill, who is 21 going on 17, is already a YouTube star as TheHill88 (17m views), and has been making and uploading vlogs to her YouTube channel from her home in New York. She has already co-founded a media business,Hitviews, and wasthe first online performer to win the National Arts Club's Medal of Honor, following in the footsteps of Tennessee Williams, Salvador Dali and Martin Scorsese, according to New York Press.Hill plays the Congdon role perfectly, but still comes across as a YouTube kid – "the goofy princess of cyberspace", as 60 Minutes put it – rather than someone with long-term aspirations to be on ABC or NBC. If she can carry over her YouTube audience, she should be a huge success. But what this means for Rocketboom is anyone's guess.The problem is that Rocketboom's net-savvy audience, which gets all the jokes, should already know about most of the things it covers. And while the show could inform a more general audience, they may not be the sort of people who will get the jokes.Rocketboom has been trying to reach a wider audience via video portals, iTunes and TiVo set-top boxes, and in August signed a distribution deal with Sony Pictures Television. This also looks like Rocketboom's best chance to make money – which, as YouTube has found, is far from easy, even if your videos get millions of views.
I woke up this morning to an email from James Montgomerie, the developer of ebook-reading iPhone appEucalyptus- whichApple rejected from the app storebecause people might use it download the Kama Sutra.It seems that Apple has changed its mind about the ban."I got a phone call from an Apple representative who wasextremelycomplimentary about Eucalyptus, and it's now on sale," he says. The details are documentedover at his blog- but essentially, Apple said if he resubmitted an uncensored version of the program they would put it on sale.Why did Apple change its mind? Well, the press response can't have hurt - but there seems to be no indication of precisely what happened, or what went wrong in the first place. An over-zealous application of the rules? A decision to raise the bar on censorship in the wake of theBaby Shaker app? Possible competition with a forthcoming official iPhone feature?Nobody is sure, and Apple isn't saying. Montgomerie's happy enough to have things resolved - although he recognises that this might not be the last we hear of weird decisions from Infinite Loop."You'll be pleased to know that the crazy bureaucracy malfunction is now over (for me, at least)," he says.
The space shuttle Atlantis and its crew of seven returned to Earth today, ending their successful Hubble space telescope repair mission in California after stormy weather prevented a return to Nasa's home base in Florida.Mission control waited as long as possible for the weather to improve before finally giving up and directing commander Scott Altman and his crew to the Mojave desert.Atlantis swooped through a clear morning sky and touched down on the runway at Edwards air force base."Welcome home, Atlantis," mission control radioed once the shuttle came to a safe stop. "Congratulations on a very successful mission giving Hubble a new set of eyes.""It was a thrill from start to finish," Altman replied. "We've had a great ride."After 13 days in orbit, many of them tending to Hubble, Altman and his crew were anxious to be back on the ground. They were supposed to land on Friday in Florida, but Nasa kept the astronauts circling the world in case thunderstorms from a lingering low-pressure system eased up.The weather did not improve enough, and mission control aborted plans to land at Kennedy space centre.Nasa loses at least a week of work and close to $2m in transport costs by landing in California, and the astronauts will have to wait another day to be reunited with their families, who were in Florida. The last shuttle landing at Edwards was in November.Atlantis ended up circling the Earth 197 times and logged 5.3m miles during its journey.The astronauts left behind a refurbished Hubble that scientists say is better than ever and should keep producing pictures of the universe for another five to 10 years. They carried out five space walks to give the 19-year-old observatory new scientific instruments, pointing devices and batteries, and fix a pair of broken instruments, something never before attempted. Stuck bolts and other difficulties made much of the work harder than expected.The $1bn overhaul was the last for Hubble: with space shuttles retiring next year, no more astronauts will visit the telescope, and Nasa expects to steer it into the Pacific sometime in the early 2020s.The astronauts brought back the old wide-field camera they removed so it can be displayed at the Smithsonian Institution. The replacement camera and other new instruments will enable Hubble to peer deeper into the universe.It will take almost all summer for scientists to check all the new telescope systems. Nasa expects to release the first picture in early September.This mission almost did not happen. It was cancelled in 2004, a year after the Columbia tragedy, because of the dangers of flying into a 350-mile-high orbit that did not offer any shelter in case Atlantis suffered damage from launch debris or space junk. The public protest was intense, and Nasa reinstated the flight after developing a rescue plan and shuttle repair kits.The shuttle Endeavour was on standby for a possible rescue mission until late last week, after inspections found Atlantis's thermal shielding to be solid for re-entry.
The war of words between music websiteLast.fmandTechcrunchhas cranked up several gears, after the Silicon Valley news blog repeated its accusations that Last.fm broke its privacy policies - and the law - by handing over user data to the US music industry.Thelatest accusations, published late on Friday, are a tweaked version of claimsmade in Februarythat Last.fm user data has been passed on to the Recording Industry Association of America.Despite the claims, though, Last.fm has responded to both salvoes with angry denials - the latest of which comes on theLast.fm forums, where Russ Garrett - who is the company's systems architect, and says he would have to approve any transfer of information - says no data was handed over, and that "it really seems like someone is trying to slander us here".The article claims that "This source's information comes directly from Last.fm employees who he has spoken with." Nobody at Last.fm knows anything about such a leak. We didn't when they last wrote an article, and we don't now. Any suggestion that we were complicit in transferring user data to any third party is incorrect.Any request for such data would have to be approved by myself first. The suggestion that CBS's ops team provided this data is just not possible - Last.fm operates as a separate entity and their operations staff do not have access to our system... Transferring personally identifiable data (i.e. IP addresses) from the UK to the US is against data protection laws. We wouldn't risk a lawsuit to pander to the RIAA's requests.First time around, the accusations irked Last.fm co-founder Richard Jones so much that he wrote a blog post entitled"Techcrunch are full of shit". This time he engaged in a brief Twitter back-and-forth with Techcrunch editor Michael Arrington over the provenance of the story (Jones' user name ismetabrew).What's the truth here? It's impossible to tell, and the mud is starting to fly - which is likely to obscure things even more. In fact, I am loathe to repeat any aspect of the story because my own sources can't confirm anything one way or another, and Techcrunch has not provided any hard evidence; just accounts from anonymous, second-hand sources.However, it's worth taking note of what's happened here because this is a very serious accusation - not simply because the RIAA is generally hated by the internet community, but (more importantly) that handing over that data would have broken the UK Data Protection Act.For that reason, it's worth keeping an eye on. Whichever side of the coin the truth falls, there will no doubt be repercussions.
10 people whogave their name to foodYou're never too youngto learn Klingon47 is thequintessential random numberStatham's gota film out10 placesnot to peeYouTube userssure do love them some Bohemian RhapsodyThe cost ofcutting a hedge around a helipadThe Chineseare building a very sad sex theme parkWhat Twitter is good for 1:Updates from a NutsackWhat Twitter is good for 2:Annoying Piers Morgan
Home to a collection of databases of various superheroes - those based on DC or Marvel comics, movies founded on Japanese manga and lists of the many Batman and Spider-Man spin-offs including Spider-Plant Man and the 1990 Pakistani movie International Gorillay, in which three brothers disguise themselves as Batman and form a holy army against Salman Rushdie. The best part of the site though is the section dedicated to Real-Life Superheroes, cataloguing real people leading double lives as masked avengers, such as Red Arrow. Similar lunacy can be found atworldsuperheroregistry.com.
Mad WorldA collection of TV adverts from India, where they love a 90-second epic.Ad FreakThe best fictional brands from TV shows, the worst car ads ever and Australia's campaign against junk food.ScampThe links between TV's best Coke ads, Prague toilet graffiti and forklift truck design.Chimp Media MonitoringUnseen Beyonc&eacute; Nintendo DS ad, the power of prayer and the fine art of saying sorry.Top 20 Japanese AdsWeird, wonderful and funny TV ads from Japan, plus one banned naughty Korean commercial.Retro TV AdsRelive the horror of the Kellogg's Fruit 'n Fibre song at this repository of UK ads from the last 30 years.
Everyone has an embarrassing snap that reveals the true gawky horror of his or her family, that priceless image (usually your mum's favourite picture of you) of a special occasion which captures you in all your true cheesy glory. The most remarkable thing here is that people are willing to share such indignity with the world, but we're glad that they have because it's internet gold. The site features all the standard awkward shots - the gang signs (doesn't work so well for a 40-year-old dad in a suit), the standing too far apart from your husband or wife, the matching outfits, matching hair. The best are the freakiest - the photo of a son strangling his mother is disturbing enough until you catch sight of his sad sister and his dad - wearing beard, clerical collar and tight shorts.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?It happens to be my iRobot vacuum cleaner, which I was just given for Mothers' Day. It's a fab little thing that runs around the house and cleans everywhere, then goes back to its charging pod. It also amuses my children – it childminds for me at the same time it's cleaning my house.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Literally last night – to play hide and seek with my children so I could relax and watch TV with a glass of red wine.What additional features would you add if you could?I'd give it arms an legs and teach it how to do the dishes as well.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I think it will be much improved in 10 years and every household will have one.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Not having the head space to read the manual for it, then I stop using it when it doesn't work for me.If you had one tip to give about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Buy a hammer, so when it doesn't work you can beat the crap out of it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I thought about this and I reckon I'm a ludderd – a combination of the two.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?It's something I bought at an ideal home show which is a really, really ridiculousy expensive massage mat – which sent me to the chiropractor, so it's now a 6 foot, 200 pound paperweight sitting under my bed. It cost more than £2,000. I always get suckered into buying things at these big shows.Mac or PC, and why?I would say Mac, from an aesthetic point of view more than anything else. I love the way it looks on my desk, and it also does the job for me. I've had my iMac for two years and I've never had any grief.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I very much enjoy going into the shops and choosing something and having it in my hand. When I download something I tend to think it's not real. I actually just bought a box set of the Charlie and Lola DVD for my five-year-old.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Best idea in the world. Honestly, I think for any woman who is out working and has a home life. I think they should have robot butlers, robot chauffeurs, robot leading men – robot everything.What piece of technology would you most like to own?What I'd love is if they could invent robot children, so you didn't have to go into labour and you could switch them off when you're tired.• Nina Wadia has roles in EastEnders and Skins. She recently appeared in the film I Can't Think Straight, which is out now on DVD
A computer virus that targets Google users is mutating rapidly, turning it into what some are calling the biggest threat to online security today.The worm, known as Gumblar, attacks computers through vulnerabilities in some version of Adobe's PDF reader and Flash player software. Once it infects a victim's PC, it silently redirects the user's Google search results to sites that download more malware onto the machine or allow criminals to conduct "phishing" attacks to steal login details for banking, social networking and websites.Gumblar has begun to spread through websites where passwords or software have previously been compromised, so that visitors to the sites are unwittingly infected without realising it – a so-called "drive-by download exploit". Infected PDF documents and Flash films on the site attack the victim's PC.Although Gumblar has been known about some time, its activity has increased rapidly in recent weeks. The unidentified writers behind the program have changed its mode of attack, so that it draws malicious code from a web page based in China, and have developed new techniques to avoid being spotted."The Gumblar attacks have morphed again," said Mary Landesman, a senior security researcher with ScanSafe. "What we're really looking at here can only be described as a botnet of compromised websites. And a growing one at that."Scansafe is recommending that people concerned about the security of their own sites should visita third-party site called "Unmask Parasites".The updated version of Gumblar has also been tweaked to more effectively target users of Google's Chrome browser, by avoiding its built-in blacklists of suspicious websites.Last week instances of Gumblar across the web increased by almost two-and-a-half times, while security company Sophos says it was responsible for 42% of all cases of malicious code found on websites.The speed of the Gumblar infection has already led to a series of warnings from senior security figures.The US Computer Emergency Readiness Team (CERT), the organisation responsible for online security in the United States,issued a warning about Gumblar earlier this week, encouraging users to apply software updates to protect themselves.While website administrators and Windows users struggle with the spread of Gumblar, meanwhile, security has become a hot topic for Apple users once again, after it emerged that a vulnerability in the way Mac computers run Java remains unplugged despite being made public six months ago.The hole, which potentially allows criminals to run malicious code on their victim's computers, was first discovered in 2008 and has been used inhacking competitions.Earlier this week, former Apple engineer Landon Fuller demonstrated a proof of concept that used to execute code without a user's permission,arguingthat "many Mac OS X security issues are ignored if the severity of the issue is not adequately demonstrated".
The cosmetics group L'Oréal has lost another legal fight witheBayafter the UK high court ruled that the online auctioneer could not be held responsible forthe sale of counterfeit goods on its website.Mr Justice Arnold ruled todaythat eBay did not have to pay damages to L'Oréal and was not jointly liable with sellers for infringing trade marks. However, he also referred the issue of eBay's use of advertising keywords to the European court of justice for clarification.L'Oréal argued that restricting the ­distribution of its products and ­preventing them from being auctioned on eBay would protect consumers against counterfeit products.Although some of the traders on eBay were offering counterfeit goods, the judge said: "There is nothing in eBay's systems and policies which favours or encourages the listing or sale of counterfeit goods."On the contrary, eBay Europe take active steps to prevent or at least minimise such activities. The fact that eBay could take further steps does not affect this."The judge suggested 10 steps that eBay could take to reduce the risk of consumers buying counterfeit goods through the site, including filtering listings before they are posted on the site, requiring sellers to disclose their names and addresses when listing items, and taking greater account of negative feedback from site users. But he said: "The fact that it would be possible for eBay Europe to do more does not necessarily mean that it is legally obliged to do more, however."L'Oréallost a similar case against eBay in France last week.The auction website said that of the 2.7bn listings it hosted globally last year, just 0.15% of its 2.7bn listings it hosted globally last year were identified as potential fakes. Richard Ambrose, eBay's head of trust and safety, said:"When companies try to prevent genuine items being sold through the internet, they demonstrate that they are out of step with consumers, how they use the internet to shop and, at this time when every penny counts, the importance of shopping around to get the best price."Following legal victories for eBay in the UK, US, France and Belgium, we reiterate again that cooperation and dialogue is what is needed, not litigation. Only by working together can we collectively address the issues that concern eBay, rights owners and consumers."
Chatterbox Friday
The rumblings over the future ofGPSare continuing, with some of the major players finally getting involved in the debate over the future of satellite navigation tools.To recap: a recent report by the US government accountability office suggested that overspending and mismanagementcould threaten the future of GPS. It predicted that the reliability of satnav would fallas low as 80% over the next five years.Since we reported the details earlier this week, the story has spread far and wide - but theUS Air Force(which is responsible for the upkeep of the constellation of satellites that provides GPS) has been almost silent.Until now.On Thursday the Air Force made its first proper statements holding a press conference (of sorts)on Twitter.Responding to a small selection of questions from users, Colonel Dave Buckman - an expert on GPS at Air Force Space Command in Colorado - explained what he thought was going on.In the hour-long exchange, the Air Force's messages about the future of the system were repeated time and again: namely that the group of 24-30 GPS satellites was the largest array of its kind, and that it wasn't about to stop working entirely.Here's a representative sample of the 13 messages that AFSPC actually sent:@lukeshepherd: We have the largest GPS constellation in history and active plans to mitigate any potential gap in coverage.@usmcpablo: The issue is not whether GPS will stop working. There's only a small risk we will not continue to exceed our performance standard@weisen: We definitely need to keep this in perspective . Since 1995, GPS has never failed to exceed performance standards.But it wasn't only the Air Force getting involved.Boeing- one of the major contractors working on the GPS upgrade - also made a comment on the subject today. And its language was markedly different from that of the Air Force, admitting that there had been problems in the past that required changes.According to Boeing, the upgrade to the existing satellite array - called GPS IIF - will "deliver more capability and improved mission performance".Working very closely with the Air Force and its team, Boeing has taken aggressive steps to resolve the technical issues on IIF with a strong emphasis on Mission Assurance. Design changes were required to ensure performance over the satellite design life and have caused schedule delays, but these changes are in the final phase of implementation.It's good to finally hear from the people involved. But I can't be the only one who remains concerned that their public response to the questions raised by the US government's watchdog essentially boil down to "No, it's really not a problem". Can I?
&bull;Appleis coming under fire for its relations with companies that have allegedly abusive work practices. According to a report from Global Post,protesters gathered outside Apple's offices in Taipeito voice their anger over its relationship with Wintek, which they claim exploits workers in Taiwan and China.&bull; Two of the founders ofRockstar- the game studio behind Grand Theft Auto - arelaunching a new venture, says Variety. The company,4mm Games, is already working on two new titles, apparently.&bull; And, finally, something for the weekend. If the idea ofastronauts drinking their own urinedoesn't get you excited aboutspace, then how about this: take a camera on time lapse setting, a fisheye lens and the sky in Texas and you get thiswonderful video of the Milky Way appearing over the horizon.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
A British-made iPhone program has been banned by Apple - because it could allow people to read the Kama Sutra.Eucalyptus, a book reading application developed by Edinburgh programmer James Montgomerie, allows users to download and read thousands of classic titles from the library of Project Gutenberg, the respected website that hosts out of copyright books.But after repeated attempts to get Eucalyptus onto the iPhone's popular App Store, Montgomerie was told that his application was being rejected because one of Gutenberg's books happens to be Sir Richard Burton's 1883 translation of the famous guide to sex.In aseries of emails, Apple told Montgomerie that allowing access to the Kama Sutra meant that the program "contains inappropriate sexual content", in violation of the rules for iPhone software.However, not only does Eucalyptus not actually contain the book itself - users would have to actively find it and then download it - but the same title is already accessible through a number of other popular ebook applications for the iPhone, and even through the handset's web browser."I'm frustrated that they would want to censor that, especially because there are so many other ways of getting the same content," Montgomerie told the Guardian. "I wouldn't call it a mistake, because it was quite deliberate obviously, but I think it was just a misinterpretation of what should happen."The 29-year-old - who used to work for Apple as a software developer - says he did not even realise the Kama Sutra was part of the Gutenberg project. Indeed, it is so buried in the library's 28,000 titles that he was surprised that an Apple employee managed to find it before deeming it unsuitable."I'd never even thought about searching for it before," he said. "You have to type either "kama' or 'sutra' before it appears. It doesn't seem likely that they were searching for something else and yet it seems absurd that they were searching for that."The news comes just weeks after Apple was forced into an embarrassing U-turn when ithad to ban the controversial "Baby Shaker' applicationafter approving it. The 99-cent game, which simulated shaking a baby to death, highlighted growing concern over Apple's inconsistent policies.Montgomerie told the Guardian that although the situation has left him frustrated, it will not put him off developing for the iPhone. As a temporary solution to the problem, he has submitted a new version of Eucalyptus to Apple which specifically blocks the Kama Sutra - and says he hopes that bureaucracy will not get in the way this time."I would like to think that someone, somewhere at Apple would realise just how flawed the whole approval process is, and do something to change it," he said. "It does seem like it could be a lot better without having to spend too much extra money on it. They could make the whole thing a lot more pleasant."Apple did not respond to a request for comment.
While researching some MTV footage on YouTube today I stumbled across this absolutely fabulous 1982 advert for the Atari 2600 version of Defender and just had to share it with you. I mean, listen to the amazing lyrics. And look at that guy - see how glamorous gaming was back then?
You'd sort of have to be mad to create a new football simulation these days. EA and Konami have got the market sown up tighter than an Italian defense - it's useless going up against them on their own terms. Ubisoft knows that. So the newly announced Academy of Champions is not a sim, it's a family-friendly footie-based, story-driven adventure. You begin by enrolling in the eponymous academy, where your tutor is none other than Pele. The press release explains the rest:In Academy of Champions, players improve their skills, recruit new team members and build the best possible squad to defeat their rival Academy and win the champion cup.  Compatible with the Wii Balance Board™ and Wii Motion Plus™ accessories, young soccer fans and their friends and family will enjoy playing together in a humorous, interactive universe that features over-the-top gameplay, entertaining fantastical environments, and innovative challenges.It's an interesting prospect, which sounds a little like an RPG, with practice sessions representing battles, and team recruitment taking the place of building a clan of useful NPCs. Also, there's the family element - Ubisoft clearly did well with the Wii version of Shaun White Snowboarding and are looking to build on that game's social appeal.It's certainly not the first attempt to create a more casual footie franchise.Wii already has Mario Strikers Charged, plus lower echelon wannabes like Kidz Sports International Football and the bizarre Table Football from 505 Games. But these novelty titles are not restricted to Nintendo's console - and aren't all low-grade bargain bin fodder. The FIFA Street series did well for EA by combining the basic FIFA set-up with urban stylings and a stripped down engine.Japan has produced a whole range of successful footie-based RPGs, which bare some similarities to what Ubisoft seems to have in store. The most well-known is maybe Let's Make a Pro J-League Team, which appeared in the West on the Dreamcast and PS2. There's also a series of titles based around the football anime,Captain Tsubasa, and famed Dragon Quest developer Level 5 has DS title, Inazuma Eleven, in which you must wander your town finding players to joing your team. There'sa sequelout later this year.Of course, the other good way of getting attention in a market ostensibly dominated by two major licenses is to buy in a bigger brand of your own. Pele seems a reasonable bet, though, of course, with every passing generation his legend becomes more distant - I mean, there are kids buying games today who haven't evenheardof Escape To Victory...Academy of Champions is out later this year.
