Vivian Schiller, the high-profile media executive hired to run Twitter’s news unit, is leaving the company less than a year into the job.Vivian Schiller, a former NBC and NPR executive, was appointed to the newly created position of head of news and journalism partnerships at the end of October 2013.The move is part of a larger consolidation across the media division led by its new head, Katie Jacobs Stanton.Inevitably Schillertweeted her departure:1/3 Stepping down from Twitter so new global media lead@katiescan reorganize as she sees fit. Wish everyone at twitter nothing but best.&mdash; Vivian Schiller (@vivian)October 8, 2014The surprise move is one of a series of high-profile departures from the social media firm in recent months.Chief operating officer Ali Rowghani, a former Pixar executive nicknamed “Twitter’s Mr Fix It”, quit in June as the company appeared to be struggling to attract new users. Chloe Sladden, former head of media, left shortly after. Twitter’s product chief, Michael Sippey, resigned in January; and in May, Christopher Fry, the senior vice-president of engineering, left.Schiller’s deep ties to major US news organisations were seen as key to Twitter’s strategy to become “indispensable to newsrooms and journalists”, as the posting advertising her position stated.Before joining Twitter Schiller was the chief digital officer for NBC News and had previously been CEO and president of NPR. She was formerly senior vice-president and general manager of the New York Times website.In a staff memoobtained by tech news site Re/Code, Stanton wrote: “As we continue to streamline the global media team and become more operationally efficient, we have decided to merge our news, gov &amp; elections teams in North America. These teams have always worked in close partnership and we believe the new leadership structure will allow for even better synergy and best practice sharing among these important partners. As part of this transition, Vivian Schiller has decided to step down from her role.“I want to thank Vivian for all she has done at Twitter this year. Her knowledge and experience in the field of journalism and her respect among industry peers have been instrumental to our work and reputation with news organizations.”
The European commission has widened its investigation into the tax treatment of multinationals, opening a formal investigation into whether online retailer Amazon’s complex tax arrangements in Luxembourg are so generous as to amount to state aid for the $146bn (£90bn) group.At the heart of the investigation is a local tax ruling secured in 2003 by Amazon’s main European operating subsidiary, Amazon EU Sàrl. This business takes sales from across Europe, including more than £4bn from UK customers.The Luxembourg tax ruling clears Amazon EU Sàrl to pay large royalties to a sister operation, depressing its taxable profits. That sister entity is a Luxembourg limited partnership but is not subject to Luxembourg tax.“As a result, most European profits of Amazon are recorded in Luxembourg but are not taxed in Luxembourg,” theEuropean commission said in a statement.“At this stage the commission considers that the amount of this royalty ... might not be in line with market conditions.”The investigation will now test these concerns further, and the commission stressed the outcome of its investigation had not prejudged.The US company, headed by Jeff Bezos (below), denied the charge. “Amazon has received no special tax treatment from Luxembourg, we are subject to the same tax laws as other companies operating here,” it told Reuters.The Luxembourg finance ministry said: “Luxembourg is confident that the allegations of state aid in this case are unsubstantiated and that the commission investigation will conclude that no special tax treatment or advantage has been awarded to Amazon.”Joaquín Almunia, the Spanish politician who is currently head of competition policy at the commission, said that “national authorities must not allow selected companies to understate their taxable profits by using favourable calculation methods”.“It is only fair that subsidiaries of multinational companies pay their share of taxes and do not receive preferential treatment [that] could amount to hidden subsidies,” Almunia added.The commission has already opened three other state aid investigations into the tax arrangements of large multinationals. These include Apple in Ireland, Fiat Finance and Trade in Luxembourg, and Starbucks in the Netherlands.
Apple will hold its next product launch event on 16 October, the company has confirmed in an invitation sent out to journalists. New iPad models are expected to be the focus for the event.The invitation features a close-up of the top of the Apple logo,like the recent iPhone 6 event invite, except this time it is in colour and has the tag line “it’s been way too long”.The event will be held in the the Town Hall auditorium at Apple’s headquarters in Cupertino, California: a smaller venue than the the Flint Center that housed September’s launch of new iPhones and Apple’s first smartwatch.The event will run from 6pm UK time, with European journalists invited to a simulcast of the launch in Apple’s Kurfürstendamm store in Berlin.Apple is expected to unveil new iPads that include Touch ID fingerprint sensors, which were first introduced on the iPhone 5S in September 2013.The Touch ID sensor is the cornerstone of Apple’s new mobile payments solution, Apple Pay, and will likely be used to authenticate online payments.Rumours have long suggested that the next iPad will be available in a “Pro” version with a larger screen. The current iPad Air has a 9.7in screen, while the iPad mini with Retina Display has a 7.9in screen.The larger iPad may be aimed at business users, as well as people who create content on the tablet – designers, for example – rather than simply consuming media and browsing the web.The “it’s been way too long” tagline may hint at one of Apple’s other product lines getting an update. The iPod touch, for example, or a new iMac computer. Apple is also likely to use the event to announce the launch date for its Mac OS X 10.10 Yosemite software, which was unveiled at its WWDC event in June.The Mac Mini, which was last replaced in October 2012, could also see a new model, while some rumours have suggested that Apple’s laptop lines, the MacBook Air and MacBook Pro, could see new models.Apple’s Autumn press events have traditionally included a musical element, although the company’scontroversial giveaway of U2’s new albumat its last event in September may have bucked that trend.However, the company could use the 16 October event to announce more launches beyond the US of its streaming music service, Beats Music, which it acquired earlier in 2014.•Apple’s next iPad: bigger screen, Touch ID, Apple Pay?
Google’sadvisory councilheld its fourth public consultation on 30 September inWarsaw, inviting experts and the public to discuss the outcome of the recent “right to be forgotten ruling” made by the European Court of Justice. Luciano Floridi is one of 10 people on the council and is documenting each consultation.I closed myParis reportexplaining that the ruling by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) againstGoogleraises a complicated issue about territoriality. Several interesting contributions in Warsaw addressed this point.The ECJ’s ruling currently affects only search engines operating in Europe. The same personal information no longer accessible through European search engines, such asGoogle.co.uk, is still accessible through non-European search engines, such asGoogle.comorDuckDuckGo.The ruling may seem as ineffective as closing the door of the house while leaving all the windows open. Yet the reality is more complicated, for at least three reasons.First, consider the “power of default”. Although users can easily bypass the restriction, according to Google very few do, preferring to rely on local services in their languages. So, if the ECJ’s goal was to “slow down” the accessibility of personal information online that an individual wants to see de-linked, this, at least, seems to have been achieved.Recall that now Google displays the removal notification at the bottom of the search results page for all name searches in Europe (except name searches for public figures, who the ruling specifies are not eligible for removals). As the ruling gets discussed and people start seeing removal notices at the end of searches about individuals, savvy users may develop new search strategies.Second, it is debatable whether the scope of the ruling should be pan-European, as it is now, global, or just national. A global approach to de-linking would be more coherent with the ruling. We would be closing the door and all the windows as well. However, global de-linking is both unfeasible (because countries are not likely to agree) and dangerous (because illiberal countries should have no right to impose a global de-linking ban on personal information).A national approach might be preferable. Google already deals with comparable cases of defamation complaints on a national basis only. Furthermore, we saw that the “power of default” works well at the national level. It might have been sufficient to de-link “Mario Costeja González” fromGoogle.esonly. De-linking it from other European search engines seems unnecessary because Spanish users are no more likely to use them than they are to useGoogle.com.Third, any geographical solution may be outdated. The territoriality (or extraterritoriality) problem is due to a conflict between two kinds of spaces – one physical and the other logical.The ECJ’s ruling is based on an offline physical space: the Westphalian system of sovereign states with controllable borders, which has served us so well for so long.In contrast, search engines operate within an online logical space of nodes, links, protocols, resources, and services. It is a new space that we are still learning to manage. The difference between the two spaces is like the difference between the physical size of a chessboard and its logical structure of 64 squares in eight rows and eight columns arranged in two alternating colours.A physical space can beconstrainedby rules: think about the problem of immigration across physical borders. But a logical space isconstitutedby rules. Think of a pawn, which can move in a given way on the chessboard because the rules say so, not because of some physical possibilities or impediments.The accessibility of some personal information online belongs to a logical space. If there are problems in the logical space, this is probably where they should be solved.I left Warsaw convinced that de-linking at the national or European level is a Westphalian solution to a post-Westphalian problem. This is unsurprising. We built the internet exactly in order to ensure that, as a logical network, it would withstand any degree of destruction of its physical infrastructure due to a nuclear attack.If we are serious about enabling individuals to have more and better control of their personal information online, we need to think in terms of designing the right constitutive rules of the logical space of online information. Not easy, but policies about firewalls, robot.txt files, or IP addresses show that we have already begun the process.The next question is who should be in charge of such deep transformations. I am curious to hear what experts may suggest about this in Berlin.• Luciano Floridi is director of research, and professor of philosophy and ethics of information, at theOxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford. He is a member of Google Advisory Council on theRight to be Forgotten. His last book isThe Fourth Revolution: How the Infosphere is Reshaping Human Reality (Oxford University Press, 2014).
The European Commission has opened an investigation into whether or not Amazon is avoiding tax through its Luxembourg EU headquarters.At the heart of the investigation is the arrangement by which Amazon’s subsidiary, Amazon EU Sàrl, pays tax in Luxembourg. The company pays a tax-deductible royalty to a second limited liability partnership, also established in Luxembourg but not subject to corporate taxation in Luxembourg.As a result, the European Commission says, “most European profits of Amazon are recorded in Luxembourg but are not taxed in Luxembourg”.The investigation will examine whether the amount of the royalty, which lowers the tax paid by Amazon EU Sàrl each year, “might not be in line with market conditions”.“The Commission has concerns that the ruling could underestimate the taxable profits of Amazon EU Sàrl,” it continues, “and thereby grant an economic advantage to Amazon by allowing the group to pay less tax than other companies whose profits are allocated in line with market terms.”Joaquín Almunia, the Spanish politician who is currently head of competition policy at the EC, said that “national authorities must not allow selected companies to understate their taxable profits by using favourable calculation methods.”“It is only fair that subsidiaries of multinational companies pay their share of taxes and do not receive preferential treatment [that] could amount to hidden subsidies,” Almunia added.Amazon’s tax affairs have long been under scrutiny. In May, Margaret Hodge, the Labour head of the Commons’ public accounts committee,called for a boycott of the companyafter revealing that the company paid just £4.2m in tax in the UK in 2013.“It is an outrage and Amazon should pay their fair share of tax,” Hodge said at the time. “They are making money out of not paying taxes. I no longer use Amazon. We should shop elsewhere.”Part of the reason for Amazon’s low tax bill is the company’s wildly disproportionate profit and income. While its revenue has grown consistently, peaking at $75bn in 2013, its overall profit has remained flat due to heavy reinvestment of income from mature services into growing areas.Since corporation taxes are largely determined by profit rather than revenue, that heavy reinvestment filters down to the company’s tax bill. Over the past four years, the amount of tax Amazon has paid in the US has dropped, from $1.5bn to $506m, as has the amount of profit it reports, from $1.15bn to $274m, even as its revenue has increased from $34.2bn to $74.5bn.Amazon had not replied to a request for comment ahead of publication.•Amazon UK boycott urged after retailer pays just £4.2m in tax
After users complained ofiPhone 6 Plus phones bendingwhile in trouser or jeans pockets, now Apple faces complaints from users that the iPhone 6 is pulling out hairs from customers’ faces.“Hairgate”, as social media users have christened it, has seen users acrossforumsand Twitter complaining that the seam between the iPhone’s metal case and the glass traps and pulls out hairs from beards and heads.People are joking about#hairgatebut this is actually a real problem. Haha. It has pulled out my goatee hairs. Hurts!&mdash; Quinn Nelson (@SnazzyQ)October 6, 2014The seam on my iPhone 6 where the aluminum meets the glass is definitely catching my hair and pulling it out.#seamgate#hairgate#gdhurts&mdash; Scott Bilsky (@str8ngelybrown)October 6, 2014Haven’t had have a problem with my iPhone 6 Plus bending…but I definitely have had facial hair pulled. Consider Hipster Beards!#hairgate&mdash; Paul Martens (@PaulMartens)October 5, 2014The Guardian tech team decided to put six phones to the test to see if the iPhone 6 really does pull out hairs, and if so, is it alone? Does theAmazon Fire Phone,Sony Xperia Z3,Samsung Galaxy Note 3orBlackBerry Passportpull out hairs too?Much to our surprise, the iPhone 6 repeatedly pulled out Technology reporter Alex Hern’s beard hairs. The other phones failed to pull out any hairs on his head or beard despite several attempts.Hair and beard rubbing.“I was surprised when I managed to pull out a beard hair with the iPhone 6, because it certainly has not come up in daily use,” said Hern.No beards here, but can it pull out longer hair?The iPhone 6 or any of the other phones failed to pull out any of reporter Hannah Jane Parkinson’s hair, despite rigorous rubbing.From our testing we can conclude that yes, in some circumstances hairs can get trapped and pulled out by the iPhone 6.Our advice: avoid rubbing it on your face. Or put it in a case.•iPhone 6 and 6 plus bending fears ‘seem overblown’•Bend it like Apple: nine safe ways to carry an iPhone 6 Plus•How to pocket the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus without bending them – in pictures•‘Bending’ iPhone 6: Apple claims only nine customers have complained
Voice-activated systems designed to keep drivers’ eyes on the road are as distracting as making a mobile phone call while driving, two studies have found.Theresearchby the American Automobile Association Foundation (AAA) discovered that voice control systems, which allow drivers to control functions within the car like changing the radio station or making phone calls, were just as distracting as making a handheld phone call, which is illegal in the UK.“Poorly executed voice systems may … [impose] high levels of mental demand on drivers with the potential to also incur long glances away from the roadway in order to check system status and understanding,” says the research paper.Voice tasks: tougher than talkingThe researchers tested six built-in systems, including the Ford MyFord Touch voice-control system, as well as Apple’s Siri voice assistant on an iPhone, on a sample of 45 drivers.For the built-in systems, which were installed in US cars made in 2012 and 2011, test drivers were asked to drive a nine-minute loop through a residential neighbourhood while being instructed to dial a 10-digit number, call a contact, change the radio station or play a CD using the hands-free voice-control systems.The researchers measured the driver’s mental capacity, reaction time and heart rate during the tests. They found that not all the in-car systems were the same, with some significantly more distracting than others, but the majority of them were as distracting as a demanding mental maths problem.“This indicates that common voice tasks are generally more demanding than natural conversations, listening to the radio, or listening to a book on tape,” the researchers wrote.Siri and natural language is even more distractingSiri, Apple’s natural-language voice-control system and assistant, was found to be even more distracting than the fixed-command control systems.In a simulator, interacting with Siri caused two virtual crashes despite researchers in the vehicle with the driver pushing the touchscreen buttons when prompted, allowing the driver to interact with Siri without looking at the iPhone’s screen or tapping any buttons.Drivers used natural language to send and receive text messages, update social media and review calendar appointments using Siri. A lapel microphone was used so that drivers could talk at normal volumes to the smartphone.“The participant neither looked at nor made physical contact with the iPhone during these interactions,” wrote the researchers. “Even so, the workload ratings exceeded category 4 on our workload scale – the highest ratings that we have observed for any task.”The researchers used Siri as an example of all-natural language systems, concluding that others, including Google and Microsoft’s voice assistants, would be similarly distracting.They found that the concentration required for natural language interaction was higher than set voice controls. Siri’s inconsistent responses to the same commands – often highlighted elsewhere as the “human element” of Siri – also caused more distraction, while some actions required exact phrases despite the natural-language setup.“Some participants also reported frustration with Siri’s occasional sarcasm and wit,” said the AAA researchers.The studies conclude that while well-designed voice control systems with minimal steps and accurate recognition could potentially be less distracting than manual controls, clicking a button or flicking a switch was much faster and caused fewer issues.•Microsoft’s ‘Star Trek’ voice translator available before the end 2014•Battle for the car: will Google, Apple or Microsoft dominate?
Google’s new head of social media,David Besbris, has denied rumours that the tech giant’s Google+ social network is to bow out quietly any time soon, after thesurprise exitof longtime social boss Vic Gundotra in April.In aninterviewwith Re/code’s Kurt Wagner, Besbris said that people underestimated the connection Google+ has with its users, and put Google+ at the top of his priority list after photos and Google Hangouts. Underlining a long-term commitment to the social network, he said:I don’t think of it as an end game, I think we’re in social — like we’re in everything at Google — for the long haul. We said this at the beginning of the company, we make long-term bets, we make long-term decisions.Social is a whole aspect of computing, much like any other area you would imagine at Google. Behind every one of these screens is a user, it’s an actual person. People are social creatures, they want to share things, they want to learn from each other, they want to ask questions. That’s really important for us as a company …Google+, unveiled in June 2011, is currently ad-free. Besbris said he would not rule out introducing adverts to Google+ in the future, though he expressed doubts about how helpful they are to users:You want to show an ad when it’s most relevant, when it’s valuable. If you don’t, the ads won’t be great ads. They won’t convert well, they won’t be beneficial and it kind of just pollutes the space.I think for a social place that tends to be very intimate, where you’re having conversations with people, you’re sharing pictures, you’re exploring things you’re really into, you don’t want to be … bombarded with noise.Asked how his leadership style would differ from Gundotra’s, Besbris joked that he wore jackets, while Gundotra favoured sweaters.He also stonewalled when asked about the number of active Google+ users. “I don’t want to talk about numbers”, he responded.It has been almost a year since the company last disclosed monthly active user (MAU) figures for its social network, claiming in October that it had540 millionworldwide. This figure, however, incorporated anybody who had commented on YouTube, or a website or blog with Google+ comments embedded.The number of actual “in-stream” MAUs – those who visited the direct content stream of Google+ – was significantly lower, at300 million.•29 ways to take control of your social media
Stephen Elop wasn’t a Trojan horse brought in from Microsoft to undermine Nokia - but he was “one of the world’s worst” chief executives, according to a new book published in Finland this week.The book, “Operation Elop”, by journalists from the Finnish daily paper Kauppalehti, makes its harsh assessment of the Canadian who was hired to try to lead the mobile phone, mapping and networks company out of trouble in September 2010 – after an executive hunt that is said to have approached Tim Cook, then chief operating officer at Apple.Elop was hired instead, lured away from his position at the head of Microsoft’s Office division in Redmond, near Seattle, to run what was then the world’s biggest mobile phone company - but one that was facing serious problems.“By many measures Elop is one of the world’s worst - if not the worst - chief executives,” declare Pekka Nykänen and Merina Salminen, the authors, who interviewed more than a hundred people to produce their book.They say that “Elop was the wrong man to lead Nokia. Someone else could have saved Nokia’s phone business.”However, those they spoke to were insistent that, despite the claims of many outside the company, Elop was not a “Trojan horse” with an agenda to make Nokia’s handset business worthless so that Microsoft could buy it cheaply.They also accept that many of the problems cannot be laid only at Elop’s door. Nokia also suffered from an obsession with costs, unclear chains of responsibility and bad executive decisions. “Elop… failed in his attempts to save Nokia,” the writers say. “He made monumental mistakes - but all in good faith. He took massive risks by putting all his eggs in one basket.” That was the decision to go with Windows Phone rather than Google’s Android, or keeping the Symbian software Nokia already used on its smartphones.To categorise Elop as “one of the worst” CEOs, the authors look at Nokia’s market value before and after Elop took over, when he replaced Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, who in the summer had challenged Nokia’s board to “back him or sack him”. One day before Elop took over, the company was worth €29.5bn on the stock market; three years later, as the phone division was sold, its valuation was €11bn.Nokia’s handset division was sold to Microsoft for €5.4bn in September 2013 after it had fallen into a pattern of lossmaking, and failed to make significant impact on the smartphone market.The authors charge that Elop’s famous “burning platform” memo “has become a legendary example of how a CEO can destroy everything in just one stroke”. The memo emerged from a jointly-written speech that he gave to senior managers to describe the problems that Nokia’s Symbian software faced by the end of 2010, as Apple’s iPhone and Google’s Android software drove a new wave of touchscreen phones, to which Nokia had no effective answer.The choice of Windows Phone was partly advised by the consultants McKinsey, the book claims. Elop is known to have spoken to Google about the possibility of going with Android - but did not, famously leading Google’s Vic Gundotra to tweet that “two turkeys don’t make an eagle” - a reference to a comment by one of Nokia’s executives in 2005 about the proposed merger of BenQ and Siemens’s phone handset divisions. (It flopped.)They also say that Nokia’s staff did not examine Windows Phone closely enough before choosing it - and only realised after signing the agreement with Microsoft that they would not be able to install it on handsets then priced at €100 which used keypads rather than a touchscreen. Nor could it use a front camera - useful for video calls - and had patchy support for MMS, a carrier standard for sending picture messages. Foreign language support was also patchy - so much so, the authors say, that one engineer thought there were missing pages when he first saw the list of supported languages.Microsoft is also blamed as being inflexible, even though Nokia was its biggest Windows Phone OEM.Samsung slump echoes decline of rivals BlackBerry and Nokia
Often in video games it’s the little details that reassure you. Driveclub, Sony’s “socially connected” driving game, was originally scheduled to accompany the PS4 launch last year, but was subsequently delayed for 10 months – a move that had many industry watchers worried. However, the moment your avatar slides into an expertly modelled hot hatch and you glimpse the exquisitely rendered cockpit, there’s an immediate sense that you should, after all, be in for a satisfying ride.A short load time later, while you’re admiring the obvious passion that’s gone into recreating any one of the game’s five refreshingly uncommon locales, there’s still no cause for alarm. The postcard-pretty green Canadian forests; the sun-baked rocky barrenness of Chile; the carnival colours of India’s hillside villages; a menacing part-thawed Norwegian backdrop, and the unmistakable moody splendour of Scotland’s craggy countryside. All are imagined and rendered in exquisite detail.But actually, thevery firstthing you notice in Driveclub is the “dynamic menu”, as developer Evolution Studios is calling it. It’s a commendably seamless gateway that enables you to switch between the game’s single-player and social (online) events. Its simplicity belies its complexity – this seamless set-up is perhaps the main reason for the game’s rescheduled release. But this unfussy, intuitive entry point works perfectly for the huge range of options in store.Endless choiceYou can simply enter the Tour’s 52 championships (divided among five tiers and unlocked progressively) or take part in a single event (split into Race, Time Trial, and Drift) – but the game comes alive when players explore its social side. You can register for multiplayer games, take or issue challenges, or join or create a club.This is where six players form a club that takes on rivals and stamp their driving supremacy all over Sony’s servers. Their goal is “Fame”, Driveclub’s social currency. Whatever you do in the game – from winning races to beating time trials to overtaking or slipstreaming rivals – earns Fame points. Those points boost your driver and your club’s status, which in turn unlocks cars and livery options.Community servicesWith the servers undergoing final tweaking prior to the game’s launch on 10 October, it’s been tricky to get the full multiplayer experience going. But what has become clear, even when deliberately joining a club full with strangers, is the sense of responsibility once you’re part of the gang. There’s a genuine push to log in for a daily session, helping maintain its social standing, which should further intensify once you’re actually banding together with friends.Whether or not you’re fully exploiting Driveclub’s social factor doesn’t affect the game’s gorgeous graphics. It’s true that exceptional visuals (matched by superlative sound) are to be expected on current hardware but even so, the level of artistry here deserves highlighting, not least because it plays a vital role in the gameplay. There’s an organic quality to these environments – bolstered by a weather system and day/night cycles that affect the nature of the racing – which mocks the sterility seen in the Gran Turismo or Forza series and, more importantly, serves to bring you right into the action.Handling – from hot hatch to hyper-exoticAnd what action it is. There are five tiers of vehicles, including Hot Hatch, Sport, Performance, Super, and Hyper, with 10 familiar contemporary models in each. Get past the understeer-happy staples in the opening phase and the excitement ramps up in direct correlation to the boost in horsepower.There are thrilling moments to be had: inching past an opponent, afternoon sun bleaching your McLaren P1’s strikingly reflective windscreen, while a lovingly rendered whitewashed wall speeds past just centimetres from your wing-mirror. Or overtaking three opponents, two wheels off the tarmac, only to sneak your Alfa Romeo 4C back fully onto the road before a pillar messes up that sublime bodywork.The chassis underpinning these many exhilarating moments is the course design. The point-to-point segments offer first-rate flowing, substantial stretches of tarmac to be tamed but even the circuit-based entries have been skilfully put together to promote momentum above all else. Each location offers a mix of both, plus reversed versions, for a total of 55 option.Which seems as good a time as any to talk about the handling model. Because the reason Driveclub encourages (and delivers) such speedy antics is due to a very friendly set of driving dynamics. Throwing the insanity that is a Zonda R sideways into a wide open bend at over 150mph and living to tell the tale wouldn’t happen in Gran Turismo, but Driveclub’s mechanics have no pretensions to that austere throne. There is a layer of realism sidelining the core that provides a more complex and therefore demanding experience than, say, a Burnout or Need For Speed title, but the experience stops quite a way short of the tyre-behaviour subtlety that GT6 so masterfully conveys.Friends versus strangersElsewhere, occasional lapses in opponent AI do frustrate, particularly at the higher end of the Tour events, while human opponents can behave even less considerately (although car and scenery collisions carry hefty Fame penalties to encourage clean racing). When chaos does ensue, the more arcade-like nature of the physics also sees vehicles bounce around in a manner that breaks the spell conjured by the sumptuous environment.And then there’s the inescapable argument that non-social players will eventually find their enjoyment limited – but, really, that’s not the focus here, just as it isn’t in Call of Duty games. Plus, as long as you’re online, you continue to receive challenges, as well as leaderboard ghosts to battle.Driveclub’s ultimate potential will, however, hang on how well it develops the inter-club rivalries and supports those with a substantial set of events. On that note, the road looks smooth. Evolution Studios has committed its entire Driveclub team to continue contributing to the game for 12 months, offering free downloadable content such as tracks, cars (38 are in production), and locations, as well as updates (rain and snow weather effects, a photo editor, and replay option are due before the end of the year) and general gameplay tweaking on a monthly basis.So the ride won’t just be exciting, it should be long, too. But right now, those prepared to embrace Driveclub for what it is will find a very accessible, carefully crafted, refreshing speed-over-sim driving experience that often provides fabulous fun. And there’s plenty of garage space in the PS4 catalogue for that.
The data we create about ourselves should be owned by each of us, not by the large companies that harvest it, the Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, said today.Berners-Lee told the IPExpo Europe in London’s Excel Centre that the potential of big data will be wasted as its current owners use it to serve ever more “queasy” targeted advertising.By gaining access to their own data, people could use it with information about themselves from other sources in order to create “rich data” – a far more valuable commodity than mere “big data”, he said.Berners-Lee said that “people only look at one angle” of big data. “When you read big data pieces in a magazine, it’s about how big companies are spying on you. A lot of the marvel of big data is a threat to me.“What are these people going to do with that data? They’re going to target you with an ad which makes you feel a bit queasy. Targeted adverts are not the future.”Instead, users should own their own data and be free to merge it with other sets as and when it could provide them useful insight, he said.“That data that [firms] have about you isn’t valuable to them as it is to you,” he said. “I have almost a year as worth of data from [Facebook-owned location-tracking app] Moves. I can see how my exercise has gone up and down.“In general … if you put together all that data, from my wearable, my house, from other companies like the credit card company and the banks, from all the social networks, I can give my computer a good view of my life, and I can use that. That information is more valuable to me than it is to the cloud.”Berners-Lee, who wrote the first memo detailing the idea of the world wide web 25 years ago this year, while working for physics lab Cern in Switzerland, told the conference that the value of “merging” data was under-appreciated in many areas.Speaking to public data providers, he said: “I’m not interested in your data; I’m interested in merging your data with other data. Your data will never be as exciting as what I can merge it with.The idea of a web focused around letting users easily find, share and combine information is promoted by Berners-Lee as the “semantic web”, and has been a focus of W3C, the body he founded to oversee the development of the web, since 2001.“Lots of people said: ‘Open data, this is about government transparency; we can track who is committing expense fraud.’ Well, yes, a world where I have to reveal how I spend public money is better, but more importantly,, that data can be used elsewhere to run a better economy.”Addressing the privacy implications of such a world, Berners-Lee argued that the burden of tracking should be moved from the typical web user to the individuals and organisations with access to our data.“We turn tracking around: … make tracking something that we do to the people who use our data.” That way, he argued, we would not have to completely lock down sensitive information such as our health data, so that if we’re in a car accident, the right person can still access important information – but only by notifying us that they have done so.He added that such a reversal of norms could do great things for medical research, citing an example of a theoretical, wide-ranging study into the long-term effects of a popular medicine.“If you give [people] the ability to see how [data is] used and you ban its misuse then people are much more happy to open up to their data being used. Finding drugs, we need to be able to look at a massive amount of data.”•Is the internet God? Alexander Bard’s Syntheism paves the way for a new elite
Criminals have made millions of dollars by physically installing malware on cash machines across the world, Interpol and security company Kaspersky have warned.More than 50 Windows-based ATMs at banks in Eastern Europe are known to have been infected by the Tyupkin malware, which allowed the gang’s money mules to enter codes into a cash machine to withdraw funds.It would have required significant planning, as the mules had to be at the infected cash machines at specified times on either Sunday or Monday nights. The machines were compromised after the criminals inserted a bootable CD before uploading their malicious kit.The key required to access the malware was also randomly created and only once, making it almost impossible for those outside of the gang to use it. Once the malicious software was brought to life, the mules were able to draw up to 40 notes, depending on how much cash was in the machine.The gang has continued to improve Tyupkin since Kaspersky started tracking it in January, after an unnamed financial institution asked for help. One major upgrade added capability that disabled McAfee Solidcore security software to further avoid the chance of detection.Kaspersky believes nations on other continents are affected, including the US and India, but not the UK. Interpol has started warning banks in the related countries.Kaspersky Lab principle security researcher Vicente Diaz said the attacks were not particularly sophisticated in comparison to other ATM , but they were clearly effective. “It’s a very well organised operation,” he told the Guardian.A similar malware, known as Ploutus, was seen spreading in South America earlier this year. In that case, the criminals were able to withdraw funds by simply texting the machine. But again they needed access to the machine and had to install another mobile within the ATM.Despite the physical side of the illicit operations, criminals have still been able to make millions. Banks have been urged to take action.“The fact that many ATMs run on operating systems with known security weaknesses and the absence of security solutions is another problem that needs to be addressed urgently,” Kaspersky Lab added in ablog post.“Our recommendations for the banks is to review the physical security of their ATMs and consider investing in quality security solutions.”•Want to catch a virus? Cheryl Cole is UK’s most dangerous celebrity
Warner Bros; PC/PS3/PS4 (version tested)/Xbox One/Xbox 360; £45; Pegi rating: 18+You’d be forgiven for not getting too excited about Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor. There’s that clunking title for one thing, forged in the most basic video game name generator. Then there’s the licence itself – the gaming battlefield is littered with the corpses of near-forgotten sub-par genre contenders half-heartedly wrestled into an uncomfortable fit with Tolkien’s fantasy world.And the tick list of features from the back of the box does very little to generate much more excitement – beyond the one noticeable exception I’ll get to later. The game wears its influences shamelessly: this is Arkham’s Creed with a side order of Grand Theft Far Cry. And orcs. Lots of orcs.And yet …It turns out that Shadow of Mordor is that rarest of things in video game culture - an unexpected knockout punch. It’s also a glorious return to form for one of the most interesting developers out there – Washington-based Monolith Productions – whose track record is inconsistent but features glorious oddities such as No One Lives Forever, FEAR and Condemned.The story of Mordor, much like the rest of the game, is a Frankenstein’s monster. You are Talion, a ranger ofGondorresponsible for guarding the Black Gate of Mordor. In an assault by Sauron’s army you and your family are killed, but you find yourself returned to life and twinned with a mysterious wraith who gives you magical powers. The stage is set for you to sneak across a battered landscape, doling out revenge on Sauron’s minions. It’s basically Batman with a longsword.It sounds awful, doesn’t it? But Monolith sends out an early sign of quality with an introductory cut-scene that doesn’t outstay its welcome and features voice actors who don’t sound actively appalled by the dialogue. It’s told with the economy and flair you’d expect from one of the writers of Red Dead Redemption and everyone involved sees the plot for what it is – a peg to hang a game on. Which makes it exactly 100 times more enjoyable than almost every high-profile game with literary or filmic pretensions.How to slay a monsterIt’s the same for the basic mechanics. Monolith does what anyone who’s played Assassin’s Creed recently wishes Ubisoft would do – it makes the parkour tighter, makes the stealth coherent and consistent, rips out the combat model and replaces it with something inspired by Rocksteady’s Batman. The team then gets the story out of the way as quickly as possible, and then doesn’t waste development time on a card game simulator that no one wants; it reduces the size of the map and trims back the 12 million tedious side quests to a handful that actually benefit the player in gameplay.It sounds so simple, but it’s bracingly surprising to simply sneak up on an isolated band of Uruk-hai and start tripping off the various systems Monolith gives you to dispatch them – safe in the knowledge that they all work as they should.And that’s not taking into account Shadows’ trump card – the Nemesis system. It sounds too good to be true: the game responds dynamically to your actions, shifting the Orc’s hierarchy as you make your way through and generating a roster of enemies who look, speak, behave and fight very differently. Injure an orc in a battle and you’ll find later on that they not only remember you, they also bear the scars of your recent attentions. Find yourself caught out by a lowly Uruk-hai in a melee and when you return to life they’ll now be promoted up the chain of command and will taunt you when you next face them.How much of this is smoke and mirrors is a moot point. Itfeelslike it’s doing what it promises and it transforms the two tight open-world maps into something living and engaging. Every session of the game is peppered with moments of glorious chaos that feel far more rewarding and exciting than the scripted fodder Grand Theft Auto or Assassin’s Creed push in the player’s direction.New but oldTwo PS2-era games continually sprang to mind as I made my way through the Uruk-hai ranks with a pleasing sense of power and purpose –Psi Ops: The Mindgate ConspiracyandMetal Arms: Glitch in the System.Neither of these are remembered terribly well by the majority of gamers, and both share with Shadows a godawful title, unpromising narrative, a few ragged edges and a comparative lack of pre-release hype. But they also featured thumpingly well-executed mechanics, emergent gameplay and at least one genuinely game-changing idea. You could argue that games like these lack a sense of scope that can only ever mean they’re second-tier. But in a straight fight between Shadow’s eagerness to please and, say, Destiny’s production values, sterility and self-proclaimed ambition, and there’s only one winner for me, and it’s not Bungie.That may sound hyperbolic, and true, Shadows of Mordor isn’t perfect by any means. But right now, it’s my main contender for game of the year, simply because, in its lack of pretension, its attention to detail and its understanding that video games first and foremost should be fun, it puts everything else I’ve played recently in its long shadow.
A repast of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMysterious bug in Belkin routers is kicking people off the internet &gt;&gt; GigaomThis morning a lot of people who own Belkin routers woke up to find they had no access to the internet. While their devices were connecting to their Wi-Fi networks and their modems were connecting to their ISPs, the router and modem seem to be suffering from communication breakdown. The problem is affecting at least Belkin router models in the U.S. and other regions or the world regardless of ISP.Belkin has acknowledged there is a problem with its older routers, and it'sposted a workaroundon its site.Cruise ship cut in half, then stretched 99 feet (time lapse) &gt;&gt; LiveleakNice paint job too.Next steps for Windows 10 &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:we're told that the next milestone in this journey to Windows 10 will be a consumer preview that will presumably offer a clearer view of the touch/tablet side of this product, and hopefully a peek at a combined Windows RT/Windows Phone. But I feel like there's still lots of work to be done on the desktop side. And here's what I'd like to see before Windows 10 is complete.To be clear, none of this should cast any aspersion on the good work I already see in the Windows Technical Preview. I honestly didn't think it was possible to truly reconcile desktop and Modern, but it appears that Microsoft will pull it off. So bravo for that.But the thing is, while the big picture stuff is all there—the Start menu with tiles, the floating Modern mobile app windows and so on—it's the fit and finish stuff that's missing. That is, there are many other things that need to happen before this newly integrated user experience actually works properly for traditional PC users.Here are a few ideas.Post-Sony Vaio aims for Japan market niche &gt;&gt; WSJIntent on showing there is life after Sony, the new owner of the Vaio personal computer brand has unveiled a prototype for a domestic niche market that takes a lesson from a longtime Sony rival – Panasonic.Informally dubbed the "monster tablet," Vaio Corporation's new computer is a cross between a laptop and tablet for photographers, illustrators and other creative professionals. The hybrid device comes with a 12.3in high-resolution screen, an electronic pen and wireless keyboard.If commercialized, the monster tablet would also come with a monster price tag of at least ¥200,000 ($1,825), indicating a strategy to ignore the entry-level market and focus on professionals – an approach that has worked well for Panasonic with a different clientele."By creating a tablet environment that is as powerful as a desktop, we want to free up creators from the desk when at work," said Vaio deputy general manager Yoshifumi Ito.The high end is where the profits are, but the customers are tougher to find.Shattered dreams: the sapphire iPhones that almost were now seem certain not to be &gt;&gt; ForbesMark Rogowsky:Eric Virey, an analyst, told the Wall Street Journal that there could be only one reason [for GT Advanced Technologies, which just filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy] to create such a facility: "For me, there is absolutely no doubt that it was for the smartphone," he said.Matt Margolis of PTT Research told me basically the same thing: "Even if the [Apple] watch sells 30m units it still wouldn't consume 25% of annual capacity of that plant in Arizona." But nevertheless, GT built a facility that could ultimately produce enough sapphire for north of 100m iPhones, yet not a single one uses the second-hardest material on the Mohs scale.With Apple typically silent, the best speculation is that things fell apart at two stages of the process. First, GT couldn't deliver in the expected quantities soon enough. That might have limited sapphire to perhaps only the top-end models of the iPhone 6 much like the way only the Plus offers optical image stabilization on its camera. Second, the slight curved edge of the design meant that the thin sheets of sapphire would require delicate finishing to join with the similarly curved metal back. That stage of the process apparently went poorly. Virey and Margolis both cited trouble with the finishing stage as a likely reason for Apple pulling the plug.The chief executive of GTAT isunder scrutinyafter selling a lot of shares just ahead of Apple's announcement.Will we ever can the spam monster? &gt;&gt; The RegisterIn the first half of 2014, spam rose by 60% compared with the same period a year ago. This was probably due to the continuing pain caused by the Conficker worm and the boom in threats such as Mytob, Upatre and ZeuS, which all use spam as their main infection vector.According to Flora Chang, threat intelligence product manager at Barracuda, today's spamming botnets are not as widespread as the early behemoths. This is partly because the first ones were around for a lot longer so had more time to develop, and partly because of increased vigilance among defenders of the internet."However, the current spammer organisations have learned from the mistakes of the older campaigns," Chang says."While the botnets may not be as prolific as before they are still effective so we have to continue to be on our toes. It's a never-ending escalation of tactics."Amazing to think Conficker is still spreading its ills. And that spam volumes have gone up so much; good filtering is essential, especially now that ransomware is becoming the new way of getting spam to pay.Richard Yu: 'Crazy' man behind Huawei's smartphone success &gt;&gt; WantChinaTimes.comThis year, Huawei clinched the global No. 3 spot for smartphone shipments during the second quarter, according to market researcher IDC, while GFK data showed that the Chinese company controls a larger smartphone share than Samsung in South Africa, Myanmar, Venezuela and Columbia.During the past year, Yu's unit posted revenue of over US$9bn, 18% year-on-year growth, and exceeded its profit target.Meanwhile, Yu continues to announce drastic plans including cutting 80% of Huawei's product lines, pushing the ratio of sales through retailers and e-commerce sites to 80% and reducing sales through telecom operators to 20%, the report said.The first major success of Huawei's smartphone business under Yu came with its P6 model, which sold nearly 3m in China and over 1m overseas in 2013, the magazine noted.The success of the Ascend P6, the fruit of Huawei's previous experience of expanding into the high-end market, quenched all criticism of Yu within the company, the report said.Huawei has big ambitions: watch out for it as smartphone prices drop. (On an unrelated note, the layout of the WantChinaTimes page is very familiar.)Activation Lock check &gt;&gt; AppleWonderfully coy language:"Before you purchase an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch from somebody else, make sure that Find My iPhone Activation Lock is turned off and the device is ready for you to use."In other words: save yourself from buying a nicked iPhone. You have to input the serial number or IMEI - for both of which you need to get into the Settings. However, only the iCloud password will disable the Activation Lock. It's a nice idea, but will it get much use?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Twitter has filed a lawsuit against the US government in which it asks to be allowed to publish information about government surveillance of users, the company announced today.In the suit, filed in the US district court of Northern California, Twitter requests “relief from prohibitions on its speech in violation of the first amendment”.In ablogpost, Ben Lee, Twitter’s vice-president, legal, said: “Our ability to speak has been restricted by laws that prohibit and even criminalise a service provider like us.”Currently, he said, Twitter is restricted by law from disclosing the number of requests it receives for user data through either National Security Letters (NSLs) or Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) court orders – “even if that number is zero”.“It’s our belief that we are entitled under the first amendment to respond to our users’ concerns,” Lee continued, “and to the statements of US government officials by providing information about the scope of US government surveillance – including what types of legal process have not been received. We should be free to do this in a meaningful way, rather than in broad, inexact ranges.Lee said that Twitter had “tried to achieve the level of transparency our users deserve without litigation, but to no avail”.The suit calls for Twitter to be allowed to publish a transparency report which it submitted to the Department of Justice in April, the contents of which the company has not been allowed to publish even in redacted form.“The US government engages in extensive but incomplete speech about the scope of its national security surveillance activities as they pertain to US communications providers,” the lawsuit states, “while at the same time prohibiting service providers such as Twitter from providing their own informed perspective.”Jameel Jaffer, American Civil Liberties Union deputy legal director, said in a statement that Twitter was “doing the right thing”.“If these laws prohibit Twitter from disclosing basic information about government surveillance,” Jaffer said, “then these laws violate the first amendment.”
Confidential patient information is to be housed in a network of regional centres across the country, in a proposal that critics say amounts to an attempt to reintroduce the national database of medical records that was abandoned earlier this year.Harvested from GP and hospital records, medical data covering the entire population – and including information such as mental health conditions, diseases, as well as smoking and drinking habits – would be uploaded to the new “accredited safe havens” (Ash) scheme.In August, the Department of Health said Ash was only intended to provide access to records that have been stripped of personal details.However, patient watchdogs have raised the alarm over fears that the new system replicates all the worst aspects of the “care.data” scheme, which was a plan to digitise and centrally store the entire medical records of England in a single database.Care.data was delayed earlier this year, weeks before it was due to be rolled out nationwide – which would mean medical records uploaded from almost 9,000 GPs surgeries – after privacy concerns over what the patient data might be used for and where it might end up.Privacy campaigners say the plan for the regional centres revives talk of “pseudonymised information” being extracted from medical records. That refers to a process whereby some personal identifiers are removed but not enough to make information completely anonymous.Healthwatch England, set up by the coalition as a consumer champion in health, said that in planning a series of regional data centres “officials have not learnt the lessons of the controversial care.data programme”.Anna Bradley, chair of Healthwatch England, said: “We applaud the secretary of state for taking the time to listen to and address patients’ concerns over care.data. The assurances he put in place gave Healthwatch England more confidence in the way GP records will be used and how the right to object to having our own files shared will be implemented.“But these additional assurances must be extended to all health and social care data sharing initiatives otherwise the Accredited Safe Havens project will end up being seen as ‘Big Brother’s little brother’. The public need to know that if they decide to opt-out of one medical record sharing programme, their wishes will be respected across all such projects.”Healthwatch said that ministers now “risks facing similar backlash unless same additional assurances for care.data applied to all data sharing initiatives”.Yesterday it was announced that 265 GP surgeries would continue trial the care.data scheme. Those who sign up to the pilots will have to send individual letters, emails or texts to all their patients.GPs voted against care.data being rolled out across the country on the grounds that patients had to opt out of the system rather than opting in – and called for confidential patient data to be anonymised before it leaves surgeries. The NHS however has decided patients will still have to opt out rather than opt in to the scheme.Tim Kelsey, NHS England national director for patients and information, said: “Since February we have been listening to the views of the public, GPs and other important stakeholders to hear their concerns about data sharing.”“We have heard, loud and clear, that we need to be clearer about the care.data programme and that we need to provide more support to GPs to communicate the benefits and the risks of data sharing with their patients, including their right to opt out.”
Streaming music service Spotify’s UK business was profitable for the first time in 2013, according to the company’s latest set of financial results.They reveal that Spotify Ltd’s revenues rose 41.8% from £92.6m in 2012 to £131.4m in 2013, helping the company’s UK arm to move from an £11m net loss in 2012 to a £2.6m net profit in 2013.“This growth can be attributed to a 42% year on year growth in UK subscriptions and also to an increase in advertising revenue,” a Spotify spokesperson told The Guardian following the publication of the results through Companies House.“The growth seen by Spotify Ltd mirrors the growth of digital recorded music revenues in the UK in 2013, which saw digital revenues account for 50% of total UK record industry trade revenues for the first time, and a 41% increase in streaming revenues on the previous year.”Spotify’s partnership with Vodafone to bundle subscriptions into its 4G mobile tariffs, as well as a 50% discount for students, were both factors in the company’s subscriptions growth in the UK last year.The financial results break down Spotify Ltd’s revenues by category. Its UK advertising revenues rose just 12.3% from £9.1m in 2012 to £10.2m in 2013, but its subscription revenues rose from £64.8m to £92m in the same period.In 2013, Spotify Ltd’s cost of sales – a category that includes royalties paid to music labels and publishers – were £96.2m, accounting for 73.2% of its revenues. Administrative expenses accounted for another £20.6m in 2013 – another 15.7% of the UK subsidiary’s revenues.Spotify has not yet published financial results from 2013 for the entire company, as opposed to just its UK division. In 2012,Spotify’s global revenues rose 128% to €434.7m, but its net losses increased from €45.4m in 2011 to €58.7m in 2012.Spotify may have turned a profit in the UK in 2013, but having invested heavily in global expansion that year, the parent company may yet report more losses. It’s those figures that will give a clearer indication of how sustainable its business is.The company currently hasmore than 40m active users globally, with more than 10m of them paying for subscriptions at £9.99, the discounted £4.99 rate for students, or as part of a bundle in partnerships like that with Vodafone UK.However, it has become a focal point for some musicians’ criticism of streaming music more generally: particularly the amount of money they earn from individual streams of their songs.Spotify pays out 70% of its income in royalty payments to labels and publishers, who then pay musicians according to the terms of their contracts. In 2013, Spotify said that the average amount it pays to rightsholders for a single stream of a track isbetween $0.006 and $0.0084.To some artists, like Thom Yorke, these amounts are still too small, although his famous“last desperate fart of a dying corpse” attackwas as much about the fact that the three major labels all have stakes in Spotify.Fellow musicianDavid Byrne criticised streaming music more generallyin 2013, admitting that it “looks to be the future of music consumption” but expressing concern at the way labels share streaming income with artists, including the advance payments made by companies like Spotify to secure the rights to their catalogues.Rosanne Cash,Suzanne Vega,Thievery CorporationandAlice in Chainsare among the other artists to have criticised Spotify and streaming in 2014, but other artists have been more positive.Gang of Four’s Dave Allenresponded to Byrne’s articleby suggesting that streaming services “are not to blame for musicians’ problems... It is hard for me to understand why intelligent people like David Byrne and Thom Yorke do not appear to understand that we are in the midst of new markets being formed.”Billy Bragg, meanwhile,suggested that the problem lies with label contractsrather than streaming payouts. “Music fans are increasingly streaming their music and, as artists, we have to adapt ourselves to their behaviour, rather than try to hold the line on a particular mode of listening to music,” wrote Bragg in 2013.More recently,Ed Sheeran praised Spotifyas a way for fans to discover his music and (perhaps) buy tickets to see him live.“This album was streamed 26 million times in the first week on Spotify, and that means 26 million people have heard my album,” he said in September. “That means a tenth of them might consider buying a ticket or going to a festival, and that’s enough for me to tour very comfortably.”Spotify Ltd’s financial results are extremely unlikely to settle these arguments, although they do offer more evidence that as more people pay for subscriptions, these businesses can turn a profit.•Five challenges looming for Spotify and streaming music•Spotify vs musicians: 10 things to read to understand the debate•Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube and Spotify?
Nordic Games; PC (version tested)/PS4; £15; Pegi rating: 16+The Vanishing of Ethan Carter begins with a title card saying, “This game is a narrative experience that will not hold your hand”. It isn’t kidding. You enter the game’s world with a journey along train tracks through a tunnel, where the protagonist Paul Prospero – a detective with supernatural abilities – talks about a letter he has received from Ethan, who has apparently seen things no child should. With that, you are left in a forest to begin your journey.The game world is enormously and beautifully open. The environment is gorgeous, redolent of an American mountain state. Detailed landscapes stretch as far as the eye can see, with forests on rocky cliffs dropping away to open water, covered in a blanket of mist and bathed in an eerie perpetual sunset. I had to turn the graphics levels down to avoid toasting my computer, but the view remained breathtaking and the detail – on leaves, rocks and even the peeling paintwork of an old train – still looked crisp. Developer, The Astronauts, has created an exquisite environment that works across a wide range of machine specifications.The soundtrack creates a spell-binding environment, too, with a beautiful, yet sinister score. Subtle shifts in the music reflect your passage across the landscape, with phrases reminiscent of a music box from a horror film building the tension and making the hairs on the back of your neck stand up. With no birdsong or noises other than your footsteps, coupled with the fact that this is a first-person game – without the floating hands or gun that often accompany this perspective – you feel entirely isolated. This is a place, you imagine, where something has gone very wrong.Supernatural sightAs a supernatural detective, Paul uses the things he’s discovered to assemble clues and see a psychic vision of what has happened. Key items have “inspect” hovering above them, at which point Paul’s thoughts will float as text across the screen. If you’re searching for an item, turning around until the letters merge into one solid word reveals the direction the item is in and shows you a psychic vision of its location – a mechanic that took a little time to uncover.When you build up clues, certain objects show you “memories” of what has taken place overlayed in an eerie blue tone over the “real” world, beginning as a tiny fragment and building as you collect clues to fully transport you to the scene. This then shows you snapshots of characters frozen in time which you must arrange in the correct order for a cut scene revealing more of the story. It’s an unusual and haunting way of leading you through the narrative.The game’s lack of handholding and huge environment meant I found it very easy to crash around without the foggiest idea where I was supposed to be going or what I was looking for. I restarted a couple of times after realising I had missed a key part of one of the puzzles that meant I had failed to create the memory scene. However, the open world format means the game won’t penalise you for missing parts and on my first attempt I arrived in the final area without having actually finished any of the puzzles. This means it’s quite a short game but the beauty is working through the story and piecing together what happened in this desolate landscape.The save points occur infrequently at what seem like quite arbitrary moments, so I had to keep pushing on to try to find the next section of a puzzle to get the game to save. Once it had saved, it did seem to have a quirk in that it remembered where I was but didn’t seem to think I had assembled various parts of the puzzle, so I had to trot round and do them again.Overall, this is an ethereal and haunting work that left me constantly on edge. Its beauty lies in its hands-off approach, confronting you with a mystery and leaving you to discover fragments of clues which build together to reveal the story. It’s a mystery game, rather than horror – but when a jump scare did happen, it certainly lived up to that phrase.If you want to be free to make your own way through an intriguing narrative in gorgeous surroundings, this subtle, melancholy game is for you.
This is horrible! The novelistDavid Nichollssays that while working onhis latest book Ushe used a piece of software calledWrite or Die, which starts to delete what you are writing if you pause for too long. “I was convinced that there was a novel in me and I had to just spew it out on to the page,” Nicholls told an audience at the Cheltenham Literary festival. “I produced huge piles of paper and I saw it was all rubbish. It was as if I was writing with a gun to my head.”I agree. I can say so because I have been asked to write this article both about Write or Die, and on it and, under the circumstances, the only way I could do justice to the stress would be with a list of swearwords. Having readied that quote from Nicholls, I set a target of 400 words in one hour and activated the evil setting. This seemed the fun thing to do, but in fact it means that if I stop typing even for just a couple of seconds, the screen goes pink, then puce, then red, then crimson … then the last word on the document disappears, then the next, then the next. There is a pause button I can press once, I have just discovered by pressing it.I have tried adding and deleting spaces, like dribbling a basketball when I want to stand still. I have put some unimportant notes at the end as a kind of buffer. It is interesting to see how much pausing I do, but either way I can’t concentrate. “I want to write and finish a book because I want to be published and make a living as a writer,” says the inventor of Write or Die, Jeff Printy (another quote I readied). In short, he loves writing so much that he wants to do it for the rest of his life – but not quite enough to do it for a couple of hours continuously.David Nicholls: he used Write or Die to write an early version of what became his Booker-nominated novel Us.Photograph: Sean Smith for the GuardianActually, I think the second half of that is healthy. I havebeen publishedand I do make a living as a writer, just about, but I know that this is only because I am weird enough to enjoy the years of solitary pondering and nitpicking that writing a novel actually involves – the very things that Write or Die won’t let me do.In the end, Nicholls had to bin the 35,000 words he had written this way, but they weren’t wasted. In just a few months, he rewrote the same idea in the first person to produce a novel that waslonglisted for the Booker prize. For him, perhaps, this terrible torture was itself a kind of pondering time. And look! I have just passed 400 words. Finally, it’s safe to go back and do some editing.
It is two years since Alexander Bard founded a new religion called Syntheism in which he claimed that the “the internet is God”.Activist, musician and now religious leader – and playing “the nasty judge” on Swedish Pop Idol - Bard now has a new way to spread the word with the publication of his latest book, Syntheism - Creating God in The Internet Age, out this week.“In Christianity, one of the last things Jesus said to his disciples was ‘I will always be with you’, meaning that the Holy Ghost is the manifestation of God when the believers are together,” says Bard. “The internet is 7 billion people connected together in real time, and if that isn’t the holy spirit then I don’t know what it is.”In Bard’s analysis of history, where feudalism had Christianity to keep people on the land and capitalism had individualism to keep people consuming, so the internet age is going to have Syntheism to keep people online.“What we have been lacking up to now is the storytelling. Someone has to do the fucking Immanuel Kant for the new age. So Syntheism is preparing the way for a new elite and I am one of its storytellers. For my friend Julian Assange what Syntheism does is to create a bigger story for WikiLeaks. It is the popular movement that could support something like WikiLeaks eventually.”If Saint Paul had his vision on the road to Damascus, Bard had his “while spending the night lying next to a beautiful naked actress atBurning Manduring which I realised that rather than carry on writing books about the problems the internet was causing I should write about Syntheism.”Burning Man, the annual week-long festival in Nevada’s Black Rock Desert, embodies the same anarchistic values of the opposition to hierarchical authority and belief in voluntary self-government that are central to the ethos of the internet, says Bard. He describes it as “an experimental temporary utopia that is the world’s first physical manifestation of the internet itself”.Burning Man, and spin offs includingBurning Nestin the UK, show that digital natives under 25 now see “the online world as the real world and the real world as a reflection of the online world,” says Bard.The same is true, he believes, of WikiLeaks and other radical groups such as the Pirate Party movement that fights for digital freedom, which has now spread to 70 countries across the world, the Internet Party in New Zealand, campaigning for an end to mass surveillance, and those campaigning for net neutrality in the US.“Religion is first practised then formulated. Saint Paul wrote his letters after Christianity was being practised across the Roman Empire. I firmly believe that Syntheism is already being practised and we are just formulating it.”Bard was born in Sweden in 1961 and although he studied Economics and Philosophy at university, he first had success as a pop star in various bands, including Army of Lovers and more recently Gravitonas, known as the world’s first Spotify band. He founded Stockholm Records and is the nasty judge on Sweden’s version of Pop Idol. Bard has also campaigned on such issues as the liberalisation of sex and drugs laws in Sweden.Since 2000 Bard has written three books about the internet revolution in collaboration with the media theorist Jan Söderqvist that together form The Futurica Trilogy.Bard helped to found Syntheism in 2012. It is based on the idea that if man creates God, then it’s about time we created a religion relevant to the 21st century. “Syntheism” comes from Greeksyntheos, meaning humanity creates God – as opposed to the “God creates humanity” basis of the traditional monotheistic religions. It is inspired by the writings of the French surrealist philosopher Georges Bataille in the 1950s and now has “thousands of followers of its online forums”.What WikiLeaks and the Pirate movement have understood and what Syntheism is all about is, he believes, that the internet is actually going to overturn our sense of ourselves as individuals. It teaches us, rather, that our value is as social nodes in the networks created online. Bard dismisses those who see the internet as creating a culture of narcissism as “completely missing the point”.“At the moment it is a hybrid of old individualistic models and the new ones where people really get involved with each other and do something together with them. This is called interactivity and is a key part of a participatory culture.“These forces are so powerful that institutions like the Guardian will be swept aside if they can’t embrace this new interactivist culture, just like what happened to the Catholic Church after the invention of the printing press.“After all, once you’ve had a smartphone in your hand you are never going to get a phone to just answer the phone with. There is no way back from interactivity.”But Bard warns about the dark side of Syntheism. Much like the wars of religion that followed the invention of the printing press and then the Reformation, Bard says the major conflicts of the 21st century are going to be between the old and new elites.“The state and the big corporations will want to control the web – the new netocracy will want it to be free and open,” he says, drifting further from lucidity. He claims to believe that controversy over net neutrality and mass surveillance will lead to physical conflicts.“It will be a physical conflict and it is the Netocrats online who will start the revolution, not the workers in the factory. We don’t know who will win but we hope it is the young people, unless they throw too many atomic bombs.”•Alexander Bard is speaking at theFrankfurt Book Fairon 10 October•Charlie Brooker: This awesome dissection of internet hyperbole will make you cry and change your life
YouTube has already emerged as an alternative to broadcast television for children, who are watching Minecraft tutorials, music videos and cartoons online in their tens of millions.Now YouTube appears ready to take a bigger role in funding and curating children’s shows on its service,recruiting a dedicated head of family entertainment and learningto work within its YouTube Originals division.The recruitment ad,first spotted by Recode, is seeking someone to “lead YouTube Original’s efforts in supporting the next great storytellers in filmed entertainment, from action to romance to horror, sci-fi and beyond”.“For years we’ve seen a lot of traction across both YouTube EDU and family entertainment. This role will help us further build out these offerings,” a spokesperson told Recode, when questioned about the role.The job posting follows reports earlier in the year thatYouTube was mulling creating a “family-friendly” version of its service, as well as claims ofwider plans by Googleto let parents to create accounts for their children and control how they use its services.Source: Ofcom – research carried out in April-June 2013.Children are watching YouTube videos in their droves: more than 2.2m in the UK alone in 2013, watching an average of just over four hours a month, according to telecoms regulator Ofcom’sChildren and Parents: Media Use and Attitudes report.Published in October 2013, it found that 11% of 3-4 year-olds and 9% of 5-7 year-olds were watching videos on sites like YouTube at least once a week, with those percentages rising to 29% for 8-11 year-olds and 56% for 12-15 year-olds.A separate question about children watching music videos online – the majority of which will be on YouTube – found that 5% of 5-7 year-olds, 14% of 8-11 year-olds and 36% of 12-15 year-olds were doing this at least once a week.Some of YouTube’s most popular channels are already aimed at children. In August 2014, the service’s second biggest channel wasDisneyCollector, a Brazilian channel devoted to unboxing new toys. Its videos were watched 324.4m times that month alone, according todata compiled by analytics firm OpenSlate.YouTube’s fourth biggest channel that month wasStampy, a child-friendly Minecraft channel created by British YouTuber Joseph Garrett, whose videos were watched 217.9m times that month. Garrett, who is signed to MCN Maker Studios, ispreparing to launch a second channel focused on education.Stampy also guest-stars in Maker’s new YouTube show for children,Meet Me at the Reck, which launched this week. Hosted by musician Andrew WK, it is beingpitched to parents as “Sesame Street for the digital generation”and is housed on the company’sCartooniumchannel for children.YouTube is far from the only digital platform looking to commission and curate children’s entertainment, though. Netflix and Amazon have both been investing in original shows for their services.In 2013,Netflix commissioned more than 300 hoursof original shows from Hollywood studio DreamWorks Animation, including Turbo F.A.S.T., Puss in Boots and King Julien. This month,Netflix also struck a dealfor a new animated film and 12-episode series based on King Kong, which will debut in 2016.Amazon, meanwhile,launched its first three original children’s seriesearlier this year, with Tumble Leaf, Creative Galaxy and Annedroids made available to stream on a range of the company’s devices, having been piloted on its Amazon Prime service to test feedback from parents.“Kids today are not looking up to the Justin Biebers and Miley Cyruses, they might have different role models, so how can we create at the core smart characters that kids will want to emulate?” said Amazon’s head of kids programming Tanya Sorensenat the MIPTV television industry showin April.Angry Birds maker Rovio is also getting into this area, building its ToonsTV service into every Angry Birds game. Its videos – which include shows like Transformers and Fraggle Rock as well as Angry Birds cartoons –have been watched more than 3bn timessince its launch in March 2013.Meanwhile, children’s broadcasters from the BBC and Disney to Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon are finding new digital ways to deliver their shows to children alongside their traditional channels, while startups likeHopsterandToon Goggleshave launched mobile apps to deliver shows.Source: Dubit, 2014.Photograph: PREven so, it’s YouTube that presents the biggest competition to all of these companies. “YouTube is the most powerful kids property in the world right now,” said Dylan Collins, chief executive of children’s marketing and research network SuperAwesome, in aspeech at the Children’s Media Conferenceearlier this year.SuperAwesome’s survey of 1,000 British 8-10 year-olds in 2013 found that YouTube was the most-used mobile app for this age group. Meanwhile, its survey of 8-16 year-olds found 70% saying that they used YouTube, while 42% of them agreed with the suggestion that “YouTube is the future of TV”.A more recent survey in 2014 found that 20% of British 9-12 year-olds subscribe to 50 or more YouTube channels, while 33% of 8-14 year-olds have uploaded a video to YouTube themselves.Collins compared YouTube’s impact on the traditional children’s TV world to Facebook’s on the games industry, with the emergence of social gaming and companies like FarmVille-maker Zynga.“We’re seeing the same thing with TV content and YouTube: the internet guys are going in and messing up the furniture,” he said.Youth research companies Dubit and Sherbertsurveyed more than 5,000 parents and childrenin the UK and US earlier this year, and suggested that the last Ofcom stats may already be out of date when it comes to measuring the amount of children watching videos online in those countries.Their study claimed that 29% of 2-5 year-olds and 25% of 6-7 year-olds are watching videos online every day, rising to 33% for 8-10 year-olds and 45% for 11-14 year-olds.That still pales in comparison to traditional television – 78%, 85%, 89% and 87% respectively for those age groups – but with YouTube, Netflix, Amazon and others all increasing their efforts to fund and promote children’s shows online, the first set of figures is only likely to rise in the coming months and years.“Kids still love channels but YouTube gives them the opportunity for forge their own path and discover content in a way that other services don’t allow,” said Peter Robinson, Dubit’s global head of research.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
Squeaky-voiced app characters Talking Angela and Talking Tom Cat are set to become film stars, after developer Outfit7 struck a deal to turn its Talking Friends franchise into a movie.The news came as the series of apps, which also includes Talking Ginger, Talking Ben and Talking Gina, reached the milestone of 2bn downloads since the first one was released in June 2010.Outfit7 is already working on an animated TV show based on Talking Friends, with the characters already having proved popular on YouTube.There, the officialTalking Tom and Friends channelhas nearly 940,000 subscribers and 305m video views so far, while a10-episode web series made with Disneyhas notched up more than 329m views.A separate music video produced with Disney,You Get Me, has been watched nearly 175m times, whileTalking TomandTalking Gingerhave their own channels with more than 195m and 13m views respectively.The 2bn app downloads milestone means Talking Friends is catching up with Angry Birds, which hit the same total late in 2013. They’re the two biggest new children’s brands to emerge from the apps industry, although both claim an all-ages audience.Talking Friends reached100m downloads by March 2011, then360m a year later, according to figures released by Outfit7 at the time. The series reached1bn downloads in June 2013, when the apps had 170m active monthly users.By February 2014,Talking Friends’ downloads total was 1.5bn, while its active users had grown to 230m. The latter stat has not been updated alongside this week’s milestone, however.“Two billion is an incredible triumph. We’re beyond proud that our Talking Tom and Friends cast of characters has brought so much joy, laughter and smiles to people across the globe,” said Outfit7’s chief executive Samo Login.He will executive produce the Talking Friends film, which is being produced by Mythology Entertainment, whose co-founders have worked on movies including Black Swan, Zodiac, Avatar and The Amazing Spider-Man.The movie and new milestone is positive news for Outfit7, after a troubling period early in 2014 when an internet hoax claimingits Talking Angela app was the front for a paedophile ringwent viral on Facebook.“Do not download the app Talking Angela. It is a hacker that is sitting behind a webcam, able to see you but you can’t see him. ‘Angela’ asks you very personal and perverted questions,” claimed one version of the hoax, which reached millions of parents through the social network.“Obviously, it’s a hoax. I don’t know how it got started or how it got traction. These things just happen,”Login told The Guardianat the height of the scare in February. “We have millions of users every day using this app. Can you imagine, we’d need an army of paedophiles. It’s ridiculous.”•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
A buffet of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEU targets Amazon's Luxembourg tax deal &gt;&gt; FT.comAlex Barker and Vanessa Houlder:Brussels is confronting Luxembourg over an unorthodox Amazon tax deal, alleging it allowed the online retail giant to reap potentially illegal state subsidies for its European operations for almost a decade.The European Commission is poised to launch a formal in-depth probe into its serious concerns over improper state aid, dragging Amazon into a multi-pronged clampdown on sweetheart tax deals that has already ensnared Apple in Ireland and Starbucks in the Netherlands.The two Luxembourg cases over Amazon and Fiat are particularly sensitive because Jean-Claude Juncker, the incoming Commission president, was the Grand Duchy's longtime premier at the time of the deals. All the countries and companies subject to the state aid probes reject any improper arrangements or wrongdoing. The Commission declined to comment.Is Google next?I tried the new Oculus Rift, and it blew me away all over again &gt;&gt; GizmodoSean Hollister:Suddenly, I was high atop a skyscraper, kneeling over the edge of the world. Below and all around me was a Gotham City worthy of any Batman, dark and gritty and clearly filled with evil waiting to be stopped. In the heat of the moment, though, I was far more concerned with how close I was to plummeting to my doom. By sheer instinct, I jerked back from the precipice, carefully turned around, and grabbed a nearby metal railing to help me to my feet. ONLY THERE WAS NO METAL RAILING BECAUSE I WAS IN VIRTUAL REALITY and my hand fell through. Holy crap. Before me, a gleaming Oculus tower seemed to laugh at my mistake. Behind me, a billboard with Oculus founder Palmer Luckey's smiling visage reminded me who was boss. The owners of this world had fooled me, and as I looked up at a giant blimp blotting out part of the sky, I vowed not to get fooled again.Really does sound a lot of fun.Tech world vexed by slow progress on batteries &gt;&gt; WSJChristopher Mims:Perhaps the best example of creativity in the face of limited energy storage is the rise of personal drones. These are possible only because of faster microprocessors and tiny versions of the brushless motors also used by Dyson. Even so, at present Parrot's AR 2.0 quadcopter drone, one of the best on the market, can stay aloft for only 18 minutes per charge of its battery.Drones are a special case of the limitations of current energy storage technology because, even more than in cars and other gadgets, there is a direct penalty for adding more batteries—the drones becomes heavier.That's one reason we should all be skeptical of companies promising drone delivery services. For drones to become viable for dropping off packages, as prototyped by Amazon and Google, their flight time will have to improve substantially. Yet there are no breakthroughs in commercial-scale battery tech on the horizon. One alternative is to power those drones with gasoline, but it's hard to imagine people will put up with skies darkened by the auditory equivalent of flying weed whackers.Which means we're not going to eliminate the UPS man until battery power crosses a threshold that might be far in the future. It might not even happen until a time when we're not even using batteries any longer, but rather some kind of solid-state energy storage device or an advanced hydrogen fuel cell.November 2013: GT Advanced Technologies announces results for third quarter fiscal year 2013; signs multi-year sapphire materials agreement with Apple &gt;&gt; GTATIn happier times:The company also announced that it has entered into a multi-year supply agreement with Apple Inc. to provide sapphire material. GT will own and operate ASF® furnaces and related equipment to produce the material at an Apple facility in Arizona where GT expects to employ over 700 people. Apple will provide GT with a prepayment of approximately $578m. GT will reimburse Apple for the prepayment over five years, starting in 2015.Although the agreement does not guarantee volumes, it does require GT to maintain a minimum level of capacity. GT will be subject to certain exclusivity terms during the duration of the agreement. GT expects this arrangement to be cash positive and accretive to earnings starting in 2014. Gross margins from this new materials business are expected to be substantially lower than GT's historical equipment margins. However, the company believes the strategic nature of this agreement and the benefits associated with building a recurring revenue stream are important to its continued diversification.HP failed to keep up with market, CIOs say - The CIO Report &gt;&gt; WSJ(The CIO is the chief information officer of a company):An IT professional with a financial services company, who declined to be identified, agreed that the breakup of H-P came as no surprise. Speaking during an informal interview at the Gartner conference, he described his firm as a large H-P shop. At a round table discussion several years ago, company IT managers were invited to speculate about which vendors might not survive another three to five years, and he said that H-P's name came up a lot. H-P, he said, was slow to react to market forces, including the shift to the cloud…One IT executive said the breakup of H-P followed the pattern established by its rival, IBM, which has sold its server as well as its PC units to rival Lenovo Group Ltd. to focus on business services. The sale of the server business closed just a few days ago. "It is IBM dejavu. It reinforces our view that hardware is a commodity and will not be a differentiator unless tightly coupled with the software," Manish Kapoor, senior vice president of information systems at NuStar Energy L.P., said in an email.Microsoft said to be planning Surface 3 and Surface mini launch in coming weeks &gt;&gt; NeowinEarlier this summer, our own sources indicated that Microsoft was working on a Surface 3 tablet with plans to launch it this month, and information reported via separate sources in July appeared to confirm this. The Surface 3 is expected to be slimmer and lighter than the model it replaces, featuring the new multi-stage kickstand from its bigger brother, and also including support for the Surface Pen for the first time.We understand that the Surface 3 is still being readied for launch, and TK's sources pointing to the same information suggests that nothing has changed on that front. An October announcement would give Microsoft enough time to roll out the device in key markets ahead of the all-important holiday sales season.Apple sapphire glass contractor files for bankruptcy protection &gt;&gt; Re/codeGT Advanced Technologies, a New Hampshire company that struck a lucrative deal last year to supply sapphire screens to Apple, has filed for bankruptcy.The company filed Monday to reorganize its finances under Chapter 11  protection of the US bankruptcy court. It said it had about $85 million in cash as of the end of September, but needed to raise money to meet payroll and other obligations of its daily operations.In court documents, it estimated its assets and liabilities exceed $1bn.Just last year, Apple reached a multi-year agreement with GT in which it committed to make advance payments of approximately $578m to the supplier.  Many believed Apple was considering sapphire as a replacement for Corning's Gorilla Glass in its next-generation iPhone 6, but that didn't happen (though the material is to be used in the forthcoming Apple Watch).Wandsworth - counterfeit iPhone charger exploded &gt;&gt; London Fire BrigadeA woman was taken to hospital after her iFake charger exploded while she was on the phone last night.The Brigade is warning people about the dangers of counterfeit Apple iPhone chargers and say people who use these dodgy devices could be risking electrocution, burns or even a serious house fire.Firefighters were called to the house on Neville Gill Close in Wandsworth at one minute past midnight. A woman was charging her phone and using it at the time when the explosion happened. Thankfully there was no fire but the woman was taken to hospital by London Ambulance Service crews.The charger had been bought for £7 off of a local market stall.Fairly sure it wasn't branded "iFake". Readers of our links toKen Shirriff's blogwill know why this happened. (Shirriff paid £2.79 for his fake, so clearly the market stall made a hefty profit.)And the page has an entertaining "real or fake?" quiz. See how you get on. (Us: 70%.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
The Best Android Apps roundup is back, Back, BACK after a few weeks off due to travel, and the difficulties of finding anyone else foolish enough to dig through RSS feeds, press releases and information from developers on new Android apps.So, this is a catchup week: the 20 best (in this writer’s subjective view, obviously) new Android apps from the last three weeks. It’s a strong selection, particularly for games, which has been a real bright spot for Android this year already.As ever, the prices provided in brackets are for the initial download only: when an app uses in-app purchases, this will be listed as (Free + IAP). Something to look for: a new section of each app’s Google Play store listing, which explains the full range of IAP (for example, “£1.23-£8.01 per item” for Ultralingua Dictionaries from this week’s roundup).More interested in iOS apps? They’re covered in a separate weeklyBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundup, with the latest instalment due to be published later today.APPSWhoSampled (Free)WhoSampled is a glorious rabbit-hole of sampling culture to disappear down, now on Android as it is on the web and iOS. The app helps you explore the samples used in more than 270,000 songs, tracing them back to the original tracks, and then onwards to other music that used the same samples.Read last month’s interviewfor more details on how it all works.Camera51 (Free)Need some help with your smartphone snapping? Camera51 is a new mobile photography app that claims to analyse the scene you’re shooting, and help you compose the best frame for the picture. You can tap on objects to make them the focus for its trickery. And yes, it does work: the results are very impressive.Treehouse (Free)Treehouse is one of the services aiming to help people learn programming skills through online education. Well, mobile education too, now. This app provides access to more than 1,000 videos from the Treehouse service, from HTML and CSS to Ruby on Rails, PHP and Python, with bitesize quizzes and challenges to test what you’ve learned along the way.Ultralingua Dictionaries (Free + IAP)Don’t need a dictionary any more now you’ve got a smartphone? Damn you autocorrect! But actually, there are already tens of thousands of people out there who’ve been tempted to download Ultralingua’s Android app: a collection of more than 35 other dictionaries in digital form, with in-app purchases used to buy different languages including French, Spanish, German and Italian.Glympse Keyboard (Free)The main Glympse app is all about social location: sharing your current location with friends and family. Glympse Keyboard takes that idea and embeds it in... a keyboard. Tapping the relevant button generates a link that you can paste into another app (WhatsApp and Gmail are two suggested by Glympse) when letting someone know where you are.Noyze Volume Panel (Free + IAP)Most Android owners won’t need this tweak, but for those that do – broken or jammed volume buttons being the examples suggested by the developer – it could be crucial. Noyze controls your device’s volume, with plenty of options to customise the way it works depending on what you’re doing with the device.Line SnapMovie (Free)Line is a hugely popular mobile social network in its homeland of Japan and other Asian countries, but it’s trying to grow in the west too. SnapMovie might help: it’s a polished app for shooting, editing and sharing 30-second videos, with the ability to share them beyond Line itself to Facebook and Instagram.Digiduck’s Big Decision (Free)This is a very good idea: a storybook app designed to help parents and children talk about internet safety. It’s aimed at 3-7 year-olds, with voice narration coming from musician Sophie Ellis-Bextor and her mum, TV presenter Janet Ellis. The idea: a fun story, but one that sparks further conversation opportunities about safe surfing.Findery (Free)Findery is a startup run by Caterina Fake, previously the co-founder of Flickr. Photo-sharing is still a part of this, but there’s a wider aim: helping people find out about “the places you’ve always wanted to visit and the places you will soon discover” through the pics, stories and tips of other users. It’s early days though: getting lots of people posting is Findery’s key challenge.All Woman (Free + IAP)She may not be a lady, but soul singer Lisa Stansfield’s new app is All Woman. Released by online karaoke specialist PureSolo, it provides 17 master backing tracks from Lisa’s back catalogue plus on-screen lyrics, for fans to sing over and share as audio or video covers. A fun idea, although obviously mainly for fans.FIFA 15 for Android.Photograph: PRGAMESFIFA 15 Ultimate Team (Free + IAP)As a young twentysomething, I was world-beating at football games. As a 37 year-old father, I’ve degenerated to the point where I can only win in FIFA on ‘numpty’ level. Such is life. Still, this year’s mobile instalment is looking very good, focusing on the Ultimate Team mode (hence the in-app purchases, which go up to £69.99), with a new Quick Simulation mode if your time is at a premium.The Nightmare Cooperative (£2.49)On iOS, roguelike-with-a-twist The Nightmare Cooperative was brilliant fun. On Android, it looks just as good, as you explore a series of dungeons with a team of characters who all move together, using their individual skills as they go. That may sound strange, but it’s accessible, marvellous fun to play.Star Wars: Commander (Free + IAP)Insert your own ‘Clash of Clones’ joke here: this Star Wars game looks a lot like Clash of Clans with extra Wookies and lightsabers, although you could argue that Star Wars and real-time strategy as a gaming genre goes further back. Still, it’s a very polished take on the genre in its free-to-play mobile form, with plenty of familiar characters popping in and out as you play.Read this interviewfor more details on the game.Anomaly Defenders (£2.89)You could easily write a 20 Best Android Tower Defence Games roundup, and even the 20th would be excellent. Android owners are spoilt for choice with this genre, but Anomaly Defenders is a strong contender for your time and money nonetheless, finishing off the Anomaly series with some very neat twists on the tower-building format.Mage Gauntlet (£1.11 + IAP)I happily wasted a whole heap of time on the iOS version of Mage Gauntlet when it came out, but have rediscovered the fun on my Android phone in recent days too. It’s an action-RPG with plenty of retro nods, and some very well-designed controls for the touchscreen. There’s lots of tactical scope as you progress, but it never gets too intimidating for newcomers to the genre.Phantom Rift (£1.84 + IAP)This appears to be the week for spells and wizards on Android, with Phantom Rift a worthy companion / alternative for Mage Gauntlet. It’s another sprawling action-RPG, as you set off on an adventure as a wizard, collecting spells and equipment and battling through dungeons.Unmechanical (£1.99)As a £1.99 action game with no in-app purchases, Unmechanical is the kind of game that could sink without a trace in the modern app stores. That would be a real shame, because this is a carefully-crafted treat: part adventure and part puzzle collection starring a strange helicopter... thing. Full of character.Hellraid: The Escape (£1.99)More sorcery here, in a game that sets out its stall on the Google Play store with its promise of “no in-app purchases or pay-to-win elements”. It’s a fantasy-themed adventure with demons, puzzles and a magical prison to escape, with impressive visuals to admire along the way.Alien Creeps TD (Free + IAP)Another tower defence game, this time from Outplay Entertainment. The theme here is more Rambo-meets-Robots than fantasy, but the gameplay mix of tower-building, upgrading and waves of enemies trying to get past them will be familiar to fans of the genre.Goat Simulator (£2.99)Finally: goats. Goat Simulator is more than a meme: it’s a quirky, addictive game in its own right. But yes, the meme looms large: the sheer silliness of running around butting scenery as a goat should bring a smile to your face. The developers are making its bugs a selling point, too: “We’re only eliminating the crash-bugs, everything else is hilarious and we’re keeping it...”That’s my choice, but what Android apps and games have you been using recently? Make your recommendations – or give your views on the picks above – in the comments section.•40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)
TheHolodeckfrom Star Trek has seemed like a pipe dream for decades, but Microsoft’s latest researchRoomAliveproject has come tantalisingly close.The system uses a series of projectors and Microsoft Kinect camera sensors to map out a living room and the people in it, projecting an augmented reality onto every surface, tables, walls, seats and cushions included.“RoomAlive enables any space to be transformed into an augmented, interactive display,” said Hrvoje Benko, who was part of the 10-person RoomAlive research project at Microsoftin a blog post.RoomAlive proof-of-concept demo.The system uses projection mapping – where displays are projected on to real-world objects to simulate environments or augment reality – to create a game space the size of a whole room. The Kinect cameras track the player’s movements allowing them to directly interact with the virtual objects, creatures and environment.Objects appear to be 3D to the player as the cameras track the player’s head and project the objects with the correct perspective, using a similar technique toAmazon’s Fire Phoneand its “Dynamic Perspective” system.‘Users can touch, shoot, stomp, dodge, and steer’“Our system enables new interactive projection mapping experiences that dynamically adapts content to any room,” Benko explained. “Users can touch, shoot, stomp, dodge, and steer projected content that seamlessly coexists with their existing physical environment.”The new RoomAlive system is based on a previous project from Microsoft Research calledIllumiroom, which used projector to expand gaming content from a TV into the surrounding room. RoomAlive goes one stage further allowing full interaction with the elements projected into the room.Projection mapping is not a new technique; theme parks and immersive theatres have been using the technology for a while, but they were only made possible by bespoke room, furniture and projector design.“Now, with enough computing power, depth cameras, and projectors, it’s possible to create these immersive environments within an ordinary living space,” said Benko. “Augmented reality fundamentally changes the nature of communication, with rich interactions not just for entertainment, but also for work and collaboration.”RoomAlive is still a proof-of-concept and will not be available as a consumer project any time soon, but demonstration video is certainly impressive, featuring several games, environments and interactions, allowing players to control elements with their bodies, a gun and a joypad.It’s not quite holographic, but RoomAlive at least has the same idea as the iconic Holodeck.•Alien: Isolation review – Giger’s creature gets the game it deserves
YouTube’s biggest star remains PewDiePie, with his 30m subscribers and449m video views in August 2014alone. He’s signed to YouTube’s biggest multi-channel network (MCN) Maker Studios too. But for how long?In arare interview with Swedish magazine Icon, PewDiePie – aka Felix Kjellberg – hints at plans to go it alone with his own MCN, to which he may sign other likeminded YouTubers.Maker Studios was recently acquired by Disney in a deal that could be worth up to $950m, but the claim in Icon’s article that its most popular star’s contract elapses in December is likely to worry both companies.“The fact that Disney bought Maker Studios doesn’t really change anything for me. If I ask for help, they reply, but that’s all the contact we have. We’ll see what happens,” said Kjellberg, before being asked about past comments about starting a network with his friends.“Yes, but I’d rather not talk too much about it. I’m in touch with a couple of people who I think would be so right for this. I’m eager to get it all up and running. So far, all the networks have been managed in such an incredibly poor way, it’s embarrassing really. I’d like to help other YouTubers.”Kjellberg has jumped ship before: before Maker, he was signed to rival MCN Machinima, before hiring a lawyer to free him from his contract. The Icon interview makes clear his feelings that he was neglected by that company, even as he became YouTube’s biggest channel.Disney will surely work hard to change PewDiePie’s mind about striking out on his own, although another anecdote from the interview suggests his interactions with the company haven’t been entirely positive so far.“Disney recently sent over a bunch of people dressed as Stormtroopers to make a video together with me, for charity. First of all, they got upset when they found out that there was no specific room for them to change clothes. And then, they didn’t agree to do basically anything in the video because it was not OK with ‘The Star Wars universe’. It all turned into chaos and it took a very long time. Finally, we ended up with something that they were going to edit but it was so bad I had to do it over and edit it myself.”Kjellberg’s clout has increased rapidly both within YouTube and outside it. In the former case, he has spoken out publicly about YouTube’s commenting system, including vowing topermanently disable comments on his videosfrom September this year.“Comments are my main way to communicate with you bros,” he said. “But I go to the comments and it’s mainly spam, it’s people self-advertising, it’s people trying to provoke. I don’t care about that, I want to see what you bros say, but it gets blocked out,” he said at the time, in a video that’s since been watched more than 9m times.Kjellberg has also tapped his large YouTube audience for charity, raising more than $1m for Charity: Water, Save the Children and St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital through online campaigns.•Views for top 100 YouTube channels up 80% in a year•YouTube MCNs stake claim to the future of TV•From YouTube to Vice: 10 trends changing our TV viewing
After a short break, the weekly Best iPhone and iPad Apps roundup is back. This is a catchup week, with a selection from new releases in the last three weeks.And yes, this is usually a Top 20, but the period covered includes the launch of Apple’s iOS 8 software, including a flurry of keyboard-replacement apps. To save them bumping too many other apps out, I’ve added a one-time-only extra section to the roundup.As ever, the prices provided in brackets are for the initial download only: when an app uses in-app purchases, this will be listed as (Free + IAP).More interested in Android apps? They’re covered in a separate weeklyBest Android Apps roundup. But if it’s iOS you’re after, read on for this week’s selection.KEYBOARD APPSSwiftKey Keyboard (Free)The most popular keyboard-replacement app on Android made the leap to iOS in time for the launch of iOS 8, with its emphasis on the way it learns your writing style – with Facebook, Twitter and Gmail logins able to give it a head start – to make its predictions even smarter. It also uses the swipe-on-letters technique pioneered by...iPhone / iPadSwype - Keyboard (£0.69)...Swype, which also made its iOS debut alongside Apple’s new software. Tracing your thumb over the keys rather than tapping on them works very well – just as it did on Android – with Swype also promising to learn from what you write to hone its predictions. A choice of themes should suit most touchscreen typists.iPhone / iPadFleksy Keyboard (£0.69 + IAP)Fleksy has been available for iOS for a while now as a standalone app, but now it’s progressed to a full keyboard replacement. It’s fast with neat gestures for punctuation, has a choice of colours and sizes, and offers more than 800 oh-so-2014 emoji alongside standard characters.iPhone / iPadA quick note on all the keyboard apps, which seem to be suffering the odd teething problem with iOS 8: from text-box and browser URL bar issues to other niggles. Work to be done, in other words.These apps are very much a case of personal taste, so please do post your feedback on the ones you’ve tested, and how you’ve found them, to help other readers reach a decision based on their own needs.APPSSeasonal Cities (Free + IAP)There are lots of travel apps for iOS, but this one has an interesting twist: its city-guides are rewritten every three months to take account of the current season. It’ll also tweak its recommendations depending on the next few days’ weather when you’re using it, to account for sunshine, rain, plagues of locusts etc. Well, two of them. Each of the 11 guides will cost 69p via in-app purchase from next winter.iPhone / iPadVice News (Free)Vice News is one of the channels being advertised in the UK on billboards paid for by YouTube, but its new iPhone app provides it with another route to The Young Folk’s eyeballs. Its neat design presents the channel’s reports and documentaries, as well as photos and text articles.iPhoneFotograf (£1.49 + IAP)Fotograf was another app to suffer from the odd bug post-iOS 8 - awkward, considering it was released to take advantage of some of its features. Still, it’s well worth a look if you’re into your mobile photography: some carefully-crafted filters (with more available as in-app purchases) and a neat slider system to see how your shots will look before sharing them.iPhoneStress &amp; Anxiety Companion (£3.99)I’ve been wondering lately about smartphones and stress: the combination of notifications and the ability to check your email wherever you are being a worrying thing for our personal wellbeing. Still, some developers are working on more positive aspects: including this app, with relaxation recordings, exercises to help control your breathing, and tools to help you reframe your negative thoughts.iPhoneSleepio (Free)More wellbeing here, but this time its about helping you sleep better, complete with aims to help you fall asleep “up to 50% faster” and reduce time spent awake during the night “by up to 60%” (the ‘up tos’ are fairly key there, of course). It’s too early for me to judge its medical qualities – give me a month or two – but at this stage it’s an accessible way to track your sleep data and get tips on giving insomnia the boot.iPhoneSpeakaLegend (£1.99)Virtual pet-style apps are big for children, as the billion-plus downloads of the Talking Friends apps shows. SpeakaLegend is a very interesting attempt to take the idea on a big step, with speech recognition technology designed to help children have proper two-way conversations with its 10 animated characters. From the Loch Ness Monster to Bigfoot and Cyclops, there’s a lot of fun to be had here.iPhone / iPadAJ+ (Free)More news: this is broadcaster Al Jazeera’s official app for its AJ+ network, which like Vice News was an attempt to use online video to reach a younger audience that wasn’t watching TV news. Expect short, sharp reports and documentaries, with the app structured around “cards” for watching, voting and chatting to other viewers.iPhoneLondon Plaques: Explore London (£1.99)Wandering around London on foot is one of the best ways to explore the English capital, aided by the blue plaques that show where famous historical figures lived. If you’re wanting to add a bit of structure to your jaunts, try this well-designed app that guides you to nearly 2,000 of them: with offline maps and more detail about the people who’ve been immortalised in plaque form.iPhone / iPadROL (Free)I have fond memories of random photo-sharing app Rando, which got you pinging images around the world, and receiving them in return. ROL takes that idea and runs with it: your photos and videos are sent out to three random users, then you see how far they travel onwards – while also passing on (or not) other people’s shots and vids. It’ll either be a big viral hit or disappear within a year, but for now it’s a fun idea.iPhonePost-it Plus (Free)An official Post-it notes app sounds like a ridiculous idea, if it doesn’t involve sticking your iPhone to your computer monitor with Blu-tack. But no, this is actually quite clever: you take a photo of a group of Post-it notes, then the app digitises them so you can organise and share. Of course, it’s only useful if you brainstorm by scribbling on the notes...iPhone / iPadTurbo Dismount for iPhone and iPad.Photograph: PRGAMESTurbo Dismount (Free + IAP)Developer Secret Exit’s Stair Dismount has been making iOS gamers chuckle for years with its ragdoll-physics stairway tumbling. Turbo Dismount takes the idea and runs with it. Well, drives: it’s a crash simulator that involves creating as much chaos as possible, then watching it in slow-motion replay. It’s marvellous.iPhone / iPadPlunder Pirates (Free + IAP)Rovio’s recent layoffs reminded the world that it’s yet to find a hit as big as Angry Birds. Plunder Pirates deserves to be that hit: launched under the company’s Rovio Stars subsidiary, it’s a very impressive piratical adventure blending Clash of Clans-style base building with water-based treasure hunting. It looks good, with deceptive depth – just like the ocean you’re sailing on.iPhone / iPadFIFA 15 Ultimate Team (Free + IAP)As a young twentysomething, I was world-beating at football games. As a 37 year-old father, I’ve degenerated to the point where I can only win in FIFA on ‘numpty’ level. Such is life. Still, this year’s mobile instalment is looking very good, focusing on the Ultimate Team mode (hence the in-app purchases, which go up to £69.99), with a new Quick Simulation mode if your time is at a premium.iPhone / iPadPhantom Rift (£1.99 + IAP)If you’re a fan of wizards, spells and dungeon exploration, Phantom Rift is well worth your time and money. It’s a sprawling action-RPG, as you set off on an adventure as a wizard, collecting spells and equipment and battling through monsters in your path. A familiar formula, but one that feels really fresh here.iPhone / iPadRapture - World Conquest (£1.99 + IAP)I’m a long-time fan of the Civilization games, so Rapture appealed straight away with its promise of similar world-conquering strategy, but with intense, five-minute bursts condensing several millennia. It’s really good fun too, as you batter rival civilisations and rain down natural disasters.iPhone / iPadBanner Saga (£6.99)Known to many as “the game that got into a trademark battle with the Candy Crush Saga people”, Banner Saga deserves acclaim in its own right as an engrossing tactical RPG ditching the usual fantasy creatures in favour of Norse mythology as its theme. It’s an indie treat that thoroughly merits its price.iPhone / iPadFotonica (£1.99)Freemium games may make the most money on iOS, but Apple’s App Store has a wealth of excellent paid games that deserve your support too. Fotonica is the perfect example: a stylish endless runner with wireframe-style visuals, a made-to-measure electronica soundtrack, and bags of playability.iPhone / iPadShades: A Simple Puzzle Game (0.69)From Tetris to Threes, block-shifting puzzle games have been big hits on mobile devices. Can Shades follow suit? It has the simple-to-grasp-hard-to-master dynamic down well, as you drag falling blocks into place to combine and clear rows. Fun for a five-minute bash, but with real challenge as the level-number mounts.iPhone / iPadGoat Simulator (£2.99)Finally: goats. Goat Simulator is more than a meme: it’s a quirky, addictive game in its own right. But yes, the meme looms large: the sheer silliness of running around butting scenery as a goat should bring a smile to your face. The developers are making its bugs a selling point, too: “not even the sky is the limit, as you can probably just bug through it and crash the game...”iPhone / iPadThe Secret of Raven Rock (£1.49)Finally, an atmospheric puzzle-adventure that involves getting to the bottom of a secret in an abandoned town, gathering clues and items to help you unravel the mystery. The puzzles are suitably brain-taxing, but with persistence you’ll find your way through.iPhone / iPadThat’s my choice, but what iOS apps and games have you been using recently? Make your recommendations – or give your views on the picks above – in the comments section.
Facebook’s plans for a mobile payments system using its Facebook Messenger iPhone app have been revealed by screenshots from hidden features of the app.The screenshots and code from the app show a method for adding a credit or debit card to a Facebook account and the ability to send money to friends via messages.“With Facebook Messenger, you attach money just like you attach a photo or a location,”said Andrew Aude, an iOS developer, security researcher and Stanford University student who discovered the service buried in the current Facebook Messenger iPhone app. “You don’t even have to link a bank account!”@FacebookMessenger has P2P payments coming.@SquareCashstyle.pic.twitter.com/3NuXuuaMMC&mdash; Andrew Aude (@andyplace2)October 4, 2014The app appears to have a pin function to protect payments, but that payments are handled in a similar manner to photos and videos while sending messages.E-money statusFacebook has long been expected to unveil a mobile payments service, and made moves to that effect by allowing third-party developers to enable money transfer across the social network using appsas early as 2010.This year Facebook sort regulatory approval in its European base in Ireland for “e-money” status, which would see it issue digital credits that can be converted into cash by recipients.The company already has permission for some forms of money transfer in the US, which allow payments within apps, including the Candy Crush Saga and Farmville games, from which Facebook takes a 30% cut. The company facilitated $2.1bn (£1.3bn) in transactions across Facebook in 2013, primarily to games publishers.Approval to operate an e-money service in Ireland would allow Facebook to operate across Europe using “passporting” rules, which allow digital payments to be used across EU member states without having to fain regulatory approval from each country.Estimated $5 trillion to $10tnFacebook’s focus on payment services was expected to be the remittance market, which is worth around $500bn according to the World Bank, where money is sent between developed and developing nations usually with wealthier family members sending money to other family members.The market for digital money transfer globally is valued at an estimated $5 trillion to $10tn, according to data from Taavet Hinrikus, co-founder of remittance service TransferWise.Barclays PingIt and Paym will allow UK mobile phone users to send money to others using just a smartphone app or phone number, while PayPal’s app also allows users to send money to other users privately.The leaked details from the Messenger app do not indicate that Facebook will follow Google and Apple with a payment system that would allow users to pay for goods and services at stores, like a credit or debit card.Facebook declined to comment.•Facebook prepares to launch e-money transfer service in Europe•Apple iPhone 6 to feature mobile wallet NFC payment system
Taking gadgets away from a source of electricity for more than a day normally means being prepared to either do without them or to carry some hefty battery packs. But there is another way to charge your electronics, using the power of hydrogen.The Upp hydrogen fuel cell from Intelligent Energy converts hydrogen into water, using chemical energy to release electrons which generate a current.It is an off-the-grid solution to powering electrical devices, requiring only a refillable hydrogen fuel container and air to power a USB port and anything connected to it.One cartridge, up to five smartphonesA fuel cartridge, complete with warning.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe cell comes as a two-part system, with two chunky square-sectioned pieces 12cm and 9cm long which connect firmly by magnets. The heavier piece contains the refillable fuel cartridge; the lighter piece contains the electrics (including the USB port) and the fuel cell itself.As a gas, hydrogen is highly flammable and dangerous, so the Upp stores it in a solid metal hydride form called Hydralloy C5 – a commercial hydrogen fuel combining titanium, zirconium, vanadium, iron, chromium, manganese and hydrogen.Each refillable fuel cartridge contains 2.23g of hydralloy C5, which can generate enough power to charge approximately five iPhones or two to three Android smartphones, or one larger device such as a tablet. A cartridge weighs 385g and costs £40 to buy or £6 to refill either directly with Intelligent Energy or via authorised dealers – of which there are hundreds, dotted about the country and listed as “available soon”.Not desirable on voyage?As each cell contains reactive hydrogen and is marked “combustible” and “contents are flammable and under pressure”, there might be some questions if you take them on a plane as hand luggage. I would avoid it if possible as regardless of the rules, airport security can be tricky at the best of times. (I flew inside Europe with one in hold luggage with no ill effects.)The fuel cell connects to the cartridge via magnets.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe 235g fuel cell attaches to the cartridge magnetically, creating a tight seal that passes hydrogen between the two. Inside, the fuel cell draws the hydrogen across a metal plate, reacting with oxygen from the air to form water and release electrons, which flow out of the fuel cell and into whatever gadget is connected to the USB port.Slow charge comingThe cell’s peak output is 1A of current at 5V. Most smartphones can draw more than 1A to charge quickly from a wall socket, so while 1A can charge them just fine it can often be much slower than from a USB charger.Fans are needed to blow air across the fuel cell, so the charger cannot be used in a bag and must be used in a ventilated area. It also gives off a noticeable smell while operating (the technology desk characterised it variously as “plasticine” and “hotel rooms”), which quickly dissipates but is noticeable indoors.The Upp has fans that can’t be blocked during operation.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Upp can either operate as a dumb battery charger, or there’s an Android or iOS app which gives readouts on how much charge is flowing, how much hydrogen is left and other details.VerdictAt £149 the Upp fuel cell is expensive. Each cartridge costs £40 new and £6 to fill up, and will only charge a smartphone two to five times depending on its battery size.While it is completely off-grid and useful if travelling to a place where no wall sockets are available, the Upp is expensive and heavy, and charging is slow – although considerably faster than most solar-powered chargers. A number of alternative backup battery packs would do a similar job, can be used in a bag and cost significantly less.The novelty of charging via hydrogen quickly wears off, and the technology is still very much in its infancy. But the Upp might be an option if you’re trekking into the middle of a jungle and don’t mind carrying half a dozen cartridges.Pros:off-grid, charge anywhere without electricity, rapid cartridge swapping, info app, standard USB outputCons:heavy, can’t be used in a bag, not many charges per £35 cartridge, unwieldy when connected
You know analytics is serious in sport when the Massachusetts Institute of Technology shows an interest. Not only does it run a yearly conference on the topic, its boffins are busy figuring out fresh ways to revolutionise sport using Big Data.“Sports are watched by millions and millions of people - yet, pretty much all of the strategic decisions are made by humans in a split second. These decisions could definitely be enhanced by learning from past data, but humans can’t keep large databases in their heads. I wanted to build predictive analytics tools to help teams make these decisions,” Cynthia Rudin, associate professor of statistics at MIT, tells the Guardian.Rudin believes Big Data analytics can help in various ways, from tweaking training plans to determining patterns about competitors. “If we know, for instance, that in certain circumstances, a particular coach on the opposition team tends to make a particular decision, then we can be ready for it,” she adds. “Another example - we can place sensors all over a car while it is in training for a race, and use the sensor data to help a driver learn how to race better.”The ever-growing world of Big Data has already permeated the sporting arena in surprising ways. Player health and safety, for instance, is one increasingly attractive use case. “Particularly in high injury sports, you think about the health of player, how we can use data and analytics to look after their bodies,” Martin Houghton, managing partner from HP’s analytics and data management division in EMEA.Just look to the high impact, rough game of rugby, where players are being saved from long-lasting physical damage thanks to predictive analytics technology. Pro players across the globe have been fitted with sensors to measure and monitor intensity levels, collisions and fatigue to help predict their limit and injury risk. From all this information, coaches can determine how to alter players’ training schedules. Psychological data can also be collected to explore how psyches can affect performance.American sports continue to benefit from Big Data in myriad ways. The Oakland A’s baseball team famously used analytics to make strides in Major League Baseball, as captured in the 2011 film Moneyball, whilst NBA basketball teams are now investing heavily in the necessary technologies and expertise to gain an advantage over others.Organisations such as STATS use cameras to measure players and the ball in x and y coordinates. This brings in speed, distance, player separation and ball possession statistics, which can be filtered into user-friendly interfaces so coaches can make better decisions.And data analysts are being employed en masse by some of the NBA’s best-known teams. The Dallas Mavericks have been investing heavily of late. Coach Rick Carlisle recently revealed a raft of new personnel has been brought into the analytics division of the team. It’s expecting to see manifold benefits heading into the new season. “We’re going to be a better team this year,” Carlisle said this month. “We know that by the analytics.”The ultimate aim for all these sports teams is to improve performance in the same way modern businesses in almost all industries seek to exploit data to tweak their operations for the good of the company as a whole and their customers. Just looking at the business side of sport, it’s easy to see the crossover between the two ostensibly separate worlds.HP has been working with NASCAR to boost the motor sport’s brand. Together they built the Fan and Media Engagement Center (FMEC), which collects up all the information fans post publicly online. All this data can be captured, analysed and passed on to al the relevant people, whether the drivers or their PR reps. Now they all know what the fans are thinking, they know just how to get them revved up.And this is what Big Data should be about for any business - it’s the customers who make or break the company. They need to be impressed via information before anyone else.TheDriving innovation hubis funded by HP. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out morehere.
If vulgarity is no substitute for wit, then heaven knows what Violet Crawley, Dowager Countess of Grantham would make of a smartphone app that plays some of her best lines from popular period drama Downton Abbey.But yes, there’s an app for that. It’s the latest TV show to spawn an official app, although this one comes from NBCUniversal, the parent company of its producer, rather than British broadcaster ITV.Called Downtonisms, it’s a “soundboard” app foriPhoneandAndroidthat plays quotes from 12 of the show’s characters, the Dowager Countess included. Fans are also tested on their knowledge of the show with a quiz matching characters to quotes.Downton Abbey’s popularity has spread in part due to social media buzz. The app, made by developer The Project Factory, hopes to capitalise on that too with an option for fans to share their scores on social networks.“The nation’s love affair with Downton Abbey shows no sign of stopping, so we wanted to find a fun way for fans to interact with the show beyond the TV set in their living room,” said NBCUniversal’s Dominic Burns, as the app was released.Companion apps for TV shows have become an increasingly common sight in recent years, particularly for talent shows like X Factor, Britain’s Got Talent and The Voice, where they are designed to be used while watching.Doctor Who, meanwhile, has spawned a series of apps, from reference app Doctor Who Encyclopedia to mobile games Doctor Who: The Mazes of Time andDoctor Who: Legacy, and even an officialSonic Screwdriver app.In the absence of multifunctional timelord tools or strong hooks for alien-battling adventure games, Downton Abbey is relying on one of its strong points instead: its famously-quotable dialogue.The release of Downtonisms could be a sign of more apps to come, however, for example focusing on the struggles of Downton Abbey’s valets to keep the Crawley family’s clothing fit for purpose. Dandy Brush Saga, anyone? Perhaps not.•The Guardian’s weekly Best iOS Apps roundups•The Guardian’s weekly Best Android Apps roundups
A delightful bisque of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung paid Microsoft $1bn in Android patent-licensing royalties in 2013 | ZDNetSo we knew Microsoft's Android-patent-licensing business was big. But it's even bigger than many had estimated. Thanks to a filing unsealed on 3 October in the Microsoft vs. Samsung US District Court patent-royalty case filed in early August 2014, we now know that Samsung paid Microsoft $1bn in 2013 for a single year's worth of patent-licensing royalties. Samsung agreed in 2011 to pay Microsoft a then-undisclosed amount for licensing patents upon which Android allegedly infringed. That agreement was structured as a cross-licensing and business-collaboration agreement. According to the unsealed filing, Microsoft is contending that "(U)nder the License Agreement, Samsung agreed to make patent royalty payment to Microsoft for a period of seven fiscal years, in exchange for the right to use patented Microsoft technology in Samsung smartphones and tablets that use the Android operating system."Samsung is only one - though probably the biggest - of Microsoft's Android licencees. (There are over 20.) Without doubt, Microsoft gets more money from Android than Google. But Google gets the data.Hewlett-Packard said to plan split into rwo companies &gt;&gt; BloombergHewlett-Packard plans to split into two separate companies, a personal-computer and printer business, and corporate hardware and services operations, a person with knowledge of the matter said. The company will announce the move tomorrow, said the person, who asked not to be identified because the plans aren't public. The breakup will be a tax-free distribution of shares to shareholders next year, according to the Wall Street Journal, which first reported the split-up of Hewlett-Packard. The separation of Hewlett-Packard into two businesses has been floated as an idea before. In 2011, Chief Executive Officer Meg Whitman ended efforts by her predecessor Leo Apotheker to spin off the PC unit.Of flying cars and the declining rate of profit &gt;&gt; The BafflerDavid Graeber:the spread of information technologies and new ways of organizing transport -- the containerization of shipping, for example -- allowed those same industrial jobs to be outsourced to East Asia, Latin America, and other countries where the availability of cheap labor allowed manufacturers to employ much less technologically sophisticated production-line techniques than they would have been obliged to employ at home. From the perspective of those living in Europe, North America, and Japan, the results did seem to be much as predicted. Smokestack industries did disappear; jobs came to be divided between a lower stratum of service workers and an upper stratum sitting in antiseptic bubbles playing with computers. But below it all lay an uneasy awareness that the postwork civilization was a giant fraud. Our carefully engineered high-tech sneakers were not being produced by intelligent cyborgs or self-replicating molecular nanotechnology; they were being made on the equivalent of old-fashioned Singer sewing machines, by the daughters of Mexican and Indonesian farmers who, as the result of WTO or NAFTA-sponsored trade deals, had been ousted from their ancestral lands. It was a guilty awareness that lay beneath the postmodern sensibility and its celebration of the endless play of images and surfaces.Not a short essay, but very worthwhile.A year after the death of Silk Road, darknet markets are booming &gt;&gt; The AtlanticThere's no denying that Silk Road was an unseemly place. But it was also a centralized one. And in the year since the site's shuttering, the darknet market has fragmented as various new players have attempted to take Silk Road's place, making an already sketchy scene all the more shady. According to a directory of darknet markets on Reddit, more than a dozen are currently operating. And unsurprisingly for markets in which anonymity is vital and nearly every purchase is very much illegal, scams and outright theft have plagued many of the upstarts.  In fact, the list of darknet markets not to be trusted is longer than the list of which ones Redditors have deemed reliable.Spotify and (fixing) the tyranny of choice &gt;&gt; Music Industry BlogMark Mulligan:It looks like the Tyranny of Choice isn't just an issue for the mainstream fan.Look at this quote from the Spotify Insights blogthat discusses the rise of Mr Probz in the US:"What's clear is that the 'lean back' mechanism of curated playlists (as opposed to the 'lean forward' method of search which drove European streams) led to the early success of Mr Probz in the US"Even in Spotify, the global home of the engaged music aficionado, curated lean-back experiences are coming to the fore. The access services are stealing some of the clothes of listen services. This is no bad thing but it does highlight the importance of this4th phase of the digital music market, the 'Curation Era'. Spotify gave consumers access to all the music in the world, now it - and others - is trying to help make sense of it all.Inside Shellshock: How hackers are using it to exploit systems &gt;&gt; CloudflareJohn Graham-Cunning, CEO of CloudFlare:From the moment CloudFlare turned on our Shellshock protection up until early this morning, we were seeing 10 to 15 attacks per second. In order of attack volume, these requests were coming from France (80%), US (7%), Netherlands (7%), and then smaller volumes from many other countries. At about 0100 Pacific (1000 in Paris) the attacks from France ceased. We are currently seeing around 5 attacks per second. At the time of writing, we've blocked well over 1.1m Shellshock attacks.Marriott fined $600,000 for jamming guest hotspots &gt;&gt; SlashGearMarriott will cough up $600,000 in penalties after being caught blocking mobile hotspots so that guests would have to pay for its own Wi-Fi services, the FCC has confirmed today. The fine comes after staff at the Gaylord Opryland Hotel and Convention Center in Nashville, Tennessee were found to be jamming individual hotspots and then charging people up to $1,000 per device to get online. Marriott has been operating the center since 2012, and is believed to have been running its interruption scheme since then. The first complaint to the FCC, however, wasn't until March 2013, when one guest warned the Commission that they suspected their hardware had been jammed. An investigation by the FCC's Enforcement Bureau revealed that was, in fact, the case. A Wi-Fi monitoring system installed at the Gaylord Opryland would target access points with de-authentication packets, disconnecting users so that their browsing was interrupted.In case you thought Marriott's IT staff were l33t hax0rs, it's simply a function of the enterprise Wi-Fi systems the chain had installed.'Gamers' don't have to be your audience. 'Gamers' are over. &gt;&gt; GamasutraThis essay from Leigh Alexander dates from August, but it's a terrific distillation of three decades of the evolution of gaming and the commerce around it:While video games themselves were discovered by strange, bright outcast pioneers - they thought arcades would make pub games more fun, or that MUDs would make for amazing cross-cultural meeting spaces - the commercial arm of the form sprung up from marketing high-end tech products to 'early adopters'. You know, young white dudes with disposable income who like to Get Stuff. Suddenly a generation of lonely basement kids had marketers whispering in their ears that they were the most important commercial demographic of all time. Suddenly they started wearing shiny blouses and pinning bikini babes onto everything they made, started making games that sold the promise of high-octane masculinity to kids just like them. By the turn of the millennium those were games' only main cultural signposts: Have money. Have women. Get a gun and then a bigger gun. Be an outcast. Celebrate that. Defeat anyone who threatens you. You don't need cultural references. You don't need anything but gaming. Public conversation was led by a games press whose role was primarily to tell people what to buy, to score products competitively against one another, to gleefully fuel the "team sports" atmosphere around creators and companies.China has now preordered more than 4 million new iPhones &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaAfter selling 2m iPhone 6 and 6 Pluses during the first six hours of preorders in China, the train has kept on rolling. Now, according to Tencent Digital, Chinese consumers have preordered more than 4m of the devices. That number does not include preorders from Apple's website or China's Apple stores, which will not begin accepting preorders until 10 October. It does include the numbers from the preorder events of China's three major telecom providers as well as smaller virtual telecoms, retail electronics chains like Suning, and ecommerce sites like JD.Worth repeating that China is Apple's largest iPhone installed base, ahead of the US.We need to talk about iOS 8 &gt;&gt; Fraser SpeirsFor sure, iOS 8 is highly ambitious. I have long been an advocate for many of the features that iOS 8 brought: extensions, interoperability and so on. Sadly, complexity has brought with it fragility. We have seen problems with apps not being updated in a timely manner. We have seen issues with crashing, devices rebooting, rotation glitches, keyboards playing up, touch screens not responding. Indeed I'm typing this while babysitting the full restore of an iPad that one pupil "broke" - through no fault of their own - while updating to iOS 8. In times past, I was happy to let students update their OS as they saw fit, since it was generally a highly reliable operation and a safe thing to do. No more.Growing feeling that Apple is straitjacketed by its annual phone release cycle into an annual phone software release cycle - where expectations of bigger and bigger bangs is bringing concomitant problems.Rovio layoffs signify maturing mobile games market &gt;&gt; Superdata ResearchTo build out a brand to the size of Mickey Mouse or Star Wars, two franchises that Rovio likes to invoke when outlining its vision for the future, one needs a strong narrative economy. But in laying out the core values of its design, including the need for wordless game play, Rovio has ultimately limited its ability to tell a story. Stories are what provides depth to characters, allows players to establish an emotional connection to their avatars and the rules of their universe. Releasing a never-ending stream of new levels and expansions is, of course, a great way to stay on the radar, but even that is likely to turn stale in the face of the equally never-ending influx of new content. Because of its broad appeal, mobile gaming caters to a wide audience. Taking a wide approach, then, makes sense. But after an initial phase in which people surprise themselves by figuring out that "they're gamers now!", this same group will also start demanding more challenging and more sophisticated content. The same happened to social games, and the same is now happening in mobile.Creating a narrative is something Nintendo and Sega have done to great - and lasting - effect.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday! And it's my sister's birthday. Happy birthday Catherine!
William S Burroughs, celebrated and dangerous author ofJunkieandNaked Lunch(an early and unrecognised metaphor for the internet), believed that the written word was a virus. This virus had attained such stable symbiosis with the host that we failed to recognise it as such. In Burroughs’s reading, humanity is infected by language, which is a medium for both communication and control. Burroughs’s response was to “cut up” language itself, slicing through texts to produce new arrangements of words, and thus new liberated concepts and ways of breaking free of control.Just as Burroughs’s cut-up technique seemed to predict the emergence of hypertext, so the word virus has been made radically real by the emergence of the same electronic networks. A German security researcher recently revealed avulnerability in Amazon’s Kindlethat would allow hackers to take control of customers’ accounts by injecting code into their devices through the language of the books themselves. This vulnerability, called cross-site scripting (XSS), can call malicious code from within the body of, say, the title of the book, which the Kindle processes automatically when the book is opened. This code can then report back usernames and passwords to the hacker.Amazon fixed this particular issue last week, and XSS is a common problem, potentially affecting any connected devices or websites – banks are regular targets for XSS attacks. But there’s a certain piquancy in books themselves being the carrier for such language-based violence. The danger is greatest, of course, from pirated books, which are more likely to contain unknown and possibly dangerous pieces of code. This would have pleased Burroughs no end. InCities of the Red Night, following Daniel Defoe, he described a pirate utopia, a zone of radical freedom where all goods were held in common – the very opposite of today’s tightly controlled corporate networks. “Many viruses,” noted Burroughs, “ultimately destroy the cells in which they are living.”
Price from £39,500MPG 36.8Top speed105mphDave Elliott, the charismatic Yorkshireman who set upWellhouse campervans, won’t mind me telling you that he doesn’t look like an ultrarunner. He’s a good 17st and is built like a rugby prop. But last year he ran 10 marathons in 10 days and raised £34,000 for charity. “I just sort of go into a zone,” he says. “I shouldn’t be able to run like that, just look at me!” He lets out a great laugh. “The local paper is always phoning up to see if I’ve dropped dead yet.”It’s this singlemindedness that has enabled Dave to turn Wellhouse into the UK’s leading manufacturer of compact motorhomes in just over a decade. From its HQ near Huddersfield, the company turns out around 250 campervans a year, selling them all over the world.Wellhouse is like a dream factory for ugly vans. It takes a slab-sided, snub-nosed base vehicle and converts it into a miniature des-res on wheels. Saved from the coalface of white-van labour, these “glampervans” are then set free to roam the open road in pursuit of pleasure…Space capsule: clever use of a sliding rear bench creates plenty of living room.Photograph: Mark HemingwayWellhouse’s latest project has been to convert Ford’s Terrier Custom. The result has met with universal appreciation and it has already won the coveted Campervan of the Year award. It’s easy to see why. Step into a campervan and you’ll see it all comes down to space management. If getting undressed feels more like a game of Twister, your holiday is doomed (actually, that doesn’t sound too bad…) But the Terrier is a proper Tardis thanks to two clever innovations. One is the front-opening clam roof that pops up directly above the living quarters, giving you headroom and plenty of ventilation.The second is the sliding rear bench. Move it forward and you create a vast storage dock at the back (I parked three bikes upright in there). Move it halfway back, put down the table, spin round the front seats and you have a dining area for five. Push the bench right back, flip it down and you have a comfortable double bed (if you can keep the kids out – they weren’t delighted with the fact that we had a bed while they camped). There is another small double in the roof, which turns the van into a posh, mobile bunkbed (we saw no reason to let the children know that).Raise the roof: the Wellhouse has a forward facing clam-opening roof.Photograph: Mark HemingwayThe interior is all leather, polished surfaces and recessed lighting. There are smart storage solutions and neat cubbies with locking lids everywhere. The sink, twin-burner hob, 42-litre fridge and portapotty are all very easy to use. A large solar panel on the roof keeps the battery charged when you can’t plug in on a campsite. One thing I particularly liked is that both side doors slide open – you can cook while looking out over the stove. On many vans, the business side is sealed shut.A word of warning: be prepared for waves of van envy. With its colour-coded elevating roof, 18in alloy wheels and twin bonnet stripes, this really is a stand-out vehicle and you’ll attract a lot of attention. I ended up feeling like a Wellhouse salesman.After a few days on a busy campsite, we spent the rest of the week parked in a field. The weather was perfect, we lit fires, sat up late and once even did some singing. And each night, we stretched out on our double bed in comfort. Who’d have thought a modified white van could be such a transport of delight?Caravans of the futureReady to cruise: the Caravisio’s design is based on a posh yacht.The UK’s biggest, most exciting, motorhome and caravanning event returns to the NEC from 14-19 October, and there’s even more to explore at this year’s national show! You’ll see all the new 2015 caravan, motorhome, holiday home, trailer tent and folding caravan models from the leading UK and European manufacturers and dealers – hot off the production line. With hundreds of models on display it’s the best place to see and compare all the latest layouts, finishes and innovations. There’s free help and advice on all aspects of touring from finance, insurance and security to the best tow cars on the market. Plus, all the accessories you need for the year ahead including awnings, porches, caravan movers and satellite systems. One of the highlights will be the The Caravan of the Future, a stunning display utilising the Knaus Tabbert Caravisio prototype which makes its UK debut at theMotorhome &amp; Caravan Show2014. The Caravisio uses some of the most up-to-date technology available, including a fingerprint entry system, fully controllable air suspension and a frosted smart glass dual-paned sliding door, all of which are controlled by a smartphone app. It’s caravanning but not as we know it… Opening Times: 10am – 6pm. Tickets are £8 for adults, £7 for seniors and kids under 16 go free. For more information, go tomotorhomeandcaravanshow.co.ukor call 0844 581 4933.Down and dirtyMud, sweat and gears at the Cambrian Rally in north Wales.Saturday 18 October is the last round of theBTRDA rally series. The Cambrian Rally is set in the challenging Welsh forests of Betws y Coed and Penmachno. With a stage also set to take place across Llandudno’s Great Orme, spectators will get the chance to watch daredevil drivers hurl themselves around every corner while also soaking up the beautiful surroundings of north Wales. Now in its 59th year, the Cambrian Rally is recognised as one of the best rallies in the UK and car enthusiasts can embrace the adrenaline-fuelled, dirt-churning thrill of one of the fiercest competitions in the area. It’s free for spectators too. Why not get down there and have a look…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
The old adage “if the service is free, then you are its product” needs updating. What it signified was that web services (like Facebook, Google, Yahoo et al) that do not charge users make their money by harvesting personal and behavioural data relating to those users and selling that data to advertisers. That’s still true, of course. But a more accurate version of the adage would now read something like this: if you use the web foranything(including paying for stuff) then you are also the product, because your data is being sold on to third parties without your knowledge.In a way, you probably already knew this. A while back you searched for, say, a digital camera on the John Lewis site. And then you noticed that wherever you went on the web after that John Lewis ads for cameras kept appearing on the site you were visiting. What you were witnessing was the output of a multibillion-dollar industry that operates below the surface of the web. Think of it as the hidden wiring of our networked world. And what it does is track you wherever you go online.Here’s how it works. When you click on an organisation’s web page, in addition to the page content it will also contain invisible Javascript programs which are there for the sole purpose of tracking your browsing habits. In the old days, tracking was done with “cookies” – strings of text placed on your computer’s hard drive by websites with the (legitimate) aim of improving the “user experience” orsite performance. But abuse of cookies eventually led to a backlash via data-protection law and users deleting them, and so their efficacy as trackers was reduced.Predictably new generations of trackers then emerged. The most pernicious is probably the Flash cookie maintained by the Adobe Flash plug-in. According to theElectronic Frontier Foundation briefingon these, Flash cookies are stored outside the browser’s control and users cannot view or delete them. Nor are users notified when the cookies (which have no expiry date) are set. Flash cookies can track users in all the ways traditional old-style cookies do, but they can be stored or retrieved whenever a user accesses a page containing a Flash application – which is almost every page that most people access.As theEconomistrecently reportedin a major study, the scale of tracking is staggering, and it’s now done in real time. One advertising executive told theEconomistthat “his firm has the chance to bid for around 10m online advertising ‘impressions’ (ads seen by a user) every second”. Data brokerage (for that is what this industry calls itself) has evolved from being a table look-up business to something akin to high-frequency trading in the stock market. Even as you browse a web page, an invisible computerised auction is going on somewhere to decide what ads you should see.If you want to get a sense of what drives this, install theGhostery plug-infor your browser and then go and visit some of the sites you normally access. I’ve just looked up one at random – reed.co.uk, which describes itself as “the UK’s #1 job site”. It has 10 trackers at the landing-page level, but when you search for particular jobs in a particular location the number of trackers explodes. A search for “software architect” in Cambridge, for example, produces a page with 28 trackers.The conventional happy talk from the internet and advertising industries is that this kind of data hoovering is unproblematic because your real identity is not being disclosed. But the rise of social media has upended that applecart. It’s trivially easy now to correlate browsing data with, say, Facebook profiles or other online sources. For example, Latanya Sweeney of Harvard long ago established that87% of the people in the US can be identifiedvia just three data points – age, sex and postcode.There’s an extraordinary cover story in this month’sWiredmagazineby Madhumita Venkataramanan which makes this point vividly. It starts with a long and very detailed account of a person – occupation, interests, culinary tastes, travel, family background, income, charitable donations, marital status, house-cleaning arrangements, etc. And then she writes: “This motley set of characteristics, thoughts and attitudes comes very close to defining me as a person. It’s also a precise and accurate description of what a group of companies – personal data-trackers – has learned about me.”
Anger is mounting in Cork. The vexing issue of tax – specifically, how much the Irish government should be collecting – dominates the city.Placards strung from lampposts indicate widespread disquiet; the airwaves are dominated by splenetic voices proclaiming that there is one law for the rich and another for the poor; a meeting on Monday in the city's Metropole hotel will hear proposals for a mass protest, with leading politicians calling for Ireland's citizens to stop paying their taxes. Across the city, the controversy surrounding the introduction of new water charges, to pay for improvements to Ireland's crumbling piping systems, is impossible to ignore.Perhaps the new water charges would be unnecessary if the Irish government had levied higher tax bills on one of the country's largest and most prestigious employers, technology giant Apple – not to mention the other IT and big pharma companies that have chosen to base themselves in the country.For years, the government has lured foreign blue-chip firms to Ireland with a 12.5% corporation tax rate, the second-lowest in Europe, and the strategy has been hugely successful.According to the American Chamber of Commerce, the body that represents US business interests in Ireland, more than 115,000 people are directly employed in over 700 US firms in the country, which collectively contribute some €3bn (£2.35bn) a year to the Irish exchequer and have invested a staggering $190bn (£118bn at current rates) in its economy.And Apple is the jewel in the crown, the symbiosis between the country and the corporation exemplified in the decision by U2 to give their new album,Songs of Innocence,away for free on iTunes.Nowhere in Ireland is Apple's presence felt more keenly than in Cork. High above the city, opposite a travellers' site and a field of tired-looking horses, is Apple's European HQ. At the end of Tadhg Barry Road, named after a prominent trade unionist, it is a paean to modernity that squats in stark contrast to the vacant 6,000 sq ft warehouse now up for sale next door.The Apple Campus, as it is known locally, does not so much look built as beamed down from the future. View  the headquarters from the back, through a sturdy metal fence and across a field of artfully cultivated wild flowers, and it becomes apparent how much the campus owes to the Californian company's obsession with design. Green glass and sleek grey panelling are heavily favoured. The buildings, monitored by countless CCTV cameras, resemble giant iPods.Apple's importance to Cork is such that in 2012 the city council took the extraordinary decision to expand its boundary so that land adjacent to the campus could be given over for a giant car park to facilitate Apple's expansion plans. Apple almost pulled out of the city a couple of decades ago, but now employs more than 4,000 people (compared with just 60 in 1980), making it Cork's largest private-sector employer. The company recently completed a €300m extension on its campus and has leased more buildings in the city centre, including several apartments in Ireland's tallest structure, the Elysian Tower, near Cork's waterfront, so that it can provide its top executives with luxury accommodation when they visit the campus.Take the 202 bus from outside Apple's Knocknaheeny HQ back into town and the corporation's impact on the city becomes apparent in another way. Except for the driver, almost everyone on board is from outside Ireland. German, French, Italian and several eastern European accents compete for attention. With ID cards strung proudly around their necks, the employees, mostly in their 20s and wearing trainers and smart jeans, constantly check their iPhones as they&nbsp;exchange small talk with their colleagues.Down the hill leading back into the city, Aidan Winnett, 21, is waiting for a friend to pick him up. He laughs when asked about Apple's presence in Cork. "I'm not a fan; they're just so up themselves, you know?" But what of the thousands of jobs that Apple has created? He shakes his head. "All for foreigners."This, Apple's many supporters in the city maintain, is a myth. "More than 60% of Apple's employees are Irish," said Conor Healy, CEO of Cork Chamber of Commerce. "Apple's been in Cork for more than 30 years and it's been good for the city not just in terms of jobs or financial returns but its reputation, too."Apple's presence, it seems, has helped put Cork on the map and suck in other hi-tech firms, creating something of a virtuous circle. In addition, Apple's presence in Cork is estimated to have generated 2,500 further jobs."The fact that we can attract highly skilled people to Cork is a good thing," Healy says. "It's a vote of confidence in the region."But the virtuous circle is now threatened on two fronts: by the European commission's announcement that it is to carry out a detailed investigation intotwo tax rulings relating to Apple issued by Ireland in 1991 and 2007,andan ongoing US Senate inquirythat has claimed that the tech giant is paying as little as 2% in corporation tax on its non-US activities.How both inquiries are resolved will say much about where power lies in a globalised world. Does it still reside with nation states or with giant corporations?The inquiries' outcomes will also resolve the tug of war between the US and the commission. American politicians accuse Apple of deliberately shifting profits to Ireland to minimise its US tax bill. The commission's case against Apple is that it is not paying enough tax in Ireland.Both the Irish government and Apple deny the claim that the company has had favourable treatment."Apple has received no selective treatment from Irish officials over the years," the company said in a statement. "We're subject to the same tax laws as the countless other companies who do business in Ireland. Since the iPhone launched in 2007, our tax payments in Ireland and around the world have increased tenfold. To continue that growth  – and the benefits it brings to the communities where we work and live – we believe that comprehensive corporate tax reform is badly needed."That the commission and the US can take such different views about Apple's profits and tax liabilities is instructive. Any tension between those views exposes a fundamental flaw in an increasingly globalised world. Taxation systems drawn up in the 1920s are proving wholly inadequate for taxing a sprawling multinational behemoth such as Apple, which manufactures its products mainly in China but derives the majority of its profits from its intellectual property – its branding, marketing and patents – which are funnelled through a complex maze of companies, including two in Ireland."We've moved from relatively simple operations, where companies made things and sold them, to a fragmentation of the supply chain, where intellectual properties, intangible assets, are becoming more important," said Heather Self, a tax partner at law firm Pinsent Masons.Apple is far from alone in claiming that profits from large chunks of its intellectual property are generated outside the US. A significant portion of Microsoft's intellectual property is located in exotic offshore locations. Google declares profits in Bermuda, where corporation tax is&nbsp;zero.However, Apple seems to have captured the imagination of legislators on both sides of the Atlantic. Self points out that the taxation strategies of Caterpillar, the earth-moving company, have already been subject to similarly forensic scrutiny from the Senate committee. "But it has received far less traction than Apple. It's because it is a consumer brand that Apple is getting so much attention."Seamus Coffey, a lecturer who has taught economics at University College Cork for the past 13 years, has followed Apple's progress closely. "Apple is accused of declaring certain profits to be stateless," Coffey said. "They might be for tax purposes but in reality they have to be somewhere. The US Senate has basically accused the profits of being in Ireland but the counter to this is that the European commission has said the profits here are too low and Apple is not declaring enough profits."As the transatlantic standoff continues, one thing is clear: Apple is sitting on huge sums of money – $137bn last year – much of it generated from its profits on intellectual property that the US government would like to tax.The money is, according to reports, residing in a Manhattan bank, but legitimately classed as being held outside the US. Only if Apple were to "repatriate" the money would it be landed with a huge tax bill.To some extent, Apple's tax problems are a result of its stellar growth, and that has made its tax arrangements far more interesting to legislators. "Apple was a completely different company and on the verge of bankruptcy in 1995," Coffey said. "It was only when Steve Jobs came back, and really only from 2007 and the launch of the iPhone, that profits started to lift. In some ways it is a victim of its size. It has become very visible. But there is no doubt that it has what most would consider to be a questionable tax arrangement."Typically, corporation tax accounts for only 8% of a country's tax receipts and is dwarfed by its VAT and income tax receipts. Some in Ireland may take the pragmatic view that even if hi-tech companies like Apple are using legitimate but questionable structures to minimise their corporation tax demands, they will still be significant contributors to the exchequer."People are well aware that Ireland is attractive for these companies," Coffey said. "Given the number of jobs involved, they see the advantages of it. Cork is a mid-sized city. Some 200,000 people live in the city and 200,000 in the surrounding environment, so 4,000 jobs is massive. People are concerned about jobs, not tax practices."But the US Senate and the European commission disagree. Some time soon Apple will have to decide whether it is in Europe or America. Ireland has wrestled with the same question for centuries.
When Alex Hennessy and Mike Graziano decided to spend five years travelling to 195 countries, they knew it would be a trip worth sharing, which, these days, means: worth filming. A cameraphone would be easiest, an SLR the highest quality. But, for Hennessy and Graziano, there was one essential piece of kit: a GoPro.Like Google or Xerox, “GoPro” is one of those branded proper nouns that has been so successful that it has become a verb. With 6,000 or more new tagged videos uploaded to YouTube each day, GoPro-ing is now a legitimate phenomenon. The cameras are sturdy, cheap and small enough to sit in the palm of your hand; they can be attached to almost anything, from a surfboard to a tripod to a recalcitrant labrador. They are easy to use and produce remarkably high-quality video, which you can post online right away. To Hennessy’s disappointment, though, that formula was not enough to gain the pair’s films any online traction.One day, Hennessy and Graziano were cycling through a tough neighbourhood in Buenos Aires with some friends when a guy on a motorbike cut them off and pulled out a gun. In Spanish, he demanded Hennessy’s backpack. He was terrified. All he could think of to say was “amigo”. Then he dropped his bike and ran.Hennessy’s GoPro was filming at the time. In the footage, you can hear his feet pounding the pavement. Eventually, he borrows a bike and rides away from trouble. After a few moments, when it’s clear the thwarted mugger isn’t going to reappear, Hennesy starts to laugh. “I’ve got that whole thing on my GoPro,” he tells his friends. “I was recording that whole thing.”“I had completely forgotten the thing was on,” Hennesy says now. “I was out of harm’s way, no one got hurt, and I had an amazing shot.”When Hennessy posted it, he knew he had something big. When he woke up the next morning, the video had been watched 600,000 times. And hits beget hits: today, just over a fortnight later, it has more than 7.3m. Finally, the trip had gone viral. And if that has been a boon for Hennesy and Graziano, it also provoked some complicated feelings. “It’s great that it’s brought us traffic,” Hennesy says. “I just wish the rest of my videos would get that many hits. I put 40 hours of editing into one seven-minute film. It’s a lot of effort.”That’s how virality, and GoPros, function: no amount of editing can be as powerful as a glimpse of something out of the ordinary, and no camera is more likely to catch that glimpse than one that keeps rolling even when you’re being chased by a guy with a gun. Most of those 6,000 videos uploaded each day will disappear without trace, but a few will catch fire.A street biker pulling off a vertiginous pivoton top of a giant Rubik’s Cube.A squirrel mistaking a camera for a sex object.An egg being mesmerisingly poached.An eagle soaring over the French Alps. A french bulldog inmad pursuit of an especially attractive stick. A free runner loping to the top of a crane, thenhanging by one hand over the impassive city below.A fireman saving a kitten. It turns out that the kitten later died, but the news has little impact on the hit count, which just keeps going up.You may not have seen these videos, but you will probably have seen others like them, captured in GoPro’s distinctive visual language: a wide, fish-eyed lens that seems to bring the whole world swimming into focus; staggeringly sharp pictures for such a cheap device; and that persistent first-person perspective, the world spinning drunkenly around a fixed point, like Peep Show without the jokes. If this really rings no bells, it will soon. In June, founder and CEO Nick Woodman took his business public in New York. The initial public offering valued the company at $3bn (£1.7bn). It quickly rose to around $11.5bn (£7.1bn), 283% on that starting price, which makes Woodman a very rich man (though that pricedropped sharplyearlier this week when Woodman gave 5.8m shares to a charity run by him and his wife).This week saw the launch of a new range of cameras. The Hero 4 Silver and Black are updated iterations of the brand’s bankable central idea, but the third addition, simply called the Hero – an entry-level model that will sell for under £100 – could be the one that pushes GoPros into serious ubiquity.As an application of technology, the GoPro can seem miraculous. As a cultural phenomenon, though, it’s at least complicated. Katrina Sluis, a senior lecturer in digital media arts at London South Bank University and curator of digital programmes atthe Photographers’ Gallery, has her reservations. “These new cameras are very aware of the idea of a creative consumer who needs to share their life and make it transparent,” she says. “There is something dystopian about sharing every moment, in super-high-res, on cameras that make it effortless. It’s exciting anyone can access that, but it raises the question: what’s left unphotographed?” She invokes Andy Warhol. “The idea we all want to be famous for 15 minutes – that’s not the problem. Increasingly, it’s a world where we all wish we could hide for 15 minutes.”Sluis also refers toThe Circle, Dave Eggers’ satire of Silicon Valley, in which a Jobsian tech guru, Bailey, presents an innovative camera called the SeeChange to his adoring followers. Later I find the passage she’s talking about. “He was holding a small device in his hand, the shape and size of a lollipop,” it reads. “We’re losing the vast majority of what we do and see and learn,” Bailey says. “But it doesn’t have to be that way. Not with these cameras.” As he speaks, a mantra appears on screen behind him: “ALL THAT HAPPENS MUST BE KNOWN.”Well, we’re not quite there yet. For one thing, the underwhelming battery life and vast demands on disc space that the GoPro makes leaves it some way off being a functional dystopic weapon. And although the camera’s technical specifications are impressive, it is also severely limited in comparison to a traditional SLR. Still, there’s no doubting the GoPro’s growing power, which now extends beyond its gnarly roots. Doctors use them, and oceanographers, and school science classes. There is also, you may not be surprised to learn, quite a lot of porn.Then there’s policing. GoPro do not, in fact, manufacture the body-worn video cameras (BWVs) that are becoming ever more common with the British cops, but it’s a sign of the brand’s dominance that they’re often called GoPros anyway. Dr Barak Ariel, fellow in experimental criminology at Cambridge University, has conducted extensive research on the subject, and in his view the evidence points to a clear conclusion: whether they calm the officers or the civilians or both, the cameras are a hugely powerful means of reducing trouble between the police and the public. “You’re giving up civil liberties, but you’re gaining transparency,” he argues. “The assumption now should be that things are being recorded on video, in high quality, all the time.”In a sense, this is reassuring. It is also untethering. The most useful definition of moral behaviour, after all, is what you do when you think nobody is watching. If other people are always looking at you, how are you ever supposed to see yourself?Ten days ago, GoPro invited a group of journalists and bloggers from across Europe to a preview event for their new cameras at a hotel in Shoreditch, east London. The group is excited. “Hardly anyone has any new ideas in photography these days,” one specialist confides. “Not Canon, not Nikon, not anyone. This is a big market and there’s still only one player.”We start with some videos of GoPro-sponsored athletes. In one, Jason Paul, a goofily handsome German freerunner, skips to the top of a bridge in Frankfurt and tightrope-walks across a girder at the apex with the nerveless, still centre of someone three feet from the ground; looking through his eyes, as we seem to, I feel the need to cling to the table in front of me. “That,” a GoPro-er called Kevin says warmly, “was pretty rad!”“Sometimes I just want to enjoy the moment – I don’t want the camera, I just want to be in it,” Paul says a few days later. “But the filming isn’t distracting for me … it’s such an integral part, I enjoy it so much, and I couldn’t relive it as vividly without the video.”Then we head out, armed with cameras and a stuntman. I’m following a guy called Danny MacAskill, a professional street biker from the Isle of Skye who owes his remarkable career to the rise of viral video, and for whom it’s use has become instinctual. When he arrives in a new environment, he sizes up jump angles and camera angles more or less simultaneously. When he rides under something with a camera on his head, he ducks that extra couple of inches so intuitively that it might be an extension of his brain. In the past, MacAskill says, “all I thought about was riding my bike”; now “capturing it is definitely in my mind. I take a camera with me whenever I’m out, just capturing little snippets, things I wouldn’t normally do, and I push myself, because I know there’s going to be an audience.”As he lines up his tricks, the dozen or so of us who are following him frantically vie for prime camera angles, a dozen telltale beeps as each trick gets underway, a paparazzi ribbit. One particularly enthusiastic follower lets out an admiring “shut up!” each time he pulls off another move, and I, too, get quietly absorbed in the satisfactions of capturing each one from a sufficiently awesome perspective. Eventually, we meet up with Paul, and the two pull off a synchronised jump that has to be seen to be believed. At least, so the others tell me; I can’t make my camera switch to the right mode, and as a whoop of approval goes up, I realise that I’ve missed it. “No problem, man!” someone says. “Here, you can watch my tape!”‘My own footage, when I watch it back, isn’t exactly an adrenaline rush’ … Archie Bland tries out a GoPro camera.Photograph: Linda Nylind/GuardianWhen I leave, I find that I want to try it for myself. But the truth is, I can’t match Paul and MacAskill. Their daily routine is constructed around the defiance of death; mine mostly around the route of the 390 bus. All the same, the GoPro’s stated purpose is increasingly democratic; if anyone can buy a camera for £99, it presumably follows that anyone’s life is worth watching. And so I decide to put this idea to the test.Admirable sentiment though it is, it is not one I immediately live up to when I run to the post office with a camera strapped to my chest, nor indeed when I reach the GP’s and find it’s shut, nor when I get on my bike, camera now just above my eyes, and head to the office. I’m embarrassed when I arrive, and fix my eyes firmly on the floor as I scuttle to my desk. But as the day proceeds, it becomes increasingly clear: no one is remotely fazed. When I go out for lunch and walk through a busy pedestrianised area, red recording light flashing on my forehead, I’m amazed at how few people give me a second glance. Later, on the way to the pub, I go past one of those mysterious council camera vans, and I could swear the lens gives me a collegiate wink.The footage, when I watch it back, isn’t exactly an adrenaline rush. You’d have to be mad to sit through it, and no one else ever will. Sitting at my desk and spooling it back, I’m reminded of another line of Eggers’: “One of the problems of SeeChange,” he writes, “is that even when there are cameras everywhere, not everyone can watch everything.” Then it occurs to me: I can’t pull off a wheelie, but in other departments, it’s easier to match the professionals. I pause the video, and cue up a song: Run Boy Run by Woodkid, one of the advertising tunes of the moment, percussive and urgent and vacantly portentous. I hit play. Suddenly, I’m not just a guy on his bike. I’m a guy going somewhere.Going somewhere slowly, mind you. Watching myself potter around a stationary doubledecker, or waiting at a red light, I’m struck by the disjuncture of image and reality – of the life you live and the story you put on top of it – and the whole thing dissolves again. All the same, I can see the appeal of the slogan we were presented with in Shoreditch. “This is your life,” GoPro exhorts us. “Be a hero.” And, for a long, dishonest second, I have felt like one.• This article was amended on 4 October 2014, correcting the spelling of fazed from its homophone, phased.
Forza Horizon 2Xbox 360, Xbox OneForza Horizon 2 thinks of cars the way 80s technology ads thought of women: as objects to be aggressively and lasciviously ogled. That means lingering close-ups of rain-beaded bonnets and mud-spattered wheel arches as you progress through the game’s luscious recreation of southern Europe. There’s an enormous variety of vehicles from Transit vans to Bugatti Veyrons and it’s a game that delights in keeping you in the driving seat, giving ample incentive to drive between events, enjoying the scenery and upgrades earned in the process.Microsoft, £32.94-£49RGB Express – Mini Truck PuzzleiOSTouch screens are perfect for the kind of small, brightly coloured puzzle games that used to be the sole province of Nintendo’s post-Game Boy handheld machines. With that in mind, Bad Crane’s RGB Express certainly looks charming, its chunky little delivery vans chugging around simply drawn maps, picking up and dropping off parcels while avoiding travelling twice down the same stretch of road. But like so many of its disappointing stablemates, RGB Express only looks the part, its levels proving unutterably dull, lacking the invention and ingenuity that make games such as Pullblox or Mario Vs Donkey Kong so rewarding.Bad Crane Ltd, £1.99Stronghold Crusader 2, PCIn Stronghold Crusader 2, you must gather resources, build and defend your castle, and attack opponents’ fortifications. Playing first as Richard the Lionheart, you then swap sides to play as Saladin, defending the Holy Land from the infidel, before heading off to build castles from scratch in skirmish mode. There are rough edges galore: it’s difficult, and the interface is so clunky that in the heat of battle you’ll be wildly cursing like an enraged inn keeper, but there’s a complex and detailed resource-management and real-time strategy game underneath all that. And at least this is one Middle Eastern conflict that Tony Blair won’t have an opinion on.Gambitious, £20.32-£29.99
Late Thursday afternoon, andRicky Wilsonand I are riding through the streets of Bloomsbury in a Volkswagen e-Golf. We’ve got the windows down,Toploader’s Dancing In The Moonlighton the radio, spilling out on to a throng of American tourists near Russell Square. They look on, meat-faced and unmoved.When I collected Wilson, he climbed in with a carrier bag full, he claimed, of everything we would need for our mini roadtrip (to north London via the dry cleaner): “Some crap crisps. Capri-Sun. Haribo,” he said. “And the only CD in my car:New Woman: Party Starter. I don’t know how long it’s been there – I’ve never seen it before.”The e-Golf is Volkswagen’s electric version of its 40-year-old classic. You wouldn’t really be able to discern this from the exterior, save for its LED headlights, sealed grille and alloy wheels. The difference lies in the throbbing heart of its lithium ion battery. Do lithium batteries throb? Not quite yet, perhaps.While a frontrunner in the electric vehicle market, this is not really the car for major roadtrips. It purports to have a range of about 118 miles before it needs charging, at home or on the street (recharge time eight to 13 hours); though when my colleague later borrows it, the range claim begins to look dubious – it runs out of juice near Reading services.It’s lightweight, just 1.5 tonnes, bobbing about on the breeze like thistledown. Yet it never feels flimsy; there is real precision to its handling, happily curving the capital’s mini roundabouts.Because it’s nigh-on soundless, you notice other details: the tick-tocking of the indicator, the squeak of the steering wheel beneath your palms. And without the buffer of engine noise, you feel more attuned to the world outside: cyclists, pedestrians, small flights of birds.Wilson’s busy telling me about his Range Rover and his Mini, and the motorbike that he can’t technically drive but keeps in his garage all the same and sometimes sits on and goes “brum brum”.I ask him what he thinks of the e-Golf. “Um, it’s fine,” he replies noncommittally. I’m going to turn off the funk so you can hear how quiet it is, I say. I mute Jamiroquai and we drive in silence. “For me, it kind of doesn’t fulfil anything,” says Wilson. “If I was going for an electric car, I’d want it to scream electric car. I’d want lightning bolts on the side and a plug on the back.” There is a plug but, to Wilson’s disappointment, it’s concealed where the petrol cap would be.The thing is, I quite like the e-Golf. There’s something unexpectedly pleasing about a quiet car in a busy city. You’re moving stealthily through the hubbub in a peaceful little bubble. It feels like modern travel: clean, soft and easy.I wait for Wilson outside the dry cleaner. When he returns, folding a bundle of woollens on to the back seat, he brings the loudness of the outside world, struck afresh by the recognition that TV fame has brought – his role as a judge on BBC1’sThe Voicehas meant that he now gets waylaid on even the shortest of errands.Today he is on his way to write songs for the next Kaiser Chiefs album, a task at once exhilarating and daunting. “It feels like a mountain to climb,” he says. “Making the last record consumed my life. Afterwards, you realise that what took a year, and all that travel, and all that emotion, is just 46 minutes of noise.” And then, just for a moment, we sit there and enjoy the silence.Volkswagen e-GolfPrice£27,090Top speed87mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.5 secondsCO2emissions0g/kmEco rating9/10On the stereoThe demos I get sent• Follow Laura onTwitter.
The website of the Hong Kong Democratic Party (DPHK) has had seemingly malicious code running on it for a month, meaning visitors could have been compromised in turn, says a security expert.The party has been at the heart of the Hong Kong protests, calling for democratic reform, but its site could have been infecting demonstrators, noted Claudio Guarnieri, an independent security researcher whodiscovered the breach.Whilst there’s some indication the hackers were targeting visitors, there’s no evidence that the attackers did anything more than breach the site and attempt to load JavaScript code from another website. That “injected” JavaScript is no longer working, so Guarnieri was not able to determine what kind of payload the hackers were trying to deliver. A typical attack would sees injected code attempt to download malware onto a visitor’s computer, which would then collect information from it.The fact the website had been hacked for a month is concerning enough, said Guarnieri. “Fact is, the website is popped and apparently has been so for a while,” he told the Guardian over email.“If protesters have been checking in the DPHK website in anticipation to the protests and the website has been used as a strategic attack platform, it’s likely that a number of people revolving around the Occupy Central movement have been exploited and compromised as well.”DPHK had not responded to a request for comment on the apparent breach by the time of publication.Protesters have already beentargeted via their mobile phones. A piece of Android spyware was spotted late last month, masquerading as an app for the Occupy Central pro-democracy movement, which was spread via WhatsApp messages.A subsequent piece of malware aimed at iPhones was being managed on the same server as the Android threat, though it was unclear whether that was directed at pro-democracy demonstrators.“We can only expect this type of geopolitical attack to be on the rise as defenders don’t seem to be on top of their game and the attackers have all the time and resources to go after these sites,” saidTK Keanini, chief technology officer at security firm Lancope. “Until the cost to the attackers are raised, these websites will fall one after another as we have been witnessing over the past five years.”On the other side, the Anonymous hacktivist collective has pledged to attack digital infrastructure of the current Hong Kong government. It’s threatened to take out websites belonging to the regime.

First Donald Trump, now Billy Ray Cyrus – attempting to get celebrities to retweet pictures of notorious criminals seems to be the new thing.The American country star managed to fall for exactly the same trick as Trump on Friday by retweeting a request from a follower.@ekajronnococlaimed his granddad “is a huge fan” and would really love a retweet for his birthday.Screenshot of Billy Ray Cyrus’ retweet.Photograph: @billyraycyrus/TwitterExcept the picture attached was of paedophile Jimmy Savile. 13 hours after the tweet was initially posted, it could still be found on Miley’s dad’s Twitter page. Oops.Celebrities in charge of their own Twitter accounts may need to take care in case this becomes some new social networking craze. Trump was not particularly amused after he was caught out earlier this week, saying the experience has taught him not to be so “nice and trusting”.Some jerk fraudulently tweeted that his parents said I was a big inspiration to them + pls RT—out of kindness I retweeted. Maybe I’ll sue.&mdash; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)September 29, 2014I thought I was being nice to somebody re their parents. I guess this teaches you not to be nice or trusting. Sad!&mdash; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)September 29, 2014
Sega; Xbox 360/Xbox One/PlayStation 3/PlayStation 4/PC (version tested); £45; Pegi age rating: 18+Video games have traditionally done HR Giger’s most famous creation a disservice. His alien, the xenomorph, is supposed to be a calculating, ruthless killer – a “perfect organism” as Ash described it in Ridley Scott’s original movie. But in games based on the series, they’re usually little more than dumb animals, politely lining up to be blasted by the player’s pulse rifle.This is where Isolation differs. It is perhaps the first video game conversion of the movie series to treat the alien with the respect it deserves. Here, it is a merciless, unstoppable force that can kill you in the blink of an eye. You can’t fight it and you can’t outrun it. All you can do is hide and hope it doesn’t sniff you out. It is the Alien experience that should have been made a long time ago, and, bizarrely, it has taken the creators of the historical battle sim series, Total War, to realise it.Ripley vs Alien: the rivalry returnsIn Alien: Isolation, you are Amanda Ripley, the daughter of Sigourney Weaver’s Ellen Ripley. 15 years after the events of the Alien film, you’ve learned that the black box recorder from the Nostromo, your missing mother’s ship, has been found on a backwater space station called Sevastopol. When you arrive you find the place abandoned and in ruins, and it’s clear that something has gone horribly wrong. Something black, shiny, and terrifying is on the loose, and it has decided to make you its prey.Isolation takes all of its cues from Scott’s 1979 film, and not, like so many other games, from James Cameron’s action-packed sequel. It’s slow and atmospheric, mixing elements of stealth, exploration, and survival horror. Encounters with the alien are not scripted, and its dynamic, reactive artificial intelligence makes its behaviour unpredictable. You genuinely feel you’re up against an intelligent and devious predator. It is genuinely hunting you, using its keen senses.The motion detector is your primary means of defense, giving off its characteristic pulsing bleep as the alien gets closePhotograph: SegaAs you explore Sevastopol you can hear it searching for you, its heavy footsteps thudding in the distance. Sometimes you hear it above you, crawling through vents, or below you beneath the floor. Its persistent, ominous presence, and the fact that being spotted will almost certainly end with you being impaled by its tail or torn apart, makes this a brilliantly, and sometimes unbearably, tense game. Veteran game players, so used to feeling powerful, are going to feel very different here.To get through the station’s warren of winding, narrow tunnels alive, you have to be careful, patient, and methodical. But it’s not all deadly games of hide and seek with the alien. One of Isolation’s greatest strengths is its pacing. As well as the alien you’ll have to contend with murderous androids that grab you if you get too close and crush the life out of you. There are other human survivors too, and they’ll open fire if you stray into their territory.Ripley is an engineer, and can use scrap littered around the levels to craft gadgets including smoke bombs and EMP mines. Combining these gives the game surprising depth, like tossing a noise-maker into a group of gun-toting looters so it alerts the alien and it kills them for you.The game is constantly mixing things up to keep you on your toes. In one level, your motion tracker is rendered useless so you have to rely on sight and sound to detect the monster. In another, you’re stripped of your weapons, forcing you use your gadgets creatively. There’s even a section where, briefly, the alien isn’t around and you can fire your guns freely without alerting it — a cathartic moment after a long, hard stealth sequence.The Alien visionIt never once feels repetitive during its 15-20-hour duration, owing to smart, systems-driven stealth and the fearsome intelligence of the alien. The visual design is also beautifully faithful. The developers have built Sevastopol the same way Ridley Scott and his team built their sets in 1979, using only props and tech from the period. The computer stations look like old 70s terminals; video recordings hiss with static.This retro-futuristic aesthetic is evocative and convincing, placing us directly into Scott’s vision of a bleakly industrial space environment. Flickering lights and smoke are used to great effect, adding to the claustrophobia and general feeling of unease. The station’s dark, oppressive corridors can be as intimidating as the xenomorph itself.This terrifying game is a passionate homage to a horror classic, and a rich, well-designed stealth experience in its own right. Giger’s monstrous alien is, for the first time in a video game, as formidable and menacing as it was in the films. It was brave of Sega to take a chance on a game like this, where guns are a last resort, but their faith in The Creative Assembly’s vision has resulted in an unusually clever and subversive triple-A game.Guardian Tech Weekly podcast: Sigourney Weaver on Alien and being Ripley
A host of Android torch apps come with some strange permissions, including the ability to delete apps, track location, tinker with bluetooth connectivity, view call details and write additional software to the phone, a security company has warned.Tens of millions of people have downloaded apps like the Super-Bright LED Flashlight or Brightest Flashlight Free without reviewing the permissions. ButSnoopWall’s reporton permissions sought by the top 10 Android flashlight apps suggests they should take more care when installing.The report suggests that torch apps should only require a limited set of permissions to run – for example, around use of a device’s camera, in order to use its flash to provide light.However, developers are often asking for far greater power over a user’s device, in order to collect data and sell it on to marketers and ad networks. It’s the latest reminder that if you’re not paying for an app, its business model may well involve selling your data.Action has been taken against the developers of such software in the past. Goldenshores Technologies, the creator of Brightest Flashlight Free, wastaken to taskby the Federal Trade Commission in the US last year.The FTC noted in acomplaintthat the Goldenshores privacy policy did not “disclose or adequately disclose to consumers that the Brightest Flashlight App transmits or allows the transmission of device data, including precise geolocation along with persistent device identifiers, to third parties, including advertising networks”.“The failure to disclose, or adequately disclose, these facts, in light of the representation made, was, and is, a deceptive practice,” the FTC wrote.Goldenshoresagreedto clearly display information on what its apps were doing so it is “sufficiently noticeable” to the average user, though it does little more than what other developers do on Google Play.Are users bothered by the privacy implications of these kinds of apps? Seemingly not, judging by their popularity. Brightest Flashlight has been installed more than 50m times according to the Google Play store’s stats.Privacy advocates are disturbed by the level of access companies have to people’s phones. “It is completely unsurprising that the public find themselves exposed to fraud and data theft when the apps they download are so far removed from privacy by design,” said Emma Carr, director of Big Brother Watch.“Few of us would expect an app to be able to access our contacts lists, text messages or location data, yet so many of them do just that. There needs to be far more awareness about how to protect your device and the data on it.“The companies developing the apps must be as transparent and simplistic as possible about what data they collect, how they use it and who has access to it, whilst the public must take the time to question why their free app wants access to this information.”SnoopWall’s report focuses on Android, but it addresses similar apps on Apple’s iOS and Microsoft’s Windows Phone platforms, noting that these too have privacy issues that users should know about.“The good news is that on these two operating systems apps like this cannot hide in the background,” explained SnoopWall.“The bad news is when you run downloaded Flashlight Apps on these two platforms, they are still building up a profile on users including your location, and are able to send and receive information over the internet – totally unnecessary for a flashlight.”•How can I keep my Android smartphone or tablet secure?
I live in France for six months of the year. I want to use various UK sites, but some don’t allow that because my ISP gives my PC a French IP address and the UK site then blocks my requests. Recently a friend recommended a VPN, which I’ve tried and found it works well. But I don’t know what’s going on.For example, if I use a VPN, is it bypassing the French ISP that’s providing my broadband? If I use a VPN or a proxy server, are there advantages to using it all the time or do I just use it when I’m trying to access the blocked UK services? And finally, what are the advantages and disadvantages of a VPN or a proxy server? What would you recommend?ChrisA VPN is a “virtual private network,” and VPNs were typically used by big businesses to protect their data. For example, a company might have two large offices in different cities, perhaps in different countries. Each office would have its own internal computer network. They could connect the two networks by leasing phone lines to create a larger private network, but that would be expensive. Instead, they use software to connect them across the public internet. All the data that flows between them is encrypted, and could sometimes take different routes, so the bitstream is described as a “virtual” rather than a physical network connection.A VPN can be set up in several different ways. The simplest type runs inside a web browser, at the application level. This is OK, but doesn’t protect any other things you do online, such as email and file transfer. The more comprehensive solution is a VPN that runs in the operating system and encrypts all your internet traffic. For more details, see my answer from May 2012:Using a VPN to protect your web use.A “proxy server” is just a server that acts as a gateway, for one purpose or another. For example, a business or a school might use a proxy server to filter internet traffic, and block unwanted sites. Some proxy servers cache (keep copies of) frequently-requested pages to save fetching them numerous times. Anonymous proxies can be used to hide your origins and thus increase your privacy. In the old days, beforeTOR (The Onion Router)became widely known, you could hide your PC by accessing a website via a chain of anonymous proxies. These were easy to find by searching forfree proxy servers.As you have discovered, either a VPN or an anonymous proxy can enable you to use websites that have geographical restrictions. If a site only serves people based in the UK, then you can usually access it via a proxy/VPN server that is located in the UK. If the website was in the US or Japan, then you’d choose a server in the US or Japan.Pros and cons of VPNsThe VPN’s main attraction is that it stops people watching what you’re doing on the net. Your school or company or local Wi-Fi hotspot provider will see a stream of encrypted traffic going to a remote server, but won’t be able to read it. This gets round attempts to block or censor websites such as Facebook and Hulu, or The Pirate Bay and similar torrent sites.Two things suggest that VPNs will become increasingly popular. First, there’s the growing use of the internet for banking and other financial transactions, though these should already be protected by the use of SSL encryption (using https:// addresses). Second, there’s the growth of government intrusion, including censorship and spying.The main drawbacks with VPNs are usually speed and -- with paid services -- cost. There’s a small overhead to the encryption and from going via an extra server, though you can only find the actual speed by trying it. If your ISP slows down certain kinds of traffic (“traffic shaping”), the VPN connection could even be faster. However, you will probably lose the benefits of any caches of popular content held locally by your ISP or on CDNs (content delivery networks) like the ones run by Akamai, Amazon and Microsoft.Although a VPN prevents your ISP from watching you, it doesn’t stop the VPN provider (unless you use your VPN to access a second VPN). If privacy is your main concern, choose your VPN provider carefully. SeeWhich VPN Services Take Your Anonymity Seriously? 2014 Editionat TorrentFreak. However,BitTorrent is not private, and even VPNs that defend your privacy may filter out torrent traffic in the UK and USA.VPN providers typically have lots of rules about things that you are not allowed to do, and they can be expected to protect their own businesses rather than yours. For example, HideMyAss, which runs a popular VPN, naturally complied with a UK court order that revealed the identity of aLulzSechacker. The company said in ablog post: “It is very naive to think that by paying a subscription fee to a VPN service you are free to break the law without any consequences.”In the future, some websites may be pressured, either by governments or by record companies and Hollywood studios, not to accept connections from VPNs.What to doIn general, it’s better to use a VPN than a free anonymiser or proxy server, if you are willing to pay for it. (A few have free services, includingCyberGhost.) Whether it’s better to use the VPN all the time depends on how well it performs, and how concerned you are about protecting your privacy.If the VPN is as fast or faster than your normal ISP connection, then it’s simpler to install a full VPN and use it all the time. However, I suspect it will be noticeably slower. If you’re not all that concerned about privacy, you can use the VPN to access banking and similar sites, and any websites or services where location is a problem. In this case, an in-browser VPN may be best.Running a VPN is not as complicated as it used to be, thanks partly to proprietary connection programs targeted at beginners. But when things go wrong, connection problems can be tricky to solve.
Tesco has launched its second generation of Android tablet, the Hudl2, with enhanced parental controls, a year after the surprise success of its first tablet, which was unveiled in September 2013.The Hudl2 tablet is larger, faster, and sleeker than the first Hudl, which was available for less than £120 and won acclaim for getting the basics right with a low price.The first Hudl sold 35,000 units in the first two days,400,000 in three months,and went on to sell 750,000 in a year. Tesco is undercutting rivals from Google, Samsung and Apple, hoping that the new device will bea high point in a year marked by poor Christmas sales, share price drops and anaccounting scandalthat has seen senior managers suspended and stock market value halve.“Cutting-edge technology doesn’t have to come with a big price tag,” said Michael Comish, group digital officer at Tesco. “Hudl2 may be affordable, but we’ve cut no corners when it comes to performance – this is our best tablet offering yet.”The Hudl2 has a full HD 1080p 8.3in screen, Dolby stereo speakers and two cameras: a five-megapixel rear camera and a 1.2-megapixel front-facing camera for video chats and selfies.“We know customers want easy, accessible technology that the whole family can use whether working, shopping, gaming, learning or just taking some time out,” said Comish.The tablet has an Intel Atom 1.83GHz quad-core processor, making the Hudl2 three times faster than the original tablet according to Tesco, as well as 16GB of storage with support for more via a microSD card slot. Tesco says the battery will last eight hours on a single charge.Eight colours will be available.Photograph: Tesco‘Child safety filter on Hudl2 is more parent friendly’A collection of Tesco apps have been added to Google’s Android 4.4.2 “KitKat”, including Blinkbox movies and TV, and Tesco’s shopping services. Tapping a small “T” in the top left of the screen opens up a list of Tesco services.Tesco partnered with parent support group the Parent Zone to develop parental controls to filter unsuitable content for children on the tablet, while allowing full access for parents. The pre-loaded app allows parents to set up profiles for up to seven users, tailoring each according to age and suitability of content. Timers can also be set for how long children can use the tablet.“The child-safety filter on Hudl2 is more parent-friendly than anything we have seen before,” said Vicki Shotbolt, chief executive of The Parent Zone. “Tesco really understands that making a tablet as family-friendly as possible needs to start at the design stage. Filters are never a total solution, which is why we have worked with Tesco to create helpful information for parents too.”The Hudl2 will be available for £129 in eight colours, both in store and online, from 9 October. As with the previous generation Hudl, Tesco customers can use their Clubcard loyalty vouchers to buy the tablet for £65.Tablets, tablets, tabletsThe total tablet market is forecast to grow by 19.4% in 2014 to 260.9m units globally,according to research firm IDC, but that is down from a growth rate of 51.6% in 2013, showing slowing demand.Research firm eMarketer expects there to be 12.3 million iPad users in the UK in 2014, representing 19.1% of the country’s total population. That figure also represents 50% of UK tablet users, which eMarketer estimates will be down from 59% share of all tablet users last year.The budget tablet market is still expanding in the UK, as those that would have considered a low-cost laptop or PC are able to pick up tablets for less than £100. Argos and Aldi have also launched own-brand tablets in attempts to capitalise on the demand.Whether the Hudl tablets make money for Tesco on their own is unknown, but Tesco says that 230,000 people a week access Tesco’s services through the Tesco button on their Hudl tablets.Tesco hopes that Hudl buyers will be more inclined to continue to use Tesco’s services, a similar model Amazon uses for its Kindle Fire tablets, which are sold close to cost price but are used to drive customers to Amazon shops and services.Trouble at TescoThe future of Tesco’s media arm, the on-demand video service Blinkbox, was also called into question this weekas reports indictedthat Dave Lewis, Tesco’s new chief executive, has kicked off a strategic review of the under-performing service intending to seek a buyer.Lewis is now dealing with the fallout from the accounting scandal, which saw Tesco admit that it had overestimated its first half profits by £250m last week, after a whistleblower had alerted it to over-optimistic accounting for payments from suppliers and business costs.The news caused the supermarket’s share price to plummet with the suspension of four senior managers. Tesco acknowledged on Wednesday that it would face an investigation by the Financial Conduct Authority. Tesco’s core supermarket business also has issues is losing market share under attack from discounters Aldi , Lidl and Morrisons.•Tesco Hudl tablet review: a lot of tablet for your money
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMarketers disagree whether tablets should be considered 'mobile' &gt;&gt; Adweek"I think that it is critical that we separate the phone from the tablet in [the mobile-ads] discussion," commented Richard Guest, president, U.S. operations at Tribal Worldwide. "The tablet is, most likely, the future of advertising because of its potential to serve as the lean-in, immersive companion device to traditional television screens."Kevin Scholl, Red Roof Inn digital director, had a starkly different outlook, contending that tablets are becoming carry-around devices that are replacing laptops and even, in some cases, smartphones—especially for travelers. "Just generally, consumers are turning to tablets as their go-to device for the Internet," he said.Though Lee Zalben, president of Peanut Butter &amp; Co., leaned more in the direction of Guest's take."While most online marketing analytics platforms report tablets as mobile devices distinct from desktop computers, it's clear that for many people, tablet use is functionally very different than smartphone use," Zalben said. "For example, while most people carry a smartphone while they shop for groceries, far less walk the aisles with a tablet at their side."Vendors stop developing touchscreen notebooks &gt;&gt; DigiTimesAs demand for touchscreen notebooks has been far weaker than expected, notebook vendors have stopped developing touch-enabled notebooks for the fourth quarter, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.While demand for smartphones and tablets continues to dampen notebooks' sales, notebook users still favor the mouse-and-keyboard mode. Touchscreen noteboos are even less appealing because of the fact that adding a touch panel means extra production cost and higher retail price for the device. The weak demand for touchscreen notebooks is greatly impacting Intel and Microsoft, both of which have been aggressively promoting the touch functions on notebooks, the sources noted.Notebook vendors will now only add touchscreens to their 2-in-1 devices and products such as ultrabooks, but gaming notebooks and traditional notebooks, will no longer see such a feature.Now behind a paywall, but clearly the Windows 8 dream of touchscreens everywhere hasn't been realised.Can wearable technology prevent murders? &gt;&gt; Co.ExistTo prevent deaths like Livingston Moore's [who was killed by her husband], Guard now runs a seven-person unit that's using GPS tracking devices to monitor abusers before their trials. His unit's unique with respect to the domestic violence focus, but the popularity of wearable devices in law enforcement has exploded over the last decade. Most states use electronic monitoring for convicts on probation or parole, but in recent years, state governments have begun passing laws that apply GPS tracking to defendants as they await domestic or intimate partner violence case hearings. A 2012 Department of Justice report showed that 41% of police departments that already use electronic monitoring before trials have started applying the technology in domestic violence or IPV cases.Law enforcement embraces technology, good things follow. Now see the next link.Cops are handing out spyware to parents — with zero oversight &gt;&gt; WIREDMere days after a government crackdown on a spyware manufacturer comes the startling revelation that law enforcement agencies have been purchasing commercial spyware themselves and handing it out to the public for free.Police departments around the country have been distributing thousands of free copies of spyware to parents to monitor their children's activity, a fact that's come to light in the wake of afederal indictment this week against the maker of one commercial spyware tool on wiretapping charges.Tile is coming to Android! &gt;&gt; Tile's blogTile is the small attachable device which uses low-energy Bluetooth to advertise its location:We've been working on our Android app for over a month and are currently hiring more Android engineers. (If you know some, send them our way!) Launching Tile for Android is one of the top priorities of the company and we are racing as fast as we can to develop our app.The first Android phone Tile will support is the Samsung Galaxy S5. We chose to start with the Galaxy S5 because it is the most widely used phone worldwide that also provides the minimum requirements for the experience we want to provide to our users. Once we launch on the Galaxy S5, we will quickly follow with versions for the other top Android phones.Of course, the big question is "When?" We have an extremely aggressive internal date that we are developing towards as fast as we can. Taking a lesson from our crowdfunding campaign, we will announce a formal launch date in the near future once we're confident that we can hit that date.In the meantime, those who have a Tile (or two or..) will find that old oneswon't work with the iPhone 6 or 6 Plus. It's not clear whether a firmware update in the future can fix that, or if they'll just need to be swapped.Telecom sector 'its own worst enemy' – Kroes &gt;&gt; Light Reading[Outgoing European Commissioner for the Digital Agenda Neelie] Kroes took to the stage and fired thunderbolts into the crowd, starting her speech - "Adapt or die: What I would do if I ran a telecom company" - by noting that "sometimes I think the telecoms sector is its own worst enemy," before adding that the telecom sector's representatives in the room were "probably all looking forward to the very near future ... when you won't have to put up with me anymore."Cue uncomfortable shuffling in seats...She told the telcos that they "have to change" and be ready for a world set to be dominated by the cloud, the Internet of Things (IoT), big data and 5G. "What is the telecoms sector's relationship to that digital future?" she asked. "Will you be leading us there? Or will you be dragged along behind, against your will, resisting until the last?"Ooh, that's a tough one.Ello and consumer-friendly business models &gt;&gt; stratecheryBen Thompson:OK, so how exactly will Ello make money? Here's what it says:Very soon we will begin offering special features to our users. If we create a special feature that you like, you can choose to pay a very small amount of money to add it to your Ello account forever. We believe that everyone is unique and that we all want and need different things from a social network. So, we are going to offer all sorts of ways for users to customize their Ello experience.I have no idea what these features might be – a mobile app and an API would be good places to start – but the gist is clear: to get the optimal Ello experience you had better pay up, but only once, and you'll have it forever.This is a terrible idea.Here's how this policy will play out in practice:• The initial experience of using Ello will be a poor one because you won't have access to all of the features• A poor initial experience will lead to high rates of abandonment among the few friends you manage to convince to try the service•You will complain to Ello and they will have exactly zero incentive to make things better.His analysis of the different business models open to software rings very true - and, arguably, explains the problem that mobile games companies are having.Samsung's days of massive smartphone-driven earnings over on iPhone, Xiaomi challenge: analysts &gt;&gt; Financial ExpressSamsung Electronics Co Ltd's profit is seen weakening further in the third-quarter, underscoring the downturn in its market-leading smartphone business and piling pressure on the firm to deliver a revamped product lineup.Analysts forecast the world's largest smartphone maker, which is due to give its July-September earnings guidance on or around 7 October, to show its worst operating profit in nearly three years, with a slow recovery seen starting in the fourth quarter.And for the first time in more than three years, Samsung's semiconductor business could bring in more profits in the quarter than its erstwhile cash-cow handset business, some analysts say."What's expected now is for the company to hit bottom and gradually recover, but we have now seen smartphone-related earnings peak," Korea Investment Trust Management fund manager Baik Jae-yer said.The mean of analysts' forecasts is a 45% fall to 5.6trn won (about $5.28bn). Samsung's semiconductor division last generated more profit than the mobile division in the second quarter of 2011, when Samsung shipped a total of just under 70m phones (of which 17m were smartphones).How does the iOS 8 Time-lapse feature work? &gt;&gt; Studio NeatDan Provost:On Apple'swebsite, they claim that in time-lapse mode, "iOS 8 does all the work, snapping photos at dynamically selected intervals." When I first read this, I thought they were doing something super fancy, like monitoring the frame for movement and only snapping a picture when something changes. On deeper reflection, this would be a bad idea. Time-lapse videos look best when they are buttery smooth, and dynamically selecting intervals in this fashion would create a jittery and jerky video. So what does Apple mean by "dynamically selected intervals"?Turns out, what Apple is doing is quite simple, and indeed, pretty clever. I ran several tests, shooting time-lapse videos for various durations. You can view a spreadsheet of all the tests I ranhere.What Apple means by "dynamically selected intervals" is they are doubling the speed of the time-lapse and taking half as many pictures per second as the recording duration doubles. Sounds complex, but it's actually very simple.As he points out,"The result of this method is that anything you shoot will generally end up being between 20 and 40 seconds long, an ideal shareable length. Also worth mentioning, the resulting video is always 30 fps, the standard framerate for video."Neat.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
