Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Faced with Google's rampant success and dominance of the online world, legions of experts have tried over the years to dissect what makes it such a unique and powerful company.Is it because its engineers famously get 20% of their time to develop their own projects? Is it the influence of the 'triumvirate' of top executives? Or is it that Google simply understands the future better than the rest of the world?Ask Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer why he thinks Google is the internet's most powerful company, however, and he'll offer a straightforward alternative: it got there first.Speaking at theSMX West conferencein California on Tuesday, the man in charge of rival search engine Bing said that Google's success today was not tangibly linked to the company's culture, but simply spun out of the fact that it became successful in web search before its rivals."The number one thing that Google benefits from in search is that they did it right, first," he said. "There's a value to incumbency.""You can ascribe these things to things like culture, but it's never clear which came first - incumbency or culture," he added.Playing up Microsoft's own culture and staff, Ballmer admitted that the software giant was late to produce a mature, usable search engine technology - despite launching the first MSN Search website as long ago as 1998. But with Bing slowly growing market share in the United States, he said that his eventual goal was to become the dominant engine."We've got great long-term optimism," he said. "Tomorrow's goal is to gain a few points, a tenth here, a tenth there - just keep working and working."His comments about culture will be seen as a sideswipe at Google, which has built a reputation based in part on its attempt to build a culture diametrically opposed to Microsoft's.But with Bing attempting to succeed in search, and Google launching its ownweb browsers,operating systemsand office applications, the two companies have come into increasing conflict.Most recently, Google claimed thatcomplaints made to the European Commission about anti-competitive behaviourhad been encouraged by Microsoft. That was exacerbated on Friday when the company took theunusual step of warning its rivalthat it could face antitrust problems in the future.Ballmer told the audience of search engine professionals and advertisers that as an old hand with antitrust allegations - gathered during the company's run-ins with theUS governmentandEuropean regulators- he would not let up the pressure on his rival."As in our case, a lot of times the initial complaints come from a competitor. We're not being silent in this case, so we get involved," he said. "There are lots of places where it's very hard to break through. I would love it if advertisers would share with us their experiences on Google."He also scotched rumours that Microsoft could spend on purchasing either Facebook -in which it has previously invested- or Twitter, saying that both were already partners with the company and had more value as independent businesses."In some senses, as an independent [Twitter] has a lot of value and credibility - would they have that same credibility with their users if they were captive? Not clear," he said.
&bull; It's been a strange few weeks atActivision, which yesterday confirmed that the two top executives at Infinity Ward - the makers of the best-selling Call of Duty franchise -had left the company. Lots of weird mentions of "insubordination" and "litigation" but very little detail, letting a string of rumours, anonymous reports and speculation to run riot. More to come, surely.&bull; One woman who doesn't let people's imaginations get away from them isYahooboss Carol Bartz, who made atypically bullish appearanceon American business news network CNBC yesterday. Suggesting that "people don't like negative news" she pushed the idea of Yahoo as a sleeping giant and said she would have accepted Microsoft's takeover if she had been in charge at the time. But she may, however, end up regretting a sly dig at rival Facebook: "What's their revenue?" she snarked. The answer, it turns out,may be more than $1bn in 2010.&bull; The latest episode of the Guardian'sTech Weeklypodcast isnow available. Aleks hosts a smorgasbord of discussions to the table, including the rise of co-working, the trouble with YouTube - and an interview with the man who started the ball rolling on theMicrosoft's browser ballot, Opera co-founder Jon von Tetzchner.Listen here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Yes - and perhaps even more than that,according to new figures.New projections suggest that the company made as much as $635m in 2009 - around 15% higher than previously estimated - and could be on track to rise to around $1.1bn by the end of this year.The numbers come fromInside Facebook, a favourite source of information for the site's army of advertisers and developers, and whose editor Justin Smith has given us his thoughts on anumber of occasions.Inside Facebook usually has fairly accurate data on the inner workings of the company's business - and this time it's suggesting that  a number of crucial moves mean is more or less on target to continue its trend of doubling revenues each year.But how is Facebook going to manage this incredible feat?We've talked before about where Facebook's money comes from- and explored the somewhat surprising fact that it actually makes money at all, given the fact that many people see it as an unprofitable folly.In fact, with more than 400m users and enormous amounts of activity, the site actually has its eggs in lots of baskets, including virtual goods, a deal with Microsoft and straightforward brand advertising. Logging in today I see ads for the movie 2012 and mobile phone network AT&amp;T, for example.That's all good, and brand ads have been doing pretty well for the company (not least because they can be incredibly targeted thanks to the vast amount of information Facebook users hand over, information which is valuable to advertisers).According to Inside Facebook, though, the fastest growing part of the company's market is "performance advertising" - those companies that use ads in Facebook to drive the use of their own products, such as playing avirtual game like Farmville.It's clear to me that 2010 is amake or break year for Facebook, with a chance for the company to really push forward and become a genuine force - despite a variety ofongoingcontroversies. The only question, if it's making more than a billion dollars a yearwill investors push harder to float on the stock market?
Games giant Activision has shaken up production of its best-selling Call of Duty franchise amid claims of insubordination from senior executives - marking the second major change at the publisher in under a month.In a terse announcement on Tuesday, the company said that it would be creating a new unit to develop future titles in the series, potentially replacing games studio Infinity Ward, which it bought in 2003.It also confirmed reports that Infinity Ward's most senior executives, Jason Ward and Vince Zampella, had left the company.In a regulatory filing, Activision cited "breaches of contract and insubordination by two senior employees at Infinity Ward" and said that "this matter is expected to involve the departure of key personnel and litigation".The company has refused to comment further on the issue, and has remained silent about reports thatsecurity staff were called into Infinity Ward's Californian headquarters on Monday.The reshuffle took industry insiders by surprise, coming just months after the latest installment of Call of Duty - Modern Warfare 2 - became the biggest entertainment launch in history by making $310m on its first day.Call of Duty - a 3D combat simulation spanning world war two and more modern conflicts - has been one of the most successful video game franchises in history, bringing in more than $3bn in sales since the first title came out in 2003.The release last year ofModern Warfare 2, the latest instalment, was hailed as amajor eventand sold almost1.8m copies in the UK in its first week alone. Such was the title's influence, that other publishers took the unprecedented step of pushing back their own releases until after Christmas in order to avoid being crushed.Despite these successes, however, the game has not been without its critics. Modern Warfare 2, in particular, came in for scrutinywhen it emerged that one mission allows players to join a gang of Russian terroristsas they attack an airport.The leaking of footage led a string of protesters, including anti-games MP Keith Vaz, to say the game left them "shocked" and "concerned" about the levels of violence.The abrupt decision to change control of Call of Duty is not the only sign of turmoil at the company, a gigantic games conglomerate formed by2008's £10bn mergerbetween Californian publisher Activision and the games unit of French media company Vivendi.Last month the head of the company's Guitar Hero franchise, Dan Rosensweig,departed after less than a year in charge.Reports of difficulties between senior executive have been circulating for some time, with West tellingOfficial PlayStation Magazine last yearthat "we had to fight for everything" in developing new versions of the game.Although replacing the producers of a major franchise marks a significant risk for Activision, industry analysts suggested the company may have been working to prevent future conflict."A greater risk would be whether or not the two heads end up taking more talent away [from Activision], or the whole team leaves," said Shawn Milne of Janney Capital Markets.
Aleks Krotoski, Bobbie Johnson and Charles Arthur dig into this week's top stories across the web, including the optimism that Opera co-founder Jon von Tetzchner has about thenew web browser ballotthat Microsoft is offering its users, the latest on theItalian scandalthat's got Google's top brass in the dock and Twitter'snascent advertising-based business modelthat's starting to rise to the surface.Special guest Elizabeth Varley, co-founder of forthcoming London coworking spaceTechHuboffers her insight into the growing popularity of these new shared office facilities across the UK, and we hear from Andy McMillan, founder of Belfast's most recent coworking space,Core. There's some good information atcoworking.pbworks.com.All this, plus all the feedback from across the social web - including a run down of the people you'd like us to invite to our live Tech Weekly recording at the Science Museum on Tuesday 23 March. Add your suggestions below.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Apple issuing the Taiwanese handset maker HTC, alleging that it has infringed 20 patents relating to "the iPhone's user interface, underlying architecture and hardware".Among the patents that Apple alleges have been infringed are a number relating to touchscreen interfaces – for which the iPhone has become the best-known, though it was not the first, mobile device."We can sit by and watch competitors steal our patented inventions, or we can do something about it. We've decided to do something about it," said Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, in a statement. "We think competition is healthy, but competitors should create their own original technology, not steal ours."It is thought that a key element that triggered the lawsuit is that in February HTC released handsets which use "pinch-to-zoom" functionality resembling that of the iPhone.Apple has filed the suit in the US courts in Delaware, Maryland, but also with the US International Trade Commission (ITC), which has the power to halt imports of products. That would stymie HTC and Google, whose free Android mobile operating system is built into a growing number of HTC phones, and has made significant inroads into the burgeoning smartphone market in recent months.But the move was received with surprise in the technology community. "I don't fault Apple for acquiring patents. They have to, for defensive purposes, given the current laws,"notedJohn Siracusa, a journalist at Ars Technica who has followed Apple closely for years. "But using them offensively sucks."The use of the ITC could be key for Apple. Arecent analysisfound that where lawsuits are filed both with US district courts and the ITC, plaintiffs succeed in the latter more often than the former, by 58% to 35%. That means Apple is roughly 50% more likely to win the case with the ITC – and so could block HTC imports of newer handsets.HTC indicated that it was completely surprised by the case, and had not even received the formal complaint from Apple when the American company announced it publicly.Apple has submitted more than 700 pages of exhibits relating to its patents to the court in Delaware, Maryland, where it is filing the case. It cites a number of handsets, including the Nexus One handset powered by Google's Android mobile operating system, and also other handsets which use Microsoft's Windows Mobile system. HTC has in the past been the largest manufacturer of Windows Mobile handsets – although it has recently shifted its allegiance to Google's Android, which is free and has captured significant market share since being launched in 2008.Apple has specified 10 patents in the Delaware filing, and a different 10 in the ITC filing.The case is thought to be the first in which Apple has taken the first step in suing a rival mobile phone company. Although it has an ongoing patent dispute with Nokia, the Finnish mobile handset maker, the first move there was by Nokia. Apple has since countersued. The case is ongoing.
Had a "missed call" recently from an 076 number? It wasn't - it was actually part of a new scam, warns PhonePayPlus, the premium phone number regulator.A number of people have already fallen victim to the scam, judging by thewhocallsmesite, which aims to offer reverse lookups to landlines for calls apparently coming from non-geographical numbers.The tale told by bacon98 at the site is quite typical: "No idea why I've called this number twice but it's not a normal mobile number as I've been charged 42.6p+vat per call &amp; I don't know whose number it is!!!"The structure of the scam is simple enough: the scammers buy up a range of numbers through a network operator, then use automated systems to make "ghost calls" to a huge range of numbers, never completing the call. You get a "call missed" message, call it back, and the network operator charges you the cost of the call - which, because it's ostensibly to a radiopager, costs very much more than a landline or even mobile call. Under the contract, which it thinks is legitimate (after all, perhaps someone set up a company which needed to call lots of radiopagers in a hurry), the network operator then passes a large cut of the proceeds on to the scammers - who soon after disappear with the loot. Then they pop up again a few weeks or months later running a similar scam.PhonePayPlus, formerly known as Icstis, which regulates the £1bn premium call industry in the UK, warned today that it will take "swift action against the misuse of 076 numbers". Which would seem to be swift action against any use of 076 numbers to leave missed calls. Radiopagers, of course, can't make calls.As PhonePayPlus explains, those numbers, reserved for radiopaging services, are not allowed to be used to provide a controlled premium rate service and generate revenue.But, it says,"Unfortunately, there is evidence that 076 numbers are being used for the same kind of "missed call" scams that have previously operated on the 070 number range. "Colour us unsurprised: premium rate number scammers are unrelenting in their efforts to whirl up and down the phone number stack in search of niches they can exploit for profit.PhonepayPlus says that it "successfully tackled 070 scams through prompt and effective enforcement action, reducing the number of complaints by 69% in the last quarter" and that it "will take a similarly robust approach to any scams operating on 076 numbers and will fulfil its duty to regulate any service that operates, or appears to operate, as a controlled premium rate service, regardless of whether the numbers involved are designated as premium rate in the Ofcom Numbering Plan."Of course, as with all premium-rate number scams, questions have to be asked too about the network operators that provide the numbers to the scammers. If PhonePayPlus finds them in breach of practice, it can fine and/or ban them (and frequently has).Paul Whiteing, chief executive of PhonepayPlus, said: "we will consider using our Emergency Procedure to shut down any service that is operating a "missed call" scam, pending a full investigation. We will have no tolerance for 076 scams that harm both consumers and damage the industry."So is there an 076 number in your "missed calls" list? And did you call it back?
Google has releaseda new beta version of its Chrome browser, which is currently growing its market share, according to a usage-based tracker. The new features of this Windows-only version 4.1 include more advanced privacy controls, more control of things like cookies on a site-by-site basis, and what Google calls the "seamless integration of translation functionality". If you already have Chrome installed, the beta replaces the current version, though you may not notice much difference.Chrome's "Under the Bonnet" section has tabs that let you (separately) block all images, JavaScript, plug-ins and pop-ups, though it's not particularly handy if you want to toggle those settings.TheGoogle Chrome blog postthat introduced the beta has a video demo of the translation feature. Briefly, if you arrive at a page in a foreign language, Chrome just asks if you want it translated using Google Translate.In the UK, Google says there are new extensions from TfL, TicketMaster, SeatWave, Heat, Empire, and others. Invisible Hand has one (not tried) that "searches for cheaper prices on products as you browse".Chrome is doing pretty well, going byNet Applications' browser market share numbers for February 2010. Chrome use increased 0.4 percentage points to 5.6% while Firefox dipped 0.2 points to 24.2% and Safari slipped almost 0.1 to 4.45%. The numbers may well be arguable, but Firefox has now lost share three months in a row from a peak of 24.7% in November 2009. That's not a good trend. However, all of IE's rivals could benefit from the"browser choice screen"now being shown to many European users.
Karaoke Revolution? That's a bold claim. Just how different can a karaoke game possibly be? In the case of Konami's latest singing title, the answer is "not very".In fact, the revolutionary aspect appears to be its compatibility with the PlayStationEye, which allows the player to copy their image into the game. It's a neat enough touch but revolutionary? Hardly, particularly when elsewhere it's all business as usual.On the plus side, Konami's title does reward decent singing. Blowing on the microphone scores poorly, getting the pitch and timing right scores highly. You won't get rewarded for Mariah Carey warbles and your own jazz interpretations, but hit the marks and your points will soar.There is also a decent range of songs here, although it's slightly biased towards the younger market/current chart hits, with the likes of Katy Perry, La Roux, Lady Gaga (costumes optional), Pink and the larynx-threatening Kings of Leon making up most of the 75. However, they rub shoulders with the likes of Bowie's Space Oddity, Chris Isaak's Wicked Game and A-Ha's The Sun Always Shines on TV – although the latter two feature falsetto moments which older gentlemen may wish to remember before they make their selection.On that level, Karaoke Evolution is a good value crowd-pleaser for those who like that sort of thing. There are other positives too, with slick character and venue creation modes. It's relatively easy to vary the existing characters or create your own, for example, middle-aged, chunky, bald, beardy journalist-turned-rock god, or build your ideal combo of speaker rigs and lighting effects.Unfortunately, it's also clear that Konami spent more on these aspects than they did the main menus – which we'll charitably call functional – and the actual animation. When you're up against tidily observed rivals such as Lego Rock Band, out-of-synch Zippy-esque open mouth / close mouth animation doesn't really cut it.Career mode isn't terribly impressive, either. While it's more all-encompassing than you might fear and doesn't rely on improving your singing ability – which probably makes it quite realistic – the odd challenges aren't particularly compelling.In short, then, Karaoke Revolution works best when it turns your console into a karaoke machine; much like its various rivals in fact. It's not great but it's certainly not awful and, at £30 or below for 75 songs, it is, at least, reasonable value. Karaoke Revolution? Hardly, but then Karaoke Same Old Same Old probably wouldn't shift as many units.
It's a day for scams. Think you've been given the chance to sign up as an iPad tester via Facebook? No you haven't - it's a scam which actually signs you up to a premium rate mobile service, warns the security company Sophos."Facebook pages with names such as "iPad Researchers Wanted - Get An iPad Early And Keep It!" and "The Mega iPad Giveaway!" prey on the public's desire to own a free iPad," notes Sophos.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos, hasexplained the scam on his blog.Here's how it works. The scam pages typically take their intended victims through a three step process:1) "Become a Fan" of the page; 2) "Invite your friends" to also become fans of the page, and take part in the "special promotion"[they might not stay your friends for that long afterwards - CA]; 3) "Claim" or "Apply" for your prize.Some of the pages pretend to have thousands of positive comments from other Facebook users claiming that the offer is genuine, Sophos notes. And it's also running on Twitter - so beware there of people or accounts offering "Free Apple iPad!" or similar. (The key, among other points, is that Apple hasn't actually begun selling the iPad yet: it won't do that until April.)When the victim applies for the prize they are typically taken to an online quiz, and their mobile phone number is requested so they can be sent the results."As if inviting all of your friends to participate in a scheme that you haven't properly investigated wasn't bad enough, the biggest mistake of all is to hand over your mobile phone number," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos. "You will be signed up for a premium rate service, costing you in the region of $10 every week, until you unsubscribe. The scammers who created the fake iPad Facebook pages are undoubtedly skimming off some of this money by bringing new unwitting subscribers to the cellphone service."Cluley notes: "The good news is that after I alerted Facebook's security team about this page they disabled it very promptly. However, the bad news is that there are many other similar Facebook pages being created on the social network designed to scam unsuspecting users."Not all of them pretend to offer an iPad, so be on your guard for other scams too. The most important thing to remember is to not invite your friends to any Facebook page or application until you have thoroughly researched what it's about. Furthermore, you should never be tempted to hand over your mobile phone number to some daft internet quiz."There's also a video showing how the scam works. The lesson: be wary. And stop wanting free stuff. There's always a price to pay.
A new era in web browsing was kicked off by the European Commission on Monday, as Microsoft was forced to allow users of its Windows operating system to choose different programs to surf the internet.The effect will certainly be to broaden competition in the market – which should boost innovation, says Opera, the Norwegian company which filed the original complaint that led to the action.From this week, users in the UK and the rest of Europe who use Windows XP, Windows Vista or Windows 7 and have Microsoft's Internet Explorer (IE) as their default browser will be sent to a screen offering a choice of 12 browsers, including IE. The top five by market share – IE, Mozilla's Firefox, Google's Chrome, Apple's Safari and Opera will be presented first, in random order.The so-called "ballot screen" follows the settlement of an anti trust case by the European Commission, following a complaint filed by Opera in 2007. That alleged that Microsoft was illegally bundling its own browser into Windows, giving IE an unfair advantage, because users have to actively download other browsers. The claim is similar to that which led Microsoft to be prosecuted by the US Justice Department in the late 1990s.But where the US later settled the case without any substantial penalty for Microsoft, the EC has taken more direct action.Jon von Tetzchner, the co-founder and chief executive of Opera, told the Guardian that the move would certainly give Opera more users, and would be good for the web as a whole."We will see people move away from Internet Explorer," he said. "It's very clear that when people are offered a choice of browsers, they will try others out and will choose to use others [rather than IE]."IE dominates the browser market because of its inclusion in Windows, the most widely-used PC operating system.The versions of IE released since 2000 have about 62% of the market. Firefox has 24%, with Chrome, Safari and Opera having around 5%, 4% and 2.5%.Microsoft's browser has been the target of criticism for its failure to adopt emerging standards — and of repeated attacks by hackers who realised that because of its wide usage, any flaw they exploit will affect millions of users.The main beneficiaries of the ballot are likely to be Google, Apple and the Mozilla Foundation, the makers respectively of Chrome, Safari and Firefox.
Sony says it has fixed the problem that bugged "millions" (&copy; Metro newspaper) of PS3 users. (Update:as Charax points out in the comments, Sony is saying that the problem isresolved–notthat it hasfixedit.)But it's not saying precisely what caused the problem - although all the signs point to defective software in a clock system.On the official PS3 blogit says:"We are aware that the internal clock functionality in the PS3 units other than the slim model, recognized the year 2010 as a leap year. Having the internal clock date change from February 29 to March 1 (both GMT), we have verified that the symptoms are now resolved and that users are able to use their PS3 normally. If the time displayed on the XMB is still incorrect, users are able to adjust time settings manually or via the internet. If we have new information, we will update you through thePlayStation.BlogorPlayStation.com."Wait - the software thought that 2010 is a leap year? Truly that's some terrible software. Unsurprisingly, there are more than 100 comments on the post, though they mostly seem to be expressions of relief.And for those who were worried that they'd lost trophies (as was happening yesterday), one commenter says "the local trophy collection is blanked for any disk game you started while this happened and you cannot synch (PSN games seem to be spared). Get a new one and the trophy list will be refreshed. If you already 100%'d a game your trophies still show up in the compare list so no worries."So, basically, your trophies weren't wiped - the problem was that the clock fault meant the PS3 couldn't join the network and verify itself.Yet it looks as though Sony might have fallen victim to a form of the 2010 bug - whichearly this year hit 30m German shoppers, because the systems they were using couldn't believe that there was ever going to be a year beyond 2009.We await details of precisely how Sony is going to fix this - specifically, whether this problem will arise in 2012 (whichisa leap year). Of course by 2014 we'll all be on PS4s... won't we?In the meantime, is anyone finding that they can't get onto the PSNetwork, or that they have lost trophies?Update:Ah, we wouldn't have believed it had actually happened if there weren't a Downfall video. Enjoy.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Sean Maloney, executive vice president of Intel. Photograph: Martin Godwin/GuardianThe British executive tipped to take over the helm at chip maker Intel is taking extended medical leave after suffering a stroke.Sean Maloney, 53 - who heads the sales division of the world's biggest computer chip company - became unwell over the weekend, the company said. It added that he has an "excellent" chance of making a full recovery, and is expected to return to work in several months."I visited with Sean and his sense of humour and determination to return to work fill the room," said Paul Otellini, the company's president and chief executive. "We wish him a speedy recovery and look forward to his return."After an early career in programming, the Londoner joined Intel in 1982 and spent several years working for the company's European arm. He then rocketed through the ranks after being handpicked to be an assistant to Andy Grove, the former Intel boss credited with turning it into one of the world's most powerful technology companies. Since then he has been widely tipped as a future successor to Otellini, and is responsible for overseeing sales and marketing around the world.Based at the company's headquarters in California, Maloneytold the Guardian last yearthat he spends around 80% of his time travelling.
Yesterday's PS3 news rather overshadowed everything else so I missed this rant from ex-DICE boss Fredrik Liliegrin. It's fair to say that Liliegrin is not a fan of the Wii.I would describe it as a Virus, that doesn't stick. Everyone comes home, it's a toy, people have got to realize the Wii is a toy, not an entertainment focused product.And there's more..Liliegrin then argues that Wii owners simply don't use their consoles that much.People come home, someone, they play Wii for a bit, feel it's really cool, blah blah blah, they go out and buy one. Ask people how often they play the Wii, that are not the core game consumer that buys one because they have an Xbox 360 and a Wii or a PlayStation 3 and a Wii. The people that only own the Wii, ask that consumer how often they use their machine. They just don't use it, it was cool, but they're not gamers, so they put it away. Other than the Wii Fit phenomenon that helped a lot of people get a nice cutie voice telling that they're fat and need to go work out, they need to find other alternatives.With "hardcore" games like Mad World and now seemingly Silent Hill Shattered Memories failing to do anything in the charts he may have a point. Alternatively it could all be a subtle way for Liliegrin to drum up hype for his old company'snew Battlefield game. Anyway, what do you think? Is the Wii a "virus" and a toy? And even if so, is that a bad outcome for Nintendo and the wider audience they have acquired?
&bull; After aseries of problemscaused by abug in the PlayStation 3's clock,Sonynow says it has fixed the problem. And, in a fairly uninspiring piece of corporate response, it has rolled out the briefest sorry: merely saying"we apologise for any inconvenience this may have caused".&bull; Keep your eyes peeled for the fireworks around theDigital Economy bill- best known as the home of the three strikes rule for alleged file sharers. Lord Mandelson, who has been pushing the legislation through, wasn't at the House of Lords yesterday during the reading of the bill - but that didn't stopcritics attacking the 'extraordinary degree of lobbying'around it, and accusing ministers of rushing the process. The reading is expected to continue on Wednesday.&bull; AndGooglecontinued its latest acquisition spree bysnapping up online image editor Picnik- likely to get folded into Picasa, by the looks of things. The particularly interesting part of this is that Picnik says it has doubled in size in the past year, has been profitable for some time, and that it chose purchase by Googlebecause of a "culture fit". If this rate of buyouts continues, surely the number of people working for companies Google has acquired will soon overtake the number who don't.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The government's plans to disconnect file sharers from the internet have come in for heavy criticism in parliament, amid claims that ministers are attempting to rush legislation through without proper oversight.In a marathon House of Lords debate over theDigital Economy bill, several members launched into strong criticisms of the proposals and said there had been an "extraordinary degree of lobbying" from copyright holders to try and push them into law quickly.One of the most pressing issues is the so-called"three strikes rule"- which would allow anyone accused three times of copyright infringement to have their internet connection "suspended"for an unspecified period.As well as concerns that the process does not give those accused of illegal activity proper legal recourse, some also fear that such a rulecould hurt organisations such as libraries, internet cafes and universitieswhich offer free internet access.Responding to such claims, Lord Young, who is sponsoring the bill alongside Lord Mandelson, said that nobody could be excluded from the law - and that business and organisations should take "proportionate and reasonable measures" to prevent illegal activity."No one wants to see libraries or universities the subject of court action or technical measures if—I stress this—they are ever introduced," he said."No one wants to see legitimate businesses suffer as a consequence of the actions of their customers but, equally, it cannot be right that they are totally excluded from the provisions of the bill."He suggested that all those potentially affected by the law should issue terms of service which placed the liability for file sharing on the user, rather than the wireless hotspot owner. He added that technical solutions could be used to block high bandwidth activity - such as downloading movies - or to screen out file sharing applications.A number of other concerns were also raised during the debate, including the news that the government does not intend to pass the bill to the Office of the Information Commissioner, Britain's privacy watchdog, for oversight.Lord Young said this was an unnecessary step - despite serious concerns about privacy implications of some - because it would simply cause more delays to prevent further delays in passing it into law."Formally requiring the information commissioner to approve the code is not necessary and could add significantly to the time for the approval process," he said.This angered a number of those present, including Lord Puttnam - who accused the government of attempting to rush through legislation without giving it time for proper discussion. Such a move, he said, could result in the production of laws which would later require a hasty rewrite."What will end up leaving this chamber... and going to the Commons is a bill that none of us is particularly proud of," he said. "It will be a spatchcock that does part of the work it was intended to do but not all of it."He also mentioned the "extraordinary degree of lobbying" that those involved in drafting had come up against, amid rising tension and conflicts between creative industries, internet service providers and consumer rights groups."I am absolutely convinced that, within the next two or three years, there will be another bill before this house which will be created to deal with the deficiencies of the present bill," he said.Critics of the bill have regularly attacked it since the firstfirst put forward last November, but they remain concerned that the reading the Lords could fail to erase all the problems.The Open Rights Group, which campaigns for consumer rights online, said that some of the most controversial elements of the bill looked set to be removed, but the situation around disconnection and open wireless access remained unsatisfactory."We have won some significant concessions,"saidJim Killock, ORG's executive director.Meanwhile, internet service provider TalkTalk, which has been vociferous in its opposition to the plans, has said it remains wholly opposed to the scheme.Last weekit said that the government was playing a game of "semantics"."The Digital Economy bill will give rights holders the power to act as a judge and jury, allowing them to demand that ISPs disconnect their customers without having to prove their case in a court of law," it said.The reading of the bill will continue this week.
Google has announced that it has bought Picnik, one of the early online photo-editing sites, for an undisclosed sum. Picnik was started in Seattle in 2005, and now has a staff of 20. Part of its appeal is that it lets users edit their photos online then post them to social networking sites such as Facebook and MySpace. It uses a "freemium" model where the basic service is free and users are asked to subscribe for access to more advanced features.Picnik is the third company that Google has bought this year -- the others were search companies Aardvark and reMail -- and brings the total to more than 60, according to a list onWikipedia. Its best acquisitions include Pyra Labs (Blogger), Picasa (photo album), Keyhole (Google Maps, Google Earth), Android (phone software), YouTube (video), JotSpot (web apps), DoubleClick (advertising) and FeedBurner. Somehow it missed Flickr.The Official Google Blogsays: "We're not announcing any significant changes to Picnik today, though we'll be working hard on integration and new features. As well, we'd like to continue supporting all existing Picnik partners so that users will continue to be able to add their photos from other photo sharing sites, make edits in the cloud and then save and share to all relevant networks."Picnik's blogsays: "What does this mean for Picnik? It means we can think BIG. Google processes petabytes of data every day, and with their worldwide infrastructure and world-class team, it is truly the best home we could have found. Under the Google roof we'll reach more people than ever before, impacting more lives and making more photos more awesome."The New York Times's Bits blognotes: "This is not the first company that Picnik's chief executive, Jonathan Sposato, has sold to Google. His first sale was a product called Phatbits that became part of the Google Gadgets platform."I wrote about Picnik in theNetbytes column in January 2008, when it was both reasonably powerful and very easy to use. It's also in our list of100 essential websitesfor 2010.The competition includes the powerful and more professionalAviarysuite, andPhotoshop.com, an online version of Adobe Photoshop Express, among others.
The BBC has reportedly started using the SWF Verification routine -- aimed at protecting copyright content -- with its iPlayer streaming video service. It could be an attempt to stop third-party software from downloading videos, which usually only last for seven days. However, it has the side effect of dropping the video stream after one or two minutes when used with unauthorised players. This includesopen source media players such as XBMC.H-Onlinenotes that: "Some open source plug-ins get around SWF verification by transparently dropping the stream, reopening it and seeking to where it was before the 'ping' came in, though this is potentially punishing on servers."The BBC supported Linux (OpenSuSE and Ubuntu) and Mac OS X by creatinga desktop version of the iPlayer that uses Adobe AIR(Adobe Integrated Runtime) software. Windows users can also install it.iPlayer content reaches a wide audience not just via PCs but through the Nintendo Wii and Sony PlayStation 3 games consoles and some mobile phones. But while the BBC aspires to universal access, it doesn't guarantee to deliver all its content to everyone in the UK (DAB radio coverage being particularly limited) let alone deliver it in the format that any particular group of users may choose for their own reasons.However, as is often the case, the BBC's move may have unforeseen consequences.According to a report in The Register:Reg reader, Tom Rouse, who alerted us to the SWF verification tweak to the iPlayer, wondered if the BBC was simply satisfying the demands of Adobe's content licence desires."It would seem that this move is likely [to] impact users of platforms not supported by Flash, with an unsatisfactory implementation (eg too resource intensive for the platform, with video tearing, etc.), or those who just wish to use an open source player," he said."Ironically, third party utilities that download files (which presumably the verification is there to prevent) still work fine. It is possible that this move will actually increase the occurrence of downloading files which will not be time limited, or torrenting of copyrighted material."A spokeswoman for the BBC Trust toldThe Register: "The decision to block open source plugins is a matter for BBC Management. The Trust has not received any complaints on this issue and has no plans to look into it further at present."There's no way of knowing how many UK-based iPlayer users have PCs but can't or won't run the Adobe AIR version, but it's probably not a large percentage of 61.4 million.
Sony Computer Entertainment Europe has provided an updated statement on the problems currently being experienced by owners of pre-'slim' PS3 consoles. The company has confirmed what many on the web have already predicted - that the issue lies with the machine's internal clock.Here is the advice in full:We believe we have identified that this problem is being caused by a bug in the clock functionality incorporated in the system.Errors include:* The date of the PS3 system may be re-set to Jan 1, 2000.* When the user tries to sign-in to the PlayStation Network, the following message appears on the screen; "An error has occurred.  You have been signed out of PlayStation Network (8001050F)".* When the user tries to launch a game, the following error message appears on the screen and the trophy data may disappear; "Failed to install trophies.  Please exit your game."* When the user tries to set the time and date of the system via the Internet, the following message appears on the screen; "The current date and time could not be obtained. (8001050F)"* Users are not able to playback certain rental video downloaded from the PlayStation Store before the expiration date.We hope to resolve this problem within the next 24 hours.  In the meantime, if you have a model other than the new slim PS3, we advise that you do not use your PS3 system, as doing so may result in errors in some functionality, such as recording obtained trophies, and not being able to restore certain data.As mentioned above, Please be advised that the new slim PS3 is not affected with this error.  We are doing our best to resolve the issue and do apologise for any inconvenience caused.Although much of this repeats what we know of the problem, it is telling that users are being officially warned NOT to use their PS3 systems, even though an earlier statement suggested that it was alright to use the machines as long as there was no attempt to access the PlayStation Network. Also, there seems to be a tacit acknowledgment that certain datamaybe irretrievable.PS3 owners are being asked to check theofficial blogfor further information.
For most people,choosing a browserought to be about just a few things. First, is it quick? That's usually what you want: a web page that will reproduce itself as its designers meant it. Second, is it secure? Because hackers are using more and more subtle ways to attack web users – including buyingadverts on reputable sites such as the New York Times, which they then load with malware – you need a product without glaring or repeated holes. Third, does it support new standards? The web is evolving faster than ever before, with Google experimenting with HTML5 – an emerging standard – on YouTube to host video.That sounds simple, but it turns out that the dozens of browsers out there tend to fail in at least one department, so you need to choose wisely. And asJon von Tetzchner, co-founder of Opera, points out there are actually only four web browsing "layout engines" (which decide how the pages should look) out there: Trident, used by Internet Explorer; Gecko, used by Firefox; WebKit, used by Apple's Safari and Google's Chrome; and Opera's Opera. Almost every other browser uses one or the other of those.Speed is relative; if you have 50 pages open at once, all running Flash animations and videos with auto-updating liveblogs, it'll feel slow. Firefox and Chrome and Internet Explorer all do well here, though. Security is also relative: IE is attacked more than any other browser, because hackers know that more people who aren't running antivirus and other protection use it. Yet Safari has been shown to be vulnerable by experts; it's just that hackers don't target it. Firefox, though, is regularly updated against such flaws.As for new standards, Internet Explorer ignores them. Firefox, Chrome, Safari and Opera are already jumping on to HTML5, an emerging set of web standards that could transform how the web works, and make internet pages more like desktop applications, in a few years.On balance, then, even though Firefox has the reputation of being the nerd's browser (because its "extensions" allow you to do so much to web pages as you view them), it does offer the best balance of all those requirements. The irony is that it rose from the ashes of Netscape – the upstart browser company that Microsoftmanaged to strangle in the late 1990s, thus bringing itself to the attention of the US justice department. In the end, perhaps the best browser did win.
Up to 200m Windows PC users in Europe will be presented with a "Web browser choice screen" screen in a scheme that helped settle theEuropean Commission's anti-trust complaintsagainst Microsoft.Following the agreement, Microsoft abandoned plans to ship boxed copies of Windows 7 in Europe without a browser at all.Windows users who subscribe to Microsoft's automated Windows Update service and who have set Internet Explorer as their default browser will be sent a screen that offers them a choice of 12 browsers, including IE, with the top five presented first, in random order*. They can then ask for more information from each browser's developer, or click a button to install whichever browser they like.European PC users who don't use the automated update service will beprompted to download the browser choice screen. However,security expert Graham Cluleyfrom Sophos, an anti-virus company, has already warned that "cybercriminals might attempt to take advantage of this initiative by creating bogus browser choice screens that could pop up on innocent users' PCs and potentially lead them to a malicious download".Malware writers already use fake Windows alert screens and popups to try to persuade users to install viruses and fake anti-virus software.According toan Ipsos MORI survey commissioned by Mozilla, which offers the Firefox web browser, about three quarters of Europe's Windows users are unaware of the change.The browser choice offering therefore seems likely to create confusion and annoyance among some ordinary PC users. It will undoubtedly cost companies money in terms of IT department support time, as staff check whether the screen is legitimate.Windows users have always been able to download alternative browsers: Netscape, which begat the open source Mozilla Firefox, used to have about 80% of the market. However, the ballot screen is intended to make sure that Europe's Windows users know they have a choice of browser, and that they don't have to use IE simply because it is included in Windows.The ballot could boost the market shares of browsers such as Avant, Flock, GreenBrowser, Maxthon, Sleipnir and Slim, which most ordinary Windows users have probably never heard of. However, many of these use the same Microsoft code to render web pages as IE8.The EU case was kick-started by Opera, the Norwegian company that offers the least popular of the "big five" desktop browsers. According to usage-based figures fromNet Applications, IE currently has the largest global market share with 61.6%, ahead of Mozilla Firefox (24.2%), Google Chrome (5.6%), Apple Safari (4.5%), and Opera (2.4%). It is noticeable that Firefox has achieved 10 times Opera's market share.Net Applications' figures also showIE's market share declining steadilyfrom 77.4% two years ago to 61.6% today. In particular, the use of the out of date and less standards-compliant IE6, which shipped with Windows XP in 2001, has fallen from 44.4% to 19.8%. (It's unlikely that Net Applications' numbers are completely accurate, but both Microsoft and Mozilla quote them.)Alternative browsers have been more successful in Europe than the global figures might suggest.As we reported last week, usage-based statistics fromStatcounter, Microsoft's IE has a 45.4% market share in Europe, followed by Mozilla Firefox (39.3%), Google Chrome (6.4%), Opera (4.3%), and Apple's Safari (3.7%).It varies by country. In its post, Mozilla said IE's market share was only "27.8% in Italy according to Net Applications data for January 2010".Although the ballot screen seems likely to boost the use of alternative browsers competing for market share on Windows, it will not actually produce a level playing field. For example, Apple bundles Safari with Mac OS X, and the widespread use of iTunes gives it a way to promote it to Windows users. Google uses its market-dominating web search page to promote its own Chrome browser. Also, most smartphones -- where Opera competes with its Opera Mini -- come with a default browser: Safari on iPhones and Chrome on Google Android phones.* Rob Weir has provided an in-depth account of how it isn't as random as it could be inDoing the Microsoft Shuffle: Algorithm Fail in Browser Ballot. Whether or not this is to Microsoft's advantage or Google's (since Chrome appears more often than IE as the first option in IE) is open to debate. In any case, the results are different when using different browsers.
PlayStation 3 owners are being warned about a major error affecting PlayStation Network, the console's online gaming and shopping service. According to dozens of forum posts, owners began to experience problems getting online yesterday, receiving the following message:"An error has occurred. You have been signed out of PlayStation Network (8001050F)"Worse still, forum users are claiming to have lost saved games and 'trophies', the awards given to players for in-game achievements.Sony has reactedvia its US Blogwith the following message:"We're aware that many of you are having difficulty connecting to the PlayStation Network this evening. Those of you with "slim" PS3s (the 120/250 GB models) appear to be unaffected.Know that we have narrowed down the issue and have engineers working to restore service even as you read this. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause you, and genuinely appreciate your patience while we work to resolve this."As the text points out, although the problem manifests with PSN, it does not seem to be caused by the service - as only older models are affected. Some users are speculating that the error is tied to the internal calendar or clock function of the machine - there are theories that, since the incidences seem to have begun on the transition from February to March, a leap year miscalculation may be involved.Indeed, anecdotal evidence from forum posts suggests that machines are at risk even if they haven't been used online. This may be a coincidence, especially as it happened on Saturday, but I lost all my LittleBigPlanet save data when my debug PS3 claimed it had been corrupted. That console has never been used online. News sources are reporting that game saves should be fine once the bug has corrected itself or after a firmware update. However, it's unclear what will happen with trophies.The advice at the moment is, if you have a pre-Slim model, don't even switch it on until some clear guidance comes through; and certainly not today. It'll be tough for recent purchasers of Heavy Rain - the game was out this weekend and requires a download update before you can play.Sony has suggested concerned users followits Twitter feedfor the latest news. We'll have more info when it becomes available...In the meantime, have any Gamesblog readers been affected?Charles Arthur adds:: Inevitably, there's aFacebook group(no news there from Sony yet).On the Twitter feed, which first acknowledged a problem with PSN about 12 hours ago (ie around 1.30am March 1 GMT) Sonysaid("10 hours ago" according to the post) that "Readers/followers are confirming that "slim" units (120/250 GB models) are connecting normally." This won't of course comfort anyone who's using anything that's not one of those. The timing of the fault and that it affects older machines which are thrown back to an earlier does sound like a clock fault in firmware. See also: how theZune forgot about the leap year in 2008. That wasn't Microsoft's mistake, but a fault in coding of a clock chip made by Freescale. We await more...Update 2:A Sony spokesman in the UK has reiterated the official statement:"We have found out that some users are experiencing a network connection failure when signing on to PlayStation Network.  We are currently looking into the issue to identify the cause of this network connection failure and will update further information as necessary (on the PlayStation Blog or official website).  We appreciate for your understanding and continued support."He also told me, "We are asking users to be patient and to regularly check back for updates. The issue lies with the online network and it is a problem we hope to rectify as soon as possible from our end. Those affected can still use their machines for offline play or other functionality that doesn't require network access."I asked if he could confirm whether all affected saved game data and trophies are safe and/or recoverable. He told me that they are not yet ready to issue an official update. One Gamesblog reader, mrbarnes, has suggested that Sony's customer helpline is reassuring PS3 owners that their saves and trophies will be fine, but until definite confirmation comes from Sony, I'd be wary about logging in to PSN today if you have a pre-slim machine.
Alan Wakewas first announced in 2005. Four years on and the game is finally ready for launch. The long awaited Xbox 360 exclusive mixes Silent Hill, Twin Peaks and a stack of other literary and movie influences to create something that looks hugely promising. I'll post my hands-on thoughts later in the week but first up is a short interview I had with Oskari Hakkinen, head of franchise development at developer Remedy.So why has it taken so long to make Alan Wake?We're a small studio. We're about 50 people. After the Max Payne games we were in the fortunate situation where we didn't need to rush Alan Wake. As you can see, we didn't! But you can only be as good as your last game. From a studio perspective we want the Remedy brand to be seal of quality. Getting it right has taken a long time and there have been some things that have changed along the way. The basic concept of what we went for has remained the same though. We are doing a thriller here. A lot of people don't know the lengths we went to get the proper authenticity. We've travelled 3000 miles to the Pacific Northwest, and taken 60000 research photos of the shrubs, trees, foliage and roads. We've even had people camping out in the woods sampling owls and ambient wind noises. Only then can we add that layer of the supernatural. A thriller works best when it is tapped into the real world.  So this is why it has taken such a long time. This has been a labour of love, we want it to be a masterpieceWhat are the influences?Stephen King is an obvious one, a writer writing about a writer. The game is set in Bright Falls which sounds a bit like Twin Peaks. Twin Peaks is actually a big inspiration. Our influences are not from videogames but from movies, TV, and books. There is a bit of Lost here for example. Not from a plot perspective but how they manage to keep a tightly plotted thriller in a TV format. We tip our hat to some of the greats too. Think Hitchcock and The Birds, David Lynch and more.  A lot of the locations will resonate with the player as they recognise the influences. For example there is a hedge maze in the game that is reminiscent of The Shining.How important is the story to Alan WakePeople consume in different ways. We can't force how people will consume Alan Wake. A lot of the story in the game is optional. Everyone who plays will get the skeleton of the story but there is a lot of optional content with TVs and radios in the game to flesh out the story. We do flashbacks as well. There is even a live talk show with live actors. And we use live actors for some of the other scenes as well. This is all optional content but all very compelling.  We want to make sure that Brightfalls feels like a living town. Adding all this content is another reason why the game has taken so long.What is the mix between avoiding combat, like in Resident Evil, and confronting your enemies?There is plenty of action in the game but we have a dynamic difficulty system that adjusts the game to your level.  We don't want people to die because that's boring. But if you are doing well and enjoying it we may add some enemies to keep things fresh.It is increasingly rare to see a game, like Alan Wake, that is singleplayer only. Do you think many games have multiplayer for the sake of it?Too many developers out there are forced into filling in the tick boxes and multiplayer is one of those. We decided a long time ago that was not what we wanted to do. We decided to do one thing well – the single player game – and not what other people do well. Remedy doesn't do multiplayer games. Its not that we don't have the know-how, but the effort involved would not have resulted in a compelling game for the player. Players have their favourite multiplayer games which they play regularly. They are not going to play Alan Wake for the multiplayer; they will play to enjoy the story-driven and compelling single-player experience.  We need to spend all our resources and time making the single player game perfect and hopefully our fans will realise that this is why we didn't do a multiplayer version.Who is the main audience for Alan WakeAs I said there are different ways to consume the game. People who appreciate the TV style setting where you play the main protagonist will really enjoy it. But there is also plenty of action in the game too. Personally I have found my wife watching while I play and she is desperate to find out what happens next. So we hope Alan Wake will reach a wide audience.Alan Wake is released on the May 21st 2010 for Xbox 360.
The idea of a world where even mundane objects like shoes and food can be connected to the internet may sound like a plot culled from Hollywood - but a new report suggests that it is fast becoming reality.An analysis from the McKinsey consultancy suggests that the "internet of things" - where everyday devices are able to send information over the web - is closer than ever, resulting in a series of new technological and social advances.Using a variety of technologies, including Wi-Fi and RFID – the electronic chip system used in the Oyster card – all sorts of objects will soon be able will be able to feed data back about their position, status and location. A successful internet of things could help people keep track of their actions or help businesses improve efficiency, it suggests.And while McKinsey accepts that such systems still have some way to go, the report says that the pieces of the puzzle are now falling into place."The widespread adoption of the internet of things will take time, but the time line is advancing thanks to improvements in underlying technologies," it says."Ever-smaller silicon chips for this purpose are gaining new capabilities, while costs - following the pattern of Moore's Law - are falling. Massive increases in storage and computing power, some of it available via cloud computing, make number crunching possible at very large scale and at declining cost."Many technologists have been working on such systems, largely through small-scale experiments and pilot projects aimed at exploring the boundaries. Current work in the area is being done by telecommunications companies including Alcatel and Nokia, as well as academic institutions such as MIT –which ran a scheme to track rubbish in Seattleas a way of checking the effectiveness of the city's waste removal and recycling services.The McKinsey report suggests areas for future growth such as the creation of complicated systems that can act independently of an operator, as well as other developments in tracking, decision-making and automation.The concept of so-called "ubiquitous computing" has long been a favourite subject for science fiction authors, but recent developments have made the concept of embedded, connected – and even intelligent – devices much more like a reality than a fantasy.The writer and futurist Bruce Sterling coined the idea of "spime" – physical objects that can be tracked through GPS and interact with their environments using RFID. Meanwhile Adam Greenfield, an information architect and designer now working for Nokia, developed many concepts at the heart of the movement in his 2006 book Everyware.While some of the ideas in the report bear all the hallmarks of fiction, its authors point out that many of these technologies are already in use."Pill-shaped micro-cameras already traverse the human digestive tract and send back thousands of images to pinpoint sources of illness," they write."Precision farming equipment with wireless links to data collected from remote satellites and ground sensors can take into account crop conditions and adjust the way each individual part of a field isfarmed—for instance, by spreading extra fertiliser on areas that need more nutrients."The internet of things is not without its problems, however. Two years agoscientists demonstrated that could use radio signals to hack into pacemakers- effectively taking control of a life-saving technology that had been implanted inside a patient's body.McKinsey's report suggests that companies working on such ideas must examine a number of areas, including privacy, security and data protection.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Was your iPod built on the back of child labour? That's something everyone should be wondering afterApple said an audit of factories highlighted numerous failuresat factories that supply it - and other companies - with electronics.The report,which is posted online, lists a litany of failures - including several instances of 15-year-olds being employed by the unnamed suppliers, nearly two-thirds of factories failing to pay workers properly, long hours and poor environmental and safety credentials. The company, not surprisingly, says it wants to "eliminate" these violations.You can take several positions on the affair: that it's reprehensible that Apple should ever work with companies that treat employees so badly, that it's positive that an audit had picked up such transgressions, that Apple has to really up its game and make changes.I'm not sure where I stand exactly on all of it, and the different positions aren't mutually exclusive. But I do know that there are plenty of questions about practices at the company's suppliers and partners - not leastpoisonings in some factoriesto thesuicide of a worker accused of leaking iPhone details.There's a bigger question here too: one we should all be asking ourselves whenever we're buying electronics. Why is it so inexpensive?Yes, we often complain about the high prices of our gear, but in truth, the price is sometimes subsidised through exactly the sort of behaviour that Apple's audit highlighted.Not everyone agrees - including Chris Anderson, the editor of Wired who is currently pushing his'Atoms are the new bits'idea. That concept - which boils down to the idea that low-cost manufacturing will push forward a revolution in making stuff that's reminiscent of the digital explosion - relies heavily on disappearing labour costs, largely in China. When pushed recently on whether this meant slave labour, Anderson said that in China"working conditions are an issue, but rarely child and "slave" labor".Apple may beg to differ.Let's face it, these cheap electronics are cheap for a reason. But do revelations like this stop you from buying?
&bull; With regulatorsreceiving complaints aboutGoogle, the company's competitive. So whobetter to offer advice than Microsoft?In a post on the Microsoft blogone of the company's most senior competition lawyers makes a series of digs at its rival - and ultimately tries to bolster its own opinion that Microsoft never did anything wrong, while simultaneously suggesting that if Google falls foul of competition law, it will only be getting what it deserves: "Microsoft would obviously be among the first to say that leading firms should not be punished for their success... our concerns relate only to Google practices that tend to lock in business partners and content... and exclude competitors".&bull; TheOperation Auroraattacks - those ones that hit Google, Adobe and others - may have been more widespread than previously thought. Research by security company ISECsuggests that more than 100 companies may have been targeted. The web woven around these strikes just keeps getting bigger.&bull; And a piece of Monday morning reading courtesy of Ars Technica, which takes a look at theA4 chip that will power the iPad(or more accurately, what we do and don't know about it and what it can do).You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Twitter is preparing a new advertising model that will serve adverts in peoples' feeds and try to supplant third-party services such as Tweetdeck, according to reports.Astory at the Wall Street Journal's AllThingsDsays that "Ads will be tied to Twitter searches, in the same way that Google's original ads were. So a search for, say, "laptop," may generate an ad for Dell. The ads will only show up in search results, which means users who don't search for something won't see them in their regular Twitterstreams."The ads will use the Twitter format – 140 or fewer characters – and will be distributed via the third-party software and services that use Twitter's API. The services will have the option of displaying the ads, and Twitter will share revenue with those that do."Twitter will work with ad agencies and buyers to seed the program, but plans on moving to a self-serve model like Google's, down the road."That will be a dramatic change from the present advertising model, where small text adverts appear on the top right of Twitter users' home page. It is not known how much those garner in revenue - but given the low public profile of many of the advertisers there, it's unlikely to be as much as the search deals that Twittersigned on the same day last October with Google and Microsoft's Bing.It is not clear how soon the new service would launch, though AllThingsD suggests it could happen "in the first half of the year".Questions have been raised repeatedly about how Twitter, which isestimated to have around 75m users, can fund its long-term existence and move to profitability.As Twitter appears to have rejected charging for use either of the service or of its API, that seems only to leave advertising - though there is no clear information about the model behind it.A number of third-party applications which provide access to Twitter via its API already provide ads in the "timeline" of messages as an alternative means of paying for the cost of the product.Some of the excitement was driven by tweets byAlex Payne, one of Twitter's engineers. On Saturday hetweeted"If you had some of the nifty site features that we Twitter employees have, you might not want to use a desktop client. (You will soon.)"This was quicklypicked up by the technology blog Techcrunch- leading Payne to begin refuting his tweet, and the Techcrunch post, in the same medium as before. "I don't mean that developers won't be able to compete with the site. We still release most everything API-first, of course," heexplainedwithin the hour. And then,later: "Uh, everything I like that's on the employees-only beta site is actually *built* on public API methods we've already given developers." Andnext, in exasperation: "I just mean that our web client team is building cool stuff. It's going to inspire desktop app developers. Same data, new perspectives." And apuzzled complaint:  "I am still baffled as to why anyone pays that level of attention to what I have to say."But given the absence of hard information from Twitter about how it plans to make a profit from its service, it's likely that people will continue trying to mine every piece of information that escapes from the company - whether actually indicative or not - to try to figure it out.
If you're online today, you may notice that the Google Doodle has acquired a castle. And a flag. And a dragon.The search engine has again changed its famous icon - this timein recognition of Saint David's Day, the feast of the patron saint of Wales. St David is believed to have died on that day in 589.Today people all around the world with Welsh heritage will be marking the occasion.There are events taking place all across Wales. Meanwhile Belgium, China, the US, India, Spain, Japan, Canada, Hong Kong and France have already held celebrations or will be staging festivities later on to mark the event.The annual national St David's Day Celebrations and Parade will take place in Cardiff today.The city's St David's Hall will also host the St David's Day Orchestral Concert with the BBC National Orchestra of Wales.Meanwhile Swansea needed more than one day to celebrate the event. The city's St David's Week, which began on February 22, will finish today.Disney's Mickey and Minnie will even turn Welsh on Friday to celebrate St David, believed to have lived for over a century, when the St David's Welsh Festival at Disneyland Paris begins.St David's Day was declared a national day of celebration in Wales in the 18th century.A Facebook 'Ask Google to Recognise St David's Day' campaign was launched in 2008.Other recent events which have sparked a change of the Google Doodle include Sir Isaac Newton's birthday, Sesame Street's 40th birthday and its own 11th birthday last September.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I was going to say Macs, but everyone says that, so I'm going to go into geek mode. I have these wireless wrist microphones that I wear on stage – they are throat mics that I've adapted. The audio gets picked up and goes into my computer. What's great about them is that I can wander about on stage and grab any instrument – like the wine glasses I use – and the mics are in the perfect position to pick up the sound. They've completely transformed me on stage.When was the last time you used them?I did a show in London last week, and the really cool thing was that I did an experiment where I asked the audience what key and tempo they wanted, and improvised this piece of music. I mixed and uploaded it that night, and people can buy it atmy website– all the proceeds go to charity.What additional features would you add  if you could?I'd like some sensors that would detect whatever instrument I picked up. Each instrument would have a code that would switch my pre-amp compressor to the correct setting for that instrument.Do you think they will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I don't think they'll be obsolete, but parts of them will be – such as the battery pack. Maybe in 10 years the energy from your body will be enough to power the mics.What always frustrates you about technology in general?When it comes to computers and software, the most irritating thing is companies not being fluid and open, so software doesn't work with competitors' machines. It just slows progress.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned  and hated?I have a love and hate affair with my iPhone at the moment. I have a lot of apps that conflict with each other and sometimes cause it to crash.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Don't take it out on the machines when something doesn't work – it's not their fault.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Definitely leaning towards the nerdy.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I would say it's probably my 8-core Power Mac. I use it on my live tour – it's really really fast, I love it. But I'm looking forward to getting my hands on the new iPad – I wish it had a camera in it, though.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I very rarely buy CDs, and to be honest is an issue with space. But there's also the convenience of downloading. I do buy DVDs – at Christmas time, I bought hundreds and hundreds of pounds worth of things for friends and family. Giving an MP3 file is just not the same.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I think it's a great idea. Pretty much already your computer is your butler – being your calendar and organiser and such – but if there was something that could follow you around and make you cups of tea, I'd be very up for that. But I'd like to design my own.What piece of technology would you  most like to own?What I'd really, really love is fuel cell technology that converts horse manure into energy for your home. That would be something I'd love to invest in.Singer Imogen Heap (www.imogenheap.com)is on tour in Europe. She plays London's Albert Hall on 5 November.
Swedish developer DICE's Battlefield games may lack the glamorous image of rivals such as Call Of Duty, but they are hugely popular among the military first-person game cognoscenti.The Bad Company sub-franchise represents DICE's attempt to add a credible single-player experience to a primarily online series of games, and the second instalment arrives, with impeccable timing, just as we've extracted every last ounce of enjoyment from Modern Warfare 2. Creditably, the only area in which Bad Company 2 demonstrably loses out to its much-hyped rival is visual polish – although it is still a mighty fine looking game, with particularly impressive particle effects allowing realistic desert dust-storms and the like. And it has two elements which Modern Warfare 2 lacks: destructible scenery, and a great stock of military vehicles into which you can jump and cause instant mayhem.The four-man Bad Company team is back and ready with more wisecracking dialogue than ever (including some sly digs at Modern Warfare 2), and there's a decent storyline involving an apocalyptic weapon which sees you traversing jungles, deserts and even icy Andes peaks (on which you will freeze unless you either duck indoors or judiciously light fires by chucking grenades at piles of wood). There's an admirable amount of variety – you must pilot tanks, boats, armed jeeps and quad-bikes, and man fixed guns in helicopters. But perhaps the most impressive aspect of the game is the much-improved destruction engine, which is startlingly realistic. If you're stuck, you just blast stuff to smithereens with a rocket launcher, but if you fail to take out RPG-wielding enemies, they will blow away your cover.Online, Bad Company 2 emphatically has the tools to challenge Modern Warfare 2's hegemony – the much-loved objective-based Rush and domination-based Conquest modes are back, allowing two teams of 12 players (who can be medics, soldiers, engineers or recon specialists) to slug it out, levelling up both skills and weaponry. The huge maps are exemplary, and the new Squad Deathmatch mode pits four teams of four players against each other, while Squad Rush puts two four-player teams into tighter maps. The main joy of playing Battlefield online – the freedom to jump into your favourite vehicle and fight in your preferred manner rather than one dictated by the game – has been lovingly preserved.Compared to Modern Warfare 2, Battlefield: Bad Company 2 has skulked into the fray well below the radar, but committed fans of military first-person shooters will find it in no way inferior gameplay-wise. If you see yourself as a true, hardcore gamer, you'll be needing a copy.
So, what you driving these days?" It's an innocuous question, and one that's posed with blood-cooling regularity. At face value, it's just a dull, conversational opener. No one'sactuallyinterested in what you drive, and if they wanted a more stimulating chat they'd ask you something more left-field: "Ever eaten ostrich?" "What do you think about the BNP?" "Are you allergic to latex?"The reason people ask about cars is because the question is loaded. What they are really asking is: "How much do you earn?" "Are you on the way up, or is your business heading south?" We are all hog-tied by tedious social taboos which mean we have to ask boring questions with dopey looks on our faces. But it's the only way to get a straight answer.Traditionally, the answer would fall into a strict hierarchy. Anything German (Mercedes, Audi, BMW) meant things were looking up. Anything French or Italian (Peugeot, Citroën, Renault, Fiat, etc) meant you had aspirations but not the wage package to back it up – berets on a budget. A Ford revealed you were financially astute. British stated that your commercial affairs were on the way to A&amp;E. And admitting to a car from the Far East (Toyota, Nissan, Hyundai) was, of course, social suicide.Today, however, the answer tells you nothing. Take Mercedes-Benz. It used to be known for its luxurious four-door saloons and was the preserve of well-padded Euro executives wielding burnished briefcases. That's still true, but now it also makes cars that appeal to the harassed school-run mum (the £14,290 A-Class) all the way up to a wallet-tingling two-seat sports car (the £346,000 SLR McLaren). Between these two is a host of saloons, coupes, estates and SUVs: 15 model lines in total. Plump for just one of these – say, the mid-range E-Class – and you'll find more than 50 variants on offer. If you are indecisive, buying a car will take you to the brink. It's a long way from Henry Ford's  Model T when you could have it "in any colour as long as it's black".Sliding a key fob with Mercedes' famous three-pronged star across the bar now raises more questions than it answers. A survey carried out more than a decade ago found that Mercedes owners prefer to reverse their cars up their driveways and park facing the road – so that passing neighbours could appreciate their success. Today there'd be little point.What about Volkswagen? VW used to conjure up a rust-pocked campervan or knackered Beetle. It meant cardigans, egg-stained ties and a well-used library card. Now you could be driving a  cheap-as-chips city runaround (the £7,110 Fox), an über-luxurious  VIP-transporter (the £75,230 Phaeton), an all-conquering 4x4 Touareg (£30,325) or even a sleek and stealthy Scirocco speedster (£19,660). And look at Volvo. The word itself used to be a byword for tarmac tedium. Now the Swedes have injected a large shot of espresso into its line-up. Their trendy new C30 will set anyone's pulse racing.At the last count Audi offered 674 model permutations across its range. Too many? Not according to Audi's product affairs manager, Robin Davies. "We don't see this as being a negative," he says. "We believe it's not the extent of the range that's available, but the calibre of that range that defines a premium brand. After all, Cartier offers a very wide range of watches…" To underline this, Audi will be unveiling its new baby at the motorshow in Geneva next week. The German masters have boiled down all they stand for to create the A1 – a compact, upscale hatchback, selling for  about £13,000. Unmistakably Audi, but in a highly concentrated form.At a time when many retailers are moving towards specialisation, car makers seemed to have dropped their door policies and are letting anyone in. Even Aston Martin, the epitome of hand-built British sports cars, is currently at work on a £20,000 city car called the Cygnet (based on the brake-challenged Toyota iQ) due to be launched at the end of this year. And that's not really very 007; it's more 0.07.
God is everywhere, at least according to those who believe in Him. So is the internet: it's global, ubiquitous and has – according to its evangelists – slipped the surly bonds of nation states. The trouble is that those who use it have to reside within legal jurisdictions.And therein lies a big problem, one aspect of which surfaced last week, in Italy, where a judge handed out prison sentences to three senior US-based Google executives for "violating privacy" by allowing a video showing a handicapped Italian schoolboy being physically and verbally abused to be posted online.This judgment provoked astonished indignation on the net, especially among American commentators. "Why," fumed Mike Butcher on TechCrunch, an influential technology blog, "did someone not explain to this idiot judge that the video was NOT uploaded by these Google executives?"And, he went on: "Italy needs to get its act together and fast. I'm calling on Italian entrepreneurs, many of whom I know and respect, to get involved in this issue. At a time when European countries are weighed down by regulation and stupid rulings like this one, especially during a period of huge economic upheaval, it is not enough to stand by and watch travesties like this go by. Do the young people of Italy and the rest of Europe, so many of whom are huge enthusiasts of the web and the power it gives them to drag themselves up by their bootstraps without the need for state help, deserve to have decrepit judges decide their economic future?"One can see why Butcher is annoyed. The video in question was made in May 2006 and posted on 8 September to Google Video – the hosting service that Google closed after it bought YouTube. It reportedly showed a boy with Down's syndrome being beaten and insulted by bullies at a Turin school. On 7 November Google took it down "within hours" of being contacted by Italian police. But it had left it up for two whole months despite comments from viewers allegedly protesting about it.Google points out that "none of the four Googlers charged had anything to do with this video. They did not appear in it, film it, upload it or review it. None of them know the people involved or were even aware of the video's existence until after it was removed". All of which is true, but doesn't quite get around the fact that, as senior executives, they are also responsible for what their company does, and are remunerated from the profits that it makes. YouTube may not yet be a big money-spinner for Google; but it isn't a non-for-profit venture either. And then there's that awkward matter of the two months it took to take down the video.The company intends to appeal against the convictions, which makes sense on due-process grounds and also because the costs of doing what the judgment implies is necessary – ie previewing every uploaded track before making it public — would be huge. TheGuardian's Charles Arthur hascalculatedthat to review the 20 hours of video footage uploaded to YouTube every minute would require 3,600 people working eight-hour shifts, 365 days a year. That would blow a neat hole in even Google's astronomical profits.Whatever the outcome, though, the legal spat is just the latest symptom of an underlying structural problem, namely the mismatch between the internet's global reach and the fact that we live in a world of sovereign states. Everywhere one looks one finds evidence of the tensions between the two systems: French judges forbidding Yahoo selling Nazi memorabilia on its auction site; German judges objecting to neo-Nazi discussions groups hosted in the US, where they are protected by the First Amendment; the Chinese government objecting to any mention of Falun Gong; British laws outlawing child porn sites; or the Iranian regime objecting to just about everything. Like climate change, the gap between what the internet can do and what local authorities will allow is a global problem requiring a global solution, which is why we're unlikely ever to solve it.In the case of the Google Three, however, it's likely that they will be vindicated because even if the Italian appeal fails, there is always the possibility of recourse to the European Court in Strasbourg, which will take the view that European Union law, as currently drafted, appears to give hosting providers a safe harbour from liability so long as they remove illegal content once they are notified of its existence. The downside of this, of course, is that Google will have to be much more responsive to complaints, which will make it much easier to have videos taken down because the prudent course will always be to "take down first and ask questions later".The glory days of YouTube may be coming to an end. And Silvio Berlusconi remains at large.
Having recently come under fire from both third-party developers and gamers alike for its focus on the casual gamer market, Nintendo was keen to show that it hadn't forgotten about the core fan base at its European media summit this week, where some of the biggest forthcoming titles were available to play for the first time – illustrated by a triple whammy of release announcements forMonster Hunter Tri,Metroid: Other MandSuper MarioGalaxy 2.That the first (out 23 April) would be abandoning the pay-to-play online setup of the Japanese version will doubtless please many, though European gamers will likely be disgruntled at the wait forMetroid– a vague "third quarter 2010" launch, compared to June for the US version. Disappointing, particularly asOther Mis looking impressive – a blend of 2D and 3D perspectives giving a fresh feel to the sci-fi shooter, while its sumptuous CGI story sequences attempt to get under the skin of protagonist Samus Aran for the first time.Elsewhere, Nintendo's familiar blend of accessibility and innovation was evident inWarioWare DIY– a handheld minigame creator;FlipSmash– bat a spherical hero around colourful levels filled with destructible blocks; and the DSi'sPhoto Dojo, where the console's camera and microphone let players feature in their own beat-'em-up.Star of the show, however, wasSuper Mario Galaxy 2(below, out 11 June). With more inventive and complex level design and a host of new gimmicks, its gravity-defying stages will likely be a test of even the most experienced gamer's mettle. Especially if the number of Game Over screens on display here were anything to go by.
Art Of The TrenchEven if you don't like fashion or raincoats, just loitering around Burberry's promotional site for their iconic trenchcoats will give you a sartorial buzz. With music provided by arch Brit miserabilists White Lies and the Maccabees, we are presented with hundreds of thumbnail photos of ordinary folk wearing coats. As you zoom in, the music fades out replaced by ambient street sounds, and you can comment, vote, share your favourites, or submit your own photos. Elsewhere The Story Of The Trench provides an elegant history lesson.One Hundred Days To Make Me A Better PersonJosie Long. Photograph: Eamonn McCabeJust before Christmas, comedian and occasional English teacher in Skins Josie Long joined forces with a few artistic pals (including Isy Suttie of Peep Show fame), with a plan to make themselves better human beings. The idea they came up with was to make a pledge to do one thing, once every day for the next 100 days. For Josie, it was to talk to a stranger every day, while Scottish folk singer Pictish Trail has been writing one 30-second song per day for the last two months. Others have been learning Icelandic, living on less than £5, and writing haikus about Masterchef. It's not only Josie's friends who have taken part; the project is open to the public with 900 people joining the fun and tweeting and blogging the results.Blog roll: NicheVauxhall Viva. The Brown Car Blog.The Brown Car BlogA 1968 Riley Kestrel and other classic motors reveal why brown is the best colour to drive.The Corrugated Iron ClubCelebrating the wonder of rusty metal, including tin tabernacles, Nissen huts and boat sheds.Button Du JourA button lover rejoices at the unrequited pleasure of a black and gold lucite faux-alligator fastener.TypewritersIn a world lusting after iPads, some still desire the humble clunk of an Olivetti Underwood 319.Mad Hattery!Site dedicated to mad millinery, as modelled by the Queen and the rest of the world's royal elite.Cover SpyPeeking into people's bags on the New York Subway to see what the cool people are reading.Sleeping In AirportsOnline guide to the best airport terminals in which to snooze.What we learned on the web this weekWhat vinyllooks like in close-upBright, cleanrooms promote good behaviourThe horrorof equestrian statuesThe top 10songs most likely to cause road rageHow touse Google BuzzNo ottersare on UK TV this weekGangsta rapis kids play in NorwayThere's nopoint going to Paris before you've seen all of ReadingIt's hardto objectify a man in sweatsThe bestin dental comedy
Heavy Rain, PS3Sony's Heavy Rain is a videogame noir, exploring events surrounding a grisly case of serial child kidnapping and murder, played out from the perspectives of the father of the latest victim, his neighbour at a sleazy motel, a drug-addicted cop and a grizzled private detective. Eschewing conventional joystick control in favour of context-sensitive movements that change with the situation, you'll find yourself microwaving a ready-meal one minute and the next bludgeoning an attacker to death using more urgent versions of the same gestures. You can listen to your protagonist's thoughts at any time and some of the choices you make have ramifications throughout the rest of the game, which can include the untimely demise of central characters; the world and the story just carry on without them. As well as the very real threat of death, early moments between father and son are strangely affecting to the point that it's difficult to think of a game with as much emotional punch.SCEE, £49.99Plants vs Zombies, iPhonePlants vs AliensIn Plants vs Zombies, you defend your front garden from wave after wave of shuffling comedy undead, using increasingly violent plant species. Your initial pea shooter is joined by cherry bombs, Venus zombie traps, the cactus (effective against balloon zombies) and all manner of mutant horticultural firepower. To power new flora, you must collect sunshine by tapping it as it descends from on high, or by planting sunflowers, which generate it for you. With these simple ingredients, PopCap weaves a devastatingly addictive game that forces you to run the gauntlet of resource management, strategic flower emplacement and timing, while reinventing its own rules every 10 levels. Interspersed with insane mini-games and featuring a finely honed learning curve, it's hard to imagine a more perfect rendering of this PC landmark on iPhone. Joyously silly and ferociously compelling.PopCap Games, £1.79Games newsCall Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2Call of Duty: The 'NamCall Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 was the biggest entertainment launch in history, raking in more than $300m on its first day on sale in the UK and America. Naturally, any scrap of information about a potential sequel is big news, which is why a casting call in LA by its publisher, Activision, has been causing a stir. It's looking for actors to play four characters, including one named Frank Barnes who works for the Studies and Observations Group, the sober-sounding name America gave an elite special forces team that operated in south Vietnam during the war. The suggestion that the next Call Of Duty will take place during the Vietnam war is therefore one that's been gaining ground; however, excitement should be tempered by news that this instalment is being developed by Treyarch, makers of 2008's lacklustre Call Of Duty: World At War, and is unlikely to match the dizzying splendour of Modern Warfare 2.
Picture by Stevendepolo at Flickr. CC-BY licenced.Sir Tim Berners-Lee doesn't have an easy manner in the flesh; there isn't the relaxed manner of a politician, whose careers depends on putting people at their ease. Instead, Berners-Lee has a darting, urgent manner. And his career has turned out to be one which ends up putting people at their unease: look around at what the web has done to the world, and the huge upheaval it's caused, and that's Berners-Lee, magnified.Now he's turned his gaze to the Gordian Knot that is the HTML5 specification.For this we need to backtrack a bit, and see where things have gotten to sincethe last time I wrote about Apple/Flash/HTML5at the start of February.The question then was, if Apple is not going to have Flash on the iPad or iPhone/iPod Touch – because it implements HTML5's handling of video, via H.264, embedded directly in web pages via the Canvas API – is Adobe's technology going to find a home in HTML5?Since then sooo much has happened. Let's unload some links:The Flashmobilebloglooks at battery performance of Flash Player on Google's (sorta flashy) Nexus One:"Bloggers from Daring Fireball and Macgasm have spent a little more time than expected studying the battery indicators, as opposed to the incredible advancements in web browsing for mobile phones, netbooks and tablets. "Umm, perhaps: it depends on whether you think battery life is more important than being able to see thatawesomeFlash opening page for that restaurant.An Adobe engineer said thatthe next version Flash will besomuch better on Mac OSX, honest.Simon St Laurent wrote, over at O'Reilly, about "the widening HTML5 chasm". (He's a former worker on the World Wide Web Consortium (aka W3C), where Berners-Lee has of course toiled for longer than one would have thought humanly possible.) He reckoned that discordant interests would leave HTML5 damaged and its credibility weakened.And then the Free Software Foundationurged Google to kill Flashby open-sourcing its video codecs and pushing them out to YouTube users - meaning "The world would have a new free format unencumbered by software patents."No response from Google – which announced that it'sdropping Gears support, so it can concentrate on HTML5 supportin the Chrome browser.Jason Garrett-Glaser, the primary x264 developer and an ffmpeg developer,noted(in a long post about Flash, Adobe, and performance) that Adobe has made two critical mistakes: first, assuming Linux and Apple's OSX didn't matter (turned out lots of important developers are there) and secondly, attacking free software:"Practically all the websites on the internet use free software solutions on their servers — not merely limited to LAMP-like stacks.  Youtube, Facebook, Hulu, and Vimeo all use ffmpeg and x264.  Adobe's H.264 encoder in Flash Media Encoder is so utterly awful that it is far worse than ffmpeg's H.263 or Theora; they're practically assuming users will go use x264 instead.  For actual server software, the free software Red5 is extraordinarily popular for RTMP-based systems.  And yet, despite all this, Adobe served a Cease&amp;Desist order to servers hosting RTMPdump, claiming (absurdly) that it violated the DMCA due to allowing users to save video streams to their hard disk.  RTMPdump didn't die, of course, and it was just one program, but this attack lingered in the minds of developers worldwide.  It made clear to them that Adobe was no friend of free software."There's plenty more in the post – it's basically your essential backgrounder on the technical and financial obstacles to HTML5 video.The key question is: who's going to get their way with HTML5? The companies who want to keep the kitchen sink in? Or those which want it to be a more flexible format which might also be able to displace some rather comfortable organisations that are doing fine with things as they are? Adobe, it turned out, seemed to be trying to slow things down a little. It wasaccusedof trying to put HTML5 "on hold". Itstrongly deniedit. Otherssaid it was using "procedural bullshit".Then Berners-Lee weighed in with apost on the W3 mailing list. First he noted the history:"Some in the community have raised questions recently about whether some work products of the HTML Working Group are within the scope of the Group's charter. Specifically in question were the HTML Canvas 2D API, and the HTML Microdata and HTML+RDFa Working Drafts."(Translation: Adobe seems to have been trying to slow things down on at least one of these points.)And then he pushes:"I agree with the WG [working group] chairs that these items -- data and canvas – are reasonable areas of work for the group.  It is appropriate for the group to publish documents in this area."Chop! And that's it. There goes the Gordian Knot. With that simple message, Berners-Lee has probably created a fresh set of headaches for Adobe - but it means that we can also look forward to a web with open standards, rather than proprietary ones, and where commercial interests don't get to push it around.The upshot: HTML5, as a standard, may still be some years off. But the fact that there's so much interest in it, and that browsers – Apple's Safari, Mozilla's Firefox, Google's Chrome – are already starting to incorporate parts of its specification now means that in some parts of the web, the latest sites will work really well. The advantage there goes both to the sites and to the users of those browsers. (Remember too that Firefox is the most widely-chosen browser in the world.)So Adobe really does have a problem now. It will be very interesting to see how it reacts, and how it keeps Flash moving forward over the next ten years. At the very least, it might want to take some advice fromx.264's Garrett-Glaser: be open, don't ignore platforms, work on performance.And where will Berners-Lee pop up next? Ah – following hissuccess in getting data.gov.uk to happen, he's now focussing on UK local authorities. If you work in one, you have been warned …
Just four years since the launch of high-definition TV services in the UK, an entirely new technology is being unleashed on the viewing public: 3D.BBC HD went live in time for the 2006 World Cup, while Sky launched a package of 10 channels in the HD format. It took until March 2009 for Sky to reach its first million HD customers, each paying an additional £10 per month, but by December more than 2m Sky homes were enjoying a package now featuring 37 HD channels.The number is significant because Sky will be using the same Sky+ HD receivers for the launch of Sky 3D this April. It just has to convince the 14m homes that have bought an "HD Ready" set to return to the high street and pick up a 3D TV set instead.Unlike HD, which attracted public, commercial and pay-TV broadcasters in equal measure, 3D is being led by a combination of pay-TV operators and, significantly, the TV manufacturers themselves.Last December, Sony announced an agreement with football's world governning body, Fifa, to capture up to 25 World Cup matches in 3D, taking advantage of Sony's work in the area spanning 3D cameras to domestic TV sets. The matches will form the backbone of the sport's entertainment company ESPN's new 3D channel in the US, though it is still unclear whether any live 3D rights will be made available in the UK.Premier League football was a key part of Sky's 3D tests in the run-up to its live broadcast to nine pubs on January 31 (see panel). The trial will be extended when Sky 3D goes live in April, followed by a consumer rollout in the second half of the year. However, the precise date has not yet been set, while Sky awaits the availability of the full range of screens."We want people to enjoy the 3D experience in pubs so that they get an idea of what it is like ahead of the launch of the TVs into the market," says Brian Lenz, Sky's director of product design. "It's not going to be 24 hours of brand new 3D content a week, it's going to be around building several shows across the range of genres at some key points of time to create appointments to view."Both the BBC and ITV have expressed an interest in developing 3D content. Media regulator Ofcom commissioned a report from the consultancy, Zetacast, that concluded improvements in compression could make terrestrial 3D a possibility by 2020.Meanwhile, the BBC is considering a small number of 3DTV editorial experiments in the lead-up to the 2012 Olympics, with the aim of exploring "the creative potential of the new format, evaluate the different technology options and help us contribute to the standardisation process".Channel 4, which last autumn ran a 3D week using the relatively old-fashioned Danish ColorCode glasses, says it is "not currently looking at" the 3D format, although the centrepiece of the schedule, The Queen in 3D, has become a hit for distributor Digital Rights Group (DRG).The company has established 3DRG, managed by Justin Judd, managing director of DRG's digital arm, i-Rights, to explore the genre further. "We're looking to build a catalogue that has value in the future rather than just short-term opportunities," says Judd.He is talking to various broadcasters around the world that are looking for 3D content, though he admits the market will be smaller for the first 12 to 18 months. "There will be a market of sorts but there is a dearth of content, so we are looking for as much as we can to be able to service that requirement while building a catalogue that has a longer-term value."Adam May, a producer with Vision3, is equally conscious of the need to build content outside the sports field. "Sport has a very limited lifespan, and Sky is going to be running a 24-hour channel, so there are a lot of airtime opportunities over the next few years. We would intentionally film content that doesn't date."Sky is also leaving the door open for third-party broadcasters and in the next few weeks will publish its requirements for other 3D channels to sit side by side on its new platform.WeblinkZetacast:zetacast.com
Everyone in the television industry wants to know the answer to a key question: just how they will make money in five years' time? Will it come from advertising or subscriptions? At least we know how the industry makes money today. Ofcom's latest communications market report, published in August 2009, says most TV revenue (40%) came from subscriptions. The rest was from TV advertising (31%) and the BBC licence fee.Subscription, advertising and the licence fee used to be roughly equal in value. But over the past five years more money has been generated by TV subscription, especially by Sky, and less by TV advertising. It's a trend media analysts expect to continue.Enders Analysis's TV specialist, Toby Syfret, does not expect TV advertising to grow significantly, at current prices, over the next couple years, but he does expect Sky to increase subscription revenue by £500m. Meanwhile, he says, the BBC will struggle to see any real increase in income under either a Labour or a Conservative government as it remains under pressure to contain costs and because BBC income has traditionally matched TV advertising income, which will remain depressed.But broadcaster and former ITV executive Steve Hewlett suggests TV advertising's share of the total TV revenue pie has suffered because of the economic recession. "Pay-TV has recessioned well, if you like, but that doesn't mean that everyone should move into pay-TV. I don't believe TV advertising is about to die."The rate of growth in pay-TV revenues is expected to slow, although industry pundits are quick to acknowledge Sky's ability to market its services to consumers. Less than one-fifth of Sky subscribers take more than one Sky service. So even if the total number of Sky subscribers stalls at 10m (it had 9.7m subscribers in the second half of last year), the average revenue per user Sky generates will rise if existing subscribers are tempted by new offerings such as Sky HD+.Signs of recoveryThe area to watch, though, is television advertising. TV ad revenue fell off a cliff in 2009: commercial TV marketing body Thinkbox says TV advertising dropped by 10.5% last year, while total advertising was down 13%.There are signs of recovery. Thinkbox says TV ad revenue in December was 4% up on the previous year. But, like the economy as a whole, it's a long way back to where things were. Some say TV advertising will never be worth what it was in 2007 - some £4.7bn.David Docherty, chair of the Digital TV Group, says: "We've been waiting for a winning formula for long-form content delivered via the internet, and the emergence of hybrid TVs could be the turning point. Hybrid TV brings an environment where pay models – attention, subscription, pay-per-view – are common and accepted by customers. And the ability to target advertising at low cost may create a surge in advertising revenue."Horsman says the move towards on-demand or non-linear TV viewing is fundamental. "Forecasts of the death of linear TV are vastly overstated, but clearly nonlinear is going to grow in importance over the next five years. Broadcasters have to embrace non-linear TV even though the revenue models for it aren't yet clear."David Elms, head of media at KPMG, also foresees a world in which people pay for premium content rather than rely on it being free with advertising attached. "We're looking at scenarios where people download premium content to watch when it suits them and they may be prepared to pay a premium to access that content." He suggests TV businesses will need flexible business models to maximise revenues in the future.Thinkbox chief executive Tess Alps dismisses the idea that TV advertising is permanently in decline. "[It] will come back. We believe TV can hold its own, if not increase its share of total advertising."Alps says what will affect TV, along with other media, is a company's ability to talk to consumers directly, via email or other applications, without the need for TV or newspaper ads.It looks increasingly likely that broadcasters relying on TV advertising  will need new revenue streams. The hard part is getting those revenue streams right, as anyone involved in the pay-TV failure that was ITV Digital will tell you.Alps believes small, one-off payments for programming supplied as and when people want to watch it are a new opportunity for broadcasters. But most commentators agree the practice of making one-off payments for particular programmes won't take off in the next five years and won't make as much money as TV advertising does currently.It's clear that pay-TV is not straight-forward. While Channel 4 decided in 2005 it could earn more money by making its E4 and More4 channels free to viewers and funding them from advertising, some analysts think ITV might consider charging a subscription for its spin-off channels ITV2, 3 and 4. All agree, though, that both broadcasters will have to review the pros and cons of pay-TV again in the longer term.A totally new source of revenue could come from broadcasters putting viewers directly in contact with brands, as Google does with internet search. "When viewers can click a TV ad and go to a brand's website, then we'll have a new source of revenue," says Thinkbox's Alps. But she admits widespread, quality viewing over the web or IPTV is 25 years away.WeblinksOfcom's communications market report:ofcom.org.uk/research/cm/cmr09Thinkbox:thinkbox.tv
There are only three things that matter about digital television: what's on it, how it's delivered and how it makes money. This supplement sets out to address those key themes of content, delivery and revenue by looking ahead to 2015, when analogue television signals will have been switched off for three years and the 2012 Olympics will be a distant memory.The UK TV market is almost totally digital: about 90% of households have digital TV in some form. So digital TV today means new ways of watching television – whether that's over the internet on a computer or broadband-connected TV or on a handheld device that is wirelessly connected to the internet – and these new technologies of convenience are rapidly taking off. In December 2008, for instance, the BBC iPlayer had 41m requests to view or listen to a programme. A year later it had rocketed upwards to 114m.So how long will it be before people are routinely using something like an Apple iPad or a Kindle Reader to watch their favourite TV programme? There will be early adopters and then a wave of take-up by the rest of us. To reflect this we map out the future of the television industry, showing the industry milestones that lie ahead and when we're likely to reach them.We look at broadcasters'  revenue and consider whether the TV industry will be funded by people paying directly for content or by advertising or a combination of both. We consider the types of content viewers will be watching in five years' time, from 3D to advanced sports stats, and look at the kinds of rights viewers might have over downloaded TV content.Quality control of digital TV equipment also comes under the spotlight and we also ask whether the internet really will banish traditional TV to the annals of history.Views differ on the big questions of the day, not least on whether people really will accept that they have to pay directly for TV content in future. You'll find the debate here.
Lisa O'Carroll is a football fan who watched Sky's 3D broadcast in a Dublin pub. She is also a former editor ofmediaguardian.co.ukSky's hallmark swoosh graphics were amazing – as if they popped at least a foot out of the screen. When the players came out of the tunnel, it looked as if they were running right past you. And 13 minutes in we were treated to a surreal moment when Ashavin kicked the ball just past the post. The goal post and netting really did look 3D.There was widespread agreement among those I spoke to on the day that the biggest impact was created with low-angle close-ups. But anyone expecting footballs to fly out of the screen at you, like the pink butterflies in Avatar, would be disappointed. Wide shots of the action just looked odd – like a computer version of Subbuteo with players in hyper-miniature. And while no one seemed to have trouble keeping the glasses on throughout the 90 minutes, pubs might have to consider how many glasses to stock.Football is the hardest sport to capture in 3D as the image combines feeds from two cameras. Tennis and boxing are reputedly much more impressive because all shots are close-up. Roll on Wimbledon.But is it worth the £2,500 starting price for a 47-inch 3D TV? For pubs yes – it'll help them win business. For domestic use? Fans I spoke to didn't baulk at the price. Those who'd already forked out for HD said they'd consider it, but not until the price came down a bit.
The digital tick logo, which first appeared on digital TV equipment in 2004 to help demystify the process of getting digital TV, will be phased out from 2013.Devised in 2003 by industry representatives working with design agency Lambie Nairn in line with a government action plan, the logo provides an assurance that set-top boxes, integrated TV sets and personal video recorders (PVRs) will continue to work along with Freeview, Virgin-Media or Sky after analogue TV signals are switched off in 2012.The tick was introduced when consumer confidence in digital terrestrial TV had hit the buffers. It has since helped to drive more than 43m UK sales of receivers."ITV Digital's collapse [in 2002] left many people sceptical and we needed a system supported by the industry, rather than one broadcaster, to put some confidence back," says Nigel Prankard, DVB product manager at Panasonic.The tick will have served its immediate aim when the switchover to digital TV is complete, but the need for a digital TV kitemark hasn't gone away. Manufacturers are concerned that poor quality products might reach the shelves, and options for a new independent conformance mark for TV equipment are being explored."There is an even greater need for certification after digital switchover to ensure continuity and to reassure consumers that they are buying products that meet basic minimum standards," says John Edwards, communications director at Harvard, owner of the Grundig and Goodmans brands.Certification might be linked to DTG Testing, the body that puts new digital TV products through their paces to make sure they meets conformance criteria.With a TV lasting on average five to seven years and a set-top averaging three to five years, the mark will have to embrace new benchmarks for lower power consumption as well as emerging broadcast technologies, broadband connectivity and possibly 3DTV."Consumers expect to easily plug a device in, watch TV and not have it crash," says Prankard. "The industry should be able to provide a basic set of standards and then a scaleable level of functionality for each product based on its processing power, so that consumers know whether it is capable of browsing the internet, for example, playing iPlayer at full screen, or gaming."But a ready-made logo already exists in Freeview HD, the specifications for which include broadband and HD. "DTG Testing has raised the bar for any manufacturer wanting to bring the next generation digital TV product to market," says Sony's head of product services and development, Adrian Northover-Smith. He, for one, doesn't see the need for yet another logo.WeblinkDTG Testing:dtg.org.uk/testing
Today viewers are consuming media in multiple forms while watching sport, whether it be engaging with mobile phone apps or taking part in online gaming and betting. And with both the World Cup and the 2012 Olympics just around the corner, real sports fans may not want to follow events via a single broadcast.When Apple unveiled Major League Baseball's new application for the iPad last month, it offered a glimpse of what the future of sports TV may look like.A live game can be overlaid with a vast array of features such as the scoreboard, the field and the line-up, while enhanced features include baseball cards flipping over to give data relevant to the current game. There's even a pitch tracker that shows the trajectory of every pitch thrown."Just serving up stats is reasonably interesting, but it's only the tip of the iceberg," says Jeff Henry, former chief of ITV's digital business ITV Consumer and co-founder of Tellylinks.com."Innovation means that you can start exploring things such as sporting techniques, giving true depth and flavour that we have never had before. What we will see happening in terms of the two-screen experience is most exciting." Henry refers to the two screen experience – when information about a TV show is accessed via the internet on a mobile phone, laptop or desktop PC – as "bellyvision."Ben Gallop, BBC Sport's head of interactive and Formula 1 takes a similar view. "Graphics and stats are obviously a key part of it, but I think the innovation will come around interactivity," he says. "The good thing about IPTV [TV through the internet] is that you can unleash a lot of the internet on to your television."Take, for example, what US broadcaster NBC has been doing in the build-up to the winter Olympics to show what role social media could potentially play. NBC's Twitter integration saw it "tweet" regularly, showcase what different athletes were doing and create lists for users."Social media will play a huge role," says Dipesh Morjaria, head of digital media sales at sports rights and content distributor IMG Media. "You only have to look at events such as football and rugby, where people like to gather in communities. Pubs do very well and, when people can't go to the pub and meet their friends, they can meet online and discuss what's going on."Henry says the crucial thing about social networking is that it will be set at a level with which viewers are comfortable. At one end of the spectrum it will be a personal experience, in other cases there will be multi interaction."I think layers [the way television can be overlaid with interactive features] will be the key to it," he says. "People will change their layer depending on the sort of sport they are watching and who they are watching it with."The BBC and Sky have been at the forefront of experimentation in the UK. Sky and football is one example. "Sky Sports has a proud history of innovation, from the simple clock and scoreline in the corner of the screen to high definition," says Sky's managing director, Barney Francis.April will see Sky's big push into 3D with its new 3D Channel airing Premier League football every week. Sky has promised "stereoscopic coverage from all angles", live mixing between camera positions, slow-motion replays and use of 3D graphics, as well as a dedicated commentary team.Elsewhere, the BBC is piloting a raft of new features to enhance viewing around the World Cup and the 2012 Olympics (see box). Of its 10 biggest red-button services in 2009, eight of them were sports events.With a plethora of opportunities for enhanced viewing, which services will sink and which will swim? The early days of DVDs are instructive here, when an over-abundance of features including bespoke gaming. Now DVD publishers have settled on extras that viewers want – such as cast interviews and outtakes. Conversely, taking an example from the mobile world, who would have thought that ringtones would have been a hit? People got behind the idea and -monetised it.It might be true that innovation can't happen without some mistakes. "Never forget that none of these features should actually be a distraction from the core reason you're watching sport in the first place," says Henry. "Those who think it is will have a misunderstanding of the true value of these services, which is to enhance experience, not distract from it."WeblinkNBC Winter Olympics coverage:nbcolympics.com
While the Olympic Games in Athens and Beijing garnered huge red-button audiences for the BBC, the 2012 event is expected to be the largest in the corporation's history.The games will see the BBC offer more choice than ever before. Back in 2000, before interactive TV had arrived, the broadcaster showed about 250 hours of the Sydney games. By 2004, when it had red-button, interactive technology, it showed more than 1,000 hours. At Beijing 2008 this rose to 2,500 hours.Ben Gallop, head of interactive and Formula 1, at BBC Sport, says the aim for 2012 is to show every bit of sport as it happens, which equates to about 5,000 hours of viewing."We'll be thinking about red-button services, but we're also thinking about IPTV [television over the internet] – that's what's exciting over the next few years and we expect a lot to change. We're also looking at how we might be able to use social media in our services in a way that we haven't been able to up until now."For this year's World Cup, the BBC is considering what it can do around games consoles, says Gallop. "BBC iPlayer is available on Wii and Playstation and we're going to try and see what we can do around a sports application."
Can conventional television compete with the demand for online video?The apparently insatiable demand for online video has led many to believe the internet is poised to swamp traditional TV. However, broadcast services are likely to remain the most popular way to watch TV for years to come, says the industry association Digital TV Group (DTG).Certainly, on-demand viewing in all its forms (downloads including Sky+, TV via the internet and IPTV such as BT Vision) continues to rocket. At the end of only its second full year in December 2009, BBC iPlayer was fielding 114m requests, smashing December 2008's 41m figure.While 94m iPlayer views in December 2009 were online, a remarkable 8% came via the Playstation 3. ITV Player, which is also available on Virgin Media, and Sky Player – which launched on the Xbox 360 – are also increasing in popularity.With 3.8m connected TVs expected in UK homes by the end of this year, according to analyst, Futuresource, non-linear or on-demand viewing looks set to continue rising. Consumers will soon be hard-pressed to find any device – mobile, games console or set-top box – which is not capable of being hooked up online.Yet far from being displaced, broadcasts by digital terrestrial, cable or satellite televison signals are likely to be enhanced by the many ways of accessing TV content."More than half of on-demand viewing takes place within a day of the original transmission," says Tess Alps, chief executive of Thinkbox, the marketing body for the commercial TV industry. "Viewing stays close to the schedule because people's ability to share thoughts about TV is a cultural phenomenon."Average daily viewing of 3.75 hours is at its highest since 1992, according to the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising. The Broadcaster's Audience Research Board (Barb) figures reveal that average weekly viewing of linear, broadcast TV has grown by 2.18% since 2000 to 26 hours, 15 minutes. In contrast, industry analysts Screen Digest forecast average online-television viewing rising from 10 minutes to just 26 minutes per person per week by 2013.Digital television  recorders (DTRs) aren't making much of a dent either. According to the latest Skyview figures, 83% of viewing in homes with the Sky+ DTR is to live TV, with 17% time-shifted. Although 42% of UK households now own a DTR, Barb calculates that time-shifted viewing -represents just 6% of total viewing.As more people buy internet-capable televisions over the next five years, time-shifted viewing on computers is likely to remain at 3-5% of the total as viewers prefer to do their catch-up viewing in the living room.In any case, certain forms of programming are arguably always going to be better experienced as they're transmitted. Think of live sport events or entertainment -juggernauts such as X Factor. Meeting that demand, which in the case of 2009's X -Factor final topped 19.1m (62% of the viewing audience), will remain the preserve of digital broadcasts so long as its bandwidth remains superior."Streaming events  such as international rugby online to millions of people would collapse the broadband infrastructure, while the cost of serving all those connections would cause the broadcaster to go bust as well," says Richard Lindsay-Davies, chief executive of DTG. The cost of broadcast distribution remains flat, no matter how many viewers an event attracts, but the cost over broadband increases per viewer. This won't be helped by the Digital Economy bill, which plans to provide every household with 2Mbps connectivity.Further problems may arise as viewers with internet-enabled televisions become customers of a broadband service provider and have to think about bandwidth, data caps and penalties for exceeding an ISP's "fair usage" terms. Due to bandwidth limits, 3D and high definition would prove more difficult to deliver over IP.Wireless networks in the home will become more prevalent and broadband over powerline technology will increase internet connectivity. But with roughly 40% (10.4m) of UK households either without internet access or with access in a separate room to the TV, the convergence of web and TV will be slow."Households won't magically migrate to IP but it will get easier to hook devices up to receive video," says Richard Cooper, BBC director of digital distribution. "IP technologies will improve, and costs will reduce, making the consumption of live content for large volumes of people over IP viable over time."For all the headlines proclaiming its growth, Enders Analysis predicts online video will deliver just 3% of all UK TV revenues by 2014. Futuresource forecasts that 8.5% of total viewing will be on-demand by 2013, the majority being online but with more than a quarter of views via cable.In its recent Media Predictions 2010 report, Deloitte says advertisers should not place too much credence in reports of a terminal decline in traditional TV habits, claiming: "Linear is likely to remain dominant not just in 2010 but for many years to come."WeblinkDigital Economy bill:tiny.cc/Ww62g
With the PC in seemingly terminal decline as a games format, RTSs are just about the last of its native genres and Creative Assembly one of its most important developers. Luckily, there's no sign of that trust being misplaced with Napoleon, the latest instalment in the Total War series.Like its predecessor, Empires, this epic retelling of Napoleonic warfare is both vast in scale and deep in realism. Single players get several campaigns which have you playing through the main Russian or European phases in a far more linear fashion than previous games. Fans of the series may find this limiting, and it's disappointing to find that the enemy AI is as forgiving as ever. However, the final Grand Coalition campaign showcases the improved Diplomatic and Espionage options and, by letting you choose from one of four allied powers, offers a much larger world map to play with.Once you get down to the action, Napoleon: TW is as majestic and absorbing as ever. With more than 300 new unit types, featuring a maximum 64 different models per regiment, this is clearly the most realistic-looking game in the series, particularly with all the smoke and thunder of artillery and cavalry. It's also the most realistic in terms of strategy, with Napoleon's famous quote about armies and stomachs born out by the logistical depth required to keep your vast forces moving forward, with all the costs, supply lines and defences this entails.Realism is also apparent in other respects; the effect of weather conditions on your movements and the shorter turns which add to the impression that you're part of a campaign rooted in real historical events. And even when not actively fighting, control over your empire takes more thought than before, with towns responsible for wealth, morale and research now targeted more aggressively by your enemies. Fortunately, you can see which ones are most at risk by the lowering number of building slots visible from the world map.Ultimately, my main concern about Napoleon TW was the effect of its more linear structure on replay value. However, knowing the TW community, modding is bound to be already under way, with more playable nations usually among the first tweaks to be unlocked. And there's a beefed up multiplayer mode too, including the ability to issue build orders after your turn ends to compensate for the lengthy delays that occur whilst others are making their moves. So although it lacks the massive innovation of some previous instalments, Napoleon: TW will still take weeks to master and represents a scale and depth of gameplay that console owners can still only dream about.
