When is Apple going to announce a release date for 10.5 (aka "Leopard"), the next version of its operating system? Speaking last year, Steve Jobssaid vaguelythat "We think we're going to get it out next spring" (which could mean the Australian spring..).But yesterday Apple released the last - well, it would make sense for it to be the last - update to its current OS version, with the release of 10.4.9 (10.4 is the branch of the operating system; the .9 is the point update, so this is the tenth iteration of 10.4).There's an air of finality to x.9 releases in the Apple world; for the past two versions of OS X, that release has meant that a formal announcement (or even launch) is imminent. So:2003October 3:10.2.8 releasedOctober 8:release date for 10.3 ("Panther") announcedOctober 23:10.3 ("Panther") in the shops10.3 then chugged along, reaching 10.3.8...2005April 12:release date for 10.4 ("Tiger") announcedApril 15:10.3.9 releasedApril 29:10.4 in the shopsAnd now 10.4 has chugged along..2007March 13:10.4.9 releasedThe question is, where's Leopard? Where's the announcement? Of course, there's a difference now from those other releases: Microsoft is pushing Vista. But with Apple's advertising starting to ramp up generally, one gets the feeling of something around the corner.Given that in the past the .9 release and the annoucnement of the next version have followed pretty closely, it seems reasonable to expect something - not the product, but the launch date - before the end of this month. That gives us a fortnight to be wrong. Anyone want to start a sweepstake on the precise day of the announcement - and of the release?
Hugh points us to a couple of machinima pieces he andStrange Companyhave just finished working on for A Very Guardian Client,Fairtrade. Check outthesevids. The WoW one is awfully clever.Meanwhile, ARG developer extraordinaireJane McGonigalis using her powers to tackle the oil crisis in a new offering called World Without Oil (head down the rabbit holehere).Finally,One Big Gameaims to be, according toMTV, the Band Aid for the games industry.Makes you feel all good inside.
Alice at Wonderland has upped the ante in the transcription stakes. Her lightning-fast speed typing wowed the world during GDC2005, and since then there's no conference un-noted.But there's a challenger to her throne. Mark at 3pointD gives good type too. Both excellent bloggers' transcriptions of Will Wright's keynote speech at SXSW are availablehereandhere(with video).Highlights:On story in games:Stories tend to be unchanging, very linear, whereas games tend to be open ended. Game is vehicle for player to explore difft paths and directions. Movies are primarily visual, games are primarily interactive, so whenever we take control away from player at all we are taking away the most important thing about games. Like going to a theater and showing a blank screen.OnGroundhog Day:Groundhog Day is one of my all time favorites. Interesting, felt most like a game. Linear sequence, but all of a sudden it's 6:00am again, he does it again, then again, again. What's interesting about Groundhog Day, it was a game, he had to restart. This is a really interesting example of where the audience knew the past, so every day the director could skip more and more of the sequence.On education:I went to Montessori school till 5th grade, and Maria Montessori, her idea was if you build toys and let kids play with them, they explore and discover the principles of the world around them by themselves.The games I make I think of in those terms, very elaborate Montessori toys. How can we lead players to come across interesting ideas of philosophy and science. This can be understood as a philosophy tool, get you to think about meaning of life.On the future of games:When you look at games specifically and entertainment in general heading into the future, games have a perception as being simple and meaningless, but really they can be much much more than that. They can allow us to develop systemic thinking, build much more elaborate, more accurate models of the world around us. Because of that, they potentially give us the ability to approach the future with just a little bit more interlligence than we had before. They can allow us to change the world just a little bit for the better over the rest of our lives.Head toWonderlandand3pointDfor the rest of it. Marvellous.
It seemed like such a great story: the real truth from the Swiss company that makes the sensors in the Wii remote about how it won the contract because it was so farsighted and spotted a great market. You couldread all about it in IEEE Spectrum:Nintendo's Wii is the hottest computer game and arguably the only one that's good for you. Its two wireless remote controls track any movement, encouraging players to engage opponents with a heart-pounding physicality that is already melting fat off overfed children. Yet although detecting motion is critical to the success of the US $250 game, the job depends on $3 sensors the size of shirt buttons.And who made them? Stand up (well, ring up the journalist and say "Hello?") ST Microelectronics, based in Geneva, and "Benedetto Vigna, the Italian physicist who developed the sensor." There's a long explanation of how STM "met Nintendo in March of 2005: our vision was in line with their vision, and we got married, he says. Two months later, ST delivered a prototype sensor, and 16 months after that, Nintendo launched worldwide sales."Great story! Except for one thing: it wasn't entirely true. ST Microelectronics is not the maker of the sensor in the main Wiimote. No, as Philip Ross, the web editor, explains in his "substantial correction", that honour belongs to Analog Devices Inc:it was ADI that had supplied the 3-dimensional accelerometer in the Wii's main controller. ST, [ADI noted], had merely provided the sensor in the secondary, "nunchuk" controller. It's secondary because most games now available don't even use it. Indeed, I'd played the baseball, tennis, and bowling games myself, all without having had recourse to the nunchuk.As a journalist, one tends to go "Aw, crap" when that happens. And feel a little irked.So I put the question to [the PR person at ST Microelectronics]: if the two chips were interchangeable, then why had the ADI chip been chosen for use in the main controller? "We would argue that both companies came out very well," he replied.Why had he and Vigna characterized the ST chip as the "core" of the Wii, essential to its success? "I would say our answers were not misleading; they were precisely accurate. If you didn't do external research to find out about Analog, it's not our job."Okay, okay, so I screwed up: I trusted these guys, and they hornswoggled me. In the old days, my only response would have been to say, "fool me once, shame on you." Nowadays, I have more options. I can, for instance, write this blog.By the way, if anyone from STMicroelectronics was planning to call and tell us how they made the chip for the Wiimote, we're afraid we're busy... No, honestly...
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Several news sources are coming at this story from different angles. Gamesindustry.biz has theleast sensationalist piece, claiming that SCE UK managing director Ray Maguire confirmed Sony's plans to launch "a re-designed version" of the machine while speaking at the unveiling of Sony's PSP in Education initiative. It seems he gave no indication of what this re-design might feature - apart from a reduction in size and weight (and confirmation the screen size would remain untouched) - or when it might be due.On US site Kotaku, there's a morespeculative articlealluding to unnamed "senior and third-party sources" who have apparently conformed that PSP 2.0 is on the way, that it'll be revealed at E3 Lite, and that it should be released by the end of the year. Mooted specifications include the usual suspects: improved buttons; 8GB Internal flash; possible touch-screen; possible built-in camera.Will this be enough to claw back some marketshare from DS? And will Home compatibility be a part of the PSP Redux project?
Just seen this on Reuters:Viacom said on Tuesday it filed a $1 billion lawsuit against Google Inc. and its Internet video sharing site YouTube over unauthorized use of its copyrighted entertainment.The suit accuses Web search leader Google and YouTube of "massive intentional copyright infringement" of Viacom's entertainment assets and seeks an injunction against further violations.Rather makes a monkey of a line I wrote in a piece on Saturday, saying - as I'd been led to believe - that Viacom executives were fairly happy with the deal they'd come to with Google.More soon, I'm sure.Update:More on the story in thisViacom sues Google and YouTubepiece.
I'm going to a demo of PS3 Home and LittleBigPlanet tonight and will try and grab Sony's Phil Harrison for a quick chat. If there is anything Home/LBP related you want me to ask then please post in the comments by 5pm and I'll see what I can do. All I ask in return is for one of you send me text updates from the Saints vs Cardiff game. Footy joking aside, I'm genuinely looking forward to seeing both Home and LBP in action - can they live up to they hype? We'll see.
One of the entries on Postsecret.com, which has been shortlisted for the BlookerWhen is a book not a book? When it's a blook, of course.OK, it might seem a bit of silly word but it does describe an increasingly common process - turning popular blogs into books. Not only does putting your blog into dead tree form mean that there's a copy in the British Library, but it brings some coffee table gravitas to the otherwise ephemeral world of the interweb.And so it is that this year'sBlooker Prize- sponsored by on-demand publisherLulu- rolls around again. You can see the nominationshereand find out more about the shortlisted titles - including:"My War: Killing Time In Iraq" byColby Buzzell: "Colby Buzzell traded a dead-end future for the army--and ended up as a machine gunner in Iraq. To make sense of the absurd and frightening events surrounding him, he started writing a blog about the war--and how it differed from the government's official version. But as his blog's popularity grew, Buzzell became the embedded reporter the army couldn't control--despite its often hilarious efforts to do so."and"Monster Island: A Zombie Novel" byDavid Wellington:"In New York City, the dead walk the streets, driven by an insatiable hunger for all things living. From the other side of the planet, a small but heavily armed group of schoolgirls-turned-soldiers comes in search of desperately needed medicine, with a former UN weapons inspector as their local guide. They think they are prepared for anything. On Monster Island they will find that there is something worse even than undeath."And we love it when our friends are successful, so how could I not point out that irregular contributor Andrew Losowsky has his hand in the game with his bookThe Doorbells of Florence. It's not the only Guardian connection - Observer columnist Nick Cohen is one of the judges.One of the other nominees,Post Secret, has just scooped the Bloggies too - but can they win the $15,000 top prize as well? Good luck to all - winners announced on May 14.
Police in Malaysia have started using sniffer dogs to track down pirated movies, according tothis story from Reuters:Two female Black Labradors, "Flo" and "Lucky", demonstrated their technique by sniffing through piles of sealed cartons in an air cargo hangar and then signaling their handler about a suspect package by sitting down in front of it."It's cost-effective, and in terms of time, it's very effective too," said Domestic Trade Minister Shafie Apdal, adding that the dogs took only 10 minutes to check boxes that security officials would have needed a day to plow through.Apparently Malaysia's trying to clean up its act to keep on the right side of the US government. But the story comes just a day after the Business Software Alliance trumpeted its latest series of legal actions against software pirates, taking on a number of people who weresupplying copied programs over the web.
The plethora reports about last week's Game Developers Conference (yeah, even those about the PS3) indicate that 2008 is all about us. From user-generated virtual worlds on the home console to creating web-like content with gaming elements, this is going to be one heck of a year to re-think what gaming is and what it should be.And instead of gnashing your hardcore gamer teeth and clutching at your MegaGlove in defiance, isn't it better to give in realise that it's for the good of all? Go on, let the inevitable wash over you, and take it like a (wo)man.If you don't believe me, read on...The indies dominated the proceedings, presenting innovations that targeted niche audiences (yet ironically will reach substantially larger populations) rather than the traditional demographics (which turn most non-gamers off and shackle studios to the same old ideas for the same old people). Everywhere, speakers celebrated the power of the player, and hoped to harness it by turning the playing experience into something appealing toeveryonerather than to the few.Move away from flash graphics, saidWarren Spector; use the Wife-o-Meter, saidShigeru Miyamoto; these games may not seem sexy, but by gum, making games which appeal to a broad demographic means longevity, saidDavid Amor.Use web paradigms to create compelling experiences,explainsRaph Koster, let them create, saidPhil Harrison, lose control, arguedDavid James.At the minute, it all feels like a series of pipe dreams, but one day I bet we players will look back and wonder just how we lived without content control.
As part of theFree Our Data campaignthat we're running in Guardian Technology, we're always interested in applications of government data to create new views of something that was already there, but not made visible.The latest is an implementation that mashes Google Earth with the US Census Bureau's latest data. TheGoogle Censusproject involved writing a fair amount of code (because the form in which the US Census data came wasn't that helpful, and the Bureau's own site wasn't the best - imagine!) but you can now have a go yourself.Anyone seen anything comparable with the UK census data? We'd have thought theOffice for National Statisticsmight have something, but can't find anything comparable.
Lord of the Rings Online came to London today and I couldn't resist asking the WoW question - "why should I play *insert name of MMO here* when I can play World of Warcraft"? It's the question that all MMO developers have to answer. I'll have the full interview with Turbine's Jeff Steefel up later this week but the LOTRO exec producer had a lot to say.LOTRO itself was perfectly, erm, nice. Heavily influenced by Blizzard's juggernaut - think burning rings rather than yellow question marks above the heads of quest givers - the world certainly looked pretty enough. But there was a slight lack of polish - your avatar feels oddly wooden while the interface suffered from indistinct icons and slightly blurry fonts. And of course you are still doing "get 6 pig ear" type quests. The chance to visit ionic locations from the book may appeal though - "not just a theme park" - but two community elements showed the real innovation.The first is the concept of family - basically you can adopt, or be adopted by another player and eventually create your own family tree. Turbine are naturally cautious where this could go - there is no real benefit in doing this at the moment other than role play - but if you've ever fancied having "BlahBlah son of BlahBlah" above your virtual head then this will be your pint of mead.Perhaps more interesting is the music stuff, where your character can learn some basic skills, grab an instrument and get playing. The numbers on your keyboard affect the chords and you can affect pitch by using the shift key. Turbine are promising that groups of players can team up to form bands - which throws up some horrific Jethro Tull images. Again there is currently no real benefit to this other than amusement, but perfecting that flute melody will make a change from the incessant wildlife culling. But will all this be enough to turn you away from WoW?
Monday's (belated) edition of Chatterbox.
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room for in print. But with more space here, you can read those we received from which we choselast week's Letters and Blogscolumn.MICRO BILLING SYSTEMSMy family have experienced the same problem with Micro Bill Systems' intrusive software. In our case, we couldn't understand why our 11 year old daughter had stopped using her PC for several weeks. She would clam up and change the subject whenever it was raised. We then switched her PC on and discovered she was getting locked out with a demand for three months subscription to sexxxpassport (£80 and rising every month). Pretty traumatic for an 11 year old and no wonder she didn't dare tell us. We don't know for sure that she didn't visit that site, but even if she did, it is outrageous that it can exploit a young child like this. I would question the legality of any system that creates a demand for payment without first establishing some form of "contract". For conventional web based subscription services, I assume there is normally a requirement to give credit card details (which would also act as some kind of protection against young children, who are unlikely to have legitimate access to credit card details). Micro Bill Systems' approach seems to me to be pretty close to fraud and extortion. I'd be happy to support any action to investigate or close down their activities. I was able to remove the software using Lavasoft Adaware SE (a free download). Peter Sandford, LancasterJust to say that I agree with the comment on consumer confidence. Your item about PC held to ransom has immediately worried me and my husband that other companies might start making such terms and conditions. How many of us read the small print thoroughly. Vaughan Melzer, LondonRegarding the story, I was wondering if there was any reason why you didn't publish the "technical" solution to the sexxxpassport problem? It seemed a bit odd to be told twice that there was a way to manually remove it, and yet have the only actual solution in the article be a commercial product, recommended by one of the directors of the company that manufactures it. If you were worried about being culpable for users implementing the instructions wrongly and damaging their systems, surely some form of disclaimer could accompany them? Richard Sandford, Bristol [We discussed removal of the MBS software in Ask Jack of February 22 -http://blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack/2007/02/billing_attack_from_mbs.html]Very scary story. I'm a bit sceptical about claims that Prevx will prevent the software installing. As far as I'm aware, there's little that will prevent you from downloading and installing software *of your choice*. If you want to do a follow-up, you could mention the mvps HOSTS file. Looks like this blocks connection to the website. Won't help if you've got this piece of crap already, but should help stop people from getting it.http://www.mvps.org/winhelp2002/hosts.htmMike Leonard, Kefalonia, GreeceFirstly its an illegal scam, but before you hit back, violently, against the attacker you need to have a legal notice as to the use of your PC. Something like: "The owner of this PC/Site/etc encourages the lawful use of this computer in sending and receiving e-mails. "However, in the case of hostile events, such as phishing, hacking, or attempted hijacking of this(these) computers, the attacker is deemed to be operating under the following conditions: "The attacker agrees to enter into an abusive relationship with the PC's/site's owner, with the intruder as the abusee and the owner as the abuser. "The attacker does so at his/her own risk and will not hold the PC's/Site's owner responsible for any damage to his system, and the owner may install any software, hereafter known as malware, on the intruding PC at his will. "No further warnings will be given, and the intruder is totally responsible for any malware that he/she may encounter when entering this site. END" Then remove any software that has been added, send a copy of similar warning to the intruder, if it is a phishing form demanding money, FILL IT IN WITH plausible to incorrect information.., make him waste his time! Then if he persists, in spite of your legal warning, Strike Back and have great fun at the aggro that you cause the attacker, and enjoy it. Basically there is only one way to deal with such attacks, as President Richard Milhouse Nixon once said: " Grab them by the balls and their hearts and minds will soon follow!" Mike Orton, HarlechIt baffles me why so many computer users have these problems of corruption by virus, unwanted pop-ups or whatever; yet the solution is so simple. Always keep an up-to-date backup of your main drive that you know to be clean and uncorrupted. If you find you have an intractable unwanted guest, just replace the lot. This practice have saved me a lot of angst many times. As one who has been computer-literate for over 20 years, now an 80 year old silver surfer, I learned the hard way that computers are like cars, they need regular maintenance. Any spare time I have is spent cleaning out the rubbish. Reg Williamson, KidsgroveI read with interest the story concerning the hijack of computers by a billing company. I do not know how the collection company can immobilise someone's property while providing neither evidence of debt nor being in possession of a court warrant entitling the company to levy distress. In my view, to deprive someone of their goods (in this case the functionality of a computer) without lawful authority, then to demand payment for restitution of same, is extortion. If people affected by this cannot get the company in question to desist in their demands and have the device removed from affected computers, then a complaint should be made to the police. I think the hijacking of computers in this manner could get as bad as the clamping of cars by non-licensed contractors. The situation became so bad in Scotland that, after complaints to police escalated, it has been established (by case law) that clamping by non-local authority registered contractors IS extortion. Such clampings are now a folk memory. Steve Elliot, LondonI feel very sorry for all these PC users, I have used a Mac for many, many years and never ever once been plagued with any virus, rootkit, trojan, botnet, etc etc. I also count myself as a heavy user, making online purchases in several countries. It might sound like preaching, it might even be construed as advertising Apple, but once in a while you could just 'mention' how getting a Mac would solve these issues at a stroke. Rob Dunford, LondonFAT FIREFOXFirstly, I feel I should declare my interests - I'm a student of Computer Science who uses Firefox daily and I am a long-time supporter of Open Source software in general. I also recognise that Firefox has its drawbacks and bugs. However, I take exception to your comments in your piece on Firefox 2.0. You claim that Firefox 1.5 did not ask you whether or not to close multiple tabs - that is probably because you disabled that - as it is on by default and has been since I can remember. And I suppose un-ticking the "Warn me when I attempt to close multiple tabs" box is far too much effort, considering all the effort you've gone through updating. You also claim that Mozilla have removed all traces of Firefox 1.5.0.X from their site. 30 seconds of looking at their site found me the "Archived versions" link - which takes me to a folder containing every version of Firefox from 1.0.1 upwards (you might want to move to 1.5.0.10 by the way, as that has the latest security updates). Mozilla do remove the old versions from the main pages, but that is just to reduce confusion amongst newcomers. As for bloated, well, I opened four tabs in Firefox 2.0.0.2 and then opened the same tabs in Internet Explorer 7. They had almost exactly the same resource usage. And sure, you can move back to Cello if you want, but don't expect it to render any websites properly. Early versions of Netscape certainly didn't understand CSS - a now standard web-technology which most websites use - so why Cello would is beyond me. As for the download problem - I honestly couldn't try to fix that without looking at your machine. However, I certainly do not get any such slow down, so it is likely a problem with your configuration/computer. People are always whining about updates. They never do exactly what everyone wants and some people will always have negative experiences with them. However, as is often the case, the vast majority have no such problems. Nicholas Moore, DurhamIf Wendy M Grossman thinks Firefox 2.0 is bloated (Technobile, 1st March), she's really going to love Firefox 3.0 which reportedly is going to incorporate its own SQL database for managing bookmarks and browsing history. The irony, of course, is that Firefox itself started out as a lightweight fork from the "bloated" original Mozilla project. Roy Stilling, GillinghamI read Wendy Grossman's piece on Firefox 2 with bemusement. If anything Firefox 2 is quicker at downloading than Firefox 1 on my PCs at work and home. Ian Taylor, LondonWendy M Grossman's latest diatribe surely is her weakest to date. Where does she get this thinly veiled excuse for a rant from? I use Firefox 2 as my browser of choice every day, only using IE7 when I must. Better still, with all the Add On apps, like IE Tab, that's rare indeed. I rarely have issues with it, despite adding a wide array of 3rd party utilities to the core browser. And to seriously argue that the flaky old Cello, which I used in 1991, is a serious alternative is truly laughable. It leaves me feeling Ms Grossman's scraping the bottom of her bile barrel for targets for her contrived venom. Ralph Averbuch, PencaitlandI have (but am not) a Mac (I'm a person)... Firefox 2.0 never crashes on my Mac. In fact nothing crashes on my Mac. Jake Phillips, EdinburghI would just like to point out the triviality of one of the many Luddite-ian complaints made in this article. ("You are about to close 98 tabs," it warned me the other day. "Are you sure you want to continue?"). See Tools-&gt;Options-&gt;Tabs to turn it off. Seán Bruton (no post town given)PATENTSAndrew Brown states that the chief problem with software patents is that "only experienced software engineers can tell whether something is a real innovation in the field", and presumably therefore concludes that such patents should not be allowed. This is no different from patents in any field of technology - the law provides that inventive step has to be judged by "the person of skill in the art", the nature of whom will differ depending on the technical field. Otherwise, you may as well argue that we shouldn't grant patents on, say, automotive technology, because "only experienced automotive engineers can tell whether something is a real innovation in the field". Patent offices address this by employing suitably skilled people to act as examiners; while courts will listen to testimony of the person of skill in the art. The argument that perhaps patent offices are under-resourced in particular technical fields is not an argument against granting patents in that field, it is an argument for encouraging software (or automotive) engineers with an interest in this issue to become involved in the patent system. Gareth Williams, Marks &amp; Clerk, Patent &amp; Trade Mark Attorneys , CambridgeBITTORRENTBitTorrent has never been anything other than an efficient way of distributing large files. It moves the distribution bottleneck from the content-provider's server uplink to elsewhere in the network, and makes use of otherwise under-utilised bandwidth. It's reasonable for ISPs to manage the traffic this change creates on their networks, which were engineered for a different usage pattern. It's still reasonable for them to do this now that more of those large files have DRM wrappers - most people won't mind that much if a torrent download is delayed by a few minutes, but they will mind if their web-pages don't load quickly because of contention on the network. It's not reasonable for an ISP to throttle content just because they think it might be infringing, and (although some rightsholders might have wanted them to do so) I don't think that any were doing so with torrents for that reason. There are easier ways of dealing with infringement. Sure, some people want to avoid paying for stuff. This is true whether files are distributed by FTP or BitTorrent. If anything, the association of the BitTorrent brand with DRM may make people look for alternatives, but mostly people are driven by convenience rather than principle. Now, if the official BitTorrent client were to stop supporting unprotected torrents, piracy might well increase. But I can't see BitTorrent being that stupid, however dumb their new partners in crime are. Edward Barrow, LondonBARK TREESRe: Barking up a Tree… Your article raises a number of questions: 1. Why grow trees for this purpose when there are thousands of tons of wood discarded daily by commercial activity, especially pallets and builder's waste. Much of this is dumped in skips and ends up in landfill – the skip hire companies should be able to at least cover their costs if the wood was separated and delivered to pelleting mills? 2. What are the energy costs of producing the pellets? And the environmental impact of producing that energy? 3. The claim that "the practicalities of using a wood pellet boiler are no different than oil" is difficult to swallow. Oil is pumped, silently and automatically on demand, from the storage tank to the boiler. Pellets can't be pumped – they have to be shovelled by hand or else gravity-fed, involving large structures and significant noise. And when demand starts and stops, an oil flame can be lit from a spark and immediately extinguished. A wood fire needs kindling, and doesn't stop in seconds either. Hans Kruiniger, BristolHowever desirable for other reasons, wood chips are carbon-neutral only in the sense that that when they are burned they return recently fixed carbon dioxide to the air. Conversely, like bioethanol, much more additional CO2 is released in their production. Think about the cost, in oil, of planting, tending, harvesting, transporting, "being forced through a die" (whew!), distribution etc. David Walker, SheffieldThe number of pellets per year seems rather tiny could it be something like 10 billion or even trillion ????or should it have been 10,000 tonnes ???? as in the text The reference to sawdust gives me some difficulty. Saw dust is the product of a serrated edged tool passing through wood and creating a relatively fine dust. There is a limit to the closeness of saw cuts so the sections of wood between could be deemed redundant unless they were turned into dust by grinding. So perhaps the whole technique should be referred to as wood grindings or fine wood chips but not saw dust. There is considerable energy input into the preparation of the "saw dust" prior to pelleting and the later drying but this was glossed over. There is also some possibility of disagreement with foresters on the use of spare timber. All conservation agencies stress the importance of retaining felled wood on site to preserve natural habitat for the wildlife, so perhaps the comment that wood otherwise ends in landfill was a bit over the top. Also almost all local authorities now provide facilities for collection of sawn timber and "garden" waste for recycling or composting. Jack Hill, St AlbansThis fuel is only carbon-neutral if the rate of consumption is no greater than that of new growth - and what about the energy cost of processing? - and what about the replacement of growth minerals in the soil? Sorry, but there's no such thing as a free dinner! Robert Crane, LondonBeing interested in alternative energy sources, and already a user of waste wood in woodburning stoves and on an open fire, I read the article by Kim Thomas with interest and enthusiasm. Having been a wood burner for over 30 years I have come to realise that to burn efficiently, the pre-requisite for wood is that it is dry, or more specifically well seasoned. However, whilst this is true of all types of wood, it is tree species that ultimately deliver the goods, i.e. heat output from a given pile of logs. In my village and surrounding area, ash trees grow in abundance. I consider myself fortunate to live here for two reason relating to the ash - one is that you can fell or coppice ash trees but because of their prolific regeneration and growth, there never seems to be any less to admire and wonder at. The other reason is that ash is one of the best woods for burning in terms of heat output. Similarly old fruit tees and hawthorn will give tremendous heat output. Other hardwoods such as beech and oak are also excellent, and almost all hardwoods are good for burning. Almost all. Then there is willow. Willow just happens to grow in my village, obviously more so in the lower and therefore wetter spots, one being my old orchard. I have cut off dead willow branches, cut up fallen willow branches, and when seasoned I have burned willow both in a woodburning stove and even on an open fire. However with all other locally grown woods ( with the possible exception of elder ), I have toiled in order to provide a heat source to heat my home. But with the willow the heat generated from it is such that I feel I have laboured in order to tidy up, rather than obtain a fuel source. There have been times when I have burnt willow and almost touched the flames without feeling any real heat. The only times I have really been warm with willow has been from the physical labours of sawing it up or moving it around. For these reasons I was particularly interested in the article by Kim Thomas. Here was an alternative and superior way to burn willow, and a growing ( excuse the pun ) alternative energy source. Here was proof that willow can be grown, harvested, dried and sold to consumers on a cost effective basis. Even costs per unit comparisons with gas electricity and coal were included, which gives willow pellets the thumbs up. I had of been aware of the willow pellet industry for some considerable time and welcomed it. The carbon neutral process which accompanies the growing and burning of wood is completely sustainable. My thoughts had been that at some point someone will realise there must be better types of tree to do it with. Now I am thinking that perhaps willow is the answer, and that my meagre attempts to use it have been flawed. Perhaps my seasoning method, which is to leave it to dry for a year or so, often in the open, has allowed much of the thermal value to leach out - quite possible in retrospect. And I sincerely hope this is the case. However having read the full article twice, I felt a little uneasy. The first figures given stipulated that 1kg of pellets provides as much heat as a 1 kilowatt electric fire running for five hours. My reaction- sounds a bit too good to be true, but must be right. This followed by "about 30% of each tree goes to make pellets; the rest is bark or made into planks. Each tree will produce about three tons of pellets - enough to keep 200 homes warm for a week." On reading this my mathematical mind goes into turmoil and override. I am momentarily unable to decide which of the 2 figures to check. A three year old willow weighing over nine tons - what new species is this runs through my mind. Can I plant some in my orchard? Simultaneously I am calmly trying to divide 3 tons by 200 homes and eventually go for the easy option 3000kg divided by 200 gives 15 kg per home. Then 15 kg x 5 = 75 kw hours . 75 kw hours divided by 7 days = just over 10 kw hours per day. Doesn't sound much. I can burn 15 kg of logs in less than 24 hours. But averaged out over the year, with super-insulated homes etc. etc.? Could be plausible. Anyway back to my new willow orchard. three tons x say 50 trees = £££ - then suddenly the penny drops! It is obvious. It should say "Each acre of trees will produce about three tons of pellets - enough to keep 200 super-insulated homes warm for a week. That must be it! Anyone can make a mistake with figures. This explains everything. I am not suggesting that Kim Thomas has deliberately tried to mislead. The article was well written, interesting and informative, and probably has fewer mistakes than my response here. All efforts to encourage willow pellets usage should be encouraged, unless a better species of tree is found. My deductions may also be incorrect and the truth may lie somewhere in between - I hope so. Who knows I may even grow some willows myself - I have a few acres. Brian Stockdale, AskhamGood article on 1st March on wood pellets. Balcas are about to build a very large plant in Invergordon - just north of Inverness - to produce 100,000 tonnes of pellets. A significant amount I am sure you will agree. Welsh Biofuels are also building . Mike Edwards near in Brandon near Cambridge has recently commissioned a plant. There are a least 5 plants some of significant size that I know about that are all on "the drawing boards" so availability from UK sources up and down country will not be an issue shortly and indeed I predict this will drive prices down making it more competitive against Fossil fuels. This whole area is about to explode and plumbers need to research to ensure they have the knowledge to answer the public clamour that I predict will soon follow particularly from those of us that don't have gas!! Have a look at Gerkos site for boiler units for individual houses. Have a poke round their site - it is interesting and there are lots more manufactures. On of the best web site is Highland Wood Energy. Thomas Tait, OldmeldrumGuardian readers will be delighted to know that wood pellet made primarily from re-used timber, and meeting European pellet quality standards, is obtainable from an ethical source. Welsh Biofuels, in Bridgend, is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Environment Trust; the East End based charitable development trust. The factory which has created 20 jobs in South Wales, makes 150 tons of high quality wood pellets a week- from shredded broken pallets. Your article demonstrated the environment friendly nature of wood pellet as a fuel that's enhanced by Welsh Biofuels use of recycled material. For further information:www.welsh-biofuels.co.ukJon Aldenton, The Environment Trust, LondonON ONE MAP&gt;&gt; If you think you can take this stuff for granted, think again. The Government currently plans to clamp down on some of the freedoms granted under the Freedom of Information Act by permitting public bodies to exempt themselves from responding to FoI requests if the cost of doing so exceeds £600.http://www.ononeblog.com/?p=18PLAYSTATION 3 LOSES EMOTION ENGINE&gt;&gt; In about a year's time we should have an idea of whether Sony's plans are going to pay off. Sony's initial crop of big-budget first-party games should have had a chance with reviewers and consumers. Europe's reception of the PlayStation 3 will have been assessed, and the viability of a $600 console will have been determined. This has to be the year of the PlayStation 3, or Sony will have a grim five years burning money to support a product few people wanted.http://curmudgeongamer.com/2007/03/xbox-is-new-playstation.htmlSWITCH OFF..My house, like Andy Taylor's (Letters and Blogs, March 1st) has switches on the mains sockets. If I use them to switch of my Topfield PVR instead of leaving it in "Stand By", it loses most of its system settings and reverts to a set of default values when switched on again. It then needs at least 15 button pressings on the remote control to restore the TV screen to the correct 16:9 ratio from the 4:3. The clock would also need resetting to the local time zone if we did not use GMT and BST and the language would need changing if we did not use English. It is not normally switched of at the mains, other than for holidays. Keith Ronaldson, ChelmsfordWIND UPI note that before Christmas you commented on the poor performance of small wind turbines, particularly those in an urban environment. Far from practical issues there are theoretical reasons why such turbines may only produce small amounts of electricity. The amount of energy that the wind can provide is proportional to the cube of the wind speed. Most of these turbines have a maximum electricity production at about 12 metres/second. In my area of the country, at a height of 10 metres, the average windspeed is 5 metres/second. Since 12 cubed = 1728 and 5 cubed = 125. A wind turbine rated at 1KW at 12 metres/second should produce 125/1728 * 1 KW at 5 metres/second. This works out at 72.3 watts. Another factor involved in the amount of power produced by the wind is the 'area' of the wind captured. This depends on the size of the blades on the turbine. It varies as the square of the 'radius' of the blades. If you double the length you get 4 times as much power. It would therefore appear that large turbines, in windy places, are the best bet. Philip Goatly, ChelmsfordALEKS AT PLAYI would just like to comment on Aleks Krotoski's article "Why I take my playtime very, very seriously". Make that two comments. First off, nobody seriously believes in this "Protestant Work Ethic", do they? America is obsessed with it, but that's why their medical costs are sky-high, mental disorders are rampant, their level of innovation is at an all-time low, their R&amp;D is all outsourced overseas and even their car industry is on the verge of extinction. Workaholism is seriously being examined as a mental disease in its own right and one that produces only the illusion of doing more. Workaholics tend to die younger than their counterparts and their lives are generally miserable. So much so that there is an entire publishing industry in America dedicated to producing guides on how to be happy. Secondly, not all play is created equal. Einstein - the usual example - did a lot of his best theoretical work when riding bicycles or lounging on boats. And it would be hard to say Archimedes was working when he made his famous "eureka!" discovery. Apple Computers sprang out from a couple of college kids having a blast at a social(?) club for geeks. My knowledge isn't perfect, but it's not bad, yet I cannot name a single truly successful innovator, inventor, discoverer or theorist who cared one whit for work. Every single last one that I can name was brilliant beyond measure because they kept their inner kid alive, well and hyperactive. Second Life is unlikely to help solve the Grand Unified Theory problem, or put a British astronaut on the real moon. But I'm willing to bet that between - say - now and 2010 you will be able to count more game-inspired world-changing events than "work ethic"-inspired ones. I see no reason to expect the next three years to differ in that respect from the last three thousand. So be proud of your game-playing, whatever daydreams you have, and your moments of sheer inspiration. The only way you can fail to have an impact is to give up on the fun. Jonathan Day (no post town given)
The growth of HDTV in the US threatens "the potential marginalization of Linux to older machines or servers," according to Brian Proffitt, Managing Editor of Linux Today, because of the DRM (digital rights management) system much high-def content may employ.Proffitt says:If HD content will be king, then the manufacturers ... will either have to sign-up for this DRM scheme or they won't. Given that in three or four years, which is when such a DRM plan is expected to be implemented, Vista will have probably gotten itself installed on a majority of the world's desktops and there'll be even more broadband to deliver HD content, only a suicidal card manufacturer would opt out of this DRM scheme.This will leave Linux on the desktop in a precarious position. Obviously, the base X system won't be affected by this image constraint token, so we'll all still be able to use our GNOME, KDE, Xfce, or whatever desktops and the attendant apps. But what do we tell the potential new Linux user when they want to point Firefox at some HD content on the Web? Or a techie who wants to build his own DVR device? "Sorry, Linux can't do that?"It seems extemely likely that Mac OS X will eventually get the same kind of DRM already used in Windows Vista and the Sony PlayStation 3, but DRM and the open source GPL are not happy bedfellows.This is a problem that goes much wider than the minute Linux desktop market, of course. For example, Motorola is using Linux in mobile phones, and TiVo and others use it in set-top boxes. They have commercial imperatives to be able to handle DRM-crippled content.
According to Reuters: "European Union consumer chief Meglena Kuneva has hit out at Apple Inc.'s bundling of its popular iPod music players and its iTunes online music store, according to German weekly magazine Focus.""Do you think it's fine that a CD plays in all CD players but that an iTunes song only plays in an iPod? I don't. Something has to change," EU Consumer Protection Commissioner Kuneva was quoted as saying in a preview of an interview to be published on Monday.Later, the story says: "A Commission spokeswoman in Brussels confirmed Kuneva's comment reported by the magazine but said it represented the commissioner's personal views, not those of the Commission."This one has been rumbling along for a couple of years, and I wrote a column aboutthe background and possible solutionslast month. I suspect the pressure on Apple is likely to build, rather than go away.Update:According to Reuters on March 13: "The European Union's consumer chief soft-pedalled her views on Apple Inc on Tuesday, backing off the line that its iTunes online music store must become more compatible with other formats." The story says: "Kuneva said she worked closely with Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes, whose department has found no reason to pursue Apple."Sounds like Kuneva got a severe telling off.....
The San Francisco Chronicle has a nice piece calledWhere neo-nomads' ideas percolate, that explains how "New 'bedouins' transform a laptop, cell phone and coffeehouse into their office"."The San Francisco coffeehouse is the new Palo Alto garage," declares Kevin Burton, 30, who runs his Internet startup Tailrank without renting offices. "It's where all the innovation is happening."Burton and Kennedy are among those popularizing the bedouin name, separating the movement from traditional freelancing by stressing the workers' involvement in technology, in general, and Web 2.0 ideology in particular. While the movement is at its apex in San Francisco, where young urban independents can easily find a coffeehouse with the right vibe for them, it's also happening across the more suburban reaches of the Bay Area, and across the country as a whole.A year ago here(Thursday February 23 2006) I published a graphicRecipe for going Bedouinin response to posts by Greg Olsen (Going Bedouin) and Jackson West (The New Office Space). The idea has plenty of traction but the term never took off.The people who do this sort of thing probably don't fit the corporate "road warrior" model, so it would be nice to have a better name for it. But is there one?
I've been resolutely ignoringRobert Scoble's frequent mentionsofTwitterin the hope that it might go away. No such luck. Twitter has apparently infected the crowd at theSXSW conferencein Austin to the point where it how hasa Twitter screenof scrolling messages.Ross Mayfield at SocialTextsays:Twitter [has] tipped the tuna. By that I mean it started peaking. Adoption amongst the people I know seemed to double immediately, an apparent tipping point. It hasn't jumped the shark, and probably won't until Steven Colbert covers this messaging of the mundane. As Twitter turns 1 on March 13th, not only is there a quickening of users, but messages per user.Twitter, in a nutshell, is mobile social software that lets you broadcast and receive short messages with your social network. You can use it with SMS (sending a message to 40404), on the web or IM. A darn easy API has enabled other clients such as Twitterific for the Mac. Twitter is Continuous Partial Presence, mostly made up of mundane messages in answer to the question, "what are you doing?" A never-ending steam of presence messages prompts you to update your own.Pete Cashmore at Mashablehas summed the whole thing up brilliantly with a small artwork:On the other side, Chris Heuer asksIs SxSW going to be the death of Twitter?You simply don't have the time to keep track ofmore than 147.8 people.....If you have been ignoring Twitter, it'san off-shoot of Ev Williams' Odeo audiocasting site. Ev developed Blogger.
PlayStation 3's wireless joypad surprises in several ways: it's lighter than you would imagine possible; it has the same flimsy analogue joysticks PS2 suffered from; some games let you tilt the pad to control them and, surprisingly, it doesn't have the vibration facility available since the days of the dear old Nintendo 64.Sony's explanation was that it interfered with the tilt control, a story leant little credence by Nintendo's success in including not only "rumble" technology, but also a tiny speaker in its tilt-sensitive Wii-remotes. Informed gamers may have a more plausible explanation: that Immersion Corporation, owners of the trademark on trembling joysticks, sued them for copyright infringement, a suit settled out of court by Microsoft.The fact that Sony reached a similar settlement last week suggests their technologists may soon discover a way of including it in future.
Test Drive UnlimitedPS2Fly to Hawaii, buy a car and a crib (to park your cars - never to sleep), then get on with using as much tarmac as you can find, which, on the island of Oahu, is a great deal. Mixing twisty mountain roads, trafficky towns and swathes of motorway, you can't fault the destination, or the prettiness of its backdrops.Departing from the Xbox 360 version with very slightly tighter handling and a Project Gotham Racing-style system that gives you points for drifts, time spent in the air and just driving around, Unlimited is a game that rewards you for being behind the wheel, whether or not you're competing in an event. Even without HD graphics and a toned-down online mode, this is highly compelling, and potentially a fitting swan song for Atari; a company that if it were a pop star, would have shaved its hair off and gone into rehab.&#183;Atari, &#163;29.99Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2Xbox 360Starting in Mexico before taking you to war in the good ol' US of A, the verbosely entitled sequel to 2006's Bafta game of the year arrives in the UK this week. Placing its emphasis somewhere between fighting and tactics, you use your three-man Special Forces team, selected weaponry and air strikes to overcome a series of objectives that form part of a wider nuclear terrorism plot.Making cautious use of cover and unmanned drones to scout enemy positions before moving in is the only way through the missions, which reward frontal assaults with swift and abject failure. In structure, this edition has increasing amounts in common with the excellent Full Spectrum Warrior series, but with an easier and slightly more action-orientated feel. Refined, subtle and rewarding, this is the game Rainbow Six wishes it was.&#183;Ubisoft, &#163;49.99
Forbes magazine has published itsannual list of the world's billionaires, headed as usual by Bill Gates ($56bn) and his bridge partner Warren Buffett ($52bn) -- and they are also the two people who have given the most money away. Oracle's Lawrence Ellison is in 11th place with $21.5bn, and Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen in 19th with $18bn. (Last year, Allen was 6th richest with $22bn.)However, Google's Larry Page and Sergey Brin are already equal 26th, with $16.6bn each. They have overtaken Michael Dell (26th, $15.8bn), Steve Ballmer (31st, $15bn), Rupert Murdoch (73rd, $9bn), eBay's Pierre Omidyar (76th, $8.8bn), Google's Eric Schmidt (116, $6.2bn), Steve Jobs (132nd, $5.7bn), Richard Branson (230th, $3.8bn), Intel's Gordon Moore (243rd, $3.6bn), Yahoo's David Filo (369th, $2.5bn) and Yahoo's Jerry Yang (432nd, $2.2bn).There are 946 billionaires on the list.The list may have a new leader next year. Forbes says:Bill Gates, the world's richest man for 13 years, and his pal Warren Buffett, who holds the No. 2 spot despite enormous charitable donations, are quickly losing ground to Mexico's most-monied man,Carlos Slim Helú. Helú's net worth is up an astonishing $19 billion this year--the single biggest one-year gain in a decade--and is now just $7 billion shy of Gates and $3 billion less than Buffett."The son of a Lebanese immigrant, Slim made his first fortune in 1990 when he bought fixed line operator Telefonos de Mexico (Telmex) in a privatization."Gates could, of course, have a much greater paper wealth if Microsoft's shares went up again. During Bubble 1.0, Gates was worth $100bn.Update 1: Valleywag has postedThe Googolaires, which reckons that "About one third of California's technology fortunes are built on Google's soaring stock." That's including people like venture capitalist John Doerr, and Andy Bechtolsheim, who was a co-founder of Sun Microsystems.Update2: There's a Guardian Unlimited story,Super-rich get richer, plus an updated version --$49bn Mexican jumps up list of world's richest-- from Saturday's paper.
SaturdayPossibly not the smartest promise: A $1200 bounty on unsold PS3sMondayTaking hype to a new level: GTA IVTuesdaySecrets of NIMH: Games help map depressionWednesdayThe latest hotbed for terrosism: the online gameThursdayThe Restaurant: a game development "conversation"Virtual worlds are the future for big mediaFridayOne Life Left podcast
Apologies, I'm a little late with this, but I'm on holiday. Greg already mentioned Little Big Planet, the title that's set to introduce Sony's new strategy of user-definable gaming to the world. But here's some screenshots in case you haven't seen any.Created by UK studio, Media Molecule, previously responsible for the wonderful Rag Doll Kung Fu, it's a custom, co-op platformer in which players work together online to proceed through the sharply details environments. There's also an incredibly user-friendly creation kit, where players make their own levels, working together with a mate to co-operatively construct areas which can then be shared online.The puzzles seem to involve lots of physics interactions. Jumping on planks to propel each other to new areas, riding on skateboards down hills to knock over other objects. The characters themselves are tiny rag dolls, completely customisable by the player. There's a real emphasis on everyday materials - levels are constructed from sticks, rocks and old bits of cloth, but everything is drawn with hi-def super-realism. No cartoon or cel-shading effects here.Anyway, out of the two big announcements from Phil Harrison's GDC speech - the other being Home - this is the one I'm most excited by. A beautiful-looking, interestingly leftfield game, produced by a small team with a few interesting ideas.View imageView image
Weekend Gaming plans? For me it's all about GRAW2 for the 360. I've been playing it a lot this week and despite the issues - single player too short, basically more of the same - it has still kept me interested. And the general release means multiplayer, the main selling point of the game, will come into its own. The 6 co-op missions - set in Panama - are the online highlight. The achievements are heavily weighted towards the online side, though you can pick up a relatively easy 45 working through the tutorial. Hurrah.The other big-ish release is GTA: Vice City Stories. I've only had a brief go but it felt a bit irrelevant to be honest. The original Vice City was always the best of the 3D GTA games - it hit the right balance between size and challenge plus it had a synthtastic soundtrack - but even this seems tired now. And the "Stories" series - originally for PSP - just feel like a cash-in on PS2. What are your weekend gaming plans?
It's time for theFriday Afternoon Question- but I've been rushing around on a last-minute assignment and so I've decided to opt for some sort of namby pamby.It's time to turn the lights down, the music up and get all meta on your backsides. By which I mean I'm going to ask you a question about asking questions rather than any kind of romantic sexy nonsense. So here goes:What question would you ask the Technology Blog readers?No answers to the questions, people - those will come at a later date. But the best questions will be rewarded and we'll get a chance to answer them ourselves when they appear on future FAQs.
Yes, seriously. We're working on a feature about file sharing, and finding people who have been sued by the music industry in the UK is about as easy as, I dunno, winning a TV phone-in quiz.So if you are, or know someone who is, someone who has been sued by the IFPI or the BPI over alleged file-sharing, get in touch (tech@guardian.co.uk). Yes, we are seriously asking. We'll protect your identity if needs be, but would obviously need to confirm a few details for the purposes of reality.
Now this really is a fascinating new wrinkle on the idea of search, at least academically. Bamber Gascoigne, whom the older amongst you might remember as the original University Challenge quizmaster, has not been sitting on his hands.Instead,Timesearch(timesearch.info, if you want to remember it) lets you search by topic, and more importantly lets you filter by year. You begin by selecting an area (the world/Europe/Asia/Africa/etc... including subdivisions of those areas) and then a theme (all, arts, literature, performing arts, politics, religion, science, society, technology, war - and those too can be subdivided) and, if you want, a year or time period. Various timeline sites then appear too. (In concept, it's a metasearch engine, pulling together results from other sites but presenting a rather good face.) It's easier to use than to explain in words, to be honest.Certainly searching by time - rather than by "reputation" - is something that one would never have realised that the web was missing until it came along.It's surely going to be a very valuable resource for anyone who needs to do some studying and pull together a timeline, or link events in time. It's not a time for soundbites, but I can see the search engine of history in my browser window....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Normally I wouldn't big up the competition, but Ste over atOneLifeLefthas managed to get in before the gamesblog with his high-quality gaming podcasts, available on digital radio and also, for the international community, via the interwebs.He's alerted me to their latest instalment, which covers "the Kotaku/Sony breakup, GTA IV, Crackdown, Ghost Recon 2, time travel and telephones". And if you're looking for a good deal, the station's in financial dire straits so they're auctioning many gaming goodies to raise funds. Keep an eye out, but don't forget to come back here occasionally. Our podcast will start very soon.
Last week, in the latest twist in its three-year-long investigation into Microsoft for antitrust issues, the European Commission published a "statement of objection" accusing the company of not honouring the settlement reached in 2004. Everyone But Microsoft 1, Microsoft 0, right? Not so fast.For the moment, let's leave aside the question of whether Microsoft has behaved badly. A careful reading of the ruling - such as that provided by Ovum research analyst Gary Barnett - suggests there's a hidden patent trap. The 2004 ruling being enforced by Neelie Kroes, the EU competition commissioner, required Microsoft to ship versions of Windows without its media player and also to open its client/server interface to competitors by publishing the protocols that define interactions between clients such as ordinary Windows PCs and workgroup servers so that other companies could make interoperable products.Microsoft produced a list relating to these protocols, but noted that they were subject to patent protection and were Microsoft's intellectual property. The company accordingly proposed to charge for them; the commission ruled that the protocols weren't innovative enough for Microsoft to charge for them. In other words, Barnett argues, the commission is making a judgement about the value of patents awarded by the European Patent Office.Patents on software are wildly controversial in the technology world and the EPO, along with the UK's patent office, is reputedly more willing to grant software patents than any other office in the EU. In the first few years of this century, the EU tried to bring in the Computer-Implemented Inventions Directive to harmonise the way patents are granted. The directive included a test for determining whether a particular piece of software was worthy of a patent: did it take a "technical step" forward? The directive failed in 2005 after a lot of wrangling, and even at the time it seemed clear that part of the reason was a power struggle between the various components of the EU government, rather than simple dissatisfaction with the aims of the directive. To anyone who followed those efforts in detail, the European Commission's ruling has a familiar ring.Many - and not just open source advocates - have called for the reform of the patent system. But few would argue that the reform should be carried out unilaterally by the European Commission or that the commission should take the place of the courts that review patents when they're challenged. And if Microsoft's patents can be overridden by the commission, doesn't that set a precedent for everyone else? Even hardware manufacturers like IBM and Hewlett-Packard have software patents.So before you pop the champagne corks, consider: is this any way to run a patent regime?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Sometimes it takes an enormous upheaval to change people's - and particularly governments' - minds about the value of data, and the benefits or otherwise of making access to them easy. In South Africa, the apartheid regime relied on keeping secret files about many of its citizens, constant surveillance and even, in the most extreme cases, carrying out secret germ warfare research.That all ended with the dismantling of apartheid. But more was to come when in February 2000, Thabo Mbeki, the South African president, assented to the Promotion of Access to Information Act. Its purpose was stated at the outset: "To give effect to the constitutional right of access to any information held by the state and any information that is held by another person and that is required for the exercise or protection of any rights; and to provide for matters connected therewith."Culture of secrecyRecognising, it continues, "the system of government in South Africa before 27 April 1994, amongst others, resulted in a secretive and unresponsive culture in public and private bodies which often led to an abuse of power and human rights violations"; and given that the constitution "provides that everyone has the right of access to any information held by the state", anyone who wants data held by the state should be able to get it, for no more than the cost of reproduction and retrieval. Only Cabinet committees and certain courts' hearings are exempt from the Act.And of course among the government bodies affected are the Republic of South Africa's own mapping agency, the Chief Directorate of Surveys and Mapping (CDSM). Its website now offers a price listing for access to its data; for the digital versions, the list is simple - 0 rand. There is even an FTP download site from which you can get a file with the locations of ground-based Global Positioning System (GPS) stations, which improve the accuracy of GPS satellite navigation systems dramatically. (The CDSM site isw3sli.wcape.gov.za.)Maps matter in South Africa. First, because it is simply a huge country. Second, agriculture is vital to the economy; it is the world's eighth largest wine producer, 11th largest sunflower seed producer and 12th largest sugar producer. Yet ownership of land is regularly disputed; a major part of the work undertaken by the Department of Land Affairs, which includes the CDSM, lies in awarding titles to land to individuals.The Promotion of Access to Information act overturned the commercial model that the CDSM had been operating until that time. But what does that mean for the criticisms that are brought up repeatedly when Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign is debated?To recap, the campaign - started almost a year ago - suggests that impersonal data collected by the UK government, including those related to mapping, environmental, meteorological and similar fields, should be made available for the cost of reproduction - which in the case of digital products is zero. At present, many organisations within the UK government which collect such data charge for them, restricting the market that could take advantage of them.Criticisms include the suggestion that making data free would not produce sufficient growth in the economy, or in tax revenues, to offset the extra taxes needed to pay for the work; and that tax-funded data collection would be constantly imperilled by a cost-cutting Treasury.As to the size of the boost free data might generate, the Department of Trade and Industry is understood to be about to respond to a report by the Office of Fair Trading which suggested that such charging holds back the economy by at least &pound;1bn annually.But the South African example offers another testbed for the "free data" concept. Has it worked, and does the funding received from the South African parliament made up the loss in revenues from selling the data? We asked Derek Clarke, chief director of the CDSM, who says the funding comes entirely from central government."It is not enough to satisfy all client needs, but must be seen in the context of affordability for the country." Previously sales of maps generated R3.5m (&pound;305,000), but that loss has not affected the CDSM: "All the revenue had to be returned to the central revenue fund of government," Clarke says. "Previously there was no incentive to sell data, except for the satisfaction of knowing that you have happy clients. It should be noted that most of our clients are other government departments and the money paid is government money - government paying itself makes no sense but causes administrative waste."The latter comment is an interesting one in the light of the revelation (Free Our Data, February 1) that the Ordnance Survey in 2004-05 generated around half its revenues from within government. By contrast, only about 5% of the CDSM's operating costs were covered by sales of products. Its budget in 2004-05 was roughly R69m, or &pound;6m, though other work such as land title surveys and spatial planning amounted to R97m (&pound;8.4m). By contrast, the UK Ordnance Survey's operating costs are just over &pound;100m.But the key question is: has the number of organisations, both public and private-sector, taking the CDSM's digital data increased with this move? "Yes, by about 500%," Clarke says. The crunch question, though, and central to the Free Our Data concept - does he think the South African economy as a whole has benefited from this move? That is, have the taxes generated by private-sector companies using the data, or savings made through using it, compensated for any loss in revenue from charging for digital data?"Yes," says Clarke. "This was one of the motivating factors to make data free - to stimulate the private sector in providing services and to reduce their input costs - the spinoff being job creation."Benefits of free dataClarke adds: "This model should be applicable to all developing countries where the government must play a developmental role. The same situation does not apply to developed countries with mature markets. However, governments of developed countries should evaluate the opportunity cost of geospatial data - it may be more beneficial to make data free."And what of Crown copyright, the much-vaunted but mysterious concept that attaches itself to every piece of data that the UK government produces? "It is possible to have free data but still have copyright on that data," Clarke says. "Copyright on free data is not used to restrict the use of the data but to ensure that the user acknowledges the source and also to ensure that no other party claims a copyright on that data."But with freedom of information under assault in the UK by the very administration that introduced it, one must wonder what sort of upheaval will be necessary to change the British data landscape.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Michael Killian definitely looks the part, right down to the handlebar moustache. Although he works as a software engineer in the US, the 46-year-old from Dublin is an inventor - one who has come up with a quite radical redesign of the bicycle.What's new and different about it, you ask. Well, it still has two wheels, a saddle, pedals and handlebars, so it can't be all that radical, can it? Well, except that it's sideways. Which is to say that the bicycle still goes forwards in line with its wheels, but its rider sits at right angles to the direction of travel, and pedals crossways, too. It looks pretty nutty, as you can see for yourself if you visit Killian's site (sidewaysbike.com).This is something of a departure. Since its earliest days, about 150 years ago, with the high wheelers that preceded the "safety bicycle" and what we would recognise as something very close to the modern bike, the bicycle has placed its rider facing forward, balanced symmetrically over the axis formed by the wheels. This was a template established even before the Penny Farthing, with the genesis in the late 18th century of the freewheeling "hobbyhorses" and, later, "draisiennes" (like bikes but without pedals). At a stroke, then, Killian's invention overturns more than two centuries of engineering consensus about how personal travel could be accomplished without putting oats in one end and producing manure at the other; or latterly, petrol or diesel and noxious fumes.Perhaps the first question is: "Does it work"? Well, Killian can ride it, according to the video evidence (unless his real talent is with computer graphics). But it is not as easy to control as the bike we have come to know and love; he admits that only about six out of 10 people seem able to master the counter-intuitive skill of sideways cycling.The second, and larger, philosophical question is "why?" Killian is clearly enamoured of the experience, but the public is sceptical. While its inventor is convinced of its appeal to the cyclist "seeking more artistic expression in a bicycle", he has yet to find a manufacturer willing to put it into production.The sideways bike does seem to fall rather into the category of "reinventing the wheel". Perhaps the lesson for us is that while the modern bicycle is a wonder of modern design, materials and manufacturing, in its essence - the "diamond frame", chain drive, wire-spoke wheels and pneumatic tyres - it has remained unchanged for well over a century. Everything from derailleur gears (more than 60 years old) to disc brakes is about improvement and refinement. Now and again, a major development comes along - clipless pedals, say - that soon supersedes an older technology (toeclips), but this is evolution, not revolution.It would be complacent to say that revolutionary innovation is inconceivable. Cycling has always attracted more than its share of inventors. Remember Mike Burroughs who, with Lotus, designed and built the remarkable aerodynamic bike on which Chris Boardman broke records and won gold at the Barcelona Olympics. But a sideways bike? That could be one turn of the crank too far.Win Tour ride ticketsThe Guardian is teaming up with Cyclesurgery, sponsor of the British Cyclosportive, to offer 10 free entries (each worth &pound;40) for the 117-mile cyclosportive on July 1 that follows the route of stage 1 of this year's Tour de France from London to Canterbury. The event sold out within 24 hours last week, so this is a great opportunity to book your chance to ride the same roads as the pros. In addition, Rapha Performance Roadwear will kit out each winner in a classic sportwool jersey and armwarmers (worth &pound;110). Read the terms and conditions and email your answer to the following question tocyclo.sportive@guardian.co.ukQ:Which team will be riding Wilier bikes (distributed in the UK by Cyclesurgery) in this year's Tour?a) T Mobileb) Lampre-Fonditalc) Discovery ChannelTerms and conditions:The prize draw is open until 00:00 March 15 2007. Winners will be drawn at random from all emails received by that date. The winners will be notified by email on March 15 2007. This competition is not open to employees of Guardian Newspapers Ltd, or Cyclesurgery, or Rapha Ltd, their agencies or anyone else connected with the creation or administration of the promotion. Only one entry is allowed per person. The prize is non-transferable and there will be no cash alternatives. There is no responsibility taken for entries lost, delayed or incomplete. Entries by email must include: a) the answer to the competition question; b) an answer (yes/no) to whether you would like to be contacted by GNM in the future; c) an answer (yes/no) to whether you would like to be contacted by third parties screened by GNM in the future. Promoter: The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER
Fancy a peek at Joost? Well, you'll just have to wait until the summer when the online TV service is due to be unleashed - but for some invited users, a beta of the service is already up and running.The Joost service is already a fully functioning online TV network of around 400 streams of programming available to some 14,000 testers. TV over the internet is not new. What is new with Joost is the fullscreen image showing a high-resolution picture and full-length programmes.Twitch the mouse and a control panel pops up. Under the row of on/off and volume controls is a second bar, "Joost suggests", directing you to any of 18 channels. Under that, a third bar reveals the programmes on the 18 channels. Click on a start button and the show you have selected begins to play. A fourth tier of the control panel contains a search box for those tastes not catered for by the corporate selection.Going liveWhen the service goes live - it's hinted that it will be at the end of June - it will be free with no subscription or fee. Crucially, the service is peer-to-peer. Choosing this delivery system is a smart move; Joost is a software house that does not have to bother with banks of servers gobbling money and needing maintenance. Its users take care of all that.And that peer-to-peer (P2P) nature gives a clue to its origins. Joost is the brainchild of Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, who were behind the P2P file sharing service KaZaA and the P2P internet phone service Skype, which has attracted millions of users and was sold to eBay for &pound;1.3bn.The founders say that when it is up and running, viewers will have thousands of programmes to choose from on up to 100,000 channels. This sounds ambitious, but the founders' reputation is a formidable one. Zennstrom and Friis are on the A-list for this kind of innovation.At this stage in the beta, the bundle of mostly mediocre telly programmes in their current offering seems to be technically credible. At the moment with Joost you can hop from tropical fish off the coast of east Africa to bad US-made comedies, and even a Russian film or two.But Zennstrom and Friis have a surprise up their collective sleeve: they are not just offering TV. This is the internet, after all, and this is Web 2.0. Each screen has all of the functionality of a website and users can generate much of what goes on the screen.So Trekkies could, for example, have a noticeboard at the top of the screen with a commentary, an instant messaging service at the bottom right and be simultaneously logged in to a chatroom full of other equally enthusiastic fans. If you then add the clock and the news ticker, there will barely be any room for Captain Kirk and his crew on the screen.Joost has created the tools that allow others to fill in the content, explains chief executive Fredrik de Wahl. "Anybody who knows how to write a little bit of HTML will be able to take the elements and adapt them," he says. These onscreen elements are - perhaps unsurprisingly - known as widgets. They are firmly in the hands of the users, says de Wahl: Joost is not in the business of writing the content.De Wahl says that with Joost's service, you can do anything possible on a website. "You can have competitions, you can have e-commerce. Whatever you do on websites you have the same freedom here." But it's early days: "We do not pretend to have worked out what all of these communities will like the most."But if those communities of users have a good idea, they can create something and play it at no cost to see the reaction. If it helps keep viewers sticking to a stream, then ultimately it will have a commercial value. Unless the content owners say no, that is, and ban the interactive elements, which they will be able to do. There is an override: content owners who want to disable a widget can do so. If they do not wish any overlays on top of their product, they can ban them.But "we are very much discouraging companies disabling the widgets because this is the future of television", says de Wahl. "It would be a shame. We have not seen any content owners doing that." However, this is hardly surprising, since the beta stage has barely begun.Content is king and Joost recently announced that it was finalising a deal with Viacom, owner of Paramount, which seems to have netted the company the keys to the Paramount comedy vaults, allowing viewers access to thousands of hours of prime-time US comedies.The deal was possible because Joost boasts a secure, efficient, piracy-proof internet platform, and is guaranteeing copyright protection for content owners and creators.The financial details of the deal were not revealed but they have said that all of the interactive elements will be enabled under the agreement.Joost will make its money by creating what amounts to an individualised mass market for advertisers, says de Wahl. And advertisers will love the fact that there is no way for viewers to avoid the adverts - but, says de Wahl, there will only be three minutes of advertising in each hour.That will feel like a terrific deal to US users, where prime-time TV can have up to 15 minutes per hour; less so to UK viewers, where commercial terrestrial channels can show between seven and eight minutes an hour. Satellite channels can show up to nine minutes of advertising in an hour in the UK.Even louder music to the ears of advertisers is the fact that adverts will be targeted to each user, who will have to create a profile and log on to view programmes. The system will choose which adverts to show which user based on past viewing behaviour, so that someone with a penchant for blokey motoring shows will be spared nappy advertisements, while those choosing programmes about parenting won't get bombarded with messages about lads' mags.De Wahl says advertising can be highly targeted - right down to postcodes. This means, for example, that in a heatwave a local supermarket could trumpet its ice-cream ranges.He admits that it is an imprecise art; people have been known to fib about where they live when filling in registration forms. For example, he points out, more Skype users claim to live in the Bahamas than the entire population of the islands.But by splitting the ad revenue with the content owners, Joost hopes to have uncovered a new goldmine in cyberspace.Driving demandIf it works, might Joost begin clogging up the internet in the way that BitTorrent P2P traffic is accused of doing? De Wahl says no. It is services like Joost that are driving demand for internet service providers, he argues. After all, there is not much point in having an 8Mb-per-second download capability if all you are going to do is email the odd Word document to your office.De Wahl is nothing if not confident about the potential appeal of Joost. It might, he reckons, even encourage people who don't watch much television to switch on the online box. That is because it will be tailored to you by you, not by schedulers in a broadcast centre. If you fancy 10 minutes of, say, global news, followed by a Dutch sitcom and then perhaps a local weather forecast, Joost will be able to dish that up to you.Joost is used to causing upheavals in the internet world. If this online TV service has an impact anything like Skype or KaZaA did, then it could make a big difference to that box in the corner.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There will come a moment in about seven years' time when I will make a fool of myself in front of my daughter. Surely it won't take that long, you say. Be quiet. It will happen like this. One summer's evening, she will be playing in the street with a bunch of other eight-year-olds and I will go out to call her in for tea. Thanks to the hovercars, free-floating teleportation platforms, jetpack-powered flying ice-cream sellers and other inventions that I confidently predict will be filling our skies come 2014, the noise will be so oppressive that I won't be able to make myself understood with words alone. So I will be forced to make a simple gesture to tell her it's time to come inside.What will it be? I will tap my wrist where a watch should be. The time-honoured sign that you should wrap up one activity and prepare for another. One problem: it won't work. Not in 2014. She won't know what I'm on about. She will look at me blankly with that soul-destroying gaze that children are hard-wired to give their parents. (Don't worry, young techno-hipsters - such old fartdom will be your fate too. There will come a time when your grandchildren will recall how you used to sit them on your knee and play them your iPod or explain to them how you used ActiveSync to back up your email address list. Oh, how will they laugh, and how they will trash everything you held dear. iPods - can you imagine anything more tacky? All that shiny plastic - yeuughh! And emails! How sad is that? No videocalls or anything? Pathetic!)For months afterwards, my daughters' playmates will tap their wrists satirically whenever they see her in the playground (if playgrounds exist in 2014), and so I will become a figure of fun. The old fart with his incomprehensible gestures. My daughter's shame.Why? Because few people will wear watches in the near future. Wrist-borne chronometers are so last millennium. In the US, a survey by investment bank Piper Jaffray &amp; Co found that nearly two-thirds of teens never wear a watch and that only one in 10 wears one every day. A quick glance around my office shows that I am, by virtue of wearing a watch, in the demographic most likely not to have broadband, know who/what Mika is, or bid co-workers farewell by saying: "Laters!"True, wrist-borne chronoporn devices continue to appeal to deeply inadequate men with high disposable incomes. But let's not allow the dreary fetishes of GQ's target audience to spoil the story. Today a watch is the opposite of a status symbol. Indeed, the main reason I'm writing this piece is that I was spotted by an editor wearing a loser watch. It is a Lorus Sports, quite possibly purchased more than 10 years ago from Walthamstow market, and on its third rotting leather strap. It smells like feet. And not nice feet. If it was a song, my watch would be that one by Beck ("I'm a loser, baby, so why don't you kill me?"). Keeps good time, though. Have you ever heard of Lorus? Of course not.If I was a winner, I would drop my watch in a canal and tell the time with my mobile. In fact, if I was a winner, I would do everything on my mobile phone - even film myself dropping the Lorus in the canal and happy-slapping myself along the towpath. Increasingly, all the stuff you need to get through the day is focused in one piece of kit. Thanks to what manufacturers like to call "convergence", today's mobiles already allow you to tell the time, arrange your appointments diary, watch films, play games, and take pictures of your blocked sink that you can send as jpegs to your plumber, who will text you back a ludicrous estimate, which you can check by using your phone's calculator function. You can use the phone to play that "hip" Snow Patrol/Killers/Go! Team track as you straphang on the Victoria line to the mounting fury of fellow passengers.It can only be a matter of time before your mobile will allow you to operate the garage door, unlock the car, swipe your way into the office, bus, tube or nightclub. Already, the better type of phone can teach you to play the guitar, the screen showing finger positions for chords and the speakers telling you what they should sound like. If your phone is Wap-enabled, you can play DJ Rob's pub quiz from Chris Moyles' Radio 1 show. You need never visit a pub again. Or you might want to shoot yourself in the head.Mobiles have become so much the focus of consumer technology that you might as well drop not just your watch, but your iPod, DVD camera, digital camera, calculator, alarm clock, diary, address book and PlayStation in the canal and go out with one sleek piece of kit. Soon you might even be able to burn your books because you'll have them on your mobile-cum-iTablet. One problem: you'll get mugged for your high-spec ponce-a-phone as soon as you pull it out of your trousers in public. And then, unless you've backed up every bit of data (which, trust me, you won't have), you'll be screwed. That's because the omnicompetent mobile is a terrible thing. As HL Mencken put it: "For every complex problem, there is a simple solution ... and it is wrong."That's the trouble with convergence. It can be rubbish. Better to have a shame-mobile like my six-year-old Nokia, even though, quite possibly, it was made in the former Soviet Union from old Sinclair C5s and barely works as a phone. Like my car (keys in the ignition, door open, motor running), I have been leaving my phone in situations where ne'er-do-wells can steal it for years. No one has. Because I'm a loser, baby.Convergence is not always what we want, but it is increasingly what we get. "Take the so-called digital home," says futurologist Patrick Dixon. "Convergence might mean total control with wireless TV/video/music/web in every room, all from one online PC, also used for children's games and homework - or a fridge that is also a web browser. But who really wants web access on a fridge door, or a single remote control for every device in the house, or a single device to play the same music in every room?" Technological innovation doesn't simply supply what we want: it supplies more and more of what we don't need. As Homer Simpson put it: "If they can put a man on the moon, why don't my feet smell good?"Technology evolves irrespective of our desires. Its onward march leaves us in the lurch, haunted by memories of things we used to do. For example, when Steve Jobs showed off Apple's new iPhone earlier this year, he asked rhetorically how the thing would be operated: "Are we going to use a stylus? No, we're not. We're going to use the best pointing device in our world: our fingers." Well, yes, Steve, but no. There's no need to diss the past. I miss styluses (styli?), especially the one I used to play a very spirited version of the Marvelettes' When You're Young and in Love on a friend's Rolf Harris Stylophone. Tread softly, Steve Jobs, for you tread on my techno-memories.Technology's evolution, as a result, often leaves us queasy. We feel a nostalgia for the near past - for its soothing gestures, for the obsolete body language we mastered so well - but mere discombobulation in face of the near future. The new gestures unleashed by new tech (for example, holding your hands above your head to signify taking pictures with a digital camera) have not been sanctioned by the test of time. Years after the arrival of the hands-free headset, many of us still cross the road to avoid someone who seems to be talking to an imaginary friend, when we should be checking their lugholes for miniature earpieces."Technology changes what is socially acceptable all the time by pushing boundaries," says Tom Dunmore of Stuff magazine. "In terms of people talking into their mobiles, that's become much more acceptable socially." Maybe in your world, Mr Dunmore. "What amazes me now," he says, "is how you see teenagers on trains using their mobiles like speakers, holding them up and playing music." It is a confusing development: the very point, I thought, of personal stereos, MP3 players, Discmans and the rest was that they kept the sound, for the most part, in the user's head. Technology takes us in socially discomfiting, unpredictable areas: it's a pain, and not just in terms of GBH of the earhole.For example, keyboards and computer mice (mouses?) will soon no longer be at the cutting edge of technology. Which is a shame for those of us who have only just got used to them. As a result, people will laugh at you if you make those spider moves with your fingers to signify typing, because in the future (according to Jobs), touch-sensitive screens will render keyboards obsolete. And that's before we even get on to voice recognition. Our typing days may be numbered.Amazing, isn't it? Amazing, that is, that I've got so far through a piece on technology without referring to that scene in Minority Report where Tom Cruise sweeps his hands suggestively across a screen and thus gets the jump on the bad guys.The point, though, is that technological development is shadowed by the ghosts of gestures associated with obsolete gear. You may be old enough to remember that to suggest typing, one would bash away at an imaginary keyboard and - this is the crucial bit - slam the imagined typewriter carriage sharply back to start a new line. Nobody does that any more. I used to do it with the aplomb of newshound Rosalind Russell in His Girl Friday for years. But now no one understands me, so I've stopped.What speeds up the rise in the semiotic scrapheap is just that drive for convergence, whereby mobile phone companies build more and more features into their kit, like digital Swiss Army knives. That analogy breaks down quite fast: there will be no digital way of shaving, cutting toenails, opening wine or making fire. Or maybe there will be. Perhaps there are no limits to convergence.For instance, both Nokia and BlackBerry are poised to launch handsets with global positioning systems. Were it not for the fact that men find it hard to ask for directions, of course, satnav ("sadnav" to its critics) would have no reason to exist. But it does, and thanks to it, men will never have to ask for directions again. Instead, spoken instructions will guide them from power latte to power latte, from pillar to post, from Pontefract to Penzance. The press release for the BlackBerry 8800 says: "The new smartphone includes a full complement of features to appeal to mobile professionals who want to manage their work and leisure time effectively." What a dismal world. Personally, I've never wanted to manage my leisure time, still less manage it effectively. But then, I am a loser. What, incidentally, is a mobile professional?Another development will be bigger mobile phone screens. Tom Dunmore says that in the near future, watching films on your mobile won't be quite as barmy an activity as it now seems. "The most significant development in that area is foldable screens, which will allow you to do proper web browsing and watch movies. You'll be able to get memory cards holding two or three films. They'll be great for flights where there isn't much in-flight entertainment."Convergence is not the only game in town. "Mobile phone companies don't just launch one phone," Dunmore says. "They target different people with different ranges. Vodafone has a Simplicity range targeted at older users. Smart multi-function phones are less than 10% of the market. And there will always be gadget nuts who want separate high-end pieces of kit - be they iPods or DV cameras or whatever. But the converged proportion of the market will start to grow as phones become sexier."Hence, perhaps, the looming sexyphone face-off this spring. Who can resist a sexyphone face-off? It will be between the soon-to-be-launched iPhone, LG's Shine phone LF KE970 (which has a makeup mirror that becomes a screen when you turn it on - sweet!), Samsung's Ultra Smart F700, Motorola's Z8, Nokia N610 Navigator, and the LG Prada. The last one should appeal to me: designed by Prada and built by Korean electronics giant LG, almost the entire front surface is a touchscreen (like the iPhone), and users can drag items around and navigate menus by tapping on the screen. It weighs 85 grams and looks droolworthily sleek. It is elegantly black, with an extra-wide LCD screen, MP3 player and a black leather Prada case. It also is less tacky than the Motorola phone designed by Dolce &amp; Gabbana, which, when opened, shouted "Hello, Dolce &amp; Gabbana!"But would spending &pound;400 on the LG Prada do the most important thing - impress my daughter? Possibly. After all, she loves nothing more than dunking things in baby food until they become useless. Her critique of the fatuities of technological innovation is more devastating than mine will ever be.&middot;Additional reporting byLaura Goodman.What the do-it-all mobile means for ...PhotographyWhat we've gainedImmediacy - you can see what you've snapped immediately and send it out to all your mates pronto. Suddenly, lots of new uses for images become available. For example, one of my colleagues takes photographs of the back of his head with his mobile phone when he is shaving his hair to make sure the cut is even. A mirror is a difficult thing to hold, you see. But if he uses a phone, he can take the picture of the back of his head. Shave a little more off. Take another photo. Shave a little more off. And when you're happy with the cut, delete all the images (or send them to a mate). I've suggested he send these images to a gallery to see if they want to exhibit them under the title My Ever Changing Head.What we've lostRemember those happy moments finishing off a roll of film outside the chemist? Asking a passing stranger to snap you having a sunburned post-holiday snog before you went into Boots to drop off the negs? No? Perhaps it was just me. And then the long, tantalising days waiting for the photos to be ready? Only to pick them up and realise that you forgot to take the lens cap off? Twerp.TimekeepingWhat we've gainedOur beautiful wrists are now unbesmirched by ugly clobber. And remember, before wristwatches, how your waistcoat pocket was really heavy because it was filled with your fob watch? No? Me neither. The very idea! But if you did have a waistcoat pocket that one day did have a fob watch in it, imagine how much happier you'd be now because it hasn't - you wouldn't walk with a lurch towards the left, as your pocket would be empty. All thanks to the advent of mobile phones.What we've lostAnnoyingly, if you wear a watch, you're often asked the time by mates who can't be bothered to get their mobile phones out of their bags and have a look at the digital chronometers themselves. Damn them! The only thing to do is to lose your watch and rely on your phone to tell you the time. Remember watching the second hand of your watch go round in circles for hour after hour? You can't do that any more when you rely on a mobile to tell you the time - which is just as well, because it made you economically unproductive.Listening to musicWhat we've gainedRemember when you used to want to listen to a whole Wagner opera while on a train journey, you would have to take a box of CDs and feed them in succession into your Discman? And that it was such a palaver that by the end you didn't care whether Valhalla burned or not? No? Perhaps it was just me. The great thing about having an MP3 player built into your mobile is that you don't have to be burdened with gear. Not even an iPod Nano, which, as you know, weighs only as much as a bee's wing. What's more, your mobile has a speaker so you can annoy fellow travellers with your eclectic tastes. Result! Before Walkmen, you may not know, it was even worse: you would have to hire a man to carry your record player all around town. He would walk behind you, playing your LPs. Naturally, he had to walk very slowly so the needle didn't bounce. It was a dark age for recorded music in many ways.What we've lostWhat about the lovely artwork? Nobody savours the Roger Dean artwork on those Yes gatefold sleeve concept albums any more in this barbarian digital age. Least of all when your mobile phone is the source of all your sounds.Phone callsWhat we've gainedWe can call anybody whenever we like. For instance, you can call the hospital from the passenger seat and tell them (quite possibly) how much you're dilated, when you'll be arriving, whether you'd like an epidural, sugar for your tea, book the water birthing facilities, etc. In the past you couldn't do things like that. Which was a shame.What we've lostPunctuality is dead. In pre-mobile days, there was no way of letting someone know we were running late, so we made greater efforts to be outside the theatre at the time agreed. Now we can text them saying we're running late - even if we're not and, in reality, just can't be bothered to meet as planned. Social life is now more fraught with petty resentments than it was before mobiles got on the scene. And now, dammit, anybody can call us whenever they like - it's harder to hide from after-hours work calls. Virtual presenteeism is the norm. Worse yet, there are no longer movie plots where the guy knows the girl is alone in the flat and the killer is hiding behind the curtains. Today the hero would text Michelle: "Killa in yr flat. behind curtains. scarper! lol :)" And the film would be over in minutes. Rubbish, really.TV and radioWhat we've gainedYou can make a film of your fancy feet during a tango class in Macclesfield and send it to Juan, the Hispanic hottie you met in Buenos Aires last summer. He will be dazzled by your skills and your devotion to his culture and send you a text saying how much he loves you in broken English. You will move to Argentina and have a lurid affair with him and come home five years later, tired but happy, with three children who won't like Cheshire at all. In the past you couldn't do that.Also, we can now watch My Family on our mobiles. And text Gardeners' Question Time with complaints about their broadcast views on when is the right time to prune one's pyracantha. Goody! Can this really be what Mr Nokia (or whoever it was) intended when he had a dream of making our lives easier with a portable telephonic device the size of a pillow all those years ago? Quite possibly not.What we've lostMoments of quiet contemplation on the top deck of a bus unbroken by happy-slapping ruffians who knock your Proust out of your hands and put your resultant discomfiture all over their mobile network and the world wide web, probably when they should be in detention. What's more, you can watch films on your phones in a format so small that any cinematographer worth their salt would cry to see you vandalise their art in such a manner. Neither of these developments is good.What, really, is the point of watching telly on your mobile? Why don't you just turn it off and do something else? Read a book. Remember them, for crying out loud? There's never anything on anyway. Watching telly on the bus? Good grief. That is so pathetic. Get a life.DatingWhat we've gainedNo longer will you have to fumble for awkward opening lines in a club or pub teeming with fanciable techno sophisticates - instead you can let your phone do the introducing for you, as prospective partners wandering into range are automatically forwarded your profile. All you need is a Bluetooth-enabled phone and a roomful of hotties of either/both genders. If they like what they find in your profile, they can message you and perhaps even wind up having a non-virtual drink/snog/shag/child with you. Happy days!What we've lostTalking like normal people used to. No longer do you need to deploy your marvellous range of pick-up lines (from "That's quite a lovely Jackson Pollock, isn't it?" to "Your face or mine?") which you learned at a special evening class (Remedial Dating for Sociopaths 101) last autumn. But isn't that a shame? After all, getting shot down by some imperious beauty for daring to ask her if she'd like a cr&egrave;me de menthe and kahlua used to be a rite of passage for a young man. But enough about me. Another downside is that rude people who you don't know sitting at the next restaurant table can send you porn film clips on their similarly Bluetooth-enabled phone. It happens. But that doesn't make it right.Using the internetWhat we've gainedIt's marvellous to go tostreetmap.co.ukwhen you're lost and equipped only with your mobile. And realise that the nearest Huang Chow Lane, where you are supposed to be meeting your friend, is in Shanghai, and you are in Walsall with only a West Midlands travel pass. Bummer.What we've lostThe possibility of being outside the techno loop while we're on the bus home. Time was you could just stare at the rain running down the windows as you sat in gridlock. You might even catch the eye of that person across the aisle and, by the time you had to change to get the number 92, would have their number. Now you've got to check your email, text or study the news headlines. Otherwise you're a nobody. It's also a royal pain to write emails on your mobile, unless you've got a plug-in keyboard. Which, unless I mistake my guess, you haven't.
Last week's outbreak of fuel contamination showed how very dependent modern cars are on the computers hidden inside them. Because of a small quantity of silicone in a batch of petrol from an Essex refinery, hundreds of motorists found their cars would only run very slowly, if at all. This wasn't because the petrol had damaged the engines - older cars drove on perfectly well - but because a chip on board had decided that there was a danger and gone into nanny mode, shutting off most of the engine's power.These electronics, and the chips that hold their programs, are everywhere in a modern car - the top-of-the-range Mercedes has 57 different sensor systems - but any car will have at the very least its engine, brakes and suspension controlled by embedded computers.Greater controlAt the moment, such chips seem to give drivers much greater control - and that is certainly how the advertisements sell them. But they are just computers. They belong to whoever can program them.At present they are controlled either by the manufacturers or by really dedicated petrolheads. However, they could at some stage be controlled so that speeding would become not merely illegal but impossible. Cars sold in Europe are already fitted with software to stop them exceeding 155mph - even on Germany's autobahns, which in theory have no speed limits. The heart of these electronics is the Engine Control System, or ECU, which is what stopped cars from running on the poisoned petrol. It is also the oldest of these devices, dating from the 1970s, when California first got serious about emission control.The most basic function of an ECU is to control the fuel injection system and the timing of the spark plugs. By controlling how much petrol is squirted into each cylinder and when it is ignited, the chip can make cars faster, more economical, or better able to run on poor fuel.In some cases the same engine will be sold in three or four different configurations at different balances of power and economy, and the only difference between them will be the controlling software. This enables manufacturers to build one engine for a global market in which the quality of petrol varies wildly. It also enables them, of course, to segment the market in prosperous countries so that drivers who will pay any price for speed are given the opportunity to do so.And what the manufacturers won't program into their cars, the petrolhead performance companies are happy to attempt. Ian Crabb is a partner in Big Performance, and a former motorbike racer who cares a lot about speed. His current ambition is to drive a Smart car - one of those little things that look like a weather-proofed shopping trolley - at 150mph. He says he has already managed to get one up to 142mph.Crabb reckons that he is able to tune almost any car by reprogramming the chips so they will get better performance, better fuel economy - or both - for prices ranging from &pound;150 for a Smart car to &pound;2,000 for a Ferrari. (Doing so voids warranties.)Of course, to do this you must buy more expensive petrol, since almost the first thing he does is to eliminate the compromises manufacturers design into their software to let the engines run on low-octane fuel.The electronics themselves, he says, are built into the components made by a few really big companies - Bosch, Siemens, or Delphi - who also employ the programmers who write their firmware. But since these components must be tunable, the performance maps, which specify exactly how the engine should behave at different speeds, can be downloaded from the EEPROM (Electronically Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory) chips on which they are stored.A competent engineer can replace the programs with another pattern of behaviour. Crabb himself downloads the original program from the memory and takes it home where he will run it against an engine simulator on his PC, so the modifications can be tested in software. When he is satisfied, the modified program is burnt into a new chip and returned to the car.The behaviour maps stored in this chips can be extremely complex: Crabb says they can specify the turbo boost, the ignition timing and the fuel injection at 100rpm intervals - so really considerable increases in power are possible. A Swedish company, Maptun, offers to reprogram ancient Saabs so they will output 225BHP instead of 150BHP - just by changing one part in the turbocharger and rewriting the control software. This is only the beginning: "For our most discerning customers, for whom nothing but the best will do", the company offers an entirely new turbocharger and specially tuned software which will very nearly triple the original power output to 430BHP. The cost of this, at around &pound;6,000 plus VAT, might strike some people as excessive, but you could either hope to win the lottery or trust that you would be dead before the bill came through, which seems likely enough if you ever touch the accelerator.It's not just Saabs. Any modern car could be retuned in this way, and any performance car will have networks of specialists eager to reprogram it. Some, like Crabb, will even remove the block in a supercar's software which prevents it from exceeding 155mph. But at the same time, he sees the future as one in which technology turns against the speed-loving motorist. It is not just the hated speed cameras that threaten the future. It is the idea that ECUs might in future respond to radio signals.ProgrammableAn ECU that could be reprogrammed by radio could make speeding impossible. A transmitter by a school could slow all passing cars down to 15mph; the variable speed limit signs on motorways would actually mean something. If this technology were coupled with individual transponder chips, stolen cars could be immobilised or crippled just as stolen mobile phones can be shut off.The technology for this exists already. It could perfectly well be justified on environmental grounds, or as a means of stopping crime and terrorism. That it would also mean absolute chaos if the government's software crashed - or if hackers cracked its codes - might not occur to anyone until too late.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Connecting with VistaWhen ordering BT Broadband (option 2), I requested ADSL cards but received BT Voyager 1055 USB adaptors. These are plainly marked "compatible only with Windows 2000 And XP" and I'm running Vista. At no time during the call was I asked about my operating system, nor was this limitation pointed out to me. Needless to say, my email of complaint has so far met with a deafening silence.Dick ThickettJack Schofield replies:USB wireless adaptors have only two advantages, neither of which has anything to do with either wireless or networking - they are cheap, and easy to fit. As such, they find their place in consumer bundles that are sold on price. Since you are willing to open up your PC and install an expansion card, you'd be better off buying a Vista-compatible PCI card. I have not tried any but the Linksys Wireless-G PCI Card WMP54G, the similar Broadcom BCM4306 and the Netgear WG311T 108Mbps are listed as being compatible on theWinmatrix site.PCI cards are more reliable and don't use up processor cycles like USB adaptors. Whether you can get BT to supply one is another matter. Since Vista was all over the press for five years, had 5m beta testers and the final code was released last year, you might have thought more companies would have seen it coming and prepared for it. Apparently not.Pictures for PowerPointI am preparing a PowerPoint presentation with about 80 photographs. What is the best size and resolution for the photos to get the best result without making the file too big?Rejane BelangerJS:Anarticleon the Microsoft Office site says: "The Basic Rule is this: For images that fill the slide, the image size (in pixels) should be equal to the video screen's resolution. For example, if your screen resolution is set to 1024 x 768, that's the size you want your full-slide images to be. If the image occupies only half the width and half the height of the slide, it should be 512 pixels wide, and or 384 pixels high." I usually start with images intended for web use, with a resolution of 72 pixels per inch, not ones designed for printing (probably 300ppi).PowerPoint seems to assume 100ppi, so resampling your high-resolution images at 96ppi - using Irfan View or PhotoShop or whatever - will probably produce better results. However, try not to change too many things in PowerPoint. It has a wonderful "undo" capability, but if you change an image it will keep the old copy, just in case you want to go back to it later. This will, of course, make the file correspondingly larger.Vista upgrade chainIf I upgrade my Windows XP computer to Vista, does that mean I can upgrade my Windows Me machine to XP, using the upgrade CD I used before - or would I be breaching the conditions of my "single user" agreement?Dougie FirthJS:PC manufacturers generally license Windows at the lowest price, where each copy is specifically tied to a single PC. Microsoft now makes this absolutely clear in the EULA, or End-User Licensing Agreement. I believe that re-using the XP upgrade CD would violate that agreement. Also, the Vista upgrade has to be done from a validated copy of XP, and I'd expect Microsoft to invalidate your XP key when it validates the Vista key. Even if it didn't, every XP key is associated with a hash number calculated from the PC hardware (motherboard, processor, etc) that it is used on. Your Me system's hardware would produce a completely different hash value. Of course, you could still try it.Trojan LopI'm getting a warning from my free AVG antivirus that I have a Trojan Lop. AVG can't deal with this. Windows Defender reports that everything is OK, as do several other anti-spyware programs.Denis ColliganJS:It may be a "false positive", but it's worth running Symantec's free Trojan Linkoptimizer Removal Tool. You can download ithere.Opera v FirefoxI use Opera, and I like it. I often hear Firefox recommended, so why do I never seem to hear about Opera?Dave MorganJS:In computing, recommendations often have a pseudo-religious nature. Firefox was claimed to be innovative for adding features that Opera already had because Firefox is open source and free. Opera's genuine innovations, superior accessibility (eg for blind users), robustness, standards-compliance and security were ignored because it is a commercial program, and because the free version (which appeared with v5.0 in 2000) was supported by advertising. Although Opera removed the ad banners in 2005, it was far too late to have much impact. Also, Firefox comes from California, whereas Opera comes from Norway. However, Opera has found support from companies based outside Silicon Valley, including Nintendo, Nokia, Sony, Sharp, Archos and Psion.Backchat&middot;Last week Joaquin Blanco asked about rescuing files from his external USB drive, which had failed. Alan Gent says: "I had a similar happening the other week and it turned out to be a USB port failure, so check the drive on another PC and/or USB port."&middot;On recycling, Alan Gent also suggestsTR Computers. "They are based in Winsford, Cheshire, but will collect within the M25 as well." And finally, Douglas and Julie say their Dell PC "was eventually picked up by DHL for recycling - they said there had been temporary organisational problems - so all's well that ends well!"
Last month saw the downfall of Gene Morrison. A conman who masqueraded as a forensic scientist and gave evidence in more than 700 police cases, some of them involving rape and drink-driving, Morrison, 48, of Hyde, Tameside, was found guilty of 22 counts of perjury at Minshull Street Crown Court in Manchester and given a five-year jail sentence. His claims to be a forensic scientist were bogus, and the BSc and PhD qualifications he claimed were in fact bought from a university that existed only on the internet.But computer experts warn that just the same could happen in their field. "There are a lot of people involved in computer forensics who have no qualifications at all," says Neil Hare-Brown, managing director of QCC, a company that carries out forensic investigations for the police.No evidence"I would say that between 5% and 10% of the people working in this area are incompetent and that has led to problems with investigations. We have been given [computer] discs by the police that have been examined by people who have said that there is no evidence on them and subsequently found considerable amounts of evidence."His comments are endorsed by Alan Phillips, managing director of 7Safe, which carries out investigations for the police and certifies examiners with a course jointly run with Glamorgan University. "Forensics is a fairly new profession but there are some people who have been working in the area for a long time and there are people who purport to be experts in the field who do not have qualifications," says Phillips.However, experts have privately expressed the view that moves to create a system similar to the expert witness program of the General Medical Council are nothing short of a "shambles". Dr Andrew Blyth, principal lecturer at Glamorgan University Information Security and Computer Crime course, and a frequent expert witness, says: "What we need is a professional body that registers people and checks their accreditation. We need to have some system in place that lets us differentiate between people who are trying to deceive people, and people who are experts in this field and might not have a relevant qualification."One of the UK's top computer scientists, who declined to be named, says the situation is untenable. "Every form of crime that goes before a court has a computer involved in it in some way, so it is imperative that we find a way to sort this out," he says. "We need to arrive at a body of data that experts need to know, we need a body of practice that shows what experts have done in the past, a set of formal qualifications that people should have - and the co-operation of the courts to recognise all of that."That view is supported by Dr Andrew Jones, head of BT's Security Technology Research Group. "At the moment I think the system for the registration of expert witnesses and the way that the courts use technological expert witnesses has to be defined," he says. "We have seen situations in the past where the accused has been allowed to be their own expert witness and that cannot be right."There is a burning need to sort this out. Most of the cases that have gone wrong because of problems with expert witnesses have been ones involving medical expert witnesses, but that just means that it is a question of time before it happens with computers."Ironically, the concern has occurred principally because of a sudden burst of activity by the groups most concerned with the presentation of credible witnesses in court cases. For the past 18 months, the Council for the Registration of Forensic Practitioners, which covers the entire spectrum of forensic investigators, has been publicising the existence of its register which includes a category for computer specialists.Later this month the Association of Chief Police Officers is expected to announce new guidelines informing businesses how they should store and treat information they believe will be used in computer crime cases; and the Institute of Information Security Professionals says that it will be announcing long-awaited plans for a registration scheme within the next two months.According to Alan Kershaw, chief executive of the Council for the Registration of Forensic Practitioners, it is early days but a start has been made. "The case of Morrison very clearly demonstrates the need for a register," he says. "The problem that there has been in the past is that there has been no lead body in this area, but now we have defined the current competence and started to put people on the register."People applying to go on the list are assessed on their past casework by assessors who themselves have been assessed on their casework."Kershaw added that the council's process has already had some success in imposing standards. "We've been shining a light and that is a great challenge for the industry and it's exposure that some people are not happy about - we are seeing some scurry off into the darkness."For an industry that claims to deliver exactitudes and efficiencies, computing can be a inexact science and computer forensics can often rest on interpretation as well as fact - which has meant that the council's insistence on casework has led to grim mutterings among many would-be forensic practitioners, who point out that there is no allowance for qualifications on the register.Others claim that is a club and point to the fact that of the 13 names listed on the register's two categories for computer experts, there are in fact only 10 individuals - with three names being repeated in a second category. Of the 14 assessors, three are drawn from the list of expert witnesses."I think it's one thing to slag off the CRFP, but it seems to me that it is being done by people who are scared of going out and passing an exam and getting the relevant experience," says Hare-Brown at QCC.Subject to scrutinyThose unhappy with the council are praising the virtues of the Institute of Information Security Professionals, which says that it will test both competence and qualifications for its register. "At the moment pretty much anyone can represent themselves as a computer forensic expert," said Nick Coleman, chief executive of the IISP. "We're aiming to produce competent professionals and we're going to do that by subjecting individuals to a scrutiny of their knowledge and experience."Last month, Jim Gamble, the head of the Home Office's Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, admitted that he did not have the resources to investigate the flood of paedophile leads submitted to the unit.Which, when added to the growing row over just who can be an expert witness in the courts that will try any paedophile cases, can only mean that more miscarriages of justice could occur.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Micro Billing traumasWe couldn't understand why our 11-year-old daughter had stopped using her PC (My PC is being held to ransom, March 1). She would clam up and change the subject. We then switched her PC on and discovered she was getting locked out with a demand for three months' subscription to sexxxpassport (&pound;80 and rising every month). Pretty traumatic for an 11-year-old and no wonder she didn't dare tell us.I question the legality of any system that creates a demand for payment without first establishing some form of contract. For conventional web-based subscription services, I assume there is normally a requirement to give credit card details - which would also act as some kind of protection against young children, who are unlikely to have legitimate access to credit card details. I was able to remove the software using Lavasoft Adaware SE.Peter SandfordLancaster&middot;I was wondering if there was any reason why you didn't publish the technical solution to the sexxxpassport problem?Richard SandfordBristol[We discussed removal of the software inAsk Jack of February 22- Technology Ed]&middot;I feel very sorry for all these PC users. I have used a Mac for many, many years and never ever once been plagued with any virus, rootkit, trojan, botnet, etc etc.Rob DunfordLondonFirefox rocksYou claim that Firefox 1.5 did not ask you whether or not to close multiple tabs (Technobile, March 1). You probably disabled that: it is on by default. And I suppose un-ticking the "Warn me when I attempt to close multiple tabs" box is too much effort?You also claim that Mozilla has removed Firefox 1.5.0.X from its site: 30 seconds of looking found a link to the "archived versions" page, which contains every version of Firefox from 1.0.1 upwards. (You might want to move to 1.5.0.10, by the way, as that has the latest security updates.)As for bloated, well, I opened four tabs in Firefox 2.0.0.2 and then opened the same tabs in Internet Explorer 7. They had almost exactly the same resource usage. And sure, you can move back to Cello if you want, but don't expect it to render websites properly.People are always whining about updates. They never do exactly what everyone wants and some people will always have negative experiences with them. However, as is often the case, the vast majority have no such problems.Nicholas MooreDurham&middot;To argue that the flaky old Cello, which I used in 1991, is a serious alternative is truly laughable.Ralph AverbuchPencaitland&middot;Firefox 2.0 never crashes on my Mac. In fact, nothing crashes on my Mac.Jake PhillipsEdinburghBiteback at barkThis fuel is only carbon-neutral if the rate of consumption is no greater than that of new growth - and what about the energy cost of processing (Barking up a new tree, March 1)? And what about the replacement of growth minerals in the soil?Robert CraneLondonPrice of freedomIf you think you can take this stuff for granted, think again (Location, location, location, March 1). The government plans to clamp down on some of the freedoms granted under the Freedom of Information Act by permitting public bodies to exempt themselves from responding to FoI requests if the cost of doing so exceeds &pound;600.ononeblog.comOn the buttonMy house, like Andy Taylor's (Letters and Blogs, March 1), has switches on the mains sockets. If I use them to switch off my Topfield PVR instead of leaving it in standby, it loses most of its system settings. It then needs at least 15 button pressings on the remote control to restore the settings.Keith RonaldsonChelmsfordSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, and please include your address and telephone number.
BlackBerry 8800It might be the ultimate messaging device with a push email system that thousands are addicted to, but for me the BlackBerry has always been a bit of an also-ran as a smartphone. The main sticking points are the limited selection of features and a design more akin to a tacky pager than a state-of-the art mobile. But the 8800 might just change my mind, for even though it is way behind models like the HTC TyTN and Nokia N95 in terms of features (there's no camera or 3G), it does at least look like a device I'd be proud to own. Its design is an extension of last year's BlackBerry Pearl in that it sports an attractive black finish. Unlike the Pearl, the 8800 has the classic rectangular BlackBerry design and a full Qwerty keypad. There are a few other tweaks, notably the nipple controller that debuted on the Pearl which supersedes the trademark BlackBerry side-based tracker switch. It takes a little getting used to, but is quick for moving between apps. The other surprise is the inclusion of a good GPS system, though users will have to crank up the volume to hear its commands above the noise of a car. So, while I won't be trading in my smartphone, I'll admit that the 8800 is the first BlackBerry I'd be proud to own.LG Prada phoneIt has a touchscreen interface, an integrated MP3 player and is one of the most eagerly awaited phones of the year - but it isn't the iPhone. Rather, it is the handset that has stolen a little of the Apple mobile's thunder - the LG Prada. The result of collaboration between the Korean manufacturer and the Italian fashion house, the handset certainly lives up to its billing with its striking black finish. The interface can be customised too, with a monochrome setting to match the black surround or a full-colour one. There's a competent 2 megapixel camera, a passable web browser, an MP3 player and 256MB of flash memory on an accompanying storage card. Like the iPhone, the Prada phone is GPRS rather than 3G, and as for the touchscreen, it feels odd to use at first, but after a while it feels perfectly natural to tap the screen with your finger. The only caveat is that it is slower for creating text messages than traditional handsets with keys. The LG Prada is a beautifully styled, intelligently made handset. Expect it to become one of the most coveted phones of 2007.FreeloaderCould this be the year the green gadget goes mainstream? It has started well with the launch of the Freeloader - a portable solar-powered charger not dissimilar to the Solio, but with a few key additions that make it a little more northern hemisphere-friendly. For starters, it feels solid and compact. The main unit, which is about twice as big as a cigarette packet, flips open to reveal the two solar panels. In optimum conditions (ie, a clear sunny day) the unit's lithium ion battery will charge in five hours and deliver two hours of talktime for a mobile phone or 18 hours of juice for an iPod. Inevitably, given the vagaries of the British weather system, it took longer to reach full charge, but that's where the Freeloader's USB fallback option kicks in. It'll charge in three hours from a PC and deliver the same amount of power. The device comes with a range of adaptors for everything from a BlackBerry to a PSP. Best of all, it sells for a very competitive &pound;29.99.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It looked that way last week. The web was buzzing with talk that the 'activation scheme' had been cracked less than two months after release of the latest flavour of Windows.Hackers had already found a way to bypass security features in next-gen DVD formats (Hollywood faces up to DRM flop, February 22), so this could have been bad news for Microsoft - which, like any maker of digital product, fights a constant battle to keep people paying for its intellectual property.Like Windows XP, Office and many other applications including Adobe's Creative Suite, Vista requires that you register its individual "product key" online, or the software stops working. Activation only works with genuine product keys, and slowed the tide of piracy when first introduced with XP.The method trumpted last week on warez sites was a "brute-force keygen" - a random search for legitimate product keys. "Brute force" is about right: this kind of attack, seeking a valid 25-character string (with 36 possible elements, A-Z and 0-9) requires little finesse. But it could also take a few billion years to succeed. It's just luck.Then the hacker confessed. "Fact is," he said, "the brute force keygen is a joke." But there was a twist. ZDNet blogger Adrian Kingsley-Hughes tried out the "joke" tool - and produced two 25-character product keys that allowed him to install Vista. He didn't however try to activate them. As both he and a Microsoft blogger noted, the real activation process is a lot tougher to hoodwink.Panic over. But then came news of another method of attack, which relies on a tool that allows OEM manufacturers to bypass activation on the machines they build. Microsoft might be cool about the keygen, but it can't rest easy just yet.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
PCTV to goPinnacle has announced the PCTV To Go network television box, which allows place-shifting and time-shifting. PCTV To Go takes any TV input and streams it to PCs over your home network. This also makes it accessible via the internet. It costs &pound;149.99 for the standard version and &pound;199.99 to go wireless.&#183;pinnaclesys.comPeer to peer rentalsThe Hire Hub provides for consumer-to-consumer rentals so people can now try to earn money from things they own.&#183;thehirehub.co.ukMusic stores sortedTuneTuzer provides a table of US and UK online music stores, bitrates and rights management, so now you can be sure none of them offers what you want.&#183;tunetuzer.comEthical ups and downsActics is today launching a web widget that enables organisations to solicit instant feedback on their ethics and values.&#183;actics.comPeering at US patentsThe US Patent Office is to run a pilot project based on peer-to-peer evaluation of software patents, as proposed by the Peer to Patent Project.&#183;dotank.nyls.eduOptical fibre penetrationA million people in western Europe now get broadband the best way, via FTTH (fibre to the home), reports Informa Telecoms &amp; Media. However, 650,000 of those are in Sweden.&#183;informatelecoms.com192 plus 2007The 192.com site says it has added the 2007 Electoral Roll to its records, growing its database by 29m new records to more than 200m.&#183;192.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dell's latest launch has really taken off. Unfortunately for Dell's crumbling profitability, it's a website called IdeaStorm, not a new PC. IdeaStorm is designed to get ideas and feedback from Dell users, and the mechanism is much the same as Digg: people make suggestions and everybody votes for the ones they like best.The problem for Dell is that by far the most popular suggestion is one that Dell will find hard to implement. It means selling consumers PCs with Linux pre-installed. The company's founder, Michael Dell, really wants to do it, and he didn't become a multibillionaire by ignoring great marketing opportunities. He tried the idea around the turn of the century, when Linux hype was at its highest, and Dell still sells Linux on corporate servers and high-end workstations. But there are huge problems in offering Linux on mass-market PCs.The most obvious is deciding which version of Linux to offer. There are more than 100 distros, and everybody seems to want a different one - or the same one with a different desktop, or whatever. It costs Dell a small fortune to offer an operating system (it involves thousands of driver compatibility, peripheral testing, certification, staff training, administration, advertising and support issues) so the lack of a standard is a real killer. The less obvious problem is the very high cost of Linux support, especially when selling cheap PCs to na&iuml;ve users who don't RTFM (read the friendly manual) and wouldn't understand a Linux manual if they tried. And there's so much of it! Saying "Linux is just a kernel, so that's all we support" isn't going to work, but where in the great sprawling heap of GNU/Linux code do you draw the line?Buying support from a third party such as LinuxCare - which Dell did last time - isn't satisfactory either, unless you can get users to pay extra. And there's the rub. Pay? Sadly, most people think they should be able to buy a Dell PC running Linux for less than the cost of a Dell PC running Windows. In fact, they usually cost more. This is partly because Linux has high overheads on minuscule sales, and partly because of the fees that PC sellers collect for bundling ISP connections, free antivirus and multimedia software, browser toolbars and so on. The great collection of crapware that comes with a home user's Windows PC probably knocks at least &pound;20 off the price, maybe much more.Cost savings also come directly from Microsoft and Intel in the form of discounts and cooperative advertising support for the use of logos, and so on. These schemes don't exist for Linux. But will the tens of thousands of Linux supporters "Digging" the idea on IdeaStorm ever turn into paying customers? I can't speak for Dell on this, but I suspect very few will. Worse, those few are mostly the sort of buyer no-one really wants.Look at how Dell works. You see a headline for a fantastic deal for only &pound;299 or whatever, go to the Dell site and end up buying something for twice the price. It only takes a minor upgrade here and there, a bigger hard drive and a bit of software. Then you treat yourself to a camera, add three years of support and it's done. All the profit is in the up-sell.What Dell really needs are more high-end gamers who buy top-spec PCs in fancy cases for &pound;2,500 or more, not low-end Linux users looking to save &pound;25 on Windows. Here's an idea: Michael Dell started in a college dorm and built a $60bn (&pound;31bn) company from nothing. Why don't the people asking Dell for Linux PCs start their own companies and do likewise? If there's a market, it should be really easy. And unlike Mike, you won't even have to beat IBM.
The scene is a Starbucks in Regent Street, London, last week. Two 23-year-old women from Trinity College, Dublin, are doing a five-minute pitch from a laptop to a couple of serious venture capitalists (VCs). It is the cappuccino version of TV programmes such as Dragons' Den and it is telling us a lot about the vitality of the new internet startup boom in the UK. I have no idea whether the site they have created (welovefancydress.com) will be a winner, but it was nifty enough to hold the attention of the VCs. One of them asked how much it had cost so far. The reply was "A hundred". I think theVCs thought they meant &pound;100,000 until another question revealed it was &pound;100, and the total funds being sought a mere &pound;2,000 - small enough to be from the back pockets of VCs who normally think in millions.This example is exceptional but illustrates the lean and mean face of the new startup boom, which augurs well for its longevity. It is reckoned that - thanks to falling prices, more powerful bandwidth and the ease with which websites can be set up - it is 90% cheaper to set one up now than at the height of the last boom. This time it is not a bubble waiting to burst. These new startups make a virtue out of frugality. Their heroes are people like the guys behindLast.fm, the London-based personal radio site that is doing well globally which was developed on the roof of a terrace in Whitechapel. Their mission statement is "don't use two tents if one will do". What a refreshing change from the hedonistic excesses of the likes ofBoo.comwhich in the 1990s blew nearly $120m on fancy offices, Concorde trips, advertising and unworkable technology. These days startup enthusiasts come with something that is actually working - not just a piece of paper with an idea on it.This new puritanism is reflected in using a Starbucks rather than a swanky venue for these OpenCoffee meetings every Thursday. The man behind them, entrepreneur Saul Klein, reckons there are definite signs of a fresh, more firmly based startup boom. There is certainly a buzz around the place. That's Paul Birch in the corner, a co-founder of Bebo, the social networking site, who is working in its nearby London office on a new form of networking that doesn't require users to upload detailed personal information upfront but leaves them instead to generate it organically. Someone else is doing well selling high-quality video streaming to companies, having been funded by governmental sources.The new boom is fuelled by several new factors: the existence of more venture capital houses and "angel" investors than before, plus - for the UK - a new generation of entrepreneurs who are investing money made out of the previous boom (such as Brent Hoberman ofLastminute.com, who has backed startup WAYN). Entrepreneurs, many of them immigrants, also have access to the strong growth in spinoffs from universities such as Cambridge, Oxford (where DesignTheTime has just received large funding to archive the world's memories), Imperial College, even LSE. The trend for low-cost startups is generating a new class of venture capitalists prepared to invest smallish sums of money, unlike the big established ones which prefer to spend &pound;1m on one startup rather than have the bureaucratic bother of doing 10 deals of &pound;100,000. Organisations such as OpenBusiness - which runs a monthly meeting off London's Brick Lane where low-budget startups with social motivation can showcase their sites - is typical of the new approach.There are lots of others, ranging from the exclusive Zenopy (you need three members to recommend you) to Second Chance Tuesday, an oversubscribed event in central London where startups meet investors as First Tuesday did during the previous boom). Most participants agree: this time it is not a bubble, but the establishment of an eco-system.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The shape of the human head has remained pretty much unchanged for millennia. You don't even have to be David Brent to declare this a fact.Yet in just a few years, the makers of phones for the home – and particularly cordless versions – have decided that whereas we used to have heads with the ears for listening positioned somewhere up the side, and then around the corner on the front of our face a mouth for talking, a new version has been implemented with the mouth in line with the ears, positioned neatly along the side of the head.The result: hands-free phones now cannot be operated without using your hands. Yes, I know this sounds like madness. But that's the result of the fact that cordless phones for the home (or indeed office) these days are all straight as rulers, while my face - and, I hope, yours - remains stubbornly angular.A decade ago I first bought a cordless phone for our house. There were two of them - identical, white objects each about the size of a small baguette. Cordless is great, especially when you've got a newly arrived baby: you don't want to try leaving the room to grab the phone while you're in the middle of changing a nappy or feeding, so having a phone you can take to any room is a boon.(How did people manage with babies in the days when they didn't have cordless phones or answering machines? Think of all those phone calls left unanswered. Oh, the humanity!)But what made those phones truly useful was that they were really hands-free. They were curved, and bulky enough that they would fit nicely under a slightly humped shoulder, and the mouthpiece was near your mouth, which I find a useful place for mouthpieces to be, particularly on phones. Handsfree is very useful when you have your hands full with other matters but want to answer the phone too.Eventually, though, the batteries in those phones gave up and they developed a buzzing noise, and what with one thing and another it came time to get new phones. But what the hell happened to cordless phones? Some fool in a shiny suit and designer glasses decided that what people really wanted from their phones at home was for them to be utterly unobtrusive, to have lines so straight you could shave with them, to be so thin you could lose them under the carpet and not know about it - a sort of catwalk model of phones, and about as useful in real life.Anyone who's ever tried to deal with a distracted two-year-old and a phone knows the most important function for a handsfree phone is being operated without your hands. It's only in adverts that you chat on them with one hand while you lazily browse holidays in Bermuda on your laptop and sip Sancerre.No, cordless phones should be fat enough to lodge under your shoulder, and shaped to meet your mouth. You think models for clothes are unreal? You should see their phones.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Later this year, Sony plans to unveil a "virtual world" a lot like Second Life or The Sims for PlayStation 3 owners. "But Sony's world will feature heavy doses of video games for avatars to play, as well as virtual arcades, music, movies and other Sony-approved media downloads," reportsAP."Phil Harrison, president of Sony's worldwide game studios, unveiled Home in a speech at the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco on Wednesday. In an interview afterward, he said Sony has been working on the project for 2 1/2 years," according to Dean Takahashi at theMercury News. However, this isn't compatible with Phil's other claim, in the same report: "Harrison pointed out that a pivotal inspiration for this was Time magazine's cover in December that identified 'you' as the Person of the Year."Apart from that, Takahashi says "Sony isn't the name you think about when you think of social networking," while numerous other reports also cite Second Life, The Sims, Xbox Live and so on.This issomewhat unfair to Sony!Sony launched a hugely popular multiplayer online game called EverQuest back in 1999, and theSony Stationsite now offers other games such as PlanetSide Aftershock, The Matrix Online and Star Wars Galaxies. It was EverQuest that inspired World of Warcraft, which arrived five years later.Sony's online strategy for the PS3 may be a bit of a mess, but the company does have a track record in this field, and was doing good stuff long before Second Life appeared.
The "Game Developers Choice Awards were handed out in San Francisco last night. These are the only videogame awards that are bestowed upon developers by developers," reportsIGN."Gears of War received the most acclaim with three awards, while Okami and Wii Sports each received two. The internet 'toy' Line Rider, scheduled to slide onto the Wii and DS this year, also took home an award for Innovation."Nintendo's Shigeru Miyamoto got a Lifetime Achievement Award. Considering what he's done, they should have given him three....
Digg now has1 Miiiiiillion Users, according to Kevin Rose. Naturally this has provoked some kickback, with Black Hat responding:Digg Hits 750,000 Sock Puppets.AtTechCrunch, Michael Arrington congratulates Digg on having a millionaccounts, adding "at least ten of which are mine". Some of the people gaming the site have hundreds.And asawesomo comments, all too accurately: "Wow, 1 million registered users and not a trace of intelligence on that site!"
It's probably worth taking a read through the comments this morning from shadow chancellor George Osborne - which I suppose makes him Gordon Brown to Cameron's Blair - who suggests that open source software is worth investigating at a governmental level because the cost savings can produce great secondary benefits.From the speech, which is on ourComment is Freepages:Governments are also getting in on the act by using open source software. This is software that's typically developed by a community of developers, and whose source code is made openly available to licensed users, making it possible for them to tailor the software to their needs and make continuous iterative improvements.Not only is this a really cheap way of designing software, but it's often faster and more effective too.Looking at cost savings that have been achieved by companies and governments all over the world, it's estimated that the UK government could reduce its annual IT bill by over £600m a year if more open source software was used as part of an effective procurement strategy. That's enough to pay for 20,000 extra teachers or 100,000 hip operations.He also suggests that "open source politics" can help generate momentum for the Conservative movement in the UK, pointing to high-level wonk Iain Dale's much publicised efforts in blogging and internet telly. But that gets up the nose of our very own Andrew Brown, who takes a moment out of discussinghacking your car engineto take Osborneto task:Even when it is possible for the government to discuss completely openly and in good faith difficult decisions, "information" on its own doesn't make for an equality of power. For that you need judgment, which is rather harder to distribute.A further response just dropped into my inbox from OpenForum Europe - whose director Graham Taylor says that "To see top-level politicians genuinely examining the cost and other benefits of open source in the UK, as we have seen in Europe for some time, is very welcome".
Sony is kicking off its marketing campaign for the eagerly awaited PlayStation 3 games console via BSkyB and Channel 4's video-on-demand services.They will also launch a simultaneous assault on virtual online world Second Life.In a departure from its usual TV-centric advertising strategy, Sony is launching 30- and 60-second PS3 ads that will run on Sky Anytime and 4OD from March 9 - a week before breaking on conventional broadcast networks.An unbranded version of the PS3 ads will run in cinemas alongside regular film trailers - giving the impression that the clip is a promotion for a movie.The pan European campaign, arguably the most important for Sony's console division since the launch of the PS2 in 2000, also aims to target the internet savvy youth audience through tie-ups with Flickr and Second Life.Ad agency TBWA/London has developed a range of eight brand characters - including a quiz show legend called Bruce Leghorn - that will front PS3 marketing material whether it be TV, cinema, print or online.The above-the-line ad campaign, which breaks on TV from March 16, will promote the website www.thisisliving.tv.That online destination takes the form of a hotel website where keen PS3 fans can check-in for alerts up to the launch day of the console on March 23.The eight PS3 characters live there and visitors can follow clues about each of them from other web 2.0 sites such as avatars on Second Life and pictures on Flickr.From the launch of the console a series of TV, cinema and press ads will flesh out the relationships of the characters and their back-stories.By May a 60-second TV and cinema ad, called Meltdown, will bring the story to a conclusion.A three-minute version of the ad will be available on the thisisliving website and a full six minute version will feature as part of a DVD cover mount with movie magazine Little White Lies.Sony is aiming to position the PS3, which will compete against the already launched Nintendo Wii and Xbox 360, as an "entertainment supercomputer".Media planning and buying has been handled by MG OMD.The PS3 was originally meant to launch in the UK on November 17 but delays saw Sony direct supplies to Japan and the US market first.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
