Folks, there are onlytwo more daysbefore theSL Relay for Lifein aid of the American Cancer Society and this is mylastplea for support from the good readers of this fine digital publication.The Guardian's teamis indeed "running" on Saturday, and thanks once again go to MrCod who inspired us to strap on our panda avatars and take to the track for 18 solid hours. Thanks as well to the many people who've already contributed. Big props go to team member Clarence Kamachi who's been tirelessly fundraising in the virtual world.The fund drive (across all the teams) has raised over £40,000 in real cash in total - twice that raised by last year's event. If you have the inclination, you can add to that incredible treasure chest in real money (no need to enter the virtual world) atthis website.As MrCod originally suggested, everyone who's given cash will have a presence in the virtual world, on my person. I'll also add your name (and any images/urls/notes of remembrance) to a big sign on The Guardian's virtual campsite next to images of my aunt,uncleand (recently re-diagnosed) grandmother, and will be seen by the several thousand people congregated for the event. Send an email to gamesblog+at+gmail.com with your name, url and anything else you'd like included when you've donated and consider yourself represented.Thanks again to everyone who's already sent money in. Wish us luck!
The appearance of the full text - as images of the pages - of the latest (and last) Harry Potter book via bittorrent provides another interesting example of the perverse economics of the web. As our researcher Alex discovered, if you downloaded the file, you'd end up with 360 rather blurry PDF pages. And the cost of buying enough paper to print out those pages? &pound;10. You can walk into most branches of most bookshops right now and get the proper hardback, nicely typeset, for less than that; and it won't cost you a fortune in printing ink, nor will you need a printer, or a computer or broadband connection to grab the file.And yet many people have downloaded the file, as much as anything to prove that they could. It's unlikely (as Wendy Grossman, a frequent contributor here, noted) that JK Rowling or Bloomsbury lost a single sale through the release of that file - unless, of course, it was grabbed by people in Asia keen to print knockoff copies for sale locally, undercutting the publisher there. Harry Potter is a worldwide phenomenon, it's true, though it's hard to imagine printing presses in far-off lands thrumming away so someone can hawk rather blurry versions in a foreign language (English) on stands in the street.The thing about the internet is that it tempts people to spend money in ways that make no sense if you stop and look at them. If you create a site that proves, for whatever reason, to be enormously popular but offers free access, then you'll see your bandwidth bill go through the roof, while the crowd will come in, feast on what you provide and move on, leaving you looking around to pay the bill. Similarly, people spend more on their broadband connections than they would on the music that they illicitly download over filesharing networks. I've long thought that it would make more sense for record companies to buy into telecoms companies, so that they would get the cashflow and even profit from the movement of their product, than to take legal action against ISPs for aiding and abetting piracy.The intelligence on the net is all at the edges, and none at the centre; but the same often holds true for the spending. You think you're getting that book cheaper in Amazon than in a shop, but once you add in the postage, plus the sheer cost of first buying, then running the computer, including its antivirus and antispyware programs (and the time you take over those), plus the investment needed to buy the computer anyway, you could begin to wonder precisely what and where the saving is. (The answer, usually, is time: the computer lets you do a lot of things at the same time, from the same place.)The past couple of weeks have indicated to me that people are becoming acutely aware that the internet is changing everything in far-reaching yet subtle ways. Michael Wills, the minister for information (seeThe minister will hear you now), indicated to us that the UK government can feel the tectonic plates of information shifting beneath its feet, and is trying to maintain its balance by moving as fast as a centuries-old institution can. Then, speaking to a member of Google's board earlier this week, it became clear that even he found the number of products that the company puts out dizzying, and their effects on the companies and individuals who use them hard to fathom. Just as with continental drift, we know it's happening, but we're not sure where everything is going to end up. The case of the Deathly Hallows, though, demonstrates that there is one section of the media which is still resistant to the attentions of file-sharing. And it is books. If you really thought you saved yourself the cost of buying the book by downloading and printing it, you'll find all you've done is shift the cost to yourself - and, probably in a few months, to the optician who'll sell you new spectacles for your weary eyes.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Traditional media companies face a very modern dilemma: should their websites be free or paid-for? The trend recently has been to plump for the free model and bring in revenue via advertising. This has meant that websites that have in the past been subscription-funded have started to move to the ad-supported model: big media groups such as CNN, The Economist and even The Wall Street Journal have all started to pull down the subscription "paywalls" on their websites.CNN.com is the latest to abandon the paid-for model and go free. Last month both The Economist and the Wall Street Journal did the same thing, with the WSJ's website launching a much-expanded free home page aimed at new customers that sits alongside its original and robust paid-for site.Different consumptionThis move by media groups reflects the way online communities are maturing as well as a growing understanding by publishers and broadcasters about how the web works. Online and print customers consume the products differently. Ben Edwards, publisher of Economist.com, says his print subscribers treat print version of The Economist in very different ways from online users: "Offline is a luxury good; people use the magazine as a ritual pleasure - reading it at the weekend and spending over an hour doing it - but the online product is used at work and, instead of browsing, users are very task-orientated, researching a trip or helping put together a presentation. They stay six minutes and then leave."According to a recent survey by Accenture, media executives increasingly believe that free sites with ads providing the bulk of the revenue will be the most prevalent business model online. Last year, 38% of the top men and women in media, from WPP's Sir Martin Sorrell to CBS's Leslie Moonves, said that ad-supported sites were the best revenue model, but this figure leapt to 50% in this year's survey.The maturing of the online world is helping convince everyone that subscriptions are old hat. Millions more broadband connections are driving websites towards making money from advertisers rather than users. In the UK, which boasts one of the most active online ad markets, the internet's share of all advertising revenues was 11.4% last year- equivalent to about &pound;2bn, according to the Internet Advertising Bureau. And the growth curve is steep: UK online advertising revenues grew 41% from 2005 to 2006, says Guy Phillipson of the bureau. Accenture predicts that globally, the online ad market will reach $30bn (&pound;14.5bn) in the next 12 months."When AOL decided to open up its site [in August last year], that created a tipping point in the advertising industry," says Gavin Mann, part of the digital media team at Accenture. "It has a very large consumer base and it creates a change in consumers' minds but also in advertisers' minds."For CNN (also a part of the Time Warner family that includes AOL), the move to converge its TV and online efforts took 15 months. During that time, the free CNN.com site - which offered free downloadable video - existed alongside a now-defunct paid-for site called CNN Pipeline which offered streaming video."We know that online consumers do not want to pay for content, but the cost of serving up live video was too big a cheque to write," explains Susan Grant, executive vice-president of CNN News Services, which oversees CNN's online and digital businesses.CNN has had a web presence since 1995 but in late 2005 it launched the paid-for CNN Pipeline, which cost $2.95 a month. CNN has never revealed what the take-up was for this site, but observers say it was quite low. Grant insists that she never saw Pipeline as the correct consumer approach, only as a test of the technology and programming abilities of CNN online. However, CNN has now embraced the ad-supported model. Says Grant: "The market changes and that has helped us get to where we hoped to get."While an all-subscription model is looking a bit like old-style media, the hybrid model seems to be the way forward for many. "We are doing more about how we offer our free content but we also surface contextually relevant paid content next to it to pull users in," says Daniel Bernard, general manager of wsj.com.For the Wall Street Journal, converting users of the free site into paid subscribers is a big focus. The Dow Jones-owned newspaper has an enviable position as the most successful paid-for financial news site, with 931,000 paying online subs, 33% of whom also subscribe to the newspaper.If Rupert Murdoch's $5bn bid to buy Dow Jones is successful, the WSJ's paid-for strategy will surely come under review as Murdoch has already stated a preference for free, ad-supported sites in an interview with Time magazine in June (time.com).But Bernard is already looking to the future: "We work hand in hand with the newspaper and we want to grow both," he says. "But we want to be positioned for the future as well. As fewer people maybe read the paper, we want to make sure we provide our content in a relevant manner as they go online."Just like the Wall Street Journal, the Economist is using its free model to entice new online readers and hope that they can then either upgrade people to a print subscription or, alternatively, sell premium products to web visitors. Edwards believes that he can ask his users for a fee to access online forums with the economist.com community around particular topics. The Economist is also piloting paid-for podcasts of the magazine for $6 - equal to the cover price of the magazine."I don't feel religious about a free online site at all," Edwards says. "I would love to charge for the website, but it depends what value we manage to create for our audience. I can imagine charging for certain portions in the future, but it may not be for content. It might be for access to a community or to an interactive service."Edwards says that media information companies are still learning about the benefits of free websites because of the push towards interactivity. "News websites are increasingly interactive and the larger the audience you have the more participation you get and the more value is created through that," he says.Creating paid-for services on top of free, ad-supported websites is the focus at Emap where Paul Keenan, who is in charge of the company's 70-title magazine division, believes that brands such as Motorcycle News, FHM, Today's Golfer and even Practical Fishkeeping can all attract payments for targeted services online.To that end the Today's Golfer website (todaysgolfer.co.uk) offers a tee-time booking service for UK courses, with Emap sharing the revenue with the participating clubs. Emap's celebrity magazine Closer launched an online diet planning service last summer. It now has 11,500 subscribers who each pay &pound;10 a month."Publishers have a deep and rich history creating content that people are willing to pay for," Kennan says. "We shouldn't abandon that online. We need to look for services, experiences and applications that our audiences will pay for."Dual-revenue modelWhat Keenan hopes to do is replicate the dual-revenue model of offline publications (advertising and subscription/ newsstand sales) online. "My idea is to generate as much online advertising as we can by establishing a good price for it and good sites for it and to also experiment with paid-for content," Kennan says.And the cost of all this is negligible when compared to the kind of money spent on a new magazine launch. Kennan will roll out better search technology and premium services online across 10 specialist magazine titles over the next nine months for less than &pound;5m. By way of comparison, the launch of Grazia magazine cost Emap &pound;16m. "We think that really cool websites do things for you," says Keenan. "These things like offering tee times gets us beyond media and gets brands like ours into services as well."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Last night saw the fifth annual Develop Industry Excellence Awards, "Europe's only dedicated games developer awards ceremony." Amid the 18 categories, commendations were handed out for best use of a license (Lego Star Wars II), Innovation (Crackdown) and best use of online (Test Drive World) - all going to deserving recipients. I was also pleased to see the 'Publishing Hero' award go to Sega, which, according to the developers I've spoken to, is a great company to work with. Plus, I love Sega.More surprising, perhaps, was the recipient of the Grand Prix award - a recognition of overall achievement through the year. Any guesses?Well, the award went to...SonyHere's why, from the awards press release:"Sony was crowned the Grand Prix winner, capping 12 months which have seen the firm deliver a new hardware format that has inspired developers around the world to make cutting-edge next generation games and continue its tradition supporting great ideas devised by both its internal studios and external partners."I think this must be a forward-looking decision by the 'independent panel of industry experts'. PS3 has had a troubled genesis, both commercially and in terms of developer support. Momentum is just beginning to pick up, but there's plenty to do. Interestingly, Sony had other key successes with Best New Console IP going to Motorstorm and best New Handheld IP claimed by Zoe Mode's PSP puzzler, Crush.Conversely, not a great night for Nintendo, but then these awards are judged by, and handed out to, the European development community (with a distinct UK bias) - Nintendo's major titles are, of course, developed in-house and mostly in Japan.Anyway, here's the full list:New Console IPMotorStorm (Evolution/SCEE External Development)New Handheld IPCrush (Zoe Mode)Best Use of a LicenceLego Star Wars II (Traveller's Tales)Visual ArtsRare (Viva Pinata)Audio AccomplishmentFreeStyle (B-Boy)Publishing HeroSegaInnovationReal Time Worlds (Crackdown)Tools ProviderHavokBest Use of OnlineEden Studios (Test Drive Unlimited)Services &amp; OutsourcingBabel MediaRecruitment CompanyDatascopeNew UK StudioRealtime WorldsHandheld StudioRockstar LeedsBusiness DevelopmentBlitzIndependent DeveloperTraveller's TalesIn-house DeveloperUbisoft FranceDevelopment LegendIan HetheringtonGrand PrixSony
Motorola's RIZR Z8 tweaks the slider phone concept by being the first to feature what Motorola calls a "kick slider" design. In practice this means that the phone is curved when you put it to your ear, which is not only more comfortable but also enhances call quality. The Z8's other headline feature is video viewing quality of 30 frames per second. The video bundled with the phone, The Bourne Identity, certainly looked great and is clear and rock-steady - not words you normally associate with video on a mobile - though how many people are actually going to watch a full-length movie on a tiny screen is a moot point. Other good points are a good web browser, a reasonable 2 megapixel camera and great sound quality, further enhanced by the Bluetooth headphones. Where the Z8 comes unstuck is its interface, which is fiddly and not helped by unresponsive buttons. Overall, though, the Z8 is more evidence that after a few grim years Motorola is producing some very interesting phones.motorola.co.uk
Dying in real life is - religious beliefs aside - the end, the last event you'll take part in. Not so in computer games, where it's never worse than briefly infuriating. In World of Warcraft, the massively multiplayer online roleplaying game (MMORPG) that 8.5 million people play every day, your death just means you have to spend several minutes trekking back to the point at which you died. And your avatar is temporarily weakened. It's an inconvenience.But why is in-game "dying" necessary at all? Alternatively, why isn't dying in a game as final as it is in real life? In MMORPGs, the latter is in part at least simply answered: it's economics. From Blizzard's point of view, if in-game death were final, people would stop coughing up their monthly subscription. And the vibrant in-game economy depends to a certain extent on death and regeneration: when your avatar comes back to life, your weapons are damaged and need repairing - for which you pay a fee.In fact many games, both on computers and in real life, require you to leave the field of play, for structural as much as for narrative reasons. In childrens' playground games, team members have to be eliminated to determine the winner before the end of the lunch break. In arcade videogames such as Space Invaders, your skill determines how long you can play before giving the machine more cash. Death puts a time limit on those games, just as it does for life. In other games, "dying" means you have to go back to the beginning of a level and work your way through it again; so death becomes an indication that you've not reached a specific skill level.But where's the fun in endlessly replaying a level? Gamers are unequivocal: "Dying gives a game meaning", say posters on the PC Advisor forums. Markus Montola, a researcher at Tampere University in Finland, takes this further: "You have a motivation - to avoid being annoyed by dying. Motivation is what makes the game meaningful."Pete Hines - vice-president at Bethesda, the developer behind the role-playing game Oblivion and its expansion pack, Shivering Isles - agrees. "Having your character die or fail is important because your actions have to have some meaning in the game, and to you."Meaningful deathBut is the death of your character the right way to give a game meaning? Peter Molyneux of Lionhead, the developer of Fable, Black &amp; White and The Movies, says: "A fight has to cost the player something, or it loses its meaning. Previously, that cost was time and tedium [in replaying a level]. But is that the right cost?"Molyneux argues that designers should look to Hollywood for how to treat the game's hero - ie you, the player. "Have you ever seen a film where the hero dies and dies again? The tension in an action film almost always comes from hammering a hero so hard that he almost dies - and then he leaps back up."In a film, death is usually the climax, a cathartic event. The battle of Thermopylae is depicted in the film 300; commentators remarked on how much like a computer game it is, with its cinematic cutscenes and boss battles. However, this film ends, as the real events did, with the glorious death of its hero, Leonidas, king of the Spartans, and his plucky army.Perhaps the difference between computer games and film or television dramas is how we consume them. TV and film are genres that we consume passively: we can't affect the outcome (though the popularity of voting in shows such as Big Brother and talent contests might indicate that we like to). Roleplaying games, however, challenge us directly by setting goals, and often one of those goals is to avoid being killed.There are three types of goals in computer games, says Montola. Endogenous goals originate within the game; exogenous from outside it. "Every game of chess has identical endogenous goals, but the exogenous ones range from having fun to humiliating the opponent to winning a tournament. Endogenous goals are always about getting a checkmate, or at least not being checkmated yourself."Diegetic goals "come in when you start to role-play," he says. "If you play World of Warcraft and just grind to get better gear, you never think about this dwarf hunter you're playing. But once you start with pretend-play, you have to think 'what would Mr Dwarf Hunter want? What are his goals?' And those goals are diegetic." Montola points to Eve Online, the space-trading MMORPG. "It is particularly elegant in regard to diegetic goals. Everyone plays a space trader, miner or pirate, so it's easy to understand that I'm a trader and I want to maximise profit and live a peaceful life."Eve, he adds, "is a game where you can lose months of work by being shot from the skies. That game is given exogenous meaning by the extremely strong endogenous and diegetic urge to avoid death."Death has been part of computer gaming since its earliest days. Montola points to Arkanoid, a clone of Breakout and a direct descendant of Pong. Dating from 1986, the game involves you moving a bat at the bottom of the screen to try to prevent the ball falling away from the board. Says Montola: "You probably don't think you can die in Arkanoid, even if you miss the ball. But your bat is in fact a spaceship called Vaus, and it gets destroyed when you miss the ball, so missing the ball means dozens or thousands of deaths ... depending on your imagination."Reaching even further into the dark ages of computing, he says: "If you think that an abstract bunch of pixels can die, you can trace this back to the earliest computer games, such as Spacewar! from 1961. Since this predates the earliest arcade games by a decade, it's fair to say that death has always been one of the central punishments in digital gaming."Reflect real life?But do you need to die at all? Eric Zimmerman, a New York-based game designer who helps run the studio Gamelab, says: "Dying in games is a strange artifact of certain kinds of historical forms and content, and there is no good reason for including it in many cases." Molyneux concurs: "If we were starting from scratch, we wouldn't come up with this paradigm."There are bigger questions, of course. In real life, death is more than an annoyance. So should games reflect real life? Or should we redefine "dying" in the context of games? Isn't it more like tennis, where you can lose a set but go on to win the game? Or are there bigger lessons to be learned from games?Says David Ewen, a 46-year-old gamer: "Kids need to learn that if they're ambushed by a horde of self-regenerating laser-festooned killer robots on an asteroid far from the main space trade routes in real life, they're not actually going to end up getting teleported out to the local Starbucks for a nice refreshing break."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"The whole industry is disappointed with Windows Vista." That's what Gianfranco Lanci, the Italian president and CEO of Acer, Taiwan's biggest computer company, told the German edition of the Financial Times on Monday. "Also, that won't change in the second half-year," he added. (ftd.de).Lanci's main complaint is that people aren't buying new PCs to run Vista, and that it has had less of an impact on sales than previous versions of Windows.But Acer isn't suffering too badly. Gartner's research figures show that PC sales in the second quarter of this year were up 11.7% on last year, which is better than the 10.6% growth it predicted. Acer's worldwide PC shipments did even better, growing by 54.2% to 4.4m units. In Europe, where it is the third largest supplier, Acer grew by 36% in a market that increased by 13.5%, while in the US, Acer's shipments grew by 163.9%, according to Gartner.Microsoft also remains bullish. The local subsidiary told FT.de that Vista was a great success in Germany, while Microsoft UK says of its global figures: "Demand is strong and we're pleased with the response to Windows Vista so far. For instance, we sold 20m copies in the first month of availability - a record - and nearly 40m as of mid-May."However, following last week's results, Microsoft's chief financial officer Chris Liddell said that, over the next year, he was budgeting for more sales of Windows XP than previously expected."We changed it from 85% to 78% [for Vista]. Now, it's a lower number, but it's still a very high number overall from our perspective, so 78% Vista mix in terms of sales next year."This doesn't make much difference to Microsoft. It only reduces its income insofar as Vista buyers are slightly more likely to buy a more expensive version of Vista.Indeed, by providing free downloads of things such as Microsoft.net 3.0, Internet Explorer 7 and Silverlight, Microsoft has provided some of Vista's benefits to some 550m XP users, reducing their need to upgrade.And there are several new versions of Windows on the way. Next month will see the arrival of Windows Home Server, providing automatic backups for home and small business users. This should be followed by a beta test version of Windows Vista Service Pack 1, though the final code may not appear until next year.Microsoft has also scheduled the release of Windows Server 2008 for early next year. The new version is already being used on Microsoft.com as a form of extreme stress testing. And following that is Windows 7, the next version of Vista, which has been thumbnailed in for 2010. Sorry, no more fancy codenames.Windows is now under the control of a new boss, Steven Sinofsky. He's famous for shipping numerous versions of Microsoft Office with impressive regularity and lack of fuss. If you liked Office 10, Office 11 and Office 12 then you could well like Windows 7, 8 and 9.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In spite of following the instructions to the letter, I could not get a printer to share the PCs' wireless network. I called in an expert who eventually said that it was Norton and other security programs that would not permit printer sharing. He said that the Windows XP Home firewall was adequate. The firewalls on both programs are turned off, and the printers share.Pat YoungThe XP SP2 firewall is quite good at what it does. The problem is that it only checks incoming traffic, not outgoing. If your network is compromised via email or a Trojan from a USB device, the XP firewall will not stop it from calling its friends. If you are vigilant about checking what's running on your PC, you shouldn't have any problems, but it would be better to run a two-way firewall. You could create a System Restore point, install the free Sunbelt (Kerio) Personal Firewall and hope the printers keep working, but it's not essential.Incidentally, Microsoft has a help site for home and small office networking atmicrosoft.com.
"Sack the juggler," comes the cry from some wag when a plate crashes to the floor. I hate it when they say that.There's another less dramatic but equally grating sentiment that crops up with gutwrenching regularity: "It was working five minutes ago, honest ..." Without fail, it's followed by a weak smile.Here I am in some lacklustre business centre and a bod in a suit is sweating in front of me. Nice. A projector is on the table and the screen on the wall is blank. My life is on hold as I watch him huff and puff. This is half an hour I'll never get back. I do need to be here, "for work"; I just wish he'd get on with it.You say it was working five minutes ago? Don't make me laugh. I've sat through excuses, rubbish jokes and watching a search for a power socket for much longer than that.I've also witnessed the repeatedly ridiculous, almost ritualistic dance of the shortened extension lead. Was the socket suddenly moved five minutes again then? You must have checked, right?I've rolled my eyes as he phoned a colleague to help find the right file and I've gasped in horror as part of the wall (that's right, the wall) was fleetingly filled with an array of other Word documents visible on the presenter's laptop ("Draftletterboss" looked intriguing).What's this? Now the table isn't in the right place. It needs to be nearer the wall to help us read the words. What's the point? Nothing has worked so far.Here's a stroke of genius. Why not balance your projector on some of your handouts? That'll really impress us.What do you mean you can't find the right disk? What's wrong with the five you've already shuffled? Actually, please can I find out about your draft letter to your boss instead? You may not need it after this. The "feedback form" in my hand is quite tempting. Your boss might have a letter for you instead.Hang on, a crowd has gathered - well, if you can consider the business conference centre's "IT team" of three a crowd. Sharp intakes of breath follow."Are we going to be much longer?" inquires a hassled but polite voice from the back."No, no, here we go," smiles Suitman nervously."You could have sorted this a bit earlier couldn't you?" asks someone else - not quite as politely. I have to agree.Right, here we go, watch out for that bright white light now as you finally switch on the power - oh dear, too late. Don't dazzle, dip your projector.And so the presentation finally begins. What on earth could go wrong now? Fasten your seatbelts, we could be in for a bumpy ride.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's seldom that a computer peripheral causes excitement, but as the &pound;100 MX Air proves, it's not impossible. Tucked in its stand it looks, at best, like an object d'art and at worst, a high-end telephone handset. Like a normal computer mouse, it can be used on the desk, but the real fun comes when you lift it off. This is automatically sensed, and motion sensing is employed to turn it into something you might expect to find on the Nintendo Wii. The extra features are almost solely connected with your music. As well as your normal point-and-click functionality, a small clockwise movement skips forward a track, while anticlockwise skips backwards, and it's also possible to change the volume. The controls take a while to get used to, but, like most things, it comes with practice.logitech.com
Probably not as big as is made out. Last month, Privacy International released a survey called A Race to the Bottom (privacyinternational.org) in which Google came last among a selection of large internet companies and was dubbed "hostile to privacy". Meanwhile, the US Federal Trade Commission continues to investigate Google's proposed acquisition of DoubleClick, an online advertising agency that tracks user's browsing habits in order to serve up targeted ads.Last week, Google announced it will shorten the lifetime of the cookies it leaves on users' systems to two years (formerly expiring in 2038) and will anonymise user logs after 18 months. However, these initiatives are essentially meaningless. The cookies will be renewed any time a user uses a Google service: Gmail, Blogger, Google Earth, Google Checkout, YouTube, Orkut.Google has claimed it needs to retain user data under the EU's data retention rules, but it's not clear that this is actually correct. There is no doubt that Google's size and market position, its reliance on advertising for revenues and the breadth of its very popular services means that it is in a position to amass large quantities of user data. There is also no doubt that all that data can be assembled into comprehensive datagrams of specific individuals. There are many things Google could do that would improve users' control over their privacy. It could offer the option to view and delete Google cookies and logs. It could offer anonymous browsing, an option it has ruled out. It could change the way it saves user preferences.On the other hand, as far as anyone knows, Google has yet to do anything bad with those masses of data. And shouldn't the company actually commit the crime before we punish it?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have somehow managed to add two security software advertisements to my Windows Taskbar: Virus Protect Pro and Virus Blocker. They flash constantly, and related popups say I need to download and pay for their software etc. I do have adequate cover from McAfee and a Netgear from Sky.Tony ElyJSThere are lots of rogue antivirus programs, and some are added to free downloads, including codec packs. They are nasty, but most can be removed using a program called smitfraud - search for it on Google. You can find removal instructions for Virus Protect Pro atforum.securitycadets.com, and other help forums. You should also go to Windows Update and make sure you don't have an unpatched security hole.
Too high a priceI'm impressed (Newly asked questions, July 19). Sony managed a long justification of its pricing policy without once mentioning "rip-off Britain", or referring to the UK as "Treasure Island".Malcolm Woodward,Chorley&#183;Until they announce something similar for the UK, they can forget it. If the US price is about &pound;244, I'm not paying &pound;400 for one.maehara-uk.livejournal.comWe suffer cyber-crime tooThe article (Lack of concern over growing cybercrime, July 19) stated that "British industry leaders have called for urgent government intervention over the failure to deal with escalating internet crime". We at the Federation of Small Businesses agree. There is no central report mechanism for cyber-crime, not just for the industry leaders and big businesses, but for all businesses. One-man band and small to medium-sized business also suffer from cyber-crime, but are often overlooked as too insignificant - yet our figures report that up to 20% of SMEs are deterred from online trading due to the risks, perceived or otherwise, of cyber-fraud.Any article that reports on cyber-crime should also be inclusive of this much-ignored majority.John Walker, Policy Chairman, Federation of Small Businesses, LondonData is onlineIt was good to read about New Zealand removing charges (New Zealand puts its trust in statistics, July 19). But it was a little surprising to see no mention of the mass of 2001 UK Census results freely available through Census Access (statistics.gov.uk), part-funded by the Treasury Invest to Save scheme with a key objective of boosting the UK knowledge economy through public and commercial use. I support your campaign.Chris Denham, (former Head, Census Output &amp; Geography, ONS) Rowlands CastleI am not a numberAlmost every day I have a discussion with patients about risks and choices (Forecasting human behaviour carries big risks, July 19). I always emphasise that the statistical predictions are based on groups and averages and that there is absolutely no way of knowing to what extent they are relevant to this individual. Nobody can tell an individual what their future holds and to pretend they can on the basis of statistical modelling which isn't up to the job is potentially very harmful.heroesnotzombies.wordpress.comTimely remindersBill Harvey (Letters and blogs, July 19) may not be able to get a timetable from thetrainline.com but if he travels over toNational Rail Enquiries, he can build and download a PDF file of his own pocket timetable.Michael Kenward, Staplefield&middot;Bill Harvey should try the German Railways website (reiseauskunft.bahn.de). Crazy that the German Railways does UK trains better than Railtrack.Justin Krish,LondonBoxed in by XPRather than airing opinions about Apple (and Linux) systems being unable to download films and programmes from TV companies, complain to the Advertising Standards Authority (TV on demand, July 12) that promotions which promise that you "never need miss a programme" or "you can download this film" are lies by omission and contrary to regulations. It won't stop the BBC calling its system the iPlayer when you can't download via iTunes to iPods, but it might make them, and the other channels, tell the whole truth. I have complained to the ASA; all aggrieved parties - Mac, Linux and Vista users alike - should do the same.Paul Cloutman, London&middot;Come on BBC, I pay my licence fee, why should I need Windows XP to watch your programmes?Matt Woolner, Berkhamsted
I enjoy queueing in post offices. Rather, I enjoy queueing in my post office, a tiny non-commercial anomaly in north London. I drop by once a week to pick up my business mail - and for the theatre. A young migrant worker trying to get a tax disc for his uninsured car. An old boy who hasn't been abroad since 1945 applying for his first passport. A stream of benefits claimants of all ages who haven't got the hang of PINs yet. Each gets the same personal, expert, attention.It's doomed, of course. While our office seems likely to survive the immediate wave of post office closures, we'll surely be caught by the next, or the one after that.Part of the blame, at least, lies with e-government. The British public is finally getting used to dealing with government online. Nearly half of Britain's motorists are taxing their cars electronically, rather than in post offices.A study of local e-government (Better Marketed: achieving success with take-up of online services, Socitm Insight) shows that some councils are attracting respectable numbers of electronic customers. In Bristol, 59% of applications for school places come in online; in Walsall, half of planning applications are made through the web. Warwick council's scheme for allocating social housing by choice receives three-quarters of its bids electronically. These take-up figures suggest that if you design the right electronic route to the right service, people will use it. You don't even need to spend zillions on promotion - Socitm Insight says that advertising and promotion and PR played a relatively small part in achieving high take-ups. Usually, all councils had to do was to tell existing users of a service that an electronic channel was available.After a decade of effort in e-government and well over &pound;1bn of investment, all this is very good news. But we're still a long way short of doing for government what easyJet and Amazon did for air travel and bookselling. That means persuading close to 100% of "customers" to conduct their business electronically.The government's strategy is to simplify the face of government by routing all transactions through two supersites: Directgov for citizens and Businesslink for business. Such rationalisation plays well with the Treasury - central government alone spends &pound;208m a year on websites, much of it on poorly designed and rarely visited sites that frequently duplicate another part of the government's work.While concentrating efforts on fewer sites may make e-government more user-friendly it won't on its own achieve 100% take-up. The only solution is to grasp a nettle that the government has been avoiding and to make some e-transactions mandatory. Obvious candidates for compulsion are planning applications, company registrations, VAT returns - and vehicle licences.There are two objections to compulsion. One is that it doesn't square well with this government's ideology of "choice" and the "citizen as consumer". Tough. Life is sometimes about having no choice, and the modern state should stop pretending otherwise.The objection to compulsion is social exclusion. This is more valid. Two-fifths of the population doesn't have the internet at home; the digitally excluded tend to be the people in most need of government services and least able to transact with officialdom on their own. For them, some kind of free national support will be essential. Perhaps a network of high street e-government shops, staffed by sympathetic and knowledgeable people? As a sideline, these could even sell useful everyday supplies. Like stamps.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I keep getting a message box appearing saying my PC cannot find the flash.ocx file. I have also lost my screensaver.Michael DennisonSome third-party screensavers use Adobe Flash and apparently they look for flash.ocx. Adobe no longer ships such a file. If you have upgraded Flash, the file is probably called flash9c.ocx or something similar. The solution suggested on the web is to search your PC for flash*.ocx, go to that directory, copy the file you have, and rename that copy to flash.ocx. The screensaver should now find what it's looking for.
Following your articles about Windows being limited to 3GB of memory, I've come across Windows XP Professional x64 Edition, which allows up to 16GB while maintaining the use of 32-bit applications.Sheila BullMicrosoft released the 64-bit version of Windows XP for x86 chips more than two years ago. It is now used on servers, for some workstation applications such as CAD/CAM, and by some gamers, who can benefit from the extra memory and higher performance.It does run 32-bit applications but many of them are somewhat incompatible or perhaps require 64-bit drivers (32-bit drivers don't work). Also, 64-bit hardware drivers are needed, and these are very slow in arriving. The 64-bit XP code has been available free in a six-month trial version frommicrosoft.comto enable software developers, companies and interested users to test compatibility, but relatively few seem to have bothered.Vista users can also get 64-bit code from Microsoft, and a 64-bit CD is provided with the Ultimate edition, but it's not really ready for general use.There are now getting on for 1bn Windows PCs running tens of millions of programs, and it will take a long time to convert them. For comparison, Microsoft introduced Windows NT in 1993, and that had similar problems with compatibility and drivers. It took the best part of a decade for most people to move over from DOS-based versions to Windows NT/2000/XP or Vista.
Although it's still impossible to get full-length films from iTunes in the UK, you can still download music videos, videocasts and short clips, none of which can be seen in their full glory on the iPod's small screen. This &pound;250 speaker system from Altec Lansing goes some way to fix this, as it features a bright 8.5" LCD screen on the front of the box. The sound is very good, as you'd expect from an audio specialist. The subwoofer ensures the bass is strong, while two neodymium speakers take care of the higher notes. The unit comes with a remote, and unlike many iPod speaker systems, you can navigate through the entire iPod menu using just that. The dock can be adapted to fit most iPod versions, although there's also a cradle supplied should you own another MP3 player. Overall the quality is excellent, but whether you'd want to spend the money on a speaker system with a screen that is still not quite big enough to watch comfortably for long periods of time is up for debate.johnlewis.com
Certainly not as trivial as many Apple backers suggested. The security company Independent Security Evaluators announced that it had found a way to take over an iPhone by injecting a bit of code through its web browser, causing a "buffer overflow" - which is like a river overflow, but with bits, not water - and thus persuaded it to hand over its recent text messages, Google Maps visits, addresses and phone numbers, and even secretly turn on its microphone so it could act as a bug.That could be done either through a malicious Wi-Fi network (which redirected you to a fake website when you thought you were going to a trusted one) or via a malicious site that you were tempted to visit one way or another. The problem is that for a handheld computer, and unlike its Mac OS X operating system on its computers, an iPhone runs a very phone-like version of an operating system: every process belongs to the "administrator", which is the person who turns on the phone. "This implies that a compromise of any application gives an attacker full access to the device," the researchers note in a preliminary PDF about the attack (securityevaluators.com). And that's bad.Apple was told about the flaws on July 17, and has until August 2 to fix them; after that, the exploit will be made public and the million or so iPhones out there will be targets.But is this a serious flaw? Certainly. It was discovered within three weeks of the phone going on sale, and as more and more people get hold of it - and especially once the method that Independent Security Evaluators used is made public - the attacks will increase. Smartphones, as is obvious from a little reflection, are more handheld computers than phones, and Apple's decision to let this one sync via iTunes - including the transfer of logs detailing how and why any iPhone application crashed - offers would-be hackers a lot more "attack surface" to hammer away at.Steve Bellovin, a security expert, noted on his blog that: "Yes, it's a security problem; yes, Apple needs to fix it ASAP ... it's not the end of the world, though." His suggestion? "Exercise caution, not paranoia."For Apple, it's an object lesson in how much more aggressively it is treated on the products that people are gagging to hear about. (By contrast, have you heard of many exploits against the Apple TV? Have you even heard of the Apple TV, which isn't actually a TV?)But the researchers have more bad news for Apple. As they note on their web page: "It's a near certainty [that there are other vulnerabilities] ... every cause of Safari crashing on the iPhone is a potential vulnerability. And getting Safari on the iPhone to crash isn't that hard. Additionally, it's likely there are vulnerabilities in the other iPhone applications as well."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Wiki for PotterWikia, the Wikipedia company, has spun off a Harry Potter wiki for fans.harrypotter.wikia.comQuadcore desktopsFor its 20th anniversary, Mesh has launched high-spec PCs with Intel quad-core processors for &pound;699 and &pound;999.meshcomputers.commeshcomputers.comDictate to your phoneVoiceSignal's VoiceMode 2.0 software converts British English speech to text on mobile phones. It's available for five Symbian-based Nokia smartphones.voicesignal.comsoftwaremarket.nokia.comMovie time gamesCinemagoers will be able to play interactive games using a TimePlay system, now being tested at the Huddersfield Odeon.timeplay.comPro gaming UKOnline qualifiers are being held for the UK division of the Championship Gaming Series for pro-level video games players, launched with Sky.thecgs.comGreen home serverTranquil will launch its Harmony PCs based on Microsoft's Windows Home Server next month, at &pound;445 inc VAT.tranquilpc.co.ukPerform for BTBT Broadband is inviting unsigned bands to upload tracks in a promotion for its BT Digital Music Awards.btdma.comMake any sense?The Sensebot search engine delivers summaries of results instead of a list of links. Users can apply to join the beta.sensebot.net
I have noticed a new trend among the many spam emails that I receive. A lot of them now apparently contain PDF file attachments. Is there any risk involved in opening them?Terry VincentIs there a risk that you will be tempted to give a bunch of scammers money for shares in worthless companies? If not, you are probably safe at the moment.Since the end of June, spammers have been sending billions of Adobe PDF (portable document format) files in "pump and dump" share scams. They tried this before with attached image files. Now spam filters are removing most of these, they are trying PDF files in the hope that spam filters will let them through.Whether virus writers will be able to deliver more damaging payloads this way remains to be seen. Either way, there is nothing to be gained by opening these files, so delete them.
It's the second time they've done it, and it's certainly interesting: Information Architects Japan, a design agency based in Tokyo, has produceda map of the Webbased on the Tokyo underground. You can now pore over it, download it in a range of sizes (clickherefor 1600x1024), get anA3 PDF, click on theclickable version, or buy the A2printed posterfor $25.No, it's not what you'd do if you were trying to produce an objective version, but it does make some sense if you follow the different lines. The brighter green line, for example, is News. That will help if you're looking for The Guardian.iA comments:There are less insider jokes about the different stations and more consistency within the connections and the neighborhood of the different sites. People who know Tokyo will still find lots of little hints and sarcastic comments hidden in there.For example, "Yahoo is in Ueno, a nice place but nothing going on there."The post says:You might have noticed that we had to take off the inverted Tokyo Metro logo as featured in an early version of the first trend map. They asked us to take it off. We respect the decision of the Tokyo Metro Corporation, but we still believe that it is not a smart move for them. The map has been downloaded 10,000 times and has been featured in the traditional and online media all around the world.Now you can spend the rest of the day making a map of the Web in the UK, based on London's tube map.... The question is, which station would be The Guardian, and which the BBC?
The UK is one of the world's leaders in IT competitiveness, according to research into 64 countries by the Economist Intelligence Unit. The US was top followed by Japan, South Korea, then the UK. Britain was praised for its skilled workers and positive legal environment protecting intellectual property. But the study, sponsored by the Business Software Alliance, said the UK lagged in investment in research and development. It highlighted "the slow pace at which advanced, high-speed broadband services have been introduced", which left the UK behind in provision of IT infrastructure.
Play time: using the Wiimote. Photograph: Scott Barbour/GettyIf, like me, you enjoy a bit of gaming action from time to time, you've probably got a console or two around the house.And you might well be intrigued by the new generation of games that use new fangled controllers instead of the traditional joystick or joypad. Indeed, they're all the rage at the moment as publishers look to interest new audiences by getting them to play musical instruments, prance about in front of cameras or wave their arms.Nintendo's Wii, with its famous motion sensing control pad, is selling by the bucketload, while titles like Donkey Konga, Sing Star, Dance Dance Revolution and Guitar Hero all require their own controllers.But how many controllers can you actually cope with? How many do you have space for? Are we going to be overrun if every single title that comes out demands its own add-on gadgets?I'm looking for some readers who are swamped by gaming peripherals and would be interested in talking to us. If that sounds like we've been spying on your living room, then I'd like to hear from you. The email address is bobbie.johnson at guardian.co.uk
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Mark Zuckerberg, 23, founded Facebook while studying psychology at Harvard University. A keen computer programmer, Mr Zuckerberg had already developed a number of social-networking websites for fellow students, including Coursematch, which allowed users to view people taking their degree, and Facemash, where you could rate people's attractiveness.In February 2004 Mr Zuckerberg launched "The facebook", as it was originally known; the name taken from the sheets of paper distributed to freshmen, profiling students and staff. Within 24 hours, 1,200 Harvard students had signed up, and after one month, over half of the undergraduate population had a profile.The network was promptly extended to other Boston universities, the Ivy League and eventually all US universities. It became Facebook.com in August 2005 after the address was purchased for $200,000. US high schools could sign up from September 2005, then it began to spread worldwide, reaching UK universities the following month.As of September 2006, the network was extended beyond educational institutions to anyone with a registered email address. The site remains free to join, and makes a profit through advertising revenue. Yahoo and Google are among companies which have expressed interest in a buy-out, with rumoured figures of around $2bn (&#163;975m) being discussed. Mr Zuckerberg has so far refused to sell.The site's features have continued to develop during 2007. Users can now give gifts to friends, post free classified advertisements and even develop their own applications - graffiti and Scrabble are particularly popular.This month the company announced that the number of registered users had reached 30 million, making it the largest social-networking site with an education focus.Earlier in the year there were rumours that Prince William had registered, but it was later revealed to be a mere impostor. The MP David Miliband, the radio DJ Jo Whiley, the actor Orlando Bloom, the artist Tracey Emin and the founder of Wikipedia, Jimmy Wales, are among confirmed high-profile members.This month officials banned a flash-mob-style water fight in Hyde Park, organised through Facebook, due to public safety fears. And there was further controversy at Oxford as students became aware that university authorities were checking their Facebook profiles.The legal case against Facebook dates back to September 2004, when Divya Narendra, and the brothers Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, who founded the social-networking site ConnectU, accused Mr Zuckerberg of copying their ideas and coding. Mr Zuckerberg had worked as a computer programmer for them when they were all at Harvard before Facebook was created.The case was dismissed due to a technicality in March 2007 but without a ruling.
It couldn't have happened to a better gaggle of foul-mouthed pre-pubescents. The boys from South Park have landed another Emmy nomination for Outstanding Animated Program (For Programming Less Than One Hour). But why should this matter to the fine readers of this gamesblog?Well, because the nomination in question is for the MMOG-inspired episodeMake Love Not Warcraft.If you haven't seen this priceless piece of gaming culture, I urge you to set down your spreadsheets for several minutes and prepare to laugh your socks off. Never has there been such a prescient piece of mainstream entertainment. And withmachinimatoo. What a joy to behold.And when you're finished watching it, go to theWikipediapage and read the discussion page. And then you'll realise just how spot-on this 24 minutes of mick-taking actually was.
Will the gaming love affair with World of Warcraft ever end? Not for me it hasn't - though I'm not playing as much these days - and neither, it seems, has it cooled elsewhere. Blizzard have announced that WoW has 9 million subscribers - and that's before the Burning Crusade expansion pack is launched in China. Anecdotally I'm getting the impression that things have slowed down, with many die-hard players moving off to try Lord of the Rings Online. But clearly the WoW juggernaut is rumbling on and you wouldn't bet against 10 million by the end of the year. But with competing games - such as Tabula Rasa - due relatively soon could the growth rate in subscribers subside? Or is WoW only just starting?
With thecurrent flooding in Englandaffecting millions of homes and still spreading - Oxford is the latest city to be hit by the rising waters - plenty of people are turning to the internet to get the latest information.Ed Parsons - formerly of Ordnance Survey and now a geospatial technologist at Google -points toa map of flood information being cobbled together by Ollie Williams ofBBC Berkshire.The full map ishere, and while at the moment, and for obvious reasons, this only covers one county, I'm sure there are other variants out there. It's a powerful example of how data can be pooled online and added to by individuals.This is also a useful point to wonder whether information on flooding that is already collated by various arms of government should be made more freely available to members of the public. After all, it was only a couple of weeks ago that property siteOnOneMap, which uses Google Maps as its engine, got into a battle over the flood data it was offering browsers.Because the mapping data showing flood risk is owned by the Environment Agency, they were forced to remove it,an argument we covered in a recent Free our Data piece. And that was before the recent bout of floods in middle England.
AT&amp;T has just reported outstanding quarterly financial results, but its shares took a hit, as did Apple's -- down $8.81 at the moment. The reason? According toThe New York Times(headline above): "AT&amp;T said it signed up 146,000 iPhone customers, well below analyst estimates, which ran as high as 500,000 units."The phone went on sale on June 29, two days before the quarter ended, amid fanfare surpassed only by the release of the final "Harry Potter" book last week.The number could also reflect the difficulty many iPhone customers reported experiencing when they tried to activate their phones during the first few days, analysts said.The Wall Street Journaltakes much the same line, saying: "Some analysts had expected AT&amp;T to sign up as many as 700,000 customers over the first three days."It would really be unwise to judge the enterprise on two days' results, but it may be that some expectations were overinflated by the teeming flood of iPhone hype. Even a year wouldn't be enough.
I started a four-day stint on Official PlayStation magazine today where the talk of the mag was, without doubt, Konami'sMetal Gear Solid 20th Anniversary eventheld last night in Tokyo. At the show, Hideo Kojima demonstrated 15 minutes of Metal Gear Solid 4 gameplay (some of which was previously spied at Sony'srecent Japanese press event) paying close attention to the new more flexible camera system - controllable using the right analogue stick - and the optional, Resi 4-style over-the-shoulder view for aiming and shooting.It's impressive stuff, with some lovely visual effects (just check out the dust) and the smooth animation we've been promised. And, of course, the demo couldn't have come at a better time for Sony. With platform-exclusives set to take a defining role in the current console wars and Wii apparently claiming more than its rival machines (seeGamingtarget.com), PS3 needs its big hitters to perform. And this is the biggest hitter of the lot.During the presentation we see Snake wandering a crumbling battlezone, frisking enemy soldiers and using a new chameleon-esque battle suit which changes colour and pattern to resemble the character's exact environment. We also see a stealth kill which is rather slow and fumbling, resembling the horrifying scene in Saving Private Ryan where one of Tom Hanks' squad is almost tenderly stabbed through the heart by a German soldier.Kojima also revealed that Eve, Snake's ladyfriend from MGS3, will be making a surprise appearance in suitably mature form. From the images shown at the press event, we felt she resembled Honor Blackman circa early Nineties sitcom,The Upper Hand.For those who've missed all this, here's a round-up of the other Metal Gear announcements (some of which we already sort of knew about):Metal Gear OnlineMentioned previously but a few more details emerged last night. Kojima called it, "The ultimate online companion to MGS 4." Set to support 16 players and employs Metal Gear Solid 4's engine, control scheme, characters and environments. Gameplay has a hide and seek feel. Oh and it's another PS3 exclusive. Morehere.Metal Gear Solid 2: Bande DessineeAnother digital comic for PSP, this time with exciting voice acting.Metal Gear Solid: Portable Ops PlusFresh version of the miniature MGS actioner with new multiplayer environments, characters and single player mode named Infinity Mission.Metal Gear MobileObviously the most exciting announcement - a full 3D Snake adventure based in the MGS3 era,according to IGN.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Power down? Photograph: David Sillitoe/GuardianDigital rights management (DRM) has a bad name among many, and rightly so. Interesting, then, that the New Scientist'sInvention Bloghas spotted a strange little patent filed in the US by Apple engineers which it says it the equivalent of DRM for power.The idea, apparently, is to have your gadget (presumably an iPod or an iPhone in this case) tied to a particular charger. A broken connection means that the device can't be charged, so theoretically making it useless if it gets stolen.According to thepatent itself:For devices that are mainly powered by a rechargeable-power-supply (e.g., music-players, phones, Personal Digital Assistants), disabling the recharger effectively renders the device inoperable when the power of the main power-supply has run out. As such, disabling the recharger should serve as a deterrent to theft.This system, says the patent, would be enacted by the user having to authorise every bit of hardware that you might want to charge from - say, your PC, Mac, dock or plug.Good idea? Can you imagine the tedium of having to authorise a new charging device every time you plug in? What about when you borrow a charger from a mate or colleague - the sort of thing that happens all the time in real life?Still, I suppose it might stop those annoying office emails saying "does anybody have a spare iPod charger?". Every cloud has a silver lining, and so on.
From the "Whose Mother Thought Of This" category comesChore Wars, a kind ofambient/passively multiplayer/clean-your-room-now-mister mash up which pits you against your friends/family/colleagues for the title of Tidiest.Finally, you can claim experience points for housework.Recruit a party of adventurers from your household or office, and whenever one of you completes a chore, you can log it and claim XP.What the...? From theFAQ:Primarily, it's a system to let you measure how much housework people are doing - someone who only seems to do the washing up might actually be putting in a good couple of hours a week, when it's all added up, and the housemate who appears never to do anything might be at their busiest when everybody else is out.Monsters are optional.Very very amusing. ViaWonderland.
I'm heading down to theDevelop conferencetomorrow, primarily to chat to veteran games designer Richard Garriott. Garriott - aka Lord British - is best known for his work with the Ultima game series and is now exec producer ofTabula Rasa, the upcoming sci-fi MMO game. My experiences on Tabula's closed beta suggest this may be the one that drags some MMO refusniks to the online frontline. It lacks the initial wow factor of Blizzard's market leader - too much grey and brown in the landscapes so far - but shooting aliens with blasters has a far more immediate feel than traditional MMOs. There's depth too, though I'm still at the early levels so have no idea how it pans out later on. The inclusion of supposedly "ethical" quests is potentially interesting - can they get rid of the MMO themepark feel? - and I'll be asking Garriott about that tomorrow. Which reminds me, got any questions for Richard Garriott?
All tied up: time to loosen the shackles? Photograph: Sarah Lee/GuardianTies have recently become a subject for debate in Britain after some of the most famous proponents - including newsreaderJon Snow- began publicly wondering whether they had a future.But it seems that chief among the ties tormentors could be a small Silicon Valley firm you may have heard of: witness this odd piece of communication from Google spotted by our regular columnistNick Carr.It comes from Peter Fleischer, Google's top privacy boss, who wrote a letter to theFinancial Timeson the subject.It constricts circulation to the brain. And it acts as decorative camouflage for the business suit, designed to shield the middle-aged male physique, with its shrinking shoulders and protruding paunch, from feeling sufficiently self-conscious to hit the gym.Men should lose their "business attire" and wear T-shirts to work. Wouldn't you like to know whether your business partners are fit? Why should you trust a man in business if he abuses his own body? And heaven knows what waves of creativity might be unleashed, when men are freed from conformist garb.If your fashion editor can hardly imagine a better garment for men to exhibit their personality, power and masculinity than wearing ties, well . . . I work at Google. Our unofficial motto is, "Be serious without a suit."So not only is Google taking on the fight against ties - but it also seems to be advocating a policy of judging books by their cover. Forget whether Google is spying on you, those of us who carry a little paunch should be running scared of the 'plex.
Hewlett-Packard is buyingOpswarefor more than $1.6 billion in cash, which is a remarkable amount for a company with "more than $100 million in annual revenue and 550 employees." But it's great news for Netscape co-founderMarc Andreessen, who co-founded Opsware as Loudcloud in 1999. The story is on hispmarca blog.Great, so what do Opsware do, exactly? It "built a comprehensive family of state-of-the-art automation software products that power the full range of technologies you find in a modern datacenter, from servers and applications to networking and storage," he explains.Business Wire has thepress release.
A bit of a coup for Nottingham'sGameCityfestival - this year's 'Vision statement' ( a sort of opening speech to set the tone for the event) will be delivered by Katamari Damacy creator, Keita Takahashi. The designer has just announced his latest project, the PS3 gameNobi Nobi Boy, so will have plenty to talk about.The Vision statement, sponsored by BAFTA, will be given on Saturday 27th October at Nottingham's Broadway Media Centre. Last year's version was given by Oddworld founder Lorne Lanning who later joined me and three other panelists at a city centre curry house to debate the state of the industry. Let's hope Mr Takahashi does the same.Other developers signed up to take part in the festival are Frontier, Freestyle Games, Travellers Tales, Free Radical Design, Mode 7 and SCEE.
In ashort interview with SiliconValley.com, LucasArts president Jim Ward surveys the burnt out wreckage of E3 and declares that, although the likes of Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft aretalkingabout drastically broadening the audience for games, they're not all doing that much about it:"people are having the dialogue, finally, around broadening the audience and making games accessible. That's immensely encouraging. . . . On the other side of the equation, I look across the spectrum of games that are happening right now, and I'm not necessarily seeing the full execution of the vision that people are talking about. That's going to lag, that will be in a couple of years. So there's a lot of redundancy in the kinds of games, and the bit of downside is that I'm a little underwhelmed.Curiously, though, he earlier defends Microsoft's attempts to widen the Xbox demographic:"Look, Microsoft is all about broadening the audience. One can argue whether they're doing that effectively or not, but through efforts like (the family game) "Viva Pinata," I think their head's definitely in the right place."GameslikeViva Pinata? Er... He must mean... Erm... Viva Pinata: Party Animals? Thing is, Viva Pinata - great as it was (did you hear Jonathan Ross extolling the game's virtues on his radio show over the weekend?) - didn't exactly set the game charts alight, probably because it's operating amid a sea of hardcore shooters and fantasy adventures. Microsoft needs a dozen Viva Pinatas (I don't mean that literally) in order to start attracting Moms and Grandfathers away from their Wiis.Anyway, my favourite quote form the interview is this:When asked about developing new game concepts at LucasArts, Ward says:"George is always on us about this... It's like, 'Guys, you're showing me great technology, and then you go and try to wrap a story around it. And the story's really thin, and then it's not fun. Forget the tech for a second. I assume you'll be able to figure out the tech. Come in with a great story.'"To which, quite frankly, any sane person would have replied, "Erm George, did you actuallywatchPhantom Menace, you terrible, terrible hypocrite?"Veteran gamers may remember that, before it became a production line for Star Wars spin-offs - LucasArtswasonce a genuinely innovative development studio. Eighties titles like Rescue On Fractalus, Ballblazer and The Eidolon provided exciting, thought-provoking entertainment unbound by genre conventions, whilethe adventure titlesare the stuff of legend.If Ward wants to kickstart a revolution of thought at his own company, perhaps he ought to dust down a Commodore 64 or 486 PC and replay a few of these greats. I mean,Fracturelooks nice, but it's a futuristic shooter with cybernetically enhanced soldiers. Hardly market-broadening stuff.
Today's New York Times includesiPhone Flaw Lets Hackers Take Over, Security Firm Says(never let it be said that American paper headlines aren't literal) by John Schwartz, who has had a direct demonstration of an iPhone being in effect taken over after visiting a malicious website.And the researchers have in effect given Apple until August 2 to fix the problem (which they have already told the company about in detail): on that day, they will publish full details of the vulnerability,according to their website.There's also a YouTube video (if you're reading this via a feed, it'shere), below:The site in question had been crafted by a team at Independent Security Evaluators, whose principal security analyst, Charles A Miller, used to work for the US National Security Agency. (If you'd expect anyone to be good at hacking things, it would be him.) Quoth the NYT:Although Apple built considerable security measures into its device, said Charles A. Miller, the principal security analyst for the firm, "Once you did manage to find a hole, you were in complete control." The firm, based in Baltimore, alerted Apple about the vulnerability this week and recommended a software patch that could solve the problem.A spokeswoman for Apple, Lynn Fox, said, "Apple takes security very seriously and has a great track record of addressing potential vulnerabilities before they can affect users."Miller demonstrated the hack to Schwartz by browsing a website he'd put together:Once he was there, the site injected a bit of code into the iPhone that then took over the phone. The phone promptly followed instructions to transmit a set of files to the attacking computer that included recent text messages — including one that had been sent to the reporter's cellphone moments before — as well as telephone contacts and e-mail addresses. "We can get any file we want," he said. Potentially, he added, the attack could be used to program the phone to make calls, running up large bills or even turning it into a portable bugging device.Steven Bellovin added some reason to the debate:"We've been hearing for a few years now that viruses and worms were going to be a problem on cellphones as they became a little more powerful, and we're there," he said. The iPhone is a full-fledged computer, he noted, "and sure enough, it's got computer-grade problems."There is more athttp://www.securityevaluators.com/iphone/. ISE suspects that similar attack vectors exist for Windows-based mobile phones, but haven't discovered any so far.The solutions they offer? They may sound familiar. This is what ISE recommends:Only visit sites you trust. If you don't visit attackers' sites, you give them one less attack vector.Only use Wi-Fi networks you trust. If attackers have control of your Internet connection, they have the ability to insert exploits into any website you visit.Don't open web links from emails. Many current viruses send links to malicious sites in emails that look like they are from trusted contacts.Pretty much the same as for your normal computer, in fact. Except the Wi-Fi restriction is a bit frustrating for a phone that also does Wi-Fi.
The WikiGamers have decided on a story for the gamesblog'scollaborative game design experiment. After deliberation and much debate, the votes hoisted the Rural Village storyline high, and now it's the template to inspire our storytellers and designers:You wake up in a rural village, and not one you remember. You catch sight of a few people but they scurry away, breaking eye contact with a look of fear. Why are they afraid of you and how did you get there? In the story you uncover the story of your journey and as you retrace your steps to the city, you uncover some uncomfortable truths about yourself and your situation. Can you stop what seems to be wheels already in motion or are you doomed to watch as a bystander? The intrigue could be corporate, governmental, fantastical or horror. A story of discovery rather than just survival.Props to Trev verT! This narrowly beat the Moving House, Combined Effort and Mark E Smith stories. As they were almost as popular, the gang spent a couple of days trying to figure out if it was possible to integrate them into a story arc spearheaded by the winning back story.Keep reading for more...So, in the week since the plot was decided, wiki-members have been trying on various story specifics for size, contemplating characters and jostling with specific plot points. At the moment there areseveral contenders for story arc: an Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind-inspired "Self-Erasion" backstory from DennisChow, the demise of a dodgy journalist mafia-style from Trev verT, a journey of self-discovery (like Hiro's journey in Heroes) from CunningStunt, and a mind-reading traipse through other people's psychological turmoil, also from CunningStunt.Most of the suggestions have attempted to integrate the most popular back stories into the winning entry, in particular, everyone seems to like forcing the player to delve into the mind(s) of the protagonist, with all the nightmarish visions one might expect to find in there. Thus, the general look and feel is skulking towards a thriller or mystery set in a kind of nightmarish Silent Hill-esque backwater.Like 'em? Want to help plot any of them out? Think you can do better? Come on over to theWikiGame partyand add your two penneth. I'm thinking of adding a Withnail and I-inspired tale of drunken lollygagging and sharp wit, part set in a rural village (inspired by Hot Fuzz and Serial Mom) and the London Underground. It could explain the looks of fear on the villagers' faces when they see you for the first time.Meanwhile, Over on theStory Wantspage, the peanut gallery continues to add bizarre items to the already overflowing list. Current favourites include, "Jor El, Master of Scheduling", "catchphrases galore (some suggestions: 'fiddlesticks and bother!','Oh of all the rotten luck!', 'Cowabunga!', 'Drat-tacular!', 'Radi-cool!', 'well, That's a fine welcome!', 'it's game time!', 'You rotter!', 'woopsadasie!'" and "every conflict can be solved with words".If you have something to add or would like to contribute to the direction the WikiGame is going, please dosign up. The more the merrier!
While most of Britain is (sensibly) concerned with physical overflows, such as the town of Upton-upon-Severn looking more like Severn-upon-Upton, people are still wondering about the flood defences of Facebook.To be precise, how big it can get before it starts to break its database.One "group" (among the hundreds of thousands there) on the social networking site is called "If this group reaches 4,294,967,296 it might cause an integer overflow."It's very much a geek joke - it's assuming that the field in the database for the number of members for the group is set at (quick mental calculation)16-bit unsigned(check with calculator) 32-bit unsigned.But it does raise the real question: has Facebook planned for its possible expansion? How many members could it hold? (Has it allowed for 4+ billion members?) Could it reset the size of those fields without causing a huge problem? A site that I've done work with has some forums, and inevitably when the admin went on holiday, the forums hit the magic number that meant no new postings could be added. This caused just a bit of consternation, since the forums were busy anyway.Of course, that pales in comparison to theYear 2038 bug, which will visit pretty much all Unix-based and C-using operating systems (because they calculate time on a signed 32-bit integer, starting from 1904). My own suspicion is that it'll make the Y2K problems look like a cakewalk - unless something very, very radical is done. Look, after all, at how much more the internet, and hence Unix, is woven into our daily lives. So Facebook's problem might raise a laugh. But will we still be laughing in December 2037? (Assuming we're still using computers..)
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Tiny robots and spying machines are all the rage these days, it seems: just as some Dutch researchers announce that they've built a bird-like flying surveillance bot, engineers at Harvard say they have a fly-size gizmo that could herald a generation of miniscule machines.The picture on the left - by lead researcher Robert Wood - shows how small we're talking, but theTechnology Reviewgives some more detail:Weighing only 60 milligrams, with a wingspan of three centimeters, the tiny robot's movements are modeled on those of a real fly. While much work remains to be done on the mechanical insect, the researchers say that such small flying machines could one day be used as spies, or for detecting harmful chemicals.Students at the Delft University of Technology, meanwhile, have joined forces with zoologists to build an aircraft that is modelled closely on the swift. The idea is that it can follow flocks of the migrating birds and hide while surveilling the ground - and by copying the swift's wingscan also prove highly efficient.Morphing means the wings can be swept back in flight by folding feathers over each other, thus changing the wing shape and reducing the wing surface area. RoboSwift also steers by morphing its wings. Doing so, the micro airplane can perform optimally, flying efficiently and highly manoeuvrable at very high and very low speeds, just like the swiftThe researchers say this is significantly better than other "swing wing" designs, which don't actually reduce the wing's surface area by that much - and therefore don't manage to boost efficiency by a huge percentage.
Vodafone announced its first quarter results last week and as well as being a big reminder of the size and continued growth of the mobile business, it got me thinking about how another bit of news, that the EU is close to mandating a technical standard for mobile TV, was strange.The obvious thing that's still worth stating about the mobile business is that the bedrock of it is communication. What is more, the portable computer in your hand is getting more powerful all the time, with or without an iPhone.But it's easy and common to get carried away with the technology. Hence to last week's announcement by the European commissioner for telecoms, Viviane Reding, that she would look at mandating the Europe-wide adoption of the DVB-H standard for video to handheld devices in 2008. Now, I happen to think Reding played a blinder when she intervened to sort out the costs of international mobile roaming charges, but this is a different thing altogether.DVB-H is a technical standard for getting TV on to mobiles and is backed by Nokia of Finland. There are, of course, competitors - including MediaFlo, which is also in trials around the world. The point of Reding's intervention seemed to be to avoid Europe ending up with 27 different approaches and to put our industry into a position of global leadership. Both of these are fair political aims. But is it a good idea for politicians to be making bets on which technology should win? You could argue, as Reding did, that that's precisely what the EU did with the GSM mobile phone standard. Nonetheless, the industry would have preferred her to hang fire. I tend to agree.In general, market competition decides these things pretty well. In the short term, the logic of markets dictates that companies with competing standards should battle it out until one wins. The victor will then become the standard; and usually be opened up quite quickly to others. To help out a bit, if, for instance, someone has bought spectrum and then loses the battle, you can allow them to sell it on, as Ofcom is suggesting in the UK, so they're not stuck with a losing hand. In fact, possibly the main problem is that some consumers will be left with kit from a losing team and might get cross.The most famous example of this, the VHS versus Betamax war, took a long time to resolve but partly because it occurred within a single market segment. A similar state of affairs today, such as the anti-climatic skirmish between Blue-Ray and HD-DVD, took place in a world where multiple manufacturers from lots of different points of view have an interest in peace breaking out as quickly as possible. Hence we got the first combination players within a few months.There are exceptions, of course, such as the de facto power of Microsoft's DRM standards on online video. This can affect the ability of non-Microsoft folk to get a service at all; compared with the delay between the Windows and the Mac versions of the BBC iPlayer - and it could prevent fair dealing with copyrighted material for public purposes. Each company that adopts Microsoft DRM makes a rational individual decision. This doesn't mean the net effect will necessarily be good. But this is a long-standing area with many public policy issues but it's still different to mobile TV.As the European Broadcasting Union said, the real problem with mobile TV is creating content and services that people want. That is what's holding it back, not technical standards.And why do other technology players seem to have such a strong belief in the power of TV on new distribution platforms? Do they really believe that audiences are watching less TV on TV because it's on the wrong screen? I don't. We do want TV but we also want to interact and communicate. As other technologies make this possible, TV is having to find its new level. This is true online, so I'm fairly sure it's even more true with mobile. My advice, stay true to the glorious power of mobile communications: vid 2 mob, yes pl. TV 2 mob, no ta. Tech stndrds - not btherd.&#183;Anthony Lilley is chief executive of Magic Lantern productions
There isn't usually an i in Google, but that could change as a growing number of people are starting to useiGoogle, the company's personalised home page offering that it hopes will become your home on the web.Using iGoogle lets you personalise Google, by adding things like news feeds and gadgets, of which more later.It also allows Google to personalise your search results, which it already does without telling you. If you live in London, England, for example, you'll get different search results to someone who lives in London, Ontario. By compiling information about the kinds of subjects that interest you, personalised searching can tilt the results your way.Obviously there's a trade-off here. The more Google knows about you, the better the search results - and the better targeted the advertisements. And if you are concerned about your privacy, you may not want Google logging and analysing all your searches.Even if you trust Google absolutely, bear in mind that information can still be disclosed by accident, by hacking or possibly by government intervention.Searches can be personalised even more if you let Google track what it calls your web history, which is done via the Google toolbar. This adds details of the sites you visited, and when, to the list of what you searched for. It's potentially scary stuff.As mentioned, opening an iGoogle account lets you build a home page out of a variety of elements, including your email on Gmail or Hotmail etc, and local weather reports. You can also add RSS news feeds, which are dull but useful, and gadgets, which are mostly useless but can be fun.News feeds are provided by blogs and most other publications nowadays, so you can have Guardian and Technology blog headlines, Reuters, the BBC, and so on. Typical gadgets include mini-games (Sudoku, Pac-Man, Snake etc), a currency converter, world clocks, sticky notes, Flickr photos, Sky.fm radio and others you may already have seen on rival websites, or on your own desktop. There is also a gadget maker, so if you can't find what you want, you can roll your own.Fortunately you don't have to cram 50 things on to your home page: iGoogle has tabs. You can put the few essentials on the opening page and stack the handy but little-used ones on different tabbed pages. The Google search box appears on all of them.We've had personalised home pages for a decade or so, and Google has come late to the party. There are similar offerings from Yahoo and Microsoft, both of which have done a better job of integrating their applications, including email, blogs and messaging. But iGoogle is important in hooking users into Google's platform.After all, you can switch search engines in a second. But once you've customised it to make it your control centre for the web, it takes a lot more effort to switch.
Ok, potential Potter spoilers ahead so turn away now if you haven't read and still care. So anyone else read Deathly Hallows over the weekend? I tried to resist but ended up ploughing through it, odd stodgy chapter and all. But while the books are finally over the industry will be whirring on for years.Think theme parks, films and, of course, games. And it's the developers at EA I feel a little sorry for. Flawed it may have been but Order of the Phoenix - the latest game - offered a wonderfully realised Hogwarts that was a pleasure to explore. But if you've read the final book you'll know that Hogwarts is on the periphery of the action until the end of the book. The meat of the story is set in a large number of short-term locations and promises to be a nightmare for the developers. Yes, there are some obvious set pieces, particularly at the start, but how EA will make an interesting game out of the mid section - Harry Goes Camping - remains to be seen.
Microsoft, the world's biggest software group, is calling on the global industry and civil liberty groups to develop a common set of privacy standards for data collection, use and protection in the proliferating field of online search and advertising.Responding to pressure from regulators and consumer demand, Microsoft also announced that it will make search query data anonymous after 18 months by removing cookie IDs, the entire IP address and other identifiers from search terms.Its new moves, which it claims will minimise the effect on privacy of the data it collects, include a commitment to store Live Search (its main search service) terms separately from account information such as the name, email address or phone number of users.They come as Google, the market leader, comes under pressure from the EU working party to go further than its offer to cut the lifespan of the cookies it uploads to millions of computers to two years. They now last until 2038. The company has also cut the length of time it stores logs of internet searches to 18 months, in response to pressure.Microsoft claims that its moves, including a commitment to join the Network Advertising Initiative (NAI) this year when its begins to offer third-party advertising services, go further than previous industry practices. It says it wants to discuss these with all other players and regulators. The initiative has already won backing from search engine ask.com, a unit of the US technology group IAC.Microsoft is investing huge efforts to catch up with Yahoo and ultimately Google in online search and advertising. Last week, as it announced second-quarter results showing a 7% gain in net profit to $3bn (&pound;1.5bn) and sales on course to hit around $57bn this year, it said its online services group had seen sales rise 19% in the three months to June, boosted by a 33% leap in advertising on the web. But the division remains unprofitable and Microsoft still ranks third in the US search market with a 13.2% market share - behind Yahoo (25.1%) and Google (50+%).Privacy and consumer groups have expressed mounting concern over the use of personal data amassed as consumers opt for greater use of search engines linked to advertising. Google's recent $3bn acquisition of DoubleClick, the largest broker of online banner ads, has heightened these fears and brought calls for it to be investigated by anti-trust authorities on both sides of the Atlantic.Brendon Lynch, director of privacy strategy at Microsoft, said customers clearly wanted the best of both worlds in terms of best-value services and protection of their privacy. Peter Cullen, a colleague, added: "Users should be able to search and surf online without having to navigate a complicated patchwork of privacy policies."Mr Lynch told the Guardian: "We have got to have a cross-industry dialogue on this privacy issue. We believe that, ultimately, consumers will benefit from one common standard as it will bring more certainty than the current patchwork of policies. What's really different with our offering is what we mean by 'anonymisation'. Anonymous should mean anonymous."Microsoft says users will be able to opt out of behavioural ad targeting by third-party companies, allowing them to surf without being personally identified. But consumers wanting more personalised search services will also be allowed to opt in and enable Microsoft to log data for longer than 18 months.The group has been at loggerheads with the European commission before and since it was fined a record &euro;497m (&pound;330m) in March 2004 for abusing its dominant market position. The ruling on its appeal against that decision will be given on September 17.
We get far moreletters and blog pingbacksthan we have room for in print; so here's the full text of those we chose from. Mostly people were exercised about the Xbox, online anonymity and - still going - the Traintracker service (or lack of it?).XBOX PROBLEMSWhile it is technically hearsay, I have acquaintances at both Microsoft (and ATI graphics) who have indicated that the problem is indeed related to the solder separating from the heat sink after approximately 100 heat cycles. The problem is not the solder, I gather; but that the heat sink is cheap and insufficient to handle the requirements placed on it by the GPU. It may be beneficial to just leave the 360 on, to reduce the heat cycling and thus the problem. The sources tell me that 15% failure rate is the official number. Michael (no post town given)Obviously the issue is that M$ wanted to get their system out before Sony and probably didn't do enough proper testing on it to make sure it would run right or properly built, I mean what's the deal with the power generator of a plug they give you. Quantity before quality. Luckily I have owned mine since November 2005 and I have had no problems (knock on wood) and there are times I would have that thing on for 8-10 hours a day. You'll also notice if you go online and look at pictures of gamers set-ups about 6 out of 10 people usually have other components sitting on top of it or somewhere without proper ventilation, thus adding to the problem. Another example would be Peter Moore, maybe he is trying rectify himself at M$ after being humiliated by Sony and the PS2 when he was heading up the Ill-Fated Dreamcast for Sega. "S elling E ndless G ame A daptors". M$ have already released the Elite and now they are more than likely going to release a smaller version of the 360, a special Halo 3 edition 360 and I wouldn't be surprised if they release a SUPER ELITE that has the same features of the PS3. WI-FI, Bluetooth and either built in HD-DVD or Blue-Ray. If M$ would have taken their time and thought this out, they could have a killer machine but when your touting the 360 and the HD ERA in every speech then you release your system with component cables???? and tell everyone that HDMI isn't a proven output source yet?? You've created a machine that's killing itself and your profit forecasts. I guess that's the advantage of having deep pockets and besides M$ only got into the counsel business because they knew there was money to be made. Why isn't M$ making games on HD-DVD yet, don't they have faith in the technology they've been so vocal to support? In the end I think Sony will come out on top just based on the fact that their system is a beast. Robert Delevere, New YorkIn May of this year, I purchased a third xbox 360 (the original bought at release was defective after approx 2 months, the second replacement lasted me 14 months before I traded it in for a playstation 3). The one bought in May 2007 I found to be defective after 5 days. The system was marking my game discs with small radial scratches indicating a fault with the disc drive. Contacting Microsoft to solve this issue was in vain. They will not replace the game as it is made by a third party and is not covered under their disc replacement policy. In summary, they accused me of moving the console whilst the disc inside was spinning and insisted that the machine does not scratch discs. There are reports on the internet that show that this is happening to other consumers in Europe and Microsoft will not acknowledge this. As a result I made sure I received a full refund for the game console under the Sales and Goods Act, but the game has not been replaced and Microsoft refuse to pay for it. Also the game shop where I bought the game separately would not replace the game as it was originally sold in perfect condition. Is this fair on the consumer? In my opinion - No! Does this policy infringe on UK law. In my opinion - Yes Until this policy is recognised as being unfair to the consumer I will NOT be purchasing any future Microsoft gaming consoles. Also since the console is backward compatible any original xbox(1) games may be at risk as well as DVDs. So basically as long as Microsoft's 'restricted' disc replacement programme is enforce the consumer is not covered for any damage done to 3rd party discs. Consumers need to be aware of this fact or Microsoft need to fix the problem. Brent Davies, Accrington, LancashireGlad to see somebody finally doing their job and reporting on a problem that the community has known about for months and months. I've been waiting for my repaired 360 (my second) for eight weeks now. Matt Bochenski, LondonIt wasn't too long ago that I had the "three red lights of death"... I had called up the Xbox 360 help line and followed all the instructions listed to see if there was a simple solution that I could use. I even went to talking to a agent over the line and ran through all his tests. After each "test" the system would freeze up about a few seconds sooner than the last time I turned it on till it wouldn't turn on normally at all, just the three red lights. It was then the agent on the line started telling me it was an internal hardware problem and I'd have to send it in for repairs. I took the time to follow his steps on how I could send in the system when he mentioned that I'd have to fork over 130 dollars thanks to my warranty being up. Here's the fun part... It was here that I decided to take matters into my own hands and find the problem myself, being a person who just got a few certificates from a tech institute with computers. I took apart my 360 piece by piece, with loads of problems all over the place with it's obviously deliberate troublesome design on the plastic case (I even accidentally broke off a part that snaps onto the case on one of the side plastic parts, but that's the only damage I made.). Through a few hours of carefully taking all the plastic parts and the DVD-Rom drive off to reveal the metal casing on the inside. Then I started to take a very close look at the motherboard... *Gasp* there was nothing obviously wrong... I just saw some dust, so I took a can of air and blew it all off so I could maybe get a better look. Still nothing wrong... no hot parts that melted, no snaps anywhere, nothing. It was here were my hopes had faded and thought it had to be something under some parts that I felt I couldn't take apart off the motherboard. I'd just go without a 360 till I could afford that new Elite model or some later one with that 65-something processor. After finally giving up and not finding anything worthy taking away from the experience, I put the entire system back together and put it away for a short while. Sooner or later (about five minutes of my own grief... Or in this case the acceptance stage.) I got a little bored out of my mind and tried to turn the system back on again. I was simply astonished that it was working again perfectly! I just had to stop and think of the only thing I truly did to my machine... 130 bucks for a can of air... Thank god my local grocery store sells them for cheaper... Draken Stark (no post town given)NO VIDEO ON DEMAND?Dear BBC and Channel 4: I am a Mac user. I believe you are in breach of your public service broadcast remit in supplying TV on demand only to Internet Explorer users, and that this also breaks European law. I am therefore suspending payment of the licence fee. I hope other Mac users will follow my example. Chris Rigby, UffculmeIt seems ridiculous that all the UK broadcasters are busy deploying DRM enabled download services (that are only available to Windows XP users) when they all openly broadcast all the same content over DVB-T unencrypted and at higher quality and anyone with a DVB-T card in their PC can record that content free of DRM now. Do they not realise that anyone with a Mac or that has Linux installed on their PC can do this now? OK this is not 'old shows' on demand... but with a little savvy and unskilled use of the 'Record' button you can get most of these programs for free and unencumbered with any DRM already. Why would anyone pay for a DRM'd copy of a program (BBC content of course will be free) at lower quality that times out after so many days or views? Am I missing something here? Andrew Herron, ChelmsfordThe Open Source Consortium was very unhappy with the initial proposal by the BBC to take two years to introduce a platform neutral solution for its on-demand catch up service, iPlayer. There are those that might say that "we would be, wouldn't we?" But I think your article today makes our case as effectively as we could have done and provides further grist to our mill. Two years before iPlayer could be available on all platforms was bad enough - from our perspective a convenient period of time for Vista to get established and adding to the "you can't do everything on Linux so don't bother starting" chorus. But it got worse. Post consultation, despite about 80% of the 10,000 responses calling for a platform neutral solution, the BBC weakened its definite commitment to "a six monthly review". We were and continue to be unhappy, as the BBC itself reported,http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6245062.stm. You don't need to read too deeply into "a six monthly review" to opine that "two years" had become "never". However if we have read your article correctly, we didn't understand the half of it. BBC iPlayer can never be made platform neutral because there are no plans for the underlying technology. In which case perhaps the BBC Trust and others need to revisit the original assertions made by the BBC and the basis for giving the go-ahead for the launch of iPlayer. Foreign broadcasters have chosen to use different solutions. However if DRM is what the BBC wants, then we have indicated that we have the technology and the support across the Free Software industry to support the development of a solution based around BBC's own world class video technology "Dirac". (Ironically, already available as an option for video playback on the Linux desktop, if only the BBC were using it) Your article confirms our opinion that Mark Thompson and the BBC have not learned from the mistakes made with BBC Jam. After spending a large sum of licence payers money, the service was closed following the threat of intervention from the EU competition authorities Here we go again. The result? More money spent, no wonder BBC needs to show so many repeats. Mark Taylor, President, The Open Source Consortium, WeybridgeI use XP and mozilla firefox and regularly watch and listen to programmes that I have missed. Geoffrey Nathan, Stanford Le HopeThank for that very insightful article on why nobody should bother developing for any system other than Microsoft/Internet Explorer based systems. It is good to know that in this competitive free market, broadcasters and the media uphold a poor monopoly like Microsoft. How would they cope if delivery systems were developed for other platforms to use as well. I'm also pleased that The Guardian hasn't fallen into the trap of seeing if the explanations given by broadcasters and Microsoft are actually accurate. We can't have journalists having independent thought when it comes to reporting such matters. I am looking forward to The Guardian now supporting Sky as the dominant player in pay TV. After all Virgin Media have fewer subscribers so they shouldn't really get terrestrial channels supplied to them should they? If anybody at the The Guardian is interested in challenging the Broadcasters - there is at least one independent service that has managed to implement DRM on the Mac - Jaman -http://www.jaman.com. I also understand that Apple themselves have some form of delivery system for TV content that has DRM. You may not have heard of it, but it is called iTunes. And it works on both Windows and Mac. I admit to being a Mac user, and so I get a little annoyed at the constant excuses given for not providing services that I can use. However, what annoys and worries me much more is that it is only Microsoft software that is developed for. In any other area this would be investigated for being monopolistic and anti-competitive - but for some reason nobody challenges the situation when it comes to software. There are other platforms and other software that many people use (Firefox is a prime example) which are very popular, but ignored. And as devices become more converged, like mobile phones, why should devices only running Microsoft products be able to access this content? The Guardian is running a very visible campaign to free our data from restrictive government control, which I thoroughly applaud. Why is their no such campaign to free our data when it comes to broadcast data? Especially when it comes to BBC material, which all licence fee payers have funded. Yours sarcastically, Mike Woolley, LondonChannel 4 is propagating the myth that Windows DRM is open. It is itself proprietary as the WMA and WMV format and codec are owned solely by Microsoft. Apple's FairPlay DRM merely sits on top of the open standard MP4 codec. Perhaps this point needs clarifying? Ross Ford, LondonThe writer states categorically that the service will be used "not at all on Apple computers". This is not strictly true. You can run Windows perfectly well on any recent Apple computer, using Boot Camp or better using Parallels. That means you can run any Windows app, including Channel 4's, on a Mac. I'm running it now, on a MacBook. And I'm emailing this from Internet Explorer on Windows XP, on a MacBook. You might also be able to run it in Virtual PC on an older Mac. But, you will be able to run it on all new Macs, with a bit of help. Matthew Hardy, LondonChannel 4's Bob Harris ("Why TV on demand insists you use its chosen browser," today) says a player that only works on a single already outdated platform and requires regular DRM patching is "the least imperfect solution". Surely that should read "most imperfect"? Anyone can fiddle around with half-baked off-the-shelf software. The real job to be done in Internet TV is getting content owners to abandon DRM. Our subsidised national broadcasters should be rolling up their sleeves, not throwing up their hands. Adam Banks, Editor, Computer Buyer magazine, Newcastle-upon-Tyne&gt;&gt; There's an additional issue that I found with Sky Anytime and that is the DRM is tied to the CPU, so make sure that you install it on a Windows XP that you don't intend to upgrade to Vista. I upgraded my laptop, but even after uninstalling the software (which no longer worked) I couldn't reinstall on another PC because my account was still tied to the Laptop!http://crispyj2.blogspot.com/2007/07/vod-more-on-windows-centric-drm.htmlTRAINTRACKERIn response to the letter from Duncan Henry (Traintracker is not fun) and especially his sentence "Perhaps you should have mentioned the direct number - 0871 200 4950 - to allow your readers to make their own decision about whether it's a useful service or not". Yes, Duncan Henry, mentioning National Rail's direct number does allow us to make our own decision about the usefulness of the website (letters, TrainTracker is not fun, 12 July). It's a premium rate number and allows National Rail toearnmoney from the long delays answering the phone. A call centre as a profit centre – it hardly incentivises you to improve customer service, does it? Philip Cunningham, LondonI too use the train line a lot but what I really need is a TIMETABLE. Surely not a lot to ask. I want to know where and when the train stops so I can consider alternatives. My business journeys are always planned by balancing travel and people constraints. I really resent the ingrained railway belief that "customers" are incapable of reading timetables. I also want to be able to get messages to my phone telling me when my chosen train is running late and by how much. What is the use of technology when it isn't used? Bill Harvey, Exeter&gt;&gt; I loved the right to reply from Duncan Henry of National Rail Enquiries listed beforehand, his defence essentially being (I'm paraphrasing) 'yeah, it's not perfect, but then again, what is?' How true.http://feelinglistless.blogspot.com/2007/07/amateur-reports.htmlONLINE ANONYMITY&gt;&gt; A lot of the time, I think people want their online persona to be brilliant... never wrong, full of dazzling aper&amp;cedilla;us, taking the trouble to do cedillas, etc...and nobody's like that, always right, in real life. So they've invested a lot of emotional freight in this 'I'm ace' act, and when it gets to defending a theory, what they end up doing is defending their online persona, which means belittling the other guy's persona. This behaviour is very often completely contrary to the way someone would behave in real life. I wouldn't mind finding out how often the internet tough guy turns out to be a meek middle manager for Aldi (or Walmart if you prefer).http://www.v7n.com/forums/forum-lobby/61861-why-do-people-attack-each-other-forums.html&gt;&gt; I'd rather use my own name online because I'm uncomfortable with the concept of not being me. I can't keep up a pretence, so I'd rather not bother even trying. Hence, I don't feel comfortable with the fake name, fake body of Second Life and I don't normally sign up for things using a nick name which isn't 'me' in some way.http://kindalearning.blogspot.com/2007/07/real-name-real-flaming.htmlJANE (TECHNOBILE)I was frankly shocked when I read the article about Jane's carrying on. I thought she was faithful to me, albeit in a 'Mistressy' sort of way. I am now forced to accept that she spreads her favours far and wide. Mike Tombs, HalesowenGAMES PRESERVATIONFurther to your article 'Preserving old games is a service to humanity', you might be interested to know that the UK also has a large collection of vintage video games at the Museum of Computing in Swindon. Our current exhibition 'Pong to Playstation' charts the history of the video games console with many hands-on exhibits. Simon Webb Curator, Museum of Computing, Swindon&gt;&gt; I have played Manic Miner on my PC but it wasn't quite the same. You might have thought it was better to have the game load straight away, but part of the whole Spectrum experience was getting the tape deck connected and listening to 5 minutes of bleeps while watching the loading screen, not to mention the tactile aspect of pressing those rubber keys.http://skuds.org/2007/07/museum-pieces/IPHONE AUTOPSIEShaving once written (and had published) a book, I did a little analysis of the book trade. (Specifically picked books because there is a more easily identifiable manufactured object that is meant to be kept a reasonably long time - longer than in iPods.) The difference between cost price and shop price in an iPod is surely not the cost of design and development, which must represent a very small part of the whole. Comparable to the 6 or 7% a writer gets for a pocket. What I find amazing is that 50% or so is spent on parts and assembly. Are you absolutely sure of this? I know that a camera or a car leaves the factory for about 10% of the retail price, so what is Apple doing wrong? The author, if he's lucky, gets 10% on a hardback. The publisher takes 20%, out of which he pays for the editing, printing and binding. That's bloody good value for money. He then has to sell the book, so the wholesaler takes about 35% and the retailer ditto. The actual manufacturing cost of a book is thus about 12 to 15% of the retail price - and you're grumbling about the profit Apple might be making? Do get a little real - a bullet through a straw man does not impress. Jan Frank, Alicante, SpainiSuppli and their ilk conveniently forget research and development costs, the costs of setting up the manufacturing process, training the workers, actual labour costs during manufacturing, packaging costs, shipping costs including air freight, warehousing and distribution costs, the costs of training sales staff, call in assistance staff and repair technicians and all of AT&amp;T's R&amp;D, labour, training and network building and maintenance costs associated that are associated with the iPhone. I would imagine most of Apple's R&amp;D budget for the last 3 years has been spent, either directly or indirectly, on the iPhone. AT&amp;T and Apple will be lucky to get 30% profit on every iPhone sale and 2 year contract. Of course, 30% profit would look pretty good to a Windows PC, Xbox 360, PS3, or Zune manufacturer right now, wouldn't it? I think some of this 55% profit BS is a feeble attempt by iPhone's competition to make the iPhone look like an overpriced extravagance. Well, it probably is, but it's my toy money and I'll spend it any way I want. Alan Williams, Calgary, CanadaAmen, brother. Too bad that had to run as opinion, whereas the 55% profit meme ran as news. Bob Crisler, Ashland, New EnglandFACEBOOK IS AOL?&gt;&gt; Facebook seems fine, fun etc but it misses the serendipity and easy linking and mashing of data. From my, admittedly very limited experience, it seems you can pull information into Facebook but not get too much out.http://www.sandaigprimary.co.uk/pivot/pivot/entry.php?id=1554&amp;w=john_johnston
Apple is starting to redefine the economics of the mobile phone business for its own benefit, and many analysts believe it is collecting a monthly tax on every iPhone user. This is thought to be one reason why it ended up locking users to AT&amp;T's inferior Edge service: other phone networks didn't want to pay Apple a rake-off, as well as being cut out of any music sales. But does anyone want to put a price on it?Gene Munster, managing director and a senior research analyst at Piper Jaffray, has stepped up to the plate. "Munster estimates that Apple gets $3 a month for the length of a two-year contract for every iPhone sold through AT&amp;T, and that Apple also receives an additional $8 a month for every new iPhone subscriber that transfers service to AT&amp;T from another wireless provider," according toMarketWatch.Munster is predicting that Apple's share price will reach $205 if it can sell 45 million iPhones in 2009.Incidentally, I've been writing for years that -- as in South Korea -- it should beillegalto lock phones to networks, because it's anti-competitive, and enables network operators to manipulate the market.To quote myselffrom this very blog in 2004:How about charging a fair (but profitable) price for handsets and a fair (but profitable) price for making mobile phone calls. That way, consumers could buy the handset they want and use it on the network they like, instead of having to try to figure out the best balance of subsidised handset and overpriced call charges from a plethora of confusing options. Or is the cellphone industry just not ready for a bit of open competition?Sadly there is no chance of this, because Neelie Kroes, European Commissioner for Competition, doesn't have any brief to protect consumers. It's perfectly OK to screw the consumer, as long as multiple companies have an equal opportunity to screw the consumer on a pan-European basis.
There's an ancient adage in the computer industry - it may have originated at Microsoft - which says: 'Always eat your own dog food'. What it means is that if you are writing software other people are going to use, then you must use it yourself. If you're going to ask other people to commit their time, data and perhaps even sanity to using your product, you should take the same risks yourself.An analogous injunction ought to apply to technology commentators: do not write about something unless you've used it yourself. It was in this spirit that I signed up to Facebook, the social networking service, some time ago. As it happens, I seem to have signed up just at the moment that Facebook reached its tipping point and switched into a phase of exponential growth. It's been fascinating watching from the inside as more and more of my colleagues and acquaintances sign up and confide their innermost thoughts to a few thousand close 'friends'.Exponential growth does strange things to people. In most cases this involves abandoning common sense and any sense of perspective. And the odd thing is that in the past decade we have acquired enough experience to enable us to know better. The point about the net is that exponential growth is a feature, not a bug: it's what the system was designed to enable. What should astonish us is not that some services (file-sharing, social networking, instant messaging, YouTube) spread so quickly, but that there are so few examples of wildfire growth. The infrastructure of the net is always there, waiting to disseminate the next 'viral' idea, with no questions asked.In fact, Facebook's recent phase of breakneck growth was predictable and due to two obvious steps taken by its owners. The first was - having already established a reputation as an elitist service (it was originally only available only to people with an email address at a university) - to open up membership to any Tom, Dick or Harriet. The second was to publish its Applications Programming Interface, the technical details about how to write programs that will work with Facebook. In just over two months, this has led to more than 1,000 applications being written for Facebook by independent developers. Some are clever and useful; many are irredeemably banal. Subscribers can add any of them to their profiles, which means they are visible to their 'friends', who may then be tempted to add the same app. And so it goes on.Facebook's expansion has already prompted some daft speculation about whether it will be the 'next Microsoft' or 'the next Google'. These feverish ravings were given an additional boost last Thursday when Facebook made its first acquisition - of a mysterious outfit called Parakey whose website is a model of bland understatement. 'Computers are frustrating,' it burbles. 'Creating documents, finding files, sharing information - why do everyday things still seem so tedious and counterintuitive? We hope that Parakey will make your life easier.' And that's it.So why the fuss? First, Parakey was co-founded by Blake Ross, the 20-year-old genius behind web browser Firefox. Secondly, something he said in an interview: Parakey will be 'a web operating system that can do everything an OS can do'. Translation: something that makes it easy to store your stuff and share it without getting into a tangle of photo, video and blogging tools and services such as MySpace and Facebook. And thirdly, the venture capital firm backing Parakey is Sequoia Capital, which has famously good judgment.We'll have to see if Ross and his backers can deliver on their promises. Meanwhile, let's consider Facebook morphing into the next Microsoft or Google. Microsoft still makes colossal amounts from its operating system and Microsoft Office monopolies and sits atop a mountain of cash. Google rakes in huge revenues from advertising, and also has a substantial cash pile. Facebook, as far as I can see, has no significant revenue streams - yet. It's still in the 'let's build first and monetise later' phase. This looks like the triumph of hope over experience. If I were Facebook's owners, I'd try and flog it to Yahoo while there's still time. Then I'll cancel my membership and move on to something more interesting.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
