Differences in internet speed and quality throughout Australia can now be compared, using a new website launched on Thursday.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, unveiled the site,My Broadband, at a news conference in Sydney.The site relies on data gathered for NBN Co’s broadband availability and quality report, also released in full on Thursday, which maps internet connectivity throughout the country, so the rollout of the national broadband network can be prioritised in the worst-covered areas.Turnbull said the report identified 1.6m premises that had either very weak internet coverage or none at all. “They are clearly the ones we want to prioritise,” he said.He said that by prioritising the rollout, areas with a poor internet connection would be covered two years sooner than projected.The speeds shown on the site are indicative, based on data the government received from telcos. “You may find the service in your own address is not consistent with this, but this is the closest you can do without testing every single premise in the country,” he said.The government came under fire in December after revising its pre-election estimates of the troubled project’s cost and timeframe. A strategic review found the rollout would cost $12bn more to complete and take four years longer than promised by the Coalition before the election.But Turnbull on Thursday defended the project, saying it would deliver 100mbs or close to it, for up to a quarter of the cost of Labor’s plan.“Most people would see that as a very rational course of action,” he said. “Though, this debate has not been characterised by a great deal of science to date.”
Facebook announced the purchase of the mobile messaging service WhatsApp on Wednesday, in a $19bn deal that represents the social media company’s biggest acquisition yet.Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, described five-year-old WhatsApp as an “incredibly valuable” service that was well on its way to connecting 1 billion people around the world.The deal is a big bet for Facebook, which has until recently struggled to convince investors of its strategy for mobile.WhatsApp has more than 400m users around the world and claims it is adding more than 1 million new registered users a day. It allows unlimited free text-messaging and picture sending between users and is among the world’s most downloaded mobile apps. Facebook’s successful bid comes after Google reportedly made a $1bn offer for the company last year.“WhatsApp is on a path to connect 1 billion people. The services that reach that milestone are all incredibly valuable,” said Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder and CEO. “I’ve known Jan [Koum founder and CEO] for a long time and I’m excited to partner with him and his team to make the world more open and connected.”Koum said: “WhatsApp’s extremely high user engagement and rapid growth are driven by the simple, powerful and instantaneous messaging capabilities we provide. We’re excited and honoured to partner with Mark and Facebook as we continue to bring our product to more people around the world.”Facebook is making the purchase in a mix of cash and stock. WhatsApp will receive $12bn in Facebook shares $4bn in cash and an additional $3bn in restricted shares that will be paid out to executives at a later date. The company will operate as an autonomous unit.The company’s ownership structure has not been disclosed but one Silicon Valley source said he believed WhatsApp employed fewer than 100 people. “Probably five people are going to be rich beyond belief, the rest are going to be rich and there’s an admin assistant who right now is picking out the colour of her Lamborghini,” he said.The massive acquisition - Facebook’s largest ever - comes as tech firms are fighting to build their mobile businesses. WhatsApp is particularly big in Europe and Latin America where its market penetration is thought to top 80% in countries including Brazil, Germany, Portugal and Spain.Last year Facebook made an unsuccessful $3bn bid for SnapChat, a service that sends messages that erase themselves after a short period. The social media firm is making the move as WeChat, owned by China’s Tencent, is rapidly building its service in the west.“This is the new generation of messaging services,” said Marcos Sanchez, vice president of App Annie, an analyst specialising in mobile technology. “Facebook understands there is a generational shift in the way people connect.”Facebook faltered after its share sale in May 2012 as analysts worried the company was losing out as its users moved to mobile. It has since recovered and has concentrating on building up its mobile business. But the company has also warned that teenagers are cooling on its service.Sanchez said that the “social messaging” services like WhatsApp, WeChat and Snapchat were attracting a younger audience. In China the services have even been linked to bank accounts and can be used to make purchases at stores and restaurants including McDonalds.“Younger users seem to prefer something more ephemeral, something that changes moment by moment,” he said. “WhatsApp gives Facebook a major player in that space.”The WhatsApp purchase price marks a new height in an increasingly frenzied technology scene. On Tuesday King, maker of the phenomenally popular Candy Crush Saga mobile game, announced a stock market floatation that would value the firm at more than $5.5bn. Last month Google paid $3.2bn for Nest, maker of “smart” home appliances like thermostats and burglar alarms.Koum and his co-founder Brian Acton met while at Yahoo in 1997 and launched the service in 2009. By 2011 users were sending more than a billion essages a day on the service.“Doctors in Indiaare using WhatsApp to instantly send electrocardiogram pictures of patients who’ve suffered heart attacks, saving valuable time and potentially lives,” Koum wrote on the company blog last year. “In the mountains of Madrid, rescuers used WhatsApp to locate and save lost hikers. And today, as I follow the unfolding political crisis in Ukraine, the place where I was born and lived until the age of sixteen, I can’t help but hope that the next great WhatsApp story will be about people using the service to speak their mind and stand up for their basic rights.”10 key numbers$19bn - Price being paid by Facebook55 - number of WhatsApp founders and employees450m - number of people using the service each month70% - proportion of those users active on a given day1m - new registered users per day1bn - WhatsApp’s target for number of users19bn - messages sent via WhatsApp each day34bn - messages received via WhatsApp each day$1.82 - the amount by whicvh Facebook shares fell after the deal$2bn - the ‘break fee’ Facebook will pay to WhatsApp if the deal fails to go through2009 - year WhatsApp was founded$1bn - value of Facebook’s previous biggest deal, Instagram
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew Tinder Security Flaw Exposed Users’ Exact Locations for MonthsTinder--which connects flirty smartphone users with others nearby--is supposed to show users roughly how close they are to each other. Distance is rounded to the nearest mile, a safe-seeming threshold that has helped the app become addictive to both sexes. In October, however, researchers at Include Security discovered that Tinder servers were actually giving much more detailed information--mileage to 15 decimal places--that would allow any hacker with “rudimentary” skills to pinpoint a user’s location to within 100 feet. Depending on the neighborhood, that’s close enough to determine with alarming accuracy where, say, an ex-girlfriend is hanging out.Accidentally turning Tinder into Grindr?Samsung Galaxy Tab Pro 10.1 hits out at the iPad Air in a new commercialOpinion is divided on the Guardian Tech Desk as to whether this ad is brilliant or terrible, but it firmly positions Samsung - in the tablet space, at least - as the plucky underdog, hitting up at Apple. How strong a position is that for the megacorp?The minority report: Chicago’s new police computer predicts crimes, but is it racist?When the Chicago Police Department sent one of its commanders to Robert McDaniel’s home last summer, the 22-year-old high school dropout was surprised. Though he lived in a neighborhood well-known for bloodshed on its streets, he hadn’t committed a crime or interacted with a police officer recently. And he didn’t have a violent criminal record, nor any gun violations. In August, he incredulously told the Chicago Tribune, “I haven’t done nothing that the next kid growing up hadn’t done.” Yet, there stood the female police commander at his front door with a stern message: if you commit any crimes, there will be major consequences. We’re watching you.One of the supposed upsides of the Big Data approach is that it is agnostic about causality. Analytics report correlations, and sometimes those are ones which no human would think of. But other times, they’re ones that no human wouldallowthemselves to think of. In this case, the approach seems to have independently invented the concept of racial profiling.Wurm MMORPG offers 10,000 Euros reward after DDoS attackWurm, the 3D massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG), has offered a reward totalling 10,000 Euros for information which might lead to the conviction of hackers who launched a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack against the site.Online games are fairly frequently the target of DDoS attacks, but it’s rare that any fight back quite so strongly.Adware vendors buy Chrome Extensions to send ad- and malware-filled updatesTo make matters worse, ownership of a Chrome extension can be transferred to another party, and users are never informed when an ownership change happens. Malware and adware vendors have caught wind of this and have started showing up at the doors of extension authors, looking to buy their extensions. Once the deal is done and the ownership of the extension is transferred, the new owners can issue an ad-filled update over Chrome’s update service, which sends the adware out to every user of that extension.This seems like the sort of thing that Chrome’s Web Store was supposed to stop, but it’s hard enough to vet extensions when they are submitted, let alone with every update.Samsung plans to launch new Galaxy Gear models next week &gt;&gt; The VergeUSA Today reports that a new Galaxy Gear model will run Tizen, the carrier-friendly mobile operating system championed by Samsung that has yet to see commercial availability; the current Gear runs Android, suggesting that the company could be looking to move away from Google’s platform across a number of different market segments.Interesting if Samsung does indeed ditch Android for its own operating system, Tizen, on the Galaxy Gear. Samsung has indicated in the past that Android isn’t the only route it wants to take, and the Gear could be Samsung’s Android placement Tizen trojan horse.• You can followGuardian Technology’s linkbucket on Pinboard.• To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The Megaupload founder Kim Dotcom, who is fighting extradition from New Zealand to the US on internet piracy charges, has said he will appeal against a court ruling that a raid on his mansion was legal.The New Zealand court of appeal has thrown out a 2012 decision of the high court that the warrants used were invalid because they were not specific enough and did not properly describe his offences. The warrants preceded Dotcom’s arrest and were used to seize 135 electronic items including laptops, computers, hard drives, flash sticks and servers in January 2012.But the appeals court decided that while the warrants were defective in some respects it was not enough to declare them invalid.On Thursday Dotcom announced on Twitter that he was not giving up the fight against extradition.We will seek leave to appeal yesterdays &#39;défectueux&#39; Court of Appeal decision to the NZ Supreme Court.#PardonMyFrench&mdash; Kim Dotcom (@KimDotcom)February 20, 2014The appeals court has ruled no miscarriage of justice occurred and no more items were seized than if the warrants had been perfect. “We are satisfied that the defects in the search warrants have not caused any significant prejudice to the respondents beyond the prejudice caused inevitably by the execution of a search warrant,” the judgment said.The raid was performed at the request of the US department of justice, which is trying to extraditeDotcomand his three co-accused, Finn Batato, Mathias Ortmann and Bram Van der Kolk, on criminal copyright violation and racketeering charges. The charges relate to the quartet’s running of now-defunct filesharing website Megaupload.While the court of appeal overturned the decision on the validity of the warrants, it did agree with the high court that clones of Dotcom’s material should not have been taken to the United States. Forensic clones of electronic items were made and handed to the FBI, which took them to the US in March 2012. The appeals court said this should only have happened if New Zealand’s solicitor general gave permission, which he had not.Late in 2012 the New Zealand prime minister, John Key, admitted pre-raid spying on Dotcom by the Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB) was illegal because Dotcom was a New Zealand resident. The government later sparked a civil rights outcry when itpassed new laws allowing the GCSB to engage in such surveillance.Australian Associated Press contributed to this report
I’ve been a Woman Who Exists in the Games Media for a pretty long time now, and female representation in games is something that, y’know, comes up quite often. The latest example involves the futuristic dungeon-crawler Deep Down, which Capcom is set to release on PlayStation 4. Recently, the developersappeared on a live web streamand seemed to suggest that there are no women characters in the game for story reasons. In response, VG247’s Brenna Hillier unleashed ahilarious and white-hot tiradethat beautifully skewers that mentality – do go and read it, it’s highly enjoyable. (Capcom has sinceclarified the commentsstating that there is only one character, not 12, but he is still male, of course.)Here’s something I’ve noticed: whenever you talk about female protagonists in games, you always hear exactly the same responses. Always. I’m not talking about the absolute meat-heads here; the ones who genuinely think that women aren’t really proper people and don’t welcome their presence online or anywhere. I’m talking about the people who don’t seem to understand why this stuff is even an issue. Why is having female characters such a big deal? Aren’t we living in a post-race, post-feminist world where we don’t need to get so angry about these things?Well, no, we’re not, unfortunately, and though great progress is being made, it is important to keep these issues in mind if we’re ever going to break through the narrow marketing-defined definition of what games and gamers are. So here are five of the most frequent responses to recurring requests for more playable women in games, and why they’re misguided.Adding female lead characters doubles the art budgetThis is only true if the art budget is predicated on having one character, who is a man. In most other circumstances it would not magically cost more to make some of the characters female. It does not take more time to design and write a female character. Female actors do not cost more to employ. If you’re doing unique performance capture for, say, four different male characters, it would not cost more to do unique performance capture for three male characters and a female character. Or even two of each! Bear in mind, too, that the budget for characters is only a fraction of a whole art budget for a game.Sure, with heavily narrative-based games that include lots of cinematic sequences, there are budgetary considerations when providing players with a gender choice for the lead character. “In the case of something like Uncharted, you’ve got mesh data, texture data and possibly mo-cap data to duplicate,” says the indie developer Byron Atkinson-Jones, who previously worked at Lionhead on the Fable series. “Also, would character interactions change based on gender? Would you have to ensure that the proportions of the male and female character are the same so that all gameplay elements remain the same – ie being able to jump and grab a ledge? But nothing is really that difficult to do in games, it’s all down to resources, planning and willingness to do it. If the designer stipulates that the main character can be male or female from the start then the development team would build it that way.”Atkinson-Jones is currently having to consider this problem himself with his current title, Containment Protocol. He needs to get voice acting for the lead, but can’t afford to employ both male and female actors. For larger studios, though, it’s about thinking of story in a different way. The later Saint’s Row titles, for example, allows for male and female characters, even letting players swap gender throughout the game. “I think all this requires is better self-awareness from developers,” says Mitu Khandaker-Kokoris, of one-woman studio Tiniest Shark, recently responsible for the fascinating sci-fi social media parody,Redshirt.“If you are spending money on all kinds of variety with your male characters, then why is your budget not designed from the ground up to account for female characters too?”  Rhianna Pratchett, lead writer on last year’s Tomb Raider reboot, agrees. “It seems sheer madness that the industry is striving for more realistic (and expensive) graphics, but not more realistic worlds that actually depict half the Earth’s population and an increasingly large chunk of gamers.”Thomas Was Alone designer Mike Bithell is currently working on a new game, Volume, and has decided to add the option to play as a female character. He reckons this will take less than two weeks of work to implement. There’s a strange assumption that female characters would inherently change a game to the point where it requires a ton more work and money to create. Unless your entire code base is set up around interchangeable male characters (which is what, say, Infinity Ward claimed was the case with the Call of Duty series before the launch of CoD Ghosts) this just isn’t true. “I don’t recall seeing anyone even mentioning that the Titanfall beta has female avatar options,” says Bithell. “It has zero effect on the enjoyment of the game for players who don’t care, and a massive effect for those who do. Everyone wins.”Asking for more women characters will lead to tokenism and positive discriminationIn 2009, researchers at the University of Southern California carried out a comprehensive study of the 150 biggest video game releases – theydiscovered that less than 10% of game characters are female. Acknowledging the existence of women and reflecting that in video games is not positive discrimination. People are not asking for every single game to star a female protagonist; they are asking for more than literally one or two titles a year to star a female protagonist. They’re asking for it to be an option. In no way is it tokenism to politely request that games more accurately reflect the makeup of the game-playing public and indeed society, instead of existing in a strange alternate reality where 90% of noteworthy people are white and male and have a number two buzzcut.It’s not just women who are fed up with always seeing the same kinds of protagonist in video games. It’s pretty much everyone. Back in 2011, IGN superimposed different game characters’ faces on each other and found them to bealmost identical– a production line of young white men with cropped hair and tribal tattoos.This didn’t used to be the case, you know. Back in the 80s and 90s, people were just making stuff – the budgets and teams were smaller, and lead protagonists varied enormously as a result. It’s only in the last console generation that marketing has developed such a tight hold on games that it defines what they are allowed to be before they’re even made. Developers are told things like, “this kind of protagonist resonates with the demographic”, “this kind of box art is best”, “games with prominent women don’t sell”. Jean-Max Morris, creative director on Capcom’s interesting sci-fi adventure Remember Me, claims to have been told by publishers thatthey wouldn’t sign the game because of its female lead. It’s a self-perpetuating circle that limits what games can do.I’ve had people tell me, look, we’ve got the newly re-humanised Lara Croft and we’ve got FemShep and maybe Faith, can’t we just be happy about that and celebrate it? Yes! Yes we can celebrate that. But we canalso ask for more of it, please. That’s not positive discrimination. And what’s really frustration is the way that male gamers on Twitter and in comments sections tend to try to derail the argument by reaching ridiculous conclusions. Ask for more female characters and suddenly we’re apparently demanding for all games to include women, or for strict government guidelines on representation. There is a lot of fear and insecurity. I am fairly certain we will avoid a future in which developers are sent to special gender awareness prison camps for not meeting their quota of female antagonists.Women don’t play RPGs/action adventures anyway so what does it matter?This just straight-up isn’t true any more. Look at me, look at my colleagues, look at Twitter, look at the audience of major games websites, look at the many, many pieces of research that show that women are 50% of the gaming audience in total and more than 20% of even the most traditionally male-dominated genres, look at Bioware and the Mass Effect series, look at the ever-increasing number of people who read and share articles like Brenna’s, and tell me women don’t care about video games, or that female characters don’t matter to them (and plenty of men, too).Also - and this is so obvious it’s barely worth pointing out - more relatable characters would bring more women and more money into these genres. “Even if you accept the line of thinking that ‘women just don’t play these games’ (which is obviously untrue!), then surely it would also make sense to accept that making your games less actively unwelcoming to women will potentially widen your audience,” says Khandaker. “I am loathe to mention this kind of argument, because I think making diversity a ‘business case’ is really the wrong approach… I advocate for better representation and diversity in games not because it’s a good business case for games, but because, simply, it is the right thing to do.”Fewer women than men play games in these genres, still. But ask yourself: isn’t a lack of aspirational female characters in these genres likely to be a significant reason for that? I looked up to Lara Croft when I was a little girl. I looked up to her because she was all I had. It does matter.Developers are afraid to put female avatars into games in case their clothing is criticised or they are accused of violence against womenFear of doing something badly is a terrible excuse for not doing it at all. If you’re scared that your female character will be ill-received, there are simple things you can do to minimise the chances of that happening: dress female characters like human beings rather than a teenager’s wank fantasy and don’t make them objects of fetishistic violence. For example, don’tdress them up as slutty nunsand then make a trailer about a bald man graphically murdering them. Don’t dresswomen soldiers in skimpy topsbecause members of your community fancied seeing some pixelated cleavage. Writing women is not some kind of dark art. If you’ve got a compelling male character in a story, changing the pronoun isn’t going to change who they are.“I understand this comes from a well-meaning place, but at the same time, we have a responsibility towards better representation,” says Khandaker. “We need to take ownership of that responsibility, and while I understand that it might be extra work, it’s worth putting in that work towards doing your research, or even dedicating some budget to hiring a consultant (they do exist!) who can talk to you about your ideas for representing women and minority characters – it’ll lead us all to a better, more inclusive, and compassionate place.”“There could well be a ‘squishiness’ factor behind putting female characters into violent scenarios, particularly in terms of AI,” acknowledges Rhianna. “Developers can be a little bit nervous about getting female characters wrong (in fact getting any character who is not white, male and straight, wrong.) I think that involving writers and other narrative professionals early on in the process could help. We’re used to imagining ourselves into the shoes of people who aren’t us. I think that old phrase ‘write what you know’ unnerves people sometimes. It’s more a case of ‘write what you understand’. You understand a thing or two about living on this pale blue dot with other complicated, wonderful, maddening homo sapiens? Great, that’s half the battle. Go forth and write interesting humans.”But it’s not realistic to have all these powerful womenOK. So it is realistic for, say, Cole MacGrath to run around shooting lighting bolts out of his hands, but if he were a woman that would be preposterous? Here’s what’s actually unrealistic: fiction in which more than half of the population of Earth simply isn’t present, or is only present in the background, as passive entities. That makes no sense.I’m being a wee bit facetious, but the point stands that not having women in games is jarring. LA Noire, for instance, actually makes its version of 1945 more sexist than it was in reality. Cara Ellison goes into great detail on thishere, but the LAPD was one of the most progressive police forces in America at that time and employed numerous female officers, and in postwar society there were many women doing the jobs that men had left behind – all of which is reflected in noir films of the period. The fact that LA Noire has no prominent women at all except dead ones and the lead character’s mistress isn’t an accurate reflection of history, it’s deeply strange.“Women are now able to become soldiers on the front lines for real, yet it seems impossible to get them into virtual warfare,” says Pratchett. “It’s a sad day when imagination is lagging behind real life.”Or, as Bithell succinctly puts it, “Tell that to the many women who serve in the military, in law enforcement, in any one of the relatively small number of professions depicted in video games. Or don’t, because they have guns.”•Why does the games industry have such a problem with female protagonists• UK games industry “in trouble” if it can’t recruit more women, says trade body
On this week's Tech Weekly podcast withAleks Krotoski, we hear fromRohan Gunatillake, who is on a mission to fix our growing dysfunctional relationship with technology with some cleverly designed tech. Rohan'sBuddhify 2app is designed to allow us to meditate even when we are busy working in our frenetic tech work environments.Staying on the theme of apps, Aleks is joined by Guardian tech reportersSamuel GibbsandAlex Hernalong withStuart Dredge, the Guardian's apps editor, to discuss the European Commission's recently published report on the App industry in the EU.We look at the UK's leading app developers' efforts to assist those affected by the recent storms in the UK by holding a flood hack day.And finally we look ahead to the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona next week where Mark Zuckerberg will no doubt be trumpeting Facebook's app success.
Swedish e-commerce startup Tictail has announced an $8m Series A fundraising round to support its expansion in the US.Tictail lets business owners set up online shops free of charge, leading Wired magazine to call it “Tumblr for e-commerce”. It hit headlines in November after pairing with Britain’s oldest manufacturing company, the Whitechapel Bell Foundry, to launch the latter’s first online store.The round includes the first investment the teenage entrepreneur Nick D’Aloisio has made since his start-up Summly was bought by Yahoo in 2013 for a reported $30m. The Australian-born Briton, 18, is one of four strategic investors the company named, alongside Scott Bellsky, the CEO and founder of digital portfolio firm Behance.“When we structured our Series A, we had a fantastic opportunity to choose who we would work with,” said Tictail CEO and cofounder Carl Waldekranz. “We try and choose people who will bring something beyond their investment.“Nick is a friend of mine, and we’ve been speaking a long time, long before he sold Summly to Yahoo,” Waldekranz added. “I felt he understood where we were… I can call [him] up whenever I want and we can have a conversation about Tictail.”With the investment, Tictail plans to open an office in New York City with its eyes set on the US market. Waldecranz, who spoke to the Guardian from the company’s new premises on Broadway and Broome street, said that the company’s previous user growth had come mainly from word-of-mouth, so “it would be unwise to spend our money on anything else than building the product.”“We’ve always considered Tictail to be more than a tool, it’s a community for us. What we’re doing next year is connecting the community much more, and bringing the merchants closer to the consumers.”
Google has given some official advice on what to do and perhaps more importantly, what not to do, while wearing the company’s Google Glass smartglasses to avoid being a “glasshole”.Early adopters of Glass, derogatorily called “glassholes”, have come under fire for using it in socially unacceptable conditions where mobile phones aren’t allowed, for being creepy filming people without their permission and for being rude, staring off into the distance for long periods of time.Glass has gone far beyond the confines of Google employees with its extended “Explorer” early adopter programme. As Google states, it is definitely in the company’s best interest to get its first smartglass customers to behave, as “breaking the rules or being rude will not get businesses excited about Glass and will ruin it for other Explorers”.To try and help Explorers avoid being glassholes and breaking social codes, Google has compiled a list of solid suggestions pulled from the experiences of early Glass adopters, and some of them are really quite funny.Stop looking like a tech zombieGlass was designed to avoid the need to stare down at a smartphone or device to get information, placing snippets of text just outside your field of vision, but that can have some pretty creepy consequences.If you find yourself staring off into the prism for long periods of time you’re probably looking pretty weird to the people around you.Google helpfully suggests that reading things like Tolstoy’s 1,225 pages of War and Peace probably isn’t the best idea, suggesting that “things like that are better done on bigger screens”.Use some common senseGoogle encourages Explorers to try Glass in all kinds of situations, but it would probably be best to avoid activities that could see wearers land on their faces.Glass is a piece of technology, so use common sense. Water-skiing, bull-riding or cage-fighting with Glass are probably not good ideas.At $1,500 (£900) a piece, Glass might be hi-tech but it is not exactly robust when it comes to high-impact sports.Glass probably doesn’t contribute to a romantic mealThe idea of smartglasses being worn in public is new, and people are curious. Passersby will stop and stare, ask questions or maybe even react badly if you turn to face them, so Google helpfully suggests that taking Glass off might be the best idea.If you’re worried about someone interrupting that romantic dinner at a nice restaurant with a question about Glass, just take it off and put it around the back of your neck or in your bag.Of course, you also have the fact that your date might be creeped out that you have a head-mounted camera pointed at them all night, regardless of whether or not you are recording their every move.Stop standing in the corner of the room being creepyApparently the temptation to record the every move of people going about their day is insatiable for some Glass Explorers. Google suggests that Glass wearers should treat the camera function like they would a mobile phone camera – ask permission and stop being creepy.“Standing alone in the corner of a room staring at people while recording them through Glass is not going to win you any friends.”Some people are pretty tetchy when it comes to being caught on camera, just ask the paparazzi.
Will Apple’s next big thing be a pair of headphones for monitoring your heart rate and tracking your activity, fitness and health?Apple has patented designs for earphones and headphones that are capable of monitoring a wearer’s movements and vital signs through a series of embedded sensors.Thepatentdescribes both headphones and earphones fitted with accelerometers like those in smartphones for detecting motion, as well as temperature, perspiration and heart-rate sensors for monitoring a user’s activity, fitness and other statistics.Apple filed the patent in 2007 for a “sports monitoring system for headphones, earbuds and/or headsets”, which was granted on Tuesday, indicating that Apple has been investigating the possibility of integrated health monitors for at least six years.The patent also details the possibility of using motion detection to activate gestures such as changing track or pausing and playing music through the headphones.Activity tracking in the ears or on the wristApple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, recently confirmed that promised future “product categories” were still on track saying: “Yes. Absolutely. No Change,” when askedduring an earnings call last month, stoking expectations of an Apple smartwatch, which is also expected to have a significant role in health and fitness monitoring.Apple's new patent also specified headphones as well as earphones for tracking fitness and health. Photograph: Apple/USPTO“We’re working on things you can’t see today. We have zero issue coming up with things that we want to do that we think we can disrupt in a major way,” Cook said. “The challenge is always to focus to the very few that deserve all of our energy.”In December 2013 Applereportedly metwith senior agents of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the regulatory body charged with overseeing food safety, sales of medication and the approval of medical devices in the US.The meeting involved Michael O’Reilly, previously the chief medical officer of a medical sensor company called Masimo, who joined Apple last year, as well as Bakul Patel, a senior policy adviser who drafted the FDA’s mobile medical app guidance and plays a role in medical gadget approval.Feeding ‘Healthbook’It is clear that Apple is looking at medical applications for its apps and hardware at the very least.Health and fitness trackingcould be one of the primary new focuses for Apple’s next mobile software update. Apple news site 9to5Mac claimed that Apple was developing a new “Healthbook” app to collect and store data on fitness activities, including steps taken, calories burned, and distance walked.The Healthbook app was said to target medical and health data, tracking a person’s heart rate and blood pressure, as well as other blood-related statistics like glucose levels, something a pair of sensor-packed earphones could link into as well as a smartwatch.Apple already holds patents for the collection of sensory information, includingblood-pressure monitoring, but it is unclear whether that technology is mature enough to build into a smartwatch or earphone-like device.“The whole sensor field is going to explode,” said Tim Cookin an interview in 2013. “It’s a little all over the place right now. With the arc of time, it will become clearer.”LG announced its ownfitness tracking earphonescapable of monitoring the wearer’s heart rate, feeding information to the Korean company’s Lifeband smart wrist-borne fitness tracker. It is unknown what impact this patent award to Apple will have on LG’s efforts.• Apple’s iWatch:which features are on our wishlista sensor-packed smartwatch?
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIf a time traveller saw a smartphone &gt;&gt; The New YorkerTimothy Wu:A well-educated time traveller from 1914 enters a room divided in half by a curtain. A scientist tells him that his task is to ascertain the intelligence of whoever is on the other side of the curtain by asking whatever questions he pleases.The traveller's queries are answered by a voice with an accent that he does not recognize (twenty-first-century American English). The woman on the other side of the curtain has an extraordinary memory. She can, without much delay, recite any passage from the Bible or Shakespeare. Her arithmetic skills are astonishing—difficult problems are solved in seconds. She is also able to speak many foreign languages, though her pronunciation is odd. Most impressive, perhaps, is her ability to describe almost any part of the Earth in great detail, as though she is viewing it from the sky. She is also proficient at connecting seemingly random concepts, and when the traveller asks her a question like "How can God be both good and omnipotent?" she can provide complex theoretical answers.HG Wells didn't think of this.Office on the iPad is a product absolutely nobody needs &gt;&gt; CITEworldMatt Rossoff:Yes, it's possible to use the iPad to get "serious" work done, but the apps used to complete that work will be different from traditional PC productivity apps -- simpler, with fewer functions.Seriously, try and think of a viable use case for a touch-screen version of Office on the iPad. Are financial wizards going to enter data and run macros by tapping on their screens from the bed? Are marketers going to create PowerPoint presentations on the train? Are execs going to fire up the iPad version of Word during meetings so they can take notes with pretty formatting and change-tracking?No. If you're a regular Office user, you already have a computer with a keyboard, probably a laptop. If you need to use Office, you're going to use that computer.Explained: Samsung's implementation of the fingerprint sensor on the upcoming Galaxy S5 &gt;&gt; SamMobileRecently, most of the rumours pointed towards the fingerprint sensor being built into the actual display but that's not the case, because Samsung has implemented the sensor into the Galaxy S5's home button. Oh, we would also like to confirm that Samsung hasn't opted for on-screen buttons and is still using physical buttons, like it has been using in the past on all of its flagship devices. The sensor itself works in a swipe manner, which means that you would need to swipe the entire pad of your finger, from base to tip, across the home key to register your fingerprint properly. Also, you would need to keep your finger flat against the home key and swipe at a moderate speed or else it won't recognise your fingerprint. The fingerprint sensor is sensitive to moisture, as well. So, don't try to use it with wet fingers because it will, literally, give you an error and tell you to dry your fingers first.Messaging: mobile's killer app &gt;&gt; stratēcheryBen Thompson points to the evolution of messaging (and the intervention of the desktop, and then examines LINE - which many in the west won't have heard of or used:This [illustration] is a sticker set from Häagen-Dazs; they have paid LINE tens of thousands of dollars (varies by market) to make this set available for free. To get the stickers, users must follow the official Häagen-Dazs account.Voilà, Häagen-Dazs now has a direct communications channel to millions of users.Perhaps this summer, when it's particularly hot, Häagen-Dazs will send out a coupon to all those users for a discounted cup of ice cream. Many of those users will be out-and-about, likely in the vicinity of a Häagen-Dazs retail shop (they're all over the place in Asia). And just like that customers have been moved to action.He also has an excellent explanation for why companies love to store credit card details, despite all the hacks.October 2007: Why the iPhone will beat the Blackberry &gt;&gt; O'Reilly RadarTim O'Reilly, in October 2007, making a point about what the BlackBerry could do that the iPhone couldn't:Get over it: power users are a minority, and while they point the way to the future, they tend to be disappointed when the rest of the market catches up with an inferior product that has a lower barrier to new users.What's wrong with an insider? &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson on the appointment of 'insider' Satya Nadella as Microsoft chief executive:I think Satya will make a lot of changes, though probably in a more gradual way than an outsider would have. In the questions on another of my posts I was asked about a lot of the processes used with Microsoft's sales force (or more generally, "the field"). Because Satya is not a sales guy I don't think shaking up sales governance practices is really on the top of his list. But he's going to start questioning some of the practices pretty quickly, especially with FY15 planning getting under way. And keep in mind he came out of the product groups, and particularly a product group that has long been frustrated over field practices that make it difficult to win large complex Enterprise deals. So I expect Satya to put a lot of pressure on the field model over time…Setting up a culture that encourages people to bring great ideas forward, gives them serious consideration, and then act on those ideas is what the CEO really does.  And this is an area that I think Satya has already started to change.  Much to the delight of a number of employees I've talked to.A more effective Microsoft in field sales for cloud products would shake things up.Graphene-coated heart valves could sidestep harmful drugs &gt;&gt; The ConversationNow researchers at the University of California at Los Angeles and the University of Michiganreport in Nature Communicationsthat they have come up with a third way [other than blood-thinning drugs or animal tissue] which may allow long-lasting implants. They propose coating implants with a catalyst that uses the patient's own blood to make an anticoagulant called nitroxyl.The coating catalyses – speeds up without participating in – two reactions in the blood near the implant. The catalysts are attached to a fragment of graphene – a single-atom layer of carbon – that holds the catalysts near each other. These catalysts convert glucose and an amino acid called L-arginine in the patient's blood to nitroxyl, which prevents clots from forming around the implant.Side note: graphene was discovered at the University of Manchester.How iTunes crushed music sales &gt;&gt; CNNMoneyAfter Apple's iTunes Music Store debuted on April 28, 2003, sales of 99-cent digital singles surged. But that had a disastrous impact on overall music revenue.Except the graph shows that sales value peaked in 1999, then fell. What happened in 1999? Napster. Fabulous piece of data collection, though.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
The company behind the phenomenally addictive Candy Crush Saga game is set to join the New York Stock Exchange in a sale that could value it at $5.5bn.King Digital Entertainment said Tuesday it plans to raise $500m from an initial public offering on the NYSE. As part of itsfiling to go public, King revealed the massive scale of its customers’ sweet addiction.The game, which involves matching brightly coloured sweets on a grid to solve various puzzles, was played over 1bn times a day in December, according to the filing. Candy Crush is free but players pay for options within the game. It has proved a lucrative combination.King’s profits grew over 7,000% last year, according to the filing. In 2012 the company’s revenues were $164.4m and its net profit $7.8m, in 2013 those figures rose to $1.88bn and $567.6m respectively.But the filing also reveals that King’s fortunes are currently closely tied to the continued success of Candy Crush. The game accounts for 78% of Kings total gross bookings, according to the filing. Its second most popular game, Pet Rescue Saga, had 15m daily active users in December, a fraction of Candy Crush’s 93m. King noted in its filing that “a small number of games currently generate a substantial majority of our revenue.”“If the gross bookings of our top games, including Candy Crush Saga, are lower than anticipated and we are unable to broaden our portfolio of games or increase gross bookings from those games, we will not be able to maintain or grow our revenue, and our financial results could be adversely affected,” the company said.Investors may also be concerned about a dip in King’s quarterly revenues from $621.2m in the third quarter of 2013 to $601.7m in the fourth quarter, as its number of monthly unique payers (MUPs) fell from 13m to 12.2m as a result of “the seasoning of our older games in certain markets among our more occasional customers” according to King.The company, which was founded in 2002 as Midasplayer.com, initially made its name from skill-based web games before moving into Facebook social games in 2011 and then mobile games in 2012.Going public will be a lucrative affair for the company’s founders: it has only raised $9m of funding since it was founded in 2002 and its founders and early backers retain significant stakes. According to the filing King’s shares were worth $45.61 as of December – suggesting a value in excess of $5.5bn given the number of shares outstanding. The final valuation is likely to be higher.Chief executive Riccardo Zacconi could pocket more than $500m (£300m) from his 10% holding in the firm, which he co-founded. Largest shareholder Apax Partners could see a return of over $2bn from its 45% stake.The company has recently been in the news forcriticism of its approach to trademark filings, and suggestions that several of its games have copied older titles. Last week Albert Ransom, developer of a similar game called Candy Swipe, released two years before Candy Crush,accused Kingof using US trademark law to destroy his company.The sale comes amid signs of a new boom in IPOs and investments in tech firms. So far this year, some 31 companies have sold their shares to the public for the first time, a 72% increase from this point in 2013, according to Renaissance Capital.Last year Finland’s Supercell, the company behind the Clash of Clans and Hay Day games franchises, raised $1.5bn from Japan’s Softbank in a deal that valued it at around $3bn.Marcos Sanchez, vice president at App Annie, an analyst specialising in the mobile market, said King dominated the charts in terms of revenues. “There are not a ton of blockbuster hits,” he said. “It’s not like you get a million of these types of games, just a handful a year have the staying power.”He said King had successfully managed to integrate purchases that were “not too in your face” into a game that was compelling enough to keep people coming back. “King cracked that code,” he said. The challenge now would be to keep people coming back while bringing in new players, he said.“It’s the bubble-time mentality in my opinion,” said Alan Patrick, co-founder of technology consultancy Broadsight, “Anyone with a hope of an IPO will try and shoot through the gate before it closes.”The history of Zynga, the last big games company to go public, is likely to lead to some tough questions for King as it faces analysts. Zynga, maker of Words With Friends, FarmVille and other viral hits, went public in 2011. Its share price has almost halved since then, as investors have fretted about its games becoming stale.It’s an issue King acknowledges in its filing: “Our continued growth will depend on our ability to regularly develop new games and enhance our existing games in ways that improve the gaming experience for both paying and non-paying players while encouraging the purchase of virtual items within our games,” said the company.Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse and JP Morgan Chase are leading the underwriting of the IPO.
Sales of the PlayStation 4 console have passed 5.3m worldwide, according to Sony. The figures, based on data from market research company, NPD Group, show that the machine reached the landmark figure by 8 February – less than three months after its US and European launch in November and ahead of its Japanese launch on 22 February. Sony previously stated thatits target was to sell 5m unitsby the close of March 2014.The achievement places pressure on rival machine, the Xbox One. The last available figures from Microsoft showed that its own entry into the current console generationshipped 3.9m by 24 January. Since both devices launched in November 2013, the PlayStation 4 has tracked ahead of its competitor, and above the sales of its predecessor. The PlayStation 3 had sold 3.6m units within a similar period after its launch in 2006. Nintendo’s latest console, the Wii U, took over a year to pass the five million mark.While both the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 are based around similar technology, PS4 launched at $100 cheaper than its competitor. Sony made the decision to sell its PlayStation Camera peripheral separately – unlike the Kinect device that comes bundled with Microsoft’s machine. Sony is also considered to have won the pre-launch hype war, getting hardcore gamers onside by concentrating its message on the machine’s gaming capabilities. Microsoft, however, used its Xbox One announcement event in May 2013 to present the console as a multimedia machine with live TV functionality. It’s early plans to concentrate on digital delivery of games,including ambiguous controls over pre-owned game sales, also alienated the core user base.However, Xbox One is likely to receive a boost in sales in March with the release of long-awaited sci-fi shooter Titanfall, which is not available on PlayStation 4. Created by many of the team behind the multimillion-selling Call of Duty series, it’s certain to be one of the year’s major releases.• PlayStation 4 outselling Xbox One – but both get strong start to year
Digital media company doubleTwist has released an app for the Mac that lets users record tracks from Apple’sstreaming iTunes Radio music service.The $9.99 (£5.99) app acts as an AirPlay receiver, allowing users to stream music to it as they would a wireless speaker system or Apple TV from iTunes, recording the music in real time.Apple’s free, ad-supported iTunes Radio is currently available in the US and Australia, but is expected to be available in the UK, Canada, and New Zealand soon.Macs after AndroidThis is not the first time doubleTwist has allowed users to record Apple’s streaming radio. In January the company releasedan Android appthat promised to record songs and radio stations from ad-supported service.“We are based in the US where recording radio and TV for personal use has been protected under fair use for decades,”claimed doubleTwiston the Google Play Store where the Android app is available.In the UK, recording broadcast radio is legal for personal, non-commercial use, but it is unclear whether music streamed in a radio-like manner over the internet is covered by the same copyright laws. If so, it could have important implications for other streaming music services such as Spotify and Pandora.DoubleTwist is no stranger to copyright circumvention. It was co-founded by Norwegian programmer Jon Lech Johansen, known as DVD Jon because of his development of applications capable of stripping copyright protection from DVDs. He was taken to court for computer hacking over the release of the CeCSS program in Norway in 2002, but later acquitted of all charges in 2003.• WhyiTunes Radio could be worth a small fortune to Apple, but not if users can record it
Mashing up genres has always been a sure way of innovating in the games industry – and veteran developer Harmonix may have come up with one of the most intriguing examples yet. The creator of the multimillion selling Guitar Hero and Rock Band titles has just announcedChroma, a free-to-play first-person shooter that uses music as a key gameplay mechanic. Forget bullets, missiles and pinpoint accuracy – think rhythm, beat-matching and deadly bass lines.How does that work? According to Harmonix, every familiar element of the arena-based online shooter has been included, but then tweaked to use music. Every weapon in the game blasts different audio sounds and samples, and each player’s arsenal is governed by their personal tastes. Each character class has a different take on standard rhythm action inputs, so for example, the engineers need to tap out a note sequence on a Guitar-Hero-style timing display to blast their dual pistols, while snipers need to time their shots to the background music in order to get one-shot kills. Every movement in the game has a rhythm element, so jumping on the beat provides a bonus, while team members must act in unison to create tunes. You’re not an army, you’re a band.Meanwhile, background scenery also alters depending on the music. At major moments in a track, walls and buildings shift, and landscape morphs, so that new cover points and sniper hotspots become available.A history of harmonyApparently, Harmonix has been mulling over this concept for several years. The studio, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, has always innovated with music and interactivity. Its first major release, the 2001 PlayStation 2 title FreQuency, mixed retro arcade visuals with a music building mechanic, and its sizable cult audience allowed a similarly trippy sequel, Amplitude. Worldwide success with the Guitar Hero, Rock Band and Dance Central titles followed, but since then the studio has been getting back to its experimental roots with projects like 2011’s interesting video re-mixing app, VidRhythm.To get the shooter component right, the studio is working with Hidden Path Entertainment, previously responsible for Counter-Strike: Global Offensive. Aclosed alpha test of the gamewill also invite gamers to make their own suggestions on how the design should continue. As for the free-to-play components, Harmomix is promising that microtransactions will all be based on character and sound customisations rather than “pay-to-win” elements such as access to better weapons and power-ups.No word on release date yet, or on the details of the game’s all-important soundtrack, but release is expected for later in the year on Steam.
Why is everyone talking about Venetian royalty?Not that sort of Doge. The one we’re talking about is a meme which grew up on Reddit and Tumblr in the dying months of 2013.It involves superimposing broken English written in multi-coloured Comic Sans on to pictures of shiba inus, a small Japanese breed of dog known for its spirited stubbornness.…Why?Why not? It’s funny. Sometimes.OK. But why do they speak like that in particular?Just as lolcats – the dominant meme of the late 00s – featured cats speaking with their own peculiar grammar, so too do Doges.Key to Doge grammar are the core five modifiers: such, very, many, so, and much; as well as the exclamation “wow”. As for which modifiers are used in which circumstances, that’s less set in stone. But a good guideline is that if it sounds subtly wrong in English, it’s probably OK in Doge.Wow. Such Doge. So Meme. Photograph: Know Your MemeIs this a bitcoin thing?Ah. Yes. Now we’re getting on to the inevitable second stage in the life of any internet meme: its mutation.Doge has taken the standard twists and turns, and it’s increasingly common to see images which have the format of a Doge picture but don’t actually contain any Shiba Inus at all. But in addition to the evolution of the humour, the meme has been adopted for other projects – of which Dogecoin is the most famous.Dogecoin is a bitcoin “fork”, a project based on the same source code as the original crypto-currency. But a combination of enthusiastic promotors, a good sense of humour, and healthy dose of luck have meant that it’s achieved real-world value, with one Dogecoin worth around a tenth of a penny. That many not sound like much, but it means that establishments like Shoreditch’s BIT Burger stand can sell real goods for the fictional currency. (One steamed burger currently costs 6000 Doge at the market stand,open every Sunday in Brick Lane)How do you actually say “doge”?Now we’re on to the really controversial questions. The two most popular answers, at least according to a self-selecting poll published bySlatein December, are “dohj” – as in the Venetian rulers – and “dogue”, to rhyme with vogue. But other options, including “doggie”, “doh-gué”, “dog-eh” and plain old “dog” are all used by various sections of the internet. And unlike the gif/jif debate, there isn’t evenan inventor to proclaim from on high.
It’s tough being the new kid. Within a few minutes of arriving in South Park my wee avatar had earned the indelible nickname “douchebag”, bestowed upon him by the local chubby bully, and been beaten up by a bunch of kids dressed as elves.Far, far worse was to come. South Park: The Stick of Truth is exactly as foul and exactly as funny as I thought it might be - but it actually plays better than I dared hope. It’s a proper open-world role-playing game set in the South Park universe, casting you as a stranger in a town that’s instantly familiar.Like the show, South Park: The Stick of Truth’s humour is heavy on bodily excretions and things that look like balls, but there are frequent flashes of satirical cleverness among the prevalent boyish, gross-out comedy.Everything about Stick of Truth is exactly like the show. It’s perfectly pitched. The close involvement of South Park’s creators, Matt Stone and Trey Parker, is evident in the tiniest details, like the contents of South Park residents’ bedroom closets - they’re all stuffed with props and memorabilia from South Park’s vast pool of episodes.Within minutes, my inventory was full of paraphernalia such as cherokee hair tampons, Chinpokomon and a set of wearable chinballs. Much of it is in terrible taste, but what else would you expect?Cartman rulesWhat surprised me is how well this South Park skin fits a tactical RPG. It has classes, leveling, turn-based combat and stats galore on pretty menu screens, but all within this well-known, foul-mouthed cartoon world populated by what seems to be hundreds of characters from the iconic to the totally obscure.All the voices are right, the writing is sharp, the look is spot-on. This is about as far away as you can get from the travesty that was the latest Family Guy video game, with its ripped dialogue samples and dreadful cobbled-together scenarios.(But then of course, Stick of Truth is the work of respected RPG veteran Obsidian Entertainment, previously known for Neverwinter Nights 2 and Fallout: New Vegas. This studio knows how to take an established series and make it work.)Stick of Truth’s premise is really about kids being kids. You’re immediately drawn into a neighbourhood rivalry between Cartman’s gang of nine-year-old warriors and boys from the other side of town, fighting over a branch called the Stick of Truth in an imaginary high-fantasy narrative.The kids are dressed up in adorably lame costumes - wizards, warriors, blacksmiths - in Cartman’s back yard. Cartman, as ever, is the manipulative jackass of the group, marshalling the other children to fit his fantasy (and putting Kenny in a dress).All familiar fantasy role-playing classes and races are impersonated... poorly.You’re offered the choice between warrior, mage, thief or, um, Jew, and join the fight while making friends around the neighbourhood. Your social integration into the town is measured by a fully featured fake Facebook page, replete with foul-mouthed posts and comments that double up as guidance when you’re not sure what to do next. Getting more friends earns you character perks that help out in combat.I went with thief, and Cartman “encouraged” me through my first fight - which was, essentially, kids taking it in turns to beat each other up, running off in tears when the hit-points bar is empty. The combat is impressively complex. There are riposte and parry stances, meaning you have to think through what attacks to use on which enemies.Timely healing is essential – early on, Butters plays the white mage to your thief/warrior/mag/Jew. Pressing buttons at the right time during an attack or defense animation reduces damage, or boosts attacks. Special moves need different timing again. It’s really engaging, both fun and mentally demanding, and challenging too.That other essential element of the RPG – looting – is also integral to Stick of Truth. You can wander into houses and rifle through belongings to find a ridiculous proliferation of junk to sell, wear or use - or chat to families, or leave a turd in the toilet. The town is full of hidden backpacks and collectibles, inviting you to explore. Usually the loot itself is a gag; I won’t spoil anything, but definitely remember to check out Cartman’s mum’s bedroom.Moral crisisThis will surprise nobody, but Stick of Truth is very much adult-oriented. Playing it reminded me of the gigantic moral panic that erupted in the late 90s when South Park first hit screens and eight-year-olds were voting Cartman their favourite TV personality, and schools across the country banned South Park t-shirts.This isn’t a game for kids, nor for people who’ve always found the show’s flagrantly don’t-give-a-shit attitude to race, sexuality and toilet humour a turn-off. If you seen more than a few episodes of South Park, you should know exactly what you’re getting here.South Park: The Stick of Truth has taken years and years to make, but it goes to show what happens when both a developer and the creators of a brand put everything they’ve got into a licensed game.It’s not just enjoyable because it’s a South Park game; instead, the South Park wrapping enhances what is already an absorbing open-world RPG. It’s got both gamer credibility and fan credibility in spades.• South Park: The Stick of Truth is released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 7 March.
More than 200 developers from companies including Google, Facebook, and Twitter spent Sunday hacking together apps and systems to help public responses to the UK floods.A Twitter account that spreads information about volunteering for flood relief efforts, a web service that lets people find out who to call when they have a power cut, and a data visualisation tool that presents flood information were among the applications shortlisted at #floodhack. The event was hosted by Tech City UK in Google’s startup-focused office space, Campus.Throughout the day developers worked on 18 different apps, of which eight were shortlisted by a judging team from the Cabinet Office. As well as the three above –@FludBud, “Who do I call when I have a power cut?”, and Flood Feeder – other shortlisted projects included:Don’t Panic, a system for centralising online and offline requests for help, while recording data for real-time response planning.UKFloodAlerts, which lets people set up alerts for specific issues like power loss, flooded roads or burst river banks and then be notified by text message or app notifications.Citizen Flood Journalism, which automates the process of finding people tweeting from flood-related areas, and asks them to post photos and other descriptive information.Gareth Lloyd was the sole developer behind Citizen Flood Journalism. After just eight hours, the system was already able to take a feed of responses to the bot and map them. “Most Twitter ‘citizen journalism’ currently involves searching for people already discussing a topic or relying on people with information to contact you,” Lloyd said. “This approach – proactively identifying people near some event and soliciting information and photos – is an interesting twist. I think it has potential, but it also requires some caution.”Joanna Shields, the former Bebo chief who is now chairman of Tech City UK, said that the initiative came about after a meeting at No. 10 Downing St on Friday. “The government called on the tech community to best use its wealth of flood data and the response we’ve seen from developers has been fantastic. Over the course of the weekend we had hundreds of people volunteer their time to produce genuinely innovative apps that are testament to the creativity, imagination and generosity of our local tech community and demonstrates the power of government opening up data.”With just two days of planning, Joshua March, the chief executive of Conversocial, which pulled the event together, says he was amazed by the turnout. “We worked hard to get the word out - including Joanna Shields emailing everyone on the Tech City mailing list (which is a significant portion of the London tech community) … and Facebook, Microsoft and Google got the word out to their engineers and sent in teams.March says he “didn’t have one overall favourite” from the event, but singles out ‘Who do I contact in case of a power cut?’ for actually beingup and runningafter just a day’s work. “It’s something super simple but that can provide real help for people who need it, and who literally don’t know who they should call if the power goes out.”For some apps, success created its own problems: Twitter suspended FludBud for sending too many messages at once.“We focused on the people just outside of the affected area,” said Victoria Domalik of Playfair Capital, one of the team behind the app. “We reasoned that they were most likely to a) have power and b) be in a position to help. We did all of this to redirect traffic tofloodvolunteers.co.uk, a platform that links volunteers to those who need them.“We had incredible engagement, we had roughly one to one retweets from every tweet we sent out … The response on twitter was positive, that is, until we got shut down.”Following the UK floods, Twittersigned up 38 fire brigades to its alert system, which notifies users with a text or twitter message whenever an account they’ve signed up with needs to send out an emergency warning. The Environment Agency already uses the systemto send out flood warningsto affected areas.•In 2007, developers were already expressing frustration at flood maps’ restrictions•Updated to correct Joanna Shields’ past jobs: she was the chief of Bebo, not AOL UK.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team#Floodhack and opening up Environment Agency flood data &gt;&gt; mapgubbinsOwen Boswarva isn't impressed by the data made available by the Environment Agency for the floodhack day:this very limited release of open data does not represent a significant "opening up" of government resources. The arrangements for river-level data are slightly more flexible than release of the data under a three-month developer licence would have been, but the effect is broadly similar and presents no erosion of the Environment Agency's strongly commercial stance on licensing of flood data.There has been a good effort to pull together existing open datasets that might be useful to #floodhack developers. However most of theEA's flood-related datasetsremain subject to restrictive licensing.Decoding Apple's VoIP, WebRTC, UC and VoLTE strategy &gt;&gt; Disruptive DeanDean Bubley:In other words, Apple might try to reinvent and enhance category-a primary telephony, using a combination of FaceTime, CSFB, VoLTE etc, in order to make the experience of calling better. It could develop FaceTime Audio with "interruption controls" for the user, rejig the awful voicemail experience (remember the original Visual Voicemail?) and try to tune the device-based user-experience of telephony, which is something that GSMA, OMA and others have woefully failed to attempt.Not a simple analysis, but useful even if just for his dissection into a 3x3 matrix of messaging, voice and video, and of standalone call/send, standalone "other", and embedded/in-app - and where the big and small players fit into it. Also explains - perhaps - why Apple has joined the WebRTC group.Chart: China lags 12 years behind the US in terms of internet adoption &gt;&gt; StatistaAccording to a recent report by the Pew Research Center, internet adoption still varies widely from country to country. Take China for example: according to Pew, only 55% of Chinese adults use the internet at least occasionally. The US had an internet adoption rate of 55% 12 years ago in 2001, which is an eternity in technology.Apple's emerging market emergency &gt;&gt; Jana MobileAt the beginning of a new quarter, Jana surveyed users in India, Indonesia, and Brazil to see where they plan to spend their mobile budget in 2014."What brand of mobile phone will you buy next?"While Samsung and Nokia retain their appeal in the minds of consumers, the niche appeal and high cost of the iPhone makes Apple particularly vulnerable to the rise of cheaper producers, such as Micromax in India.Possibly, though it's worth scrolling through to see what people actually said about Samsung, Nokia and Apple.interaction design - Why is the mouse cursor slightly tilted and not straight? &gt;&gt; User Experience Stack ExchangeYes, why?I want to root my Android HTC One, but I need your help | CITEworldChris Nerney:I'm particularly pleased with the HTC One, which is one of the most beautiful phones on the market. But there are issues, mostly stemming from how the device has been loaded up with bloatware from HTC and Verizon.The extra software that manufacturers and carriers load on to smartphones both slows down my phone's performance and eats up data. Most people are willing to make this tradeoff in exchange for getting a $600 device from their carrier for $200 plus a two-year contract.I've always been one of those people. Until I reviewed the Motorola Nexus 5 last November for CITEworld. It was the first time I had used a "pure" Android device - one unencumbered with useless carrier and manufacturer software – and I was immediately hooked.He wants to root his phone, but has various concerns.Asustek Computer expects third-largest global notebook market share in 4Q14 &gt;&gt; DigitimesAs some competitors have withdrawn from the market or seen decreasing business operations, Asustek Computer expects its global notebook market share to continually rise to the third largest in the fourth quarter of 2014, CEO Jerry Shen said at an investors conference on 14 February.Asustek launched the 10-inch notebook/tablet hybrid T100 in the fourth quarter of 2013 and has shipped 500,000 units. The company will launch the 11.6-inch T200 in May-June and aims at shipments of 4m for the two in 2014.Through cooperation with Google, Asustek will launch two Chromebooks, the C200 and C300, in March-April, and an 8-inch Nexus 8 in May-June. In addition, Asustek and Google have launched a Chromebox for use in video teleconferencing.Asus is one of the more profitable PC makers (in stark contrast to Acer). But does a notebook-tablet hybrids like the T200 count as a tablet, notebook, or both for PC-counting purposes?Publisher transformation with users at the center &gt;&gt; Mozilla blogDirectory Tiles will instead suggest pre-packaged content for first-time users. Some of these tile placements will be from the Mozilla ecosystem, some will be popular websites in a given geographic location, and some will be sponsored content from hand-picked partners to help support Mozilla's pursuit of our mission. The sponsored tiles will be clearly labeled as such, while still leading to content we think users will enjoy.We are excited about Directory Tiles because it has inherent value to our users, it aligns with our vision of a better Internet through trust and transparency, and it helps Mozilla become more diversified and sustainable as a project.1) You can tell this is written by a marketing person because it's obfuscatory yet celebratory, and they use two spaces after a full stop; 2) the 'inherent value to our users' line is nonsense. It's got inherent value to Mozilla and advertisers. Users just get more visual noise. And to the suggestion that "Mozilla needs to make money somehow" - it already does: Google pays it handsomely to be its default search provider, providing 90% of its revenue in 2012.Five stages of data grief &gt;&gt; Open Data InstituteJeni Tennison:In our last ODI [Open Data Institute] Board meeting, Sir Tim Berners-Lee suggested that the data curators need to go through was something like the five stages of grief described by the Kübler-Ross model.So here is an outline of what that looks like.T-Mobile tries to coax BlackBerry users to upgrade to the iPhone 5s in its latest mailer &gt;&gt; CrackBerry.comChristopher, the T-Mobile customer who forwarded me the email, "felt this was a real kick in the pants to BlackBerry users." It definitely illustrates the challenge BlackBerry currently faces in the USA with carrier support. T-Mobile already phased out carrying BlackBerry phones in-store (you can still buy them and receive via mail), so it's not a total surprise that they'd look to upgrade existing T-Mobile customers to another device they are more actively supporting.The Crackberry denizens aren't pleased, as you might guess. T-Mobile may be trying to hit a sales target.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
There’s an irony about discussing hi-tech virtual future cities over a fledgling Skype connection that’s struggling with my woeful 4 Mbps of bandwidth. We managed it, but Ulysses Sengupta and his colleague Robert Hyde - both senior lecturers and architects at the Manchester School of Architecture - were clear: their vision of a smart city doesn’t require gigabits of bandwidth. Instead, it demands participation from locals in infrastructure planning.That’s because Sengupta’s vision of a smart city challenges established smart city logic. The typical picture of a smart city and how it works is: sensors are dotted around a city that measure a variety of measurables such as electricity usage, available parking spaces, refuse levels and so on, all with the aim of streamlining public services and recording people’s habits to create data that no one knows what to do with. Both IBM and Telefonica are deeply involved with their own smart city projects around the world, which very much follow these lines.“Smart cities are great, but they’re generally aimed at grabbing data,” says Sengupta. Indeed, the very idea of a smart city is a linear one. What Sengupta is proposing is far more multi-dimensional.“We take the smart city concept and improve on it, we call this a ‘stage 4 system’,” he explains. “We take all of that smart city data, throw in historical, sociological, geographical, cultural, ecological, industrial and academic data, alongside ground data and you have something very interesting. If, on top of that, you include public participation, ie the thoughts and ideas of citizens, you can build a live and kicking virtual replica city. The more data we have, the more accurate the simulation is and the more future proofed it is”.With all of that data layered into Sengupta’s tool, you can time travel (via extrapolation, rather than science fiction) within this virtual city. “We can observe the probable futures of a city based on current directions of change, and we can test interventions [such as new buildings and public spaces] against known trajectories and see how it affects the city.”With this tool, users will be able to see, in real time, endless possible scenarios of how, for example, a new park will change a city. Will it lead to a boom in the local economy? A spike in population growth? What if there’s a natural disaster: will the new park help or hinder that situation?Direct democracy“We want to democratise city planning, too” says Sengupta as he takes me through a presentation. “Too often town planning is done from the top down. Politicians and planners implement and organise without knowing what kind of future impact their ideas will have or whether or not their ideas are popular with locals.“We want to give everyone access to this tool, so they can see, first-hand, what the government is proposing and what effect it will have. Citizens will be able to suggest ideas and vote on which projects and ideas they like the most. This is what planning will look like in the future. And it’s not just about logging into a website and filling out an online form. We’ll go into the community and speak to people, engage with them and understand what their needs are. This is the only way to build a truly accurate simulation.”Sengupta gives the example of a project based in Vancouver where one person had set up an app that let local people pinpoint and name areas of the city that were run down and decrepit. One particular building they focused on was a homeless shelter, which was so dilapidated - and got so much attention - that the local government had to act. He wants this sort of engagement from the public in his system.But how engaged will people be? A popular user generated platform likeOpenStreetMapis fuelled by the open source spirit of the internet and users respond in kind. But a similar platform that is associated with, or driven by, government comes with the baggage of past IT failures. At best people will be sceptical; at worst they’ll be entirely disengaged.Tom Cheesewright, futurologist and self-described “talking head for BBC TV and radio”, thinks the public will engage regardless of who’s running it: “This approach allows planners and citizens to explore infinite scenarios. To understand possible futures in a very visual sense. It’s as much about the power of the presentation as it is about the processing: translating this volume of data into something the human mind can comprehend and work with.“For that reason I think people will engage with it. They don’t have to be looking at the whole picture all the time. But from the model you can extract deeply relevant nuggets of data for them. What track is their area currently on for this or that measure? What does performance on this or that metric mean for their future lives? This is compelling stuff. They don’t need to grapple with the macro picture unless they want to - there’s value in the micro.”Whether or not the public will engage aside, there’s clear interest from a tech giant that Sengupta and Hyde are in talks with, and local government too. Sengupta explained: “We’re talking to various departments of Manchester City Council in parallel. We have confirmed support from a couple of departments and will be talking to the planning department soon regarding cooperation in terms of taking this approach forward as a pilot. We also just presented to Foresight (The Future of Cities) who were impressed by the direction of the research.”But don’t expect a downloadable app to hit Google Play any time soon, Sengupta was clear that that’s not his goal. “This is not simply a product. It is a research framework that is beginning to pick up speed, hence the idea of a ‘release date’ is not particularly useful. I am sure there will be various products, applications and open platform possibilities coming out of this approach, but probably not one single piece of software or product.”
Samsung Electronics has filed a lawsuit demanding 10bn Korean won (£5.6m) in compensation from the British appliance maker Dyson because it claims it was depicted as a copycat.The lawsuit, filed last week in the Seoul district court in Korea, were filed against Dyson because its “previous litigation has hurt Samsung’s corporate image”, the companytold the Korea Times.The move follows the decision by Dyson in October 2013 to drop apatent infringement case that it brought against Samsung in August, in which it claimed that the Korean giant had copied the steering system used in its Motion Sync cleaner from the Dyson DC37 and DC39 cleaners, which had then been on sale for two years.Samsung was able to defend itself against Dyson’s case by presenting “prior art” - an example of the idea being used before Dyson had patented it.Samsung said when the lawsuit was withdrawn that it would establish the damage to its brand image and whether to act. Now it has.“We are initially seeking 10bn won from the UK-based manufacturer. However, the amount will increase depending on how the court proceedings go,” Samsung’s spokesperson told the Korea Times. “Samsung’s marketing activities were negatively affected by Dyson’s groundless litigation, which is intolerable.”A Dyson spokesperson said that it had not received a copy of the formal complaint. “We’re not apologising,” he added.It is not the first time that Samsung Electronics has been accused of copying a rival. A high-profile case against Apple began in 2011 with anaccusation by the iPhone makerthat some Samsung phone and tablet designs “slavishly copies” that of early models of the iPhone smartphone and iPad tablet. Apple won the case relating to copying of the appearance of the iPhone 3GS, though not its iPad.When Dyson filed its suit in August, its chief executive James Dyson said: “Although they are copying Dyson’s patented technology, their machine is not the same. Samsung has many patent lawyers so I find it hard not to believe that this is a deliberate or utterly reckless infringement of our patent.”Following the latest salvo from Samsung, Dyson said in a statement: “Dyson pioneered cyclonic vacuum cleaners and digital motors – and has been developing them ever since. We patent our technology, and naturally defend it. It is surprising that a company over 100 times bigger than Dyson is so worried. The patent system offers us some protection but not enough: with an army of lawyers, hidden prior art is occasionally found and ways to design around existing patents identified.”James Dyson has been a fierce defender of patents and intellectual property, fighting and winning a number of high-profile court cases to defend innovations in the company’s products. In 2012, it accused German rival Bosch of planting a spy in its research lab – claims that the company denied. Dyson has also taken a tough line against Chinese firms and challenged Chinese-owned Vax over the appearance of a product that Dyson felt looked similar to Dyson’s DC02 cleaner. The claims against Vax were rejected by the British courts.• This article was amended on 19 February 2014 to correct a description of the lawsuit.
You would struggle to come up with a more poignant manifestation of the dire situation in which the great Nintendo currently finds itself enmeshed than Donkey Kong Country Tropical Freeze. It's the latest, and unquestionably finest, iteration of a great franchise – just mention Donkey Kong Country to gamers of a certain age and they will wax nostalgic about the golden 16-bit days, when Rare Software set the gaming agenda. It's a brilliant game, too: lovingly executed, superb to behold and endlessly inventive.But then it makes few concessions to the Wii U's unique attributes – although you can play it on the GamePad's screen, freeing the TV, its control system ignores the touch-screen. Nor, in its quest to take the classic left-to-right-scrolling platform gameplay to new heights, does it provide an irresistibly innovative reason for the unconverted, amid the thoroughly modern temptation of a PS4 or Xbox One, to commit themselves to buying a Wii U.Which is a crying shame, since those without a Wii U will miss out on a slab of no-compromise pure platform action which perfectly illustrates why that most venerable of genres endures so convincingly. The seemingly paradoxical Tropical Freeze tag is explained by an intro sequence, in which a chill is brought to the lush island idyll, beautifully rendered in a vibrantly colourful manner, occupied by Donkey Kong and friends, by invading Snowmads -- penguins and owls, along with all manner of exotic wildlife.Classic actionAs ever, you restore order by finishing many worlds' worth of levels. Precision platform action is the general order of the day although, this being Donkey Kong Country, there are plenty of levels involving jumping around in minecarts and shooting yourself from barrel to barrel, as well as swinging from vines and clinging onto moving grassy surfaces. Donkey Kong frequently goes underwater, too, where he proves surprisingly graceful for such a big unit. This time around, Donkey Kong has three sidekicks: Diddy Kong, Dixie Kong and that old buffer, Cranky Kong. The latter uses his walking stick to give you an extra-high jump, whereas Diddy and Dixie add a hover-jump. And all three effectively double your health.Countless small but enjoyable additions have been made to the Donkey Kong Country blueprint. Donkey Kong, for example, can pull up handles, revealing power-ups or even reshaping the scenery. The longer you survive with a companion on your back, the more you build up a meter which lets you unleash a Kong Pow attack, that kills all enemies (apart from bosses) on screen. You often come across arrays of bananas; if you collect them all quickly enough, you'll get a reward of some sort (usually a puzzle-piece or a token). Collecting tokens, which are generously placed around Tropical Freeze, proves vital, since Funky Kong's shop has received something of an upgrade, with a welter of new items. Green balloons, which bring you back from falls to oblivion, are useful, and you can buy extra health and even cow-catchers for minecarts.Mirthfully inventiveJust about every level has some little inventive twist which will have you chuckling away to yourself. Such as burning hedgehogs which you can extinguish by chucking giant juicy plums at, or baby owls that arrive still encased in half their eggs, which you must jump on to stun, then pick up to use as ammunition.A glorious, goofy sense of surrealness permeates throughout. The bosses are magnificent – challenging, multi-stage marathons involving some hilariously weird adversaries. And at times, Tropical Freeze abandons its left-to-right rigidity with sequences that move into and out of the screen. Those effectively highlight the quality of its graphics – it's by far the best-looking Wii U game yet.Decent co-op and replayabilityTropical Freeze has a two-player co-operative mode which lets someone else (using a Wii Remote) jump in to play as your companion – they get an extra ability, to fire shots which stun enemies but don't kill them. This proves great fun, after an initial adjustment period, and would provide a great means of parent-sibling bonding. And Tropical Freeze definitely offers good value for money – it's incredibly long and, given its increasingly fearsome difficulty levels (the cack-handed will find it frustrating after the first two worlds), a huge collection of unlockable levels, and the fact that it is rammed full of collectibles like Kong letters and puzzle pieces, it will keep you occupied for a considerable amount of time.In other words, it's a great game – exactly what we expect from Nintendo. But in a way, that's also its problem: anyone with a Wii U would be a fool not to buy it, but so few people have committed to the Wii U, and in order to rectify that, Nintendo needs to woo the unconverted with all-new gaming experiences. And the gaming experience that Tropical Freeze provides may be rich, enjoyable, challenging and frequently hilarious, but it isn't anything conspicuously new.
Although there's a slowly gathering flock of interesting individual characters in video games, there is still a dearth of interesting relationships. The one dynamic that games have been most interested in exploring is that between parent and child; The Walking Dead, Bioshock Infinite, even Pikmin, all are parenting games to an extent. The Last of Us played on this theme as well, telling the story of a gruff, reluctant guardian and a 14-year-old girl who doesn't need looking after, but this downloadable side-story focuses on a friendship instead.The Last of Us: Left Behind is the story of Ellie's relationship with her best friend, Riley, back in Boston, intertwined with a lesser-explored period of Ellie and Joel's journey across the continent years later. It flashes back and forth between time periods, exerting the same masterful command of tension and pacing (and your heart-rate) that Naughty Dog established in last year's full-length game. Throughout, you never leave Ellie's point of view. This is the first portrayal of a friendship between adolescent girls that I've ever seen in a video game (excepting Gone Home's documented one), and it's wonderfully done. Theirs is an ordinary and beautiful teenage friendship under extraordinary circumstances, potently relatable despite the shambling infected and ruined urban landscape.I can't tell you much about the individual moments that struck me without lessening their impact. I can tell you that I was reminded of what it feels like to be a teenager, how intense everything is, the difficulty of leaving behind childish things that still give you joy, that struggle to keep close to your friends when you're both changing so much. In just a few hours it communicates the intensity of a best friendship, the fights and the shared silliness and the reluctant need for each other. Any complaints about Left Behind's length are comprehensively outweighed by its emotional density. It says so much in its few hours.It doesn't feel overblown, either, which is impressive considering the subject matter; it's deftly handled. If you were paying attention during The Last of Us' main plot, you'll already know how the story ends, but how it plays out surprised and deeply saddened me nonetheless. If anything, knowing the outcome imbues the whole thing with extraordinary poignancy. Knowing is almost unbearable at times, when Ellie and Riley are joking around together. This is a day in Ellie's life that profoundly shaped her.Ellie was always the star of The Last of Us for me - funny, resilient, endearingly rebellious, capable even when she's scared. Without Joel in the frame we can get to know her better, see how she handles herself alone. There were flashes of this in the main plotline, but here it's the whole story. The two timelines don't emphasise how much time and experience have changed her. They show which parts of her have stayed the same.Left Behind does nothing new with The Last of Us' tense and exhilarating gameplay rhythm; you're always either in intense danger, or fearfully anticipating the next moment of intense danger. But it tells a different story, one that's more compact and more affecting for it, and it shows that Naughty Dog has serious emotional range. Rarely have I played anything as powerful.• Last of Us – review
Penalties for jamming GPS networks need to be co-ordinated worldwide as their importance grows, the technology’s chief architect says.Brad Parkinson, who led the project to create the global positioning system in the 1970s, has warned that increasing reliance on satellite navigation means the risk of damage caused by illegal or accidental jamming of the signals is unacceptably high.“We found a jamming system in place at Newark airport, where they were testing the latest GPS technology for the blind landing of airplanes,” the emeritus professor of aeronautics at Stanford University told the Guardian. “It involved the step of [ground-based] antennas, and unfortunately the New Jersey turnpike runs right by them. They would periodically, and always close to the same time of day, get jammed.“It took them three months to pinpoint a trucker. [He] had gone online and for less than $50 bought a little device that plugged into his cigarette lighter that he was trying to use to jam the GPS in his truck. He knew his boss was tracking him, and he was probably taking a digression to track his honey or something. But this device, its range was about a mile.“That incident, what I call Newark 2, happened on the 4 August 2012. They nabbed him, they said he is apparently liable for a forfeiture, not a fine, in the amount of $31,000.” But in Australia, he said, “the impact on you would be one heck of a lot worse. In Australia, if you cause interference likely to cause prejudice to the safe conduct of a vessel it’s five years in the jug [jail] and $850k.”Parkinson said: “I’m calling for the community of nations to move to the Aussie-type penalties.”GPS has become essential to daily life, forming the basis of smartphone and in-vehicle navigation for millions of people worldwide. It was initially controlled by the US military, and only accessible via a descrambling system, but President Bill Clintonunscrambled the signal in May 2000.In the UK and Germany it is illegal to sell or use GPS jammers – but it is legal to import or own them.GPS signals are easy to jam because the signals from the orbiting satellites is so weak - equivalent to a 25-watt light bulb seen from the ground. The signal has to be amplified to pick it out from background noise. A jammer with an output of about 2 watts can block out the signal from the satellites for some metres - and more powerful ones would work over kilometres.While the Newark incident presents an alarming prospect, the biggest issues caused by GPS jamming is likely to be in the maritime industry.“The aviation people are much better protected because they don’t depend on it,” says Bob Cockshott, director of Position, Navigation and Timing at the ICT Knowledge Transfer Network. “They do, perhaps to a worrying level, at sea, but not in the air. In aviation they’ve never become dependent on GPS, it’s always been an adjunct to the navigation system that they’ve already got, a lot of radio beacons in strategic points.“At sea, they’ve become very much more dependent on GPS, to the point where some shipping lines instruct the captain to stop if the GPS isn’t working. They say ‘don’t try and go anywhere, just stop and wait until it comes back’, because the crew isn’t used to operating without GPS.”On top of increasing the penalties for owning and using GPS jammers, Parkinson argues that manufacturers of receivers, particularly in the maritime industry, need to start toughening up their devices.One way is by simply looking at alternative signals, such as when Europe’s GPS alternative Galileo or Russia’s Glonass system. Another is by combining the GPS data with information derived from an inertial positioning system, which uses accelerometers and gyroscopes to attempt to discern how far the system has moved, and in what direction, from the last known location.“The point is if you combine all of these things, a good set should be able to fly within 1km of jammer with a 10km range,” says Parkinson. “That’s what I call toughening.”•Car thieves have used GPS jammers to defeat anti-theft systems
Apple and Google are reportedly cracking down on apps that are simply clones of recently-deleted mobile gaming phenomenon Flappy Bird. Judging by the weekend’s crop of new titles on the former’s App Store, though, there are gaps in the policy big enough for a few more to fly through.The Verge reported on the crackdown, suggesting thatseveral developers have had games rejected by Apple’s approvals teamon the grounds that “your app name attempts to leverage a popular app”, while another was pulled from Android’s Google Play store for flouting rules on “irrelevant, misleading, or excessive keywords in apps descriptions, titles, or metadata”.This, despite the fact that a number of Flappy Bird-a-like games – some with “Flappy” in their titles – were approved and released over the weekend. Take a bow,Flappy Cat: Pirate,Flappy PuppyandFlap Copter Flap, not to mentionSlappy Shark – Crazy Obstacle Dodge,Floppy Penguin Birdie,Scrappy Fish,Flashy FishandDesert Bird.Oh, and not to forgetFlying Cyrus – Wrecking Ball, which combines Flappy Bird and a disembodied, extra long-tongued Miley Cyrus head. Meanwhile, aGoogle Play search for Flappy Birdturns up pandas, mice, pigs, cows, frogs, bats, fish, Nyan Cats, dragons, doges and several piles of faeces paying flappy homage.Flying Cyrus is the new face of Flappy Bird clones.As crackdowns go, this one is currently looking rather lax, although it has been suggested that Apple and Google may be focusing their attention on games that risk fooling people into thinking they are the original Flappy Bird, or at least connected to it.The game’s developer, Dong Nguyen,removed it from both app stores earlier this month, after Flappy Bird’s sharp rise to global popularity, and heated online debates about the game’s influences and quality.Since then, there have beencritical reappraisals, aFlappy Jamwith developers creating nearly 300 games inspired by Flappy Bird to show support for Nguyen, atribute from the developer of critically-acclaimed mobile game Super Hexagon, and amassively-multiplayer online versionfor up to 1,000 players at once.If Apple and Google are serious in their desire not to be overrun by Flappy Bird games, it may be Flappy Jam that gives them the most headaches, given that many of its developers are now looking to release the games they coded in a matter of days as part of the project.•Flappy Bird is not the new Angry Birds – it’s pure rage
Computers made from card, scissors, glue and string may sound like a corporate IT policy in need of more resources. In fact, they’re the centre of a Kickstarter project trying to teach programming and computing skills to children.Craft Computer Clubis the work of Cardiff-based developer and educator Dan Bridge, who is trying to raise £35,000 on the crowdfunding website to launch a book and online community in August this year.“The Craft Computer is a paper model of a computer children can make using everyday materials like card, scissors, glue, string,” explains its Kickstarter listing, which invites potential backers to pledge between £5 and £5,000 to support the project.“Through building it and other models they’re introduced to the fundamental principles behind computing such as the important parts inside and what they do, what files are, binary numbers, how pixels create images, how the Internet works and ultimately algorithms and programming. And we do it together, in fun, simple, bite sized pieces.”Bridge originally developed the model for his five year-old daughter, then found friends asking for copies for their own children. After testing it out on a class of primary-school girls as part of his work as a Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) ambassador, he turned to Kickstarter.The Craft Computer Club book will be aimed at 5-11 year-olds, with a mixture of guides and games alongside the papercraft modelling. Its companion website, which pledgers will get a one-year subscription to, will add coding guides and video tutorials aiming to help children understand how computers work, as well as internet safety advice.“I also want to look at the computing your children will encounter in schools, so the online club will be filled with helpful introductions and guides to languages like Scratch, Kodu, Python and HTML5 and devices like tablets, Raspberry Pi, Arduino, Makey Makey etc,” explains Bridge on his Kickstarter page.Some of the materials from Craft Computer Club.His timing is certainly good: September will see the introduction of a revamped computing curriculum for British schools, including programming. Nationwide coding clubs networkCode Club recently revealed plans for Code Club Pro, a training initiative to support teachers backed by £120,000 of funding from Google.With Craft Computer Club, Bridge will be hoping for similar success on Kickstarter toHello Ruby, a children’s book to teach programming fundamentals that’s being written by Finnish developer and educator Linda Liukas.With four days to go in her crowdfunding project, Liukas has raised more than $330,000 after setting a goal of just $10,000, and is hoping to pass $500,000 in order to hit her stretch goal of turning her book into an app. “I thought this would be a 20-year project, and hopefully it still can be, but now I get to do a lot more stuff than I expected early on,” shetold The Guardian last month.•Tablets in schools: coding, creativity and teachers’ importance
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamImportant Kickstarter Security Notice &gt;&gt; The Kickstarter BlogOn Wednesday night, law enforcement officials contacted Kickstarter and alerted us that hackers had sought and gained unauthorized access to some of our customers' data. Upon learning this, we immediately closed the security breach and began strengthening security measures throughout the Kickstarter system.No credit card data of any kind was accessed by hackers. There is no evidence of unauthorized activity of any kind on all but two Kickstarter user accounts.While no credit card data was accessed, some information about our customers was. Accessed information included usernames, email addresses, mailing addresses, phone numbers, and encrypted passwords. Actual passwords were not revealed, however it is possible for a malicious person with enough computing power to guess and crack an encrypted password, particularly a weak or obvious one.Change your Kickstarter password if you have one. Facebook logins not compromised.Life Changing Tech &gt;&gt; Ben BajarinRewind to January 2007:In the moments after the iPhone launched my father was walking around the MacWorld show room when he saw an Apple exec whom he knew. He was able to get a quick demo of the iPhone and even a demonstration that it could make a call. The exec offered to let my dad call someone. He called me on my cell phone. Ironically, I was in a meeting with the Windows Mobile team at CES when he called so I did not answer. When I got out of the meeting I listened to the message and it was my dad saying he called to tell me the iPhone was awesome and he was calling me from one.Not long after my dad called me this same Apple exec demonstrated the iPhone to a number of national and international TV networks. Guess whose cell phone number was on the screen while he did the demo?And guess what happened next?What the Windows 7 Pro sales lifecycle changes mean to consumers and business buyers &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott goes into the details.Google still controls your information, despite EU ruling &gt;&gt; The ConversationGiuseppe Veltri:Search engines have become part of our daily life, playing the extremely important role of the most common intermediary between the user and information on the web. And yet, their authority and their role in presenting and ranking web pages – and therefore information – remains largely unexplored.The main issue is what is known as "source distance". Search engine queries produce lists of links that take you to the various websites that match the terms you have entered. The order in which these links is ranked relates to the importance of each webpage is to your query. And that is decided by an algorithm developed by the search engine.The way in which search engines – and Google in particular – privilege sources and put them on top of their rankings using their own algorithm is the subject of a fascinating debate.Not a lot of people know that &gt;&gt; Crying All The Way To The Chip ShopLee Caulfield:I was watching Get Carter the other night and got to wondering what happened to the actress Geraldine Moffat (her in the knickers above) who played the gangster's floozy Glenda.There's a connection with a game you've heard of. You'll have to read the article.Staff were paid €1,200 for each smart meter rigged - first arraignments today &gt;&gt; Times of MaltaEnemalta employees involved in the smart meter tampering racket were charging an average of €1,200 per job in residences and thousands more in commercial establishments, according to sources close to the investigation.Energy Minister Konrad Mizzi said on Tuesday that as many as 1,000 meters were tampered. They were slowed down to record only 20% of consumption.Eight Enemalta workers have been suspended and some of them are expected to be taken to court today, while the investigation is continuing."People want a bigger screen iPhone. Are you against that?" &gt;&gt; DisplayBlogPenTile OLED displays with 1920×1080 equivalent pixel formats are more than good enough for most, but maybe not for Apple, not yet anyway. OLED reliability is also limited relative to LCD, only because the blue doesn't last as long. But soon blue's lifetime to half brightness might be good enough, for Apple too.But there's one other important consideration. And it depends on how we will be using larger smartphones in the future. RGB-striped OLED consumes more power and less power than LCD, depending on how you use it. If you watch video, which is generally darker than non-video, OLED will consume less power than LCD. The exception might be some computer animated features — such as Frozen — that are bright. If on the other hand you're playing Flappy Bird on your 5.x-inch OLED smartphone the LCD equivalent will consume less.Seems a good bet that the next iPhone won't use OLED, then.Computer storage industry declines in 2013 despite robust growth of SSDs, says IHS &gt;&gt; DigitimesCombined shipments worldwide for hard disk drives (HDD), solid-state drives (SSD) and optical disc drives (ODD), making up the computer storage market, amounted to 755m units, down from 794m in 2012, said IHS. While SSD shipments were up an outsize 82% to 57m units, both the HDD and ODD segments proved to be a drag. The HDD segment fell 7% to 444.4m units, and the ODD sector did worse with a 12% decline to 253.5m units.The forecast does not include shipment figures for non-PC-related drives used in sectors such as automotive, industrial, gaming, external storage, video surveillance and set-top box/DVR.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday!
Two cheers for Facebook, who have just expanded their personal gender options from the somewhat limiting binary of male and femaleto an eye-watering 50 plusdescriptions. Now you can plump for trans (– male, – female or – person) to indicate some variance between gender assigned at birth and identified gender, or simply trans*, which covers pretty much all bases under the "trans umbrella".There are also variants of genderqueer (any gender outside male/female); genderfluid (moving between genders); non-binary (an umbrella descriptor for all genders that are not simply male or female), two spirit and pangender (rejecting singular gender); and agender (rejecting gender altogether). Also provided is intersex, which covers individuals whose sexual characteristics do not map to stereotypes of male or female.Of course, there's criticism already. The first I heard of this was courtesy of a comment by an online friend, who expressed frustration that Facebook had not included their preferred gender option: non-gendered identity. In addition, Facebook still gives precedence to the gender binary: its online presentation takes the form of male, female or the choice of 48 "custom" categories. Others have objected that its attempt to provide equal personalisation when it comes to pronouns is rudimentary – one can choose to be referred to as her, him, or them – and the relationship options (both romantic and familial) remain steadfastly gender normative.I foresee trouble too with Facebook's insertion of various categories of cis(gender), a term more frequently used by some in the trans community to define non-trans people than an identity opted for: a few non-trans people actively object to it. Though presumably if someone does self-identify as cis, that's OK.Of course, that is teething trouble. The options are so far only accessible to those select English (US), and this scheme has all the hallmarks of beta version.More fundamental, though, are issues with Facebook kicking off a conversation about gender with trans and gay groups, while omitting one significant voice: women. Gender – and the politics thereof – have long been central to feminist discourse. Societal gendering of pretty much everything, from toys and games, through to the ads that pop up on your timeline, is a live issue. Many women have deliberately selected "male" as the only way to remove a succession of tiresome ads for wrinkle cream and diet products from their timeline.Analysis of data use in the UK suggests that gender is rarely helpful – except in a marketing context. It would be unkind to suggest that Facebook has opted to garner politically correct headlines, while not even contemplating removing gender altogether, which might interfere with its commercial activities, wouldn't it?
Price: £19,250 (after £5,000 government plug-in grant)Top speed: 81mphMaximum range: 99 milesOver the past few years, the likes of Nissan, Renault and Tesla have pioneered the electric car as a viable alternative to the Ice car. (That's internal combustion engine, OK!) Now VW has put a toe in the water to test the temperature of consumer demand by launching its own purely electric car. It's a&nbsp;modified version of the all conquering Up – the supermini which drove off with the World Car of the Year title in 2012. The electrifiedUp is called the e-Up(said in a Yorkshire accent it sounds even better. Let's hope the next model is the e-Bah-gum).Last week I travelled to Volkswagen's test centre in Milton Keynes to have a go in their smart little car. But before I tell you about it, we need to address the elephant in the room – The Price. This titchy car costs a staggering £24,250. The standard Up costs £8,265. There is a £5,000 "incentive" that the government will slip into your pocket if you buy any electric car, but even so you are still talking almost 20 grand. You'd have to spend more than £11,000 on fuel before you broke even. The e-Up's battery is guaranteed for eight years or 99,360 miles, but no one knows what sort of state the battery will even be in by then. Ergo, there is no possible economic case that would justify you splashing out on an e-Up! Which is a real shame as it's a terrific car. For comfort, economy, practicality and sheer joie de vivre it's one of the most forward-looking and transformative cars you'll see on the road.Right, on with the drive. From the outside, the e-Up is identical to its non-electric sister. The difference is all in the drivetrain. Up front you now find a 81bhp electric motor, while the 230kg battery is cleverly built into the entire floor. This means there is no loss of space – you still have a usable boot and four good-sized seats. The extra weight also gives the car a&nbsp;lower centre of gravity which improves its handling – titchy cars can sometimes feel a bit skittery.Inside story: the interior of the car is almost identical to the standard Up.Turn the key and the Up powers up. There's no sound, of course. Press the throttle and… hey, it drives just like your own car. Despite all its futuristic technology it is so intuitive and so much a member of the VW family that you feel instantly at home. By the time I'd hit the first of Milton Keynes's millions of roundabouts  – about 200 yards – I'd forgotten what was powering me. This chirpy little motor is smooth, unhesitating and effortless. It's swift, too. You'll soon be cruising on the motorway with the best of them – just not for very far. And that's the other but…After The Price comes The Range. It's such an issue that it has spawned its own sub-category of anguish: "range anxiety". The Up has a range of 99 miles. It takes all night to fully charge and that 99 miles will cost you £2.80. Of course range is totally influenced by your driving style. On the open road I floored it and saw the needle shoot into the red faster than a&nbsp;teenager's bank account…VW obviously wants its e-Up to be a massive sales hit. It won't be. I&nbsp;wouldn't be surprised if they don't shift a single unit, but that doesn't mean it isn't a success. For today's motorists, worried about the petrol running out, the e-Up is a harbinger of a carbon-free future.Launch of Auto Trader MagazineAuto Trader, the UK's biggest motoring destination, has announced the return ofAuto Trader Magazine, re-imagined for the digital era. The new monthly publication is free to download fromApple Newsstandand features original reviews, video and advice to help people find their new car. The digital magazine also offers real-time access to the UK's biggest classified listings, allowing readers to search seamlessly from the article they are reading. Editor-in-chief, Jon Quirk said: "Today is the result of listening to what our consumers want and countless test-and-learn iterations of our existing digital products, which we will continue to evolve. We know that consumers use Auto Trader for research in their buying and selling journey's and it's incredibly exciting to be developing original content and concepts for new consumer platforms as we begin to understand how these platforms are used."Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
There are very few games based around the delights of all things bread-based, but the wonderfully titledToast Time(Force of Habit, Android/iOS, £1.99) has more than novelty on its side. Required to prevent inter-dimensional beings from stealing an alarm clock, you play as a toaster with only various gluten-based snacks for weaponry. These are fired towards the enemy, the recoil providing the toaster's motion through the level. Hit enemies speedily while collecting the super-powered goodies that drop from the sky and the combos rack up to activate what else, but: "Coffee Time".The lovely, pixelated graphics suit the tongue-in-cheek tone, but it's by no means a simple affair – there is a challenge here, illustrated when one becomes pinned down, powerless to prevent the baddies from cancelling the morning meal. But time your shots right and this is refreshingly entertaining bread and breakfast-based fun.
After an unfortunate experience involving a slain princess, a torturous inquisition and a spot of jailbreaking, this turn-based strategy title places gamers not only on the wrong side of the law but requires them also, of course, to save the world, alongside an assortment of fellow escapees.Blackguardsis a rogue's journey then, albeit one wrapped in the familiar garb of heroic fantasy. A branching story meshes nicely with the gameplay and though the battles are largely story-related with scant room for exploration, divergent narrative paths warrant replays. There's also a brilliant complexity to the battle system, giving excellent control of each step taken and offering environmental tools along with magic and melee attacks. It rewards thoughtful, intelligent play rather than brute force, making for a refreshing challenge. However, that same intricacy makes for hard going and will be a harsh introduction for newcomers to the genre. For seasoned players, though,Blackguardsis a real gem.
Comprising four multiplayer maps, two weapons andNightfall– adding to the alien-hunting side-game,Extinction– this first bundle of add-on content forGhostsis a mixed affair.Nightfallis the main attraction, a brisk sci-fi shooter requiring teamwork to destroy the Cryptids' hives. "Fog", easily the best of the maps, throws teams into a horror movie nightmare, with one player cast asHalloween's Michael Myers. Both are thrilling, varied experiences, warranting multiple playthroughs. However, they also illustrate the problem withOnslaught, and arguablyCall of Dutyas a whole in recent years – the best content is usually the least related toCoD's ostensibly realistic military fare. Of the remaining maps, San Francisco-inspired "Bayview" is frustrating, with metal detectors making stealthy play nigh impossible, while "Containment" and "Ignition" feel overly repetitious of previous series' offerings. Worst, though, is the price – at approximately £12, there's simply not enough content to warrant the outlay.
"Run, hide or die" is how this jagged survival horror summarises the options during the exploration of an apparently abandoned asylum – a succinct precis of everything it's possible to do inOutlast. It's scary, then, which seems to be the major purpose, but functionally so – there are rough edges and predictable moments asOutlastmixes a foundation of unremarkable genre convention with a handful of very effective ideas that sustain tension through a suitably punchy five or so hours.On the generic side, there's the asylum – filled with the remnants of some experimental folly – and the patrolling bogeymen who lurk within. Maintaining a sense of urgency to the fear is enforced through the investigating protagonist being armed only with a camcorder and low-quality night-vision lens, forced to peer hard into the darkness at the very things he – and we – would rather avoid. As a result,Outlastconjures a thick atmosphere of jump scares and fragility that only really lets up when the core mechanics become familiar.
Big data, infographics, visualisations – the pop words of a modern phenomenon. But while information accumulation has become a 21st-century obsession, our generation is not the first to discover that a picture is worth a thousand words, as a new British Library exhibition will reveal.Revelling in the power of illustrations, tables and figures,Beautiful Sciencecharts the course of data dissemination across the centuries, from the grim ledgers of death recorded byJohn Graunt in the 17th-century "bills of mortality" to thedigital evolutionary treedreamt up by an Imperial College researcher, complete with a mind-boggling zoomable function. "You can use almost fractal-like patterns to explore all of life on Earth," says Dr Johanna Kieniewicz, lead exhibition curator.But diagrams can also be agents of change. Indeed, Florence Nightingale's talent at wielding data to push for health reforms shows she was not only the lady with the lamp but the girl with the graphics. "She was actually a very eminent and hard-nosed statistician," says Kieniewicz. The brutal message of her "rose" charts of mortality, constructed using data from the Crimean war, was both informative and highly influential, showing in stark, uncompromising terms that the numbers of soldiers dying from disease and squalor far outweighed those dying from battle injuries.And other vivid illustrations are also on show. A map of Soho bearing neat black marks holds the clue to a devastating cholera outbreak that hit the area 160 years ago. Created by medical man John Snow, the black marks track the deaths street by street and, combined with Snow's theory that cholera was waterborne, pinpoint the root of the outbreak: a contaminated pump in the centre of Broad Street. "One thing that's incredibly interesting about John Snow's cholera map is that, in a sense, it's a tool of discovery as well as communication," explains Kieniewicz. "This is a way through which he could actually test his hypothesis and show what was going on."Split into three sections – public health, weather and climate and trees of life – the exhibition also boasts examples of more contemporary techniques, including the specially commissioned "Circles of Life", revealing the similarities between the human genome and those of chimps, chickens and platypuses. It is a reminder, perhaps, that diagrams are not only helpful in public communication but are often vital tools for sophisticated research.From scientists to consumers, there's no escaping the onward march of big data. But asBeautiful Scienceshows, if we embrace the power of graphics, fresh insights to modern challenges may be glimpsed. And that could be massive.Beautiful Science: Picturing Data, Inspiring Insight, runs from 20 February to 26 May at the British Library
Last week, my email inbox began to fill up with angry emails. Had I seen the dreadful/unbelievable/disgraceful/hilarious/ (delete as appropriate)Newsnightinterview with Lottie Dexter? I hadn't and as I'd never heard of Ms Dexter I wasn't unduly bothered. After all, life is too short to be watchingNewsnightevery night.Still, the drumbeat of indignation in my inbox was insistent enough to make me Google her. It turned out that she is the executive director of something calledYear of Code, an outfit that had just been launched. According to its website, it's "an independent, non-profit campaign to encourage people across the country to get coding for the first time in 2014. Through code, people can discover the power of computer science, changing the way they think about, and get the most out of, the world around them."Getting the spokesperson of a startup on toNewsnightwas obviously a PR coup of some magnitude, which suggests, among other things, that the programme's new editor, Ian Katz, is still a bit wet behind the ears. Intrigued, I headed over to YouTube to find theinterviewthat was so exercising my correspondents. Ms Dexter was interviewed by Jeremy Paxman in full disdainful mode. "How easy is it," he inquired grandly, "to learn to code?" "I'm going to put my cards on the table," she replied. "I can't code. I've committed this year to learn to code." "A year!" said Paxman, incredulously. "Well," she explained, "you can do very little in a short space of time." A few minutes later, however, she explained to an increasingly incredulous Paxo that teachers (who are the prime target of Year of Code) would be able to "pick it up in a day".Since many of my email correspondents had expended much effort over the past two years persuading Michael Gove that the ICT curriculum in schools needed a radical overhaul, I could see why they were annoyed. Just after all the arduous campaigning by grassroots organisations such asComputing at Schoolhad finally paid off, a posse of wealthy corporate types suddenly rides into town like the US cavalry, announcing that it will rescue the populace from its computational ignorance and putting forward a self-declared ignoramus as their spokesperson.So who are these Year of Code folks?  Tom Morris, a well-known blogger, went through the organisation's advisory board and came up with theinteresting discoverythat, of the 23&nbsp;movers and shakers involved, only three seemed to be actual techies. Most of the rest were corporate or PR types. The driving force behind the enterprise is a guy called Saul Klein, who is a partner in an investment firm calledIndex Venturesand has a record of astute investment and entrepreneurship. The chairman is Rohan Silva, who is "entrepreneur in residence" at Index Ventures. Silva is a former policy adviser to the prime minister who recently passed through the traditional revolving door via which senior officials are transmuted into corporate representatives.More interesting still are the affiliations of the advisory board's members. By my count, at least five of them are from theportfolio of companiesin which Index Ventures has invested. And, in a nice coincidence, another board member is Saul Klein's cousin, Alex, who is a co-founder ofKano, an interesting startup that has launched an ingenious kit that enables anyone, including schoolchildren, to build their own computers and learn to code.There are two possible interpretations of all this. One is the cock-up theory that holds that Year of Code is a well-intentioned initiative that has suffereda disastrous public relations fiasco. In this view, Year of Code is a laudable enterprise by wealthy corporate types who want to do good by injecting energy into an important national project – to prepare our schoolchildren for the computer-dominated world that they will inherit.An alternative, less charitable, view is that Year of Code is a takeover bid by a corporate world that has woken up to the realisation that the changes in the computing curriculum and the success of the open-sourceRaspberry Piwill open up massive commercial opportunities.In a way, it doesn't matter which interpretation is correct. The project to educate teachers to exploit the new computing curriculum is too important to be drowned in squabbles. It needs all the help it can get from both grassroots organisationsandthe commercial world. The logical thing to do, therefore, is for the Year of Code initiative to be re-engineered with a board that reflects all of the groups that need to work together to bring this off. And then we should call it Year of Code 2.0.• This article was amended on 18 February 2014. An earlier version said that Alex Klein is Saul Klein's son. He is his first cousin.
When you've spent the best part of your life going round and round in a&nbsp;wooden bowl, what to do once you've had enough? That was the dilemma facing Sir Chris Hoy last year, when he wheeled his fixie out of the velodrome for the final time and retired, aged 37. He could have changed gear, like when Dave from Blur became a solicitor. Instead, Hoy chose to stick on broadly the same course and became the latest ex pro to endorse a range of bikes.He's in good company.Chris Boardman, another Olympic gold winner, has a well-regarded line. So does Tour de France sprinting dandyMario Cipollini, who produces flashy bikes at the kind of prices that encourage honest men to lie to their wives – a foregone conclusion from a poser who has never knowinglybuttoned a shirt up past his navel. Hoy's pricing is much more modest. His entry-level road bike costs £625. Not bad for a full Shimano group-set – albeit the bottom-of-the-range Sora 3500 – and a one-piece carbon fork.Hoy's Sa Calobra is named after the most fearsome climb in Mallorca, where in the off season Hoy used to cultivate those obscene hamstrings. Weekend's budget doesn't stretch to a trip to the Balearics, so I put it to the test in the North York Moors on a&nbsp;freezing Sunday in January. The aim was to take it along the old railway line from Whitby to Scarborough and back, with chips atMagpie Cafeto finish. I hit a problem as soon as we joined thecycle trackabove Whitby. It had been raining pretty solidly since 2013 and the path had gone allGlastonbury 97. Soon my wheels were no longer turning, the brake pads were clogged with mud and we had to head to the nearest garage to abuse their pressure hose. Then we were off to Robin Hood's Bay via the&nbsp;main road, which involves a&nbsp;steep descent. Barrelling downhill, I realised the calliper brakes (Tektro R340) weren't as responsive as I'd like, and I&nbsp;unclipped one foot ready manually to slow myself down, like a&nbsp;toddler learning to ride.Perhaps the bike was a shade too big, making the brakes hard to reach. At 5ft 4ins, I had the extra small frame, a 51-inch model, learning too late I could have asked for a smaller stem and narrower handlebars as a free swap. Evans, which stocks the range exclusively and designed the bike under the watchful eye of Sir Chunky Thighs, also offers to fit women's saddles for nowt (bravo).I liked the gearing, though. Low enough to get me grinding up and out of the bay but with high notes that sped me to the chip shop before closing. I think of it as a&nbsp;retirement present from Hoy to me: a&nbsp;pretty good bike at a very nice price.HOY Sa Calobra .001 2014 Road BikePrice£625 (evanscycles.com)FramealuminiumForkFull one-piece carbonGears8 (Shimano Sora 3500 compact with 12:25 cassette)ChainsetFSA
They say you only get one chance to make a first impression. For Jamil Kassam, it didn’t go in HTC’s favour. “I purchased the HTC Desire S back when it first came out,” recalls Kassam, 31, thinking back to 2011. “I remember a few friends had the original Desire and spoke highly of it.”But his experience was different. “Within a couple of months of owning the S, the handset was giving me problems. The phone constantly froze, switched itself off at random times, and began to take longer and longer to restart. Since then I took the first available opportunity to move back to the iPhone and realistically I can’t see myself owning an HTC again.”Similarly, Korea’s LG had one chance to impress Scott Jones, 35, a marketing consultant from London. Unfortunately, it missed it. “I picked up an LG-E400,” Jones explained. “Nothing too exciting but it ticked the boxes. Unfortunately it’s basically unusable.”The problem, he says, is that its hardware falls short of the software demands. “It’s Android, but it cannot run Android; the internal memory cannot cope with basic updates to Android or Google’s apps. Why they built it with such small internal memory, which was basically full as soon as a couple of Google updates came through, I have no idea.” His conclusion? “Never again will I touch an LG smartphone.”The experiences of Kassam and Jones (who replied to arequest for experiencesvia Twitter) shed light on the reality confronting mobile phone companies: they may have only one chance to get it right with customers. A single slip-up, or one bad experience, can be enough to put people off a brand forever.Why? Because our emotional reactions to smartphones are so strong - much more than with PCs orfeature phones. The smartphone travels with us wherever we go, and knows more about us than any other device; it carries what’s important and personal to us, be it music, video, photos or messages. It’s a vital connection to the outside world, to friends and family, as well as to colleagues and acquaintances.Commodity pressureBut with smartphonesmaking up the majority of all phones sold in 2013, according to IDC, and comprising85% of phones sold in the UK during the last three months of 2013according to Kantar, getting and retaining customers has become increasingly important.The other pressure on handset companies is to compete on price. Aside from Apple, which has stuck to the high end (its 5S model starts at £549 SIM-free, its “cheaper” 5C model at £470, and the two-year-old iPhone 4S at £349), those which can’t offer handsets across a broad price range struggle to attract buyers.“The smartphone has really commoditised the market and it’s becoming very, very difficult for manufacturers to differentiate themselves, and price is increasingly becoming one of the sole factors,” said Anshul Gupta, a principal analyst with research firm Gartner.But hitting a price point to gain customers can be undone in the longer term if they get a poor experience. That means striking a careful balance, explained Francisco Jeronimo, research director of European mobile devices for IDC.“Vendors need to be very careful with the user experience, the quality of materials and the durability of the device because if they have devices that aren’t very good, consumers will move and look at other manufacturers,” he says.Small niggles and frustrations are often magnified by the frequency that they occur on this most used of devices, which various studies say we consult dozens of times per day. Compounding that potential for irritation are the mobile phone contracts through which most people get their phones. Typically, those last between 18 and 24 months. If your phone irritates you, it’s like being obliged to wear ill-fitting shoes day after day for months on end.Cardboard cutoutSuch was the experience of Kit Peverley, a 33-year-old senior visual designer based in London, who switched from a Motorola Milestone in 2009 to an HTC Sensation in 2011. “From around four months in, my HTC Sensation started to power down at random intervals, often – extremely annoyingly – before I was able to answer incoming calls. This left me with no knowledge of who had called since after restart there would be no record of said call in the call log.”That niggle grew into general dissatisfaction: “The general build quality of the phone was also very poor with three separate parts used for the back of the case, which began to separate, leading me to replace the case after around six months. The power button also broke and fell out, which at one stage led me having to insert a piece of cardboard in the hole to replace it,” said Peverley.“I wish I could say that my experience was a one-off, but a colleague was given the same phone on contract and after three months experienced the same restarting and overheating issues I did,” continued Peverley, concluding that “the whole saga has completely turned me off HTC, and for the time being, Android.” (He moved to an iPhone 5 when his contract was up.)So what’s a struggling handset maker to do? HTC is currently concentrating on the “One” line, the favourably reviewed HTC One and One Mini. Its solution to its falling sales is to produce more phones to hit a greater range of price points, among whichthe Desire 8 is expectedto be unveiled at Mobile World Congress at the end of February, with more joining later this year.“High-end phones are really important – having the best phone available is crucial for us – but we want to fill out the lower ranges as well,” said Philip Blair, HTC’s president of Europe, Middle East and Africa, speaking to the Guardian.HTC is not the only mobile manufacturer to sell a range of smartphones at different price points. Almost all the others in the market, including Motorola, Samsung and Sony sell both high-end or flagship smartphones along side more affordable or budget models.Love at first sightWhile some manufacturers have made some very good affordable models – Motorola’s excellent Moto G, for £135, is a standout – others have left somewhat to be desired with restricted features and a frustrating experience.“First impressions are extremely important, and that’s why every company needs to have the best experience possible, especially as we start to see the second wave of smartphone adoption where people are not just buying their first smartphone, but their second or third,” said Jeronimo.When manufacturers expand their ranges downward to the budget market, cost-cutting risks producing a bad experience that can poison customers’ view of the brand.Pricy does not always equal goodProblems like that are not isolated to budget or mid-range smartphones, however. Manufacturers that do not get the smartphone experience right at the high end also run the same risk – and the higher cost of a “flagship” device could increase the potential for alienation.While some of these issues could be described as one-offs or to have only affected a small amount of users, the same problem remains: these people will never buy the malfunctioning smartphone brand again, especially if the manufacturer fails to respond to the issues.“Every manufacturer has had problems with their smartphones, including giants like Apple and Samsung, but the customer reaction to those often minor issues is frequently dependent on how quickly companies address the problem,” explained Jeronimo.Not exactly a new problemThese alienation issues are anything but new. John Wilson, a 64-year-old retired computer language designer from Aylesbury, had issues with a Nokia back in 1999 that put him off the brand for life.“I liked the 8210 very much. It was small, light and reliable. Unfortunately it had a design fault which meant that after about a year the screen would fail and you would have to mess about pressing the case in a particular place to get it to come back on,” said Wilson.“It was a well known fault with the phone but Nokia denied it existed and refused to replace the faulty phones. I&apos;m sure Nokia continued to make well designed phones for some time after 1999 but I didn’t use any of them,” Wilson concluded.BlackBerry and Sony have also seen their share of problems, causing buyers to swear off the brand even - or perhaps because - they were die-hard fans. Hussein Kanji was a huge BlackBerry fan - but found the Q10 too buggy to bear, and produced afurious Tumblrbetween May and December 2013 detailing his frustrations with the keyboard-enabled Q10. Hisfinal entrysays “I’ve given up. I’m waiting for Typo” - a reference to the slide-on keyboard being built for the iPhone.Separately, some Sony fans have beenfrustrated by touchscreen issues with some Xperia models.Manufacturers that produce a phone with issues, whether software or hardware, which produce a poor experience lose those customers – and it can be for life. That makes the production of quality smartphones at all price ranges exceptionally important.The emotions are strong“We’ve strived to make sure that the incoming lower ranges of HTC phones will have the same experience that our top of the range smartphones have,” said Peter Frølund, vice president of HTC in the UK, told the Guardian.The inverse experience can also be true: a good budget smartphone experience can win brand loyalty and lead to users buying into higher-priced models.“Brand loyalty is not quite as powerful as it used to be, making it even more important to maintain quality, especially at lower price points,” explained Gupta.As manufacturers increasingly struggle to differentiate their smartphones from the competition, brand loyalty and positive word of mouth becomes ever more important to maintain sales. One poor key handset can destroy a manufacturer’s reputation leading to a loss of momentum and a dip in sales.But it can work the other way too: make customers happy, and they’ll stay with you. “I&apos;ve tried virtually every phone manufacturer, as I do like the latest kit and am open to change in general, but Samsung seem to have me now,” says Jones. “I’ll probably get an Galaxy S5 after owning and liking the Galaxy S3.”• The Motorola Moto G lives up to the “game-changing” hype anddelivers an experience miles better than it shouldat just £135 or less
Part of this week's Glasgow film festival isGame Cats Go Miaow!(23-25 Feb). Featuring comedian and all-round games hero, Robert Florence, there will be sessions on story writing for games, a geeks v gamers panel quiz, and 48 Hour Games based on Nordic Game Jam's hectic no-sleep game-creation events. Current releases includeBarbie Dreamhouse Party(Wii, DS, 3DS, Wii U), a vile pink-infested merchandise-shifter for Mattel's doll range; unlikely sounding but extremely playable football-based RPG Inazuma Eleven gets another sequel,Team Ogre Attacks(3DS);The Lego Movie Videogame(Xbox 360, PS3, PS Vita, Xbox One, PS4, Wii U, 3DS, PC) is up to the usual lofty standard of LEGO games; and originally released in 2010,DanganRonpa: Trigger Happy Havoc(PS Vita) is a very Japanese interactive murder mystery "novel" set in a high school.
Microsoft has sold 200m licences for Windows 8, the company announced late on Thursday.The announcement comes 15 months after the release of the software, and nine months since the last milestone - of 100m licences sold.But it contrasts starkly with figures for Windows 7, which by the same period had sold 300m licences.Instead, the comparator for Windows 8 seems to be more closely with Vista, the poorly received version released in November 2005 which saw many people either hanging on to Windows XP, or avoiding it and waiting for its successor, Windows 7.Windows version licence sales by time from launch for Windows 7, Windows 8 and Vista. Source: Microsoft. Photograph: /Public domainWindows 8 is slightly ahead of Vista in sheer speed of sales: Vista took 18 months to sell 180m licences, according to Microsoft. But Vista’s release came at a time when Windows PC sales overall were slower than at present. Data from IDC shows that by the time Microsoft announced 180m Vista licences, after 18 months, a total of 389m PCs excluding Apple Macs had been sold.By contrast, since Windows 8 went on sale 15 months ago, IDC says 384m PCs (excluding Apple Macs) have been sold. That suggests Windows 8 licences have been sold for 52% of all PCs shipped; for Vista at the 18-month period, it was 46%.For Windows 7, when it sold 300m licences, a total of 418.1m PCs (excluding Apple) had been shipped - putting it on 71.8% of PCs.The gap between shipments and the number of licences sold is almost certainly due to corporate purchases, where companies can use “volume licensing” to install Windows onto hundreds or thousands of PCs at once, rather than wider usage of Linux or Chromebooks, which sold a few million units in 2013.Microsoft emphasised this point in its statement after Tami Reller, Microsoft’s head of Windows marketing, let slip the latest licensing figure at a Goldman Sachs technology conference. Microsoft confirmed the number, saying: “Windows 8 has surpassed 200 million licenses sold, and we continue to see momentum. This number includes Windows licenses that ship on a new tablet or PC, as well as upgrades to Windows 8. The figure does not include volume license sales to enterprise. Windows is a central part of life for more than 1.5 billion people around the world, and we are looking forward to the future.”Windows version licences as a percentage of Windows PCs shipped for Windows 7, Windows 8 and Vista. PC shipments data: IDC. Photograph: /Public domainWindows 8, which melds a tablet-style interface with a desktop-style substructure, has proved unpopular with some consumers, and was launched as tablets were growing in popularity. HP recently marketed a line of PCs on the basis thatcustomers could get Windows 7 rather than 8 - describing it as “back by popular demand”, though it had never gone away.Update:Mary Jo Foleyat ZDNet notesthatMicrosoft is going to allow OEMs to continue to build and sell new PCs with Windows 7 Professional preinstalled beyond October 2014, the original date that would have been the cutoff under the company’s normal sales lifecycle. But OEMs won’t be permitted to build and sell new PCs with the consumer editions of Windows 7 after October 31, 2014.Microsoft officials went public withthis change to Windows 7’s lifecycleon February 14.How many?In May 2013, an estimate from Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights &amp; Strategy reckoned that data from NetMarketShare, which then showed Windows 8 being used on 4.2% of machines accessing its sites, and a world installed base of 1.5bn PCs,suggested it was being used on around 58.6m machines, at a time when Microsoft said it had sold 100m licences. The Guardian’s own calculations, based on a combination of data from Microsoft about Windows 7 installed base and from StatCounter and NetMarketShare, suggested there were around 58.2m machines running it.Using the same methodology - based on StatCounter data (which shows Windows 8.1 at 3.19% and Windows 8 at 7.93%, for a total of 11.12%), and NetMarketShare data (showing Windows 8.1 at 3.95% and Windows 8 at 6.63%, for 10.58% in all) - suggests that Windows 8 is running on between 139m and 159m machines. Apple claims an installed base of 72m Macs worldwide.Both Windows 7 and Windows XP remain ahead of Windows 8 on both StatCounter and NetMarketShare’s measure of operating system use, with around 48% and 29% share (NetMarketShare) or 54% and 19% share (StatCounter). But Windows XP is approaching the end of its life in April, after which Microsoft will not provide free security updates - posing a problem for consumers and small businesses which have not upgraded.(Fixed link to HP offering Windows 7 - thanks @tylosin.)•Ask Jack: can I downgrade from Windows 8 to Windows 7?
Apple plans to cease using conflict minerals, the company has announced in its annual supplier responsibility report.As of the end of January, Apple’s entire supply of tantalum, a rare metal used extensively in the production of capacitors, is provided by smelters verified as conflict-free. The move was announced in Apple’s supplier responsibility report, the eighth edition of which was published on Thursday.As the electronics industry is the biggest customer for tantalum, Apple focused its efforts on securing a clean supply chain for that element. But the company intends for all the tin, tungsten and gold it uses to be similarly verified as from safe and fair sources, and the Guardian understands that the intention is for this to happen by the end of 2014.When asked why it didn’t simply refuse to buy from unverified sources, the company’s senior vice president of operations, Jeff Williams, told the Financial Times that “we could wave our conflict-free flag but it would do nothing to affect the workers on the ground… what we are focused on is getting a critical mass of suppliers verified such that we can truly influence the demand situation and change things.”Conflict-free smelters must demonstrate that the minerals they use don’t come from sources whose existence finances or otherwise benefits armed groups associated with human rights violations. The issue is particularly pressing for the four elements Apple is addressing because of the large sources in and around war-torn Democratic Republic of the Congo.In addition to conflict minerals, Apple is highlighting its worker-education programmes. The company trained 1.5 million workers throughout its supply train on their rights, both legal and those guaranteed to them as Apple suppliers. It says it has trained over 3.8 million since the programme started in 2007.On a more practical level, the company has also achieved a measure of success in ensuring that its suppliers are not overworked. Apple mandates a 60-hour working week for manufacturers, and the company says that “reducing excessive overtime remains a priority”. It managed to hold its suppliers to compliance with that demand 95% of the time, up from 92% the year before.•Updated to clarify when Apple will cease using conflict minerals
Today is hated Valentine’s Day, that one day out of the year that you are either 1) forced to recognise that the act of being in a relationship with another human is performative by committing an act of hollow gift-giving, or 2) forced to recognise that you are an entirely unloveable Smiths song of a mammal in a world where worth is measured mostly in proximity to other people’s erogenous zones. And what if you have to move back in with your mum? That’s only going to even further limit your ability to hang out with hotties.But fear not. I am a quite contented number 3) drowning in games that simulate the joys and anguishes of human interaction. And with absolutely none of the STIs or the crying. Let me lead you through the interactive playground of wonder. You may leave knowing that you are indeed human, have loved and are loved, and yes, even video games can remind you of that.How Do You Do ItA game ostensibly about sexual instruction using dollsHow Do You Do It is a free online game by Emmett Butler, Nina Freeman, Jonathan Kittaka, and Deckman Coss that simulates the ridiculousness of sex, which it may be useful to remember if you’re alone today without an interfacing partner. Ostensibly, the game is about a girl playing with her Barbies while her mother is out, trying to work out how on earth grown-ups “do it”, but really just mashing the two dolls together to work out how exactly the body parts are supposed to fit. It looks clumsy and silly, is really fun to play, and the artwork is adorable. At the end, you get a score of how many times you might have done it. (It’s probably hundreds of times by the way, wow.) This game does contextualise sex into a ridiculous prospect. I mean, sex is pretty silly, right? All those flailing limbs? Who needs it? Barbie certainly doesn’t look like she’s having an amazing time.Save The DateA Save the Date trailerSave The Date is genuinely very reassuring, in the kind of way that you wish all dating Sims would reassure you that dating is a massive disaster and you’d be better off not even leaving the house; but it’s also a much smarter trip through narrative and the choices we might make. Available online, Save The Date is a free and incredibly witty, smart, and well-thought out videogame Groundhog Day. It’s at least as charming as it sounds, and the replays that are necessary to explore the ever expanding and complex narrative are really fun and occasionally hilarious. Your date Felicia gives an adorable incredulousness to the increasingly outlandish happenings; it’s a date you won’t forget anytime soon. Further explanations would give spoilers. Seek it out yourself and save the date.Hex BoyfriendsHex Boyfriends – there's more to love than boys and spells.Ever since Buffy The Vampire Slayer ended and Twilight made me hate myself for having a greatly increased appetite for men who are possessive, patronising and moody, there’s been a slight hole in my heart for occult-interested scene boys. Have no fear! Lacy Wilson has written an adorable choose your own adventure for iThings and Android called Hex Boyfriends. You get a selection of cute boys to literally enchant and bewitch, and you can choose your gender and input your name to have the story personalise to your taste. Which major you apply for at college affects where on campus you get up to sexy sex. The little stories wind through the occult and the supernatural, and are punctuated with teen hormones. Perhaps my favourite thing about this game is the achievements: I attained the ‘Tall Dark and Handsome’ achievement for romancing a guy called Theo, and I managed to bed him in a graveyard winning me the Monster Mash award. This is a cute teen dating adventure with no explicitness, but role-playing the hottest thing on campus is rewarding. Also available is the first in the Strange Loves series, Vampire Boyfriends.Gone HomeGone Home – friendship and love to the sound of BratmobileGone Home is the multi-award winning, BAFTA-nominated first person exploration game that is perhaps one of the most romantic narrative-led games I’ve played. It is set in 1995, and has the trappings of pop culture surrounding you, with X-Files on VHS and Pulp Fiction on the mind. Initially, it looks like the creepy house that you, the teenage Kaitlin Greenbriar, come home to is haunted or at least malevolent in some way, but the mysteries in Gone Home are purely text-based - on Post Its, notes, and objects. Wind your way through the corridors of your parents’ new home and as you do, uncover the story of two teens who enact their obsessions through diaries, flyers and trinkets. It’s unforgettable, charming, and has a Riot Grrl soundtrack. You can get lost in this story. Who needs anyone else when you can reminisce about teen crushes?Love HotelCome in and find retro love.Spare a thought for the poor Japanese love hotel managers today - lovers will be flocking in vast numbers to these illicit bolt holes to get a little privacy and possibly a little horizontal tango. Love Hotel is an amazing Sim Tower-inspired game with adorable graphics where you help run and expand your very own Japanese-style love hotel. Free, and made for a competition where developers tried to produce a Nintendo-style game, it can also be played with a USB NES controller, and is inspired by Nintendo’s early days when they invested in Japan’s profitable love hotel establishments. The best thing about this game is that the Australian creators, 3 Silly Hats, have made it kink-friendly, with diverse couples who are attracted to different sorts of novelty rooms. My favourites are the gay male couples who are “posh” - they have little top hats! As you increase your profit, you can buy ever more extravagant rooms for your little sims to bonk in, including such themed suites as the spooning room, the tropical beach room, and the chocolate moustache. Frisky business indeed. Just remember to hire enough cleaners.Even Cowgirls BleedEven Cowgirls Bleed – a whirlwind relationship told through text and a lot of shooting.The incredibly aptly-named Christine Love is the western queen of sexy texty games about doin’ it. The uncovering of the hot shadowy affairs between Love’s protagonists is always vicariously erotic in the way of lovers slowly learning new information about each other. She made “love on a 90s BBS” gameDigital: A Love Story, and the creepy voyeuristic visual novelDon’t Take It Personally Babe It Just Ain’t Your Story, as well as exploring relationships through dystopic sci-fi AIs inAnalogue: A Hate Story. All of Love’s games address how we come to terms with love in a digital age, often in a mysterious, tantalising, titillating way. The discovery and sorting of information about others, and the use of it to negotiate relationships is paramount to her games.However, it’sEven Cowgirls Bleedthat’s the hot torrid affair in a glass: a quick browser experience, it’s about the short intense relationship of two cowgirls, and how quickly the whirlwind feelings of lust can turn to hurt. Short, sharp, and goes down neat. Love is cruel. Valentine’s Day? Not if this is going to happen …Who needs half a dozen roses? Games last longer. Just don’t put them in water.
PlayStation 4 outsold Xbox One by almost two-to-one in the US during January according to figures released by retail analyst, NPD Group. Although exact numbers are not revealed outside of the industry, Sony spokesperson Guy Longworth claimed, “demand for PlayStation 4 remains incredibly strong as it was No. 1 in sales for next-gen consoles in January, nearly doubling the nearest next-gen competitor.”Microsoft, however, hasprovided its own spin on the figures, pointing out that Xbox One has been selling 2.29 times faster than the Xbox 360 over a comparative time period. Combined hardware sales in the period were $241m.According to GamesIndustry.Biz, this was a 17 percent improvement on January 2013, or 46 percent if figures are normalised to take into consideration that January 2013 was a five-week accounting period, compared to the four weeks of January 2014. MCV, meanwhile,has reported figures from the UKcourtesy of Chart-Track. Almost 500,000 PS4 and Xbox One consoles were sold in January, with PS4 again out-selling Xbox One, although once again actual figures are not made public.As for game sales, January 2014 shows something of a downturn. Total software sales stood at just $232m, 26 percent down on last year after normalisation. According to NPD Group analyst Liam Callahan the drop was due to the big Christamas 2013 releases failing to keep up momentum into the new year. Furthermore, “there were about half the number of SKUs launched this January versus January 2013, leading to a 52 percent decrease in sales for new launches (or 39 percent when normalized for the 5-week January 2013). DMC: Devil May Cry and Ni No Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch were particularly strong launches in January 2013, causing a poor comparison for launches in January 2014.”In the UK, MCV states that 2.2m physical games were sold in the month, 5.4 per cent up over January 2013. Here, once again, the figures were affected by the lack of new releases with only Mario Party: Island Tour on 3DS debuting on the chart. It’s also worth pointing out that both the NPD and Chart-Track figures include only physical games sold through retail stores – they do not account for downloadable titles.US news site Venture Beat,which revealed the figures from the NPD Group, has provided a chart of the ten best selling games in January in the US, with formats giving in order of greatest sales:Call of Duty: Ghosts (360, PS3, Xbox One, PS4, Wii U, PC)NBA 2K14 (PS4, 360, Xbox One, PS3, PC)Battlefield 4 (PS4, Xbox One, 360, PS3, PC)Assassin’s Creed IV: Black Flag (360, PS4, Xbox One, PS3, Wii U, PC)Grand Theft Auto V (360, PS3)Madden NFL 25 (PS4, Xbox One, 360, PS3)Minecraft (360)FIFA 14 (PS4, Xbox One, PS3, 360, Vita)Lego Marvel Super Heroes (360, Xbox One, PS3, PS4, 3DS, Wii U, Vita, PC)Tomb Raider (PS4, Xbox One, 360, PS3)PlayStation 4, then, has consistently beaten Xbox One in sales, apart from the biggest title of the month, Call of Duty: Ghosts. Microsoft has also pointed out that, combined, the Xbox platforms sold the most games.The good news for both Sony and Microsoft is that people are buying the new consoles, even though game releases have been rather scarce since both platforms launched in November 2013. If PS4 is doing better now, things should get interesting in March when Electronic Arts’ big hope, Titanfall, launches on just the Xbox machines. In terms of platform exclusives, that title will be up against Sony’s inFamous: Second Son, which hasn’t quite drawn the interest of EA’s sci-fi shooter.The real test, perhaps will be later in the year, when stock levels of both consoles even out, and true consumer interest – beyond the five million or so hardcore early adopters – will become more clear.•PS4 or Xbox One? A parent’s guide• PlayStation 4 vs Xbox One: The next-gen consoles compared
Tesco has been forced to deactivate online customer accounts after thousands of login details, including passwords, were posted online.A list of over 2,000 Tesco.com internet shopping accounts was posted online by hackers on Thursday, allowing access to online shopping accounts, personal details and Tesco Clubcard vouchers.“We take the security of our customers’ data extremely seriously and are urgently investigating these claims,” a Tesco spokesman said in a statement.The data is thought to have been compiled by hackers using stolen details from other web services, testing email and password combinations released in other high-profile hacks against Tesco’s website.“We have contacted all customers who may have been affected and are committed to ensuring that none of them miss out as a result of this. We will issue replacement vouchers to the very small number who are affected,” added the Tesco spokesman.Real and automatedThe hackers appear to have managed to confirm 2,239 separate accounts, which still used the same username and password combination as the compromised data released in other hacks.“The data released by the hackers shows signs of being created by automated tools,” said Rik Ferguson, vice-president of security research atTrend Micro, talking to the Guardian. “We can confirm that the data is real, that some of the login details do work, and that Tesco has deactivated some of the affected accounts.”“We could not confirm that the login information released by the hackers came from other hacks,” explained Ferguson. “However, the presence of password data in cleartext in the leak certainly indicates that it wouldn’t be data extracted directly from Tesco in a database attack unless its passwords were stored in the clear and not encrypted as they should have been.”Change your password, nowUsers who have been affected are urged to check their other services that use the same or similar username and password combination, and change their passwords to something unique to avoid further repercussions. Passwords should be amixture of numbers, punctuation and upper and lower letters.“So far the information available indicates that the impact of this has been relatively limited – stolen vouchers – but if attackers have tried this onTesco.com, the chances are they are also trying it on other sites too and so we may see additional fallout.” said Trey Ford, global security strategist at Rapid7.Using the same username and password combination, such as a common email address and memorable password, across multiple sites may be easier to remember but makes it easier for hackers to steal your details from multiple sites.Are your security questions really ‘secure’?“Security or password reset questions are one of the most common ways to break into an account. If you are asked to provide answers to ‘security questions’ consider whether the answers are really secure – that you are the only one who can answer them,” said Ferguson. “If the possibility exists to create your own questions, use it. If you are obliged to answer more standard questions such as “first school” or “first pet” remember the answer doesn’t have to be the truth, it only has to be something you can remember.”This is just the latest in a line of attacks targeting Tesco. In 2013, hundreds of Tesco Clubcard loyalty scheme users reportedthat their accounts had been compromised, with some seeing vouchers stolen and cashed in for Alton Towers tickets among other things.It was suggested at the time that the Clubcard hacks were also caused by account holders using the same username and password combination on other compromised sites and services.• What to do if youremail or other account gets hacked, and how to prevent it happening again in the future.
It seems almost inevitable that we will have our email hacked into, or some other violation of any of the online services upon which we depend.While it may be distressing and confusing, it is possible to take back control, and there are some simple precautions that can help prevent it.Step 1: get into your email accountThe first step is to assess the damage. Go to the website of your email provider, and log into your email account.If the password has been changed, then try the password reset mechanism by clicking on the link marked “Forgotten your password?” or similar.Once you’re into your email account, the very first thing you should do is change your password. Change it to something long and strong, using multiple cases, numbers and special characters. Avoid using real words. We&apos;ll deal with password security later, but for now, change it so the hacker can&apos;t get back into your email account.Step 2: check your other accountsOnce you’ve changed the password for your email account it is important to change the password of any other accounts with other services such as Facebook, Twitter, Amazon or your internet banking that may have had the same password.It is especially important if you use your email address as the username for those accounts, as the hackers now have both your username and password for those services.Check both your inbox and trash for any password reset emails from other services or accounts linked to your email addressnotinstigated by you. The hacker could have attempted to change your password on other sites, using access to your email to perform password resets.Step 3: check for spamSome hackers compromise email accounts in order to attack your friends or contacts. They use your email address to send spam or phishing emails attempting to trick them into thinking you need help, buy something or into giving up personal information.While it can be difficult to tell if your email account was abused in this way, a quick check of your sent email or your inbox for dodgy replies will help identify anyone who was targeted from your contacts list.If you do find someone contacted by the hacker, let them know that you didn&apos;t send the email to them via another communication method if you can, or by email if that&apos;s your only contact with them.Step 4: sort out your appsOnce you&apos;ve secured your email account, and dealt with any potential fallout from the violation, you need to make sure you can access your email address in all your usual places.If you use an email program, something like Outlook, Windows Mail, Mac Mail or you get your email on a phone or tablet computer, you will have to swap the compromised password on each device for your newly created secure password.Each program will be different, but as a general rule of thumb you have to go into the settings menu for your email account in the program and modify the account details to enter the new password.Instructions for how to do that are listed on the help websites forOutlook,Windows Mail, and Apple’ssupport forum for Apple Mail. On Android smartphones and tablets your password can be changed in the accounts section of the settings app. For the iPhone and iPad, your password can be changed under the mail, contacts and calendar section of the settings app.Step 5: protect yourself for the futureThe risk of having your email account or other services hacked is increasing, but there are some things you can do to prevent it.The humble password is not as secure as it used to be, but choosing a strong password can help.• The longer the password the better. The more characters there are in your password the longer it will take for a hacker to break it, making it less likely they will continue trying.• Use a mixture of numbers, lowercase and uppercase letters and special characters (punctuation) as it increases the complexity of your password and increases its strength.• Do not use real words in your passwords. The majority of hacking attacks cycle through dictionary words, which means if you use a real word in your password it is more likely to be broken.• The best passwords are a randomly generated strings of characters numbering 16 or more. Of course, that makes them very difficult to remember.• Never use a password twice.To solve the issue of trying to remember long complex passwords, password managers like LastPass or 1Password can help, storing all your passwords in a secure place, ready to fill in any login you need right in your browser.By using a password manager you are only as secure as the password to your password manager. Remembering one really complex and long password is a lot easier than remember 10 or 20 of them, however.Another layer of securityIn addition to passwords, a different type of security mechanism called two-factor authentication is becoming increasingly available.In principle it is very simple. In addition to your username and password you have another form of identification, normally consisting of a code generated by a key fob or a smartphone app, that has to be put in at the time of login and changes every minute or so.It means you keep something the hacker cannot get to, securing your account with another layer of security.Banks have been using them for a while, some giving out card readers that force you to enter your Pin to generate a code to input into your internet banking. Now most email providers and a variety of other online services offer two-factor or two-step authentication for free, so it is worth activating on your accounts if it is available.•Yahoo reveals attempted hack against email accounts
Japanese e-commerce firm Rakuten, controlled by the billionaire Hiroshi Mikitani, will buy messaging app Viber for $900m, the firms announced on Friday.The deal would more than double the number of users in Rakuten’s digital empire, which offers services from financing to shopping to online video on its e-commerce platform, the largest in Japan.In the face of a shrinking population and weak consumer spending at home, however, Mikitani is trying to re-invent Rakuten as a one-stop-site for a global audience.Privately held Viber, run from Cyprus by the Israeli entrepreneur Talmon Marco, will add 300 million users to Rakuten’s existing 200 million users, Mikitani told reporters in Tokyo.“This acquisition … will take Rakuten to a different level … Developing this messaging system on our own would have been impossible,” said Mikitani, who is also the company’s chief executive, adding that Rakuten users could, for example, use Viber’s instant messages to contact an online store while considering a purchase.Rakuten’s e-commerce platform, Rakuten Ichiba, is the sixth largest in the world by sales. The company puts a premium on its ability to communicate with customers. Last year, Mikitani told Reuters this personal touch will give Rakuten the edge over rivals like eBay and Amazon in Europe, where recession-hit retailers are struggling to tempt clients to spend.Rakuten has spent big in recent years on a variety of overseas purchases to broaden its businesses and reach under what Mikitani calls its “Rakuten Ecosystem” strategy.The company has acquired e-commerce providers from Brazil to Germany, as well as Toronto-based eReader business Kobo and online video providers Wuaki.tv of Spain and Viki of Singapore. In 2012, it made a large investment in website Pinterest.“This combination presents an amazing opportunity for Viber to enhance our rapid user growth in both existing and new markets,” said Marcoin a statement. “Sharing similar aspirations with Rakuten, our vision is to be the world’s number one communications platform and our combination with Rakuten is an important step in that direction.”Viber is one of the top five most downloaded smartphone phone call and messaging apps, and counts the United States, Russia and Australia among its biggest markets. It recently launched an instant messaging app for personal computers that allows users to make outgoing mobile calls to other Viber users and non-registered mobiles, making it a rival to Skype.Its 300 million registered users represents growth of over 120% in 2013. But the company istight-lippedabout how many of its users are “active”, rather than merely signed-up for the service. By indicators such astweetsorgoogle search activity, it appears tiny in comparison to competitors such as Skype and Whatsapp.The acquisition by Rakuten is expected to be completed by the end of March, both companies said.
It's Valentine's Day! Let's try and pretend it isn't happening by talking about games!
For St Valentine's Day, Google has posted an interactive doodle on their home page which allows users to send virtual chocolates to others.Users can choose three ingredients for three different chocolates which can then be sent via Twitter, Facebook or Google plus. The ingredients include chocolate, nuts, fruit, salt, ants, and hundreds and thousands.St Valentine's Day is when people traditionally send anonymous messages or gifts of love. It is named after an early Christian saint who may have been imprisoned in Roman times for illegally performing weddings for Christians or soldiers who wanted to marry them.The religious significance has been overshadowed by the secular festival which has spread beyond Christian culture. Valentine's gifts were often handmade or handwritten but are now mostly bought commercially. February 14 has become an important part of the commercial calendar for stationers, restaurateurs and many other retail industries.In some countries such as Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, the practice of sending Valentine's gifts has been proscribed by religious authorities and the police.In Wales, some ignore Valentine's Day and commemorates St Dwynwen, the patron saint of Welsh lovers on January 25 and in South America, the festival also incorporates friendship as well as love.
Police may be able to build 3D maps of crime scenes in as little as 20 minutes, thanks to new Australian technology.The handheld Zebedee scanner, developed by the CSIRO, uses a powerful laser to sweep an environment and create a 3D map accurate to the centimetre.The scanner had already been used and was saving police “many thousands of hours in investigation”, Queensland police commissioner Ian Stewart said at the device’s official launch on Friday.The Zebedee scanner is a handy crime-fighting tool. Photograph: CSIROHe said the scanner would be particularly useful in crime scenes involving fatal traffic accidents, unsteady terrain or rough weather, where evidence might quickly degrade.While the scanner wouldn’t replace traditional police methods of solving crimes, Stewart said it would lead to “faster capture of accurate information in our investigation process. That gives our people time to do other things”.It would also be used to vividly illustrate crime scenes to juries.The device is named after a character in the BBC animated series The Magic Roundabout, who, like the scanner, rested on springs.The technology was developed in Brisbane. Queensland police are the first law enforcement organisation in the world to take it up.The CSIRO says the next step is to make the Zebedee scanner airborne, so that it could access and explore remote crime scenes.
