Juxtaposed advert at Bethnal Green tube. Photo byPaul Milleron Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGame Group chief executive Lisa Morgan departs &gt;&gt; GuardianProfits have slumped and the chief operating officer is going too. Trading is tough - but it's not clear whether it's just the recession or other factors too.Facebook Further Reduces Your Control Over Personal Information &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier Foundation"The example Facebook uses in its announcement is a page for "Cooking." Previously, you could list "cooking" as an activity you liked on your profile, but your name would not be added to any formal "Cooking" page. (Under the old system, you could become a "fan" of cooking if you wanted). But now, the new Cooking page will publicly display all of the millions of people who list cooking as an activity."&#10;&#10;How about "alligator-wrestling"? Or "Facebook-leaving"?Government requests directed to Google and YouTube &gt;&gt; GoogleIt's easy to misinterpret this: the "government requests" actually include court orders - and last time we looked, the judiciary wasn't part of government, except in certain unpleasant countries. So there's a touch of politics in this..&#10;&#10;But have a look at the stats for China...Google data requests from governments: full list, as a spreadsheet &gt;&gt; Guardian DatablogCome on, spreadsheet wranglers - can't we do something involving maps, country sizes and these numbers?Per person UK makes more user data requests on Google than US &gt;&gt; Jimbo GunnThe first little bit of data wrangling..How volcanic ash affects a jet engine &gt;&gt; BBC Bang Goes The TheoryOK, they don't throw volcanic ash into a Rolls-Royce jet engine - but they do show you just what happens on the turbine blades, and how it can be survived... if you have nerves of steel.Digital Economy Act Code of Practice ideas &gt;&gt; AAISP.netA broadband provider puts forward some ideas on how to implement the DEA. "Given the huge risk of this system being used to cause serious concern and distress to end users (a break of the Communications Act in itself) it is essential that the authenticity of copyright infringement reports is verified by service providers. For this to be effective it is necessary for all copyright infringement notices to be digitally signed and such signatures to be verifiable by the service provider."&#10;&#10;That's going to be interesting..Apple's blow-out quarter: The bloggers called it. The Street blew it &gt;&gt; FortuneTurns out Wall Street analysts aren't very good at this "earnings estimates" game. Remind us what Wall Street *is* good at?How Much Do Music Artists Earn Online? &gt;&gt; Information is BeautifulNot much if they get played on Spotify. Turns out if you're smart you'll stick to selling self-burnt CDs of (your own) music.Letter to Google Inc. Chief Executive Officer &gt;&gt; April 20, 201010 countries - including the UK - have written to Eric Schmidt to complain about privacy and Google BuzzApple Removes Teaching App From App Store, and Educators Complain &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comScratch Scratch. Apple has removed the app for the Scratch Viewer "designed to let educators and others review a child's work that was created on an iPad, iPhone or iPod Touch using the Scratch programming language, which has become popular in many schools." So, are the kids victims of Apple's 3.3.1 insanity?Mac &amp; the iPad - History Repeats Itself &gt;&gt; Ask TogThe usability hero of the original Mac explains how our Fearless Leader keeps repeating himself.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Was it really a good idea for Constantin Films, the company that made the (excellent) 2004 film Der Untergang (Downfall), to step up itsdemands for YouTube to remove all the video spoofsusing a clip from its film? Constantin obviously thinks yes. At the moment asearch on YouTube for "Downfall"suggests there are still about 200 parodies up there, but new ones aren't getting added: yesterday's "lost iPhone 4G" video, for example, had a YouTube version - which was immediately taken down.YouTube is removing them by using its ContentID service, which can find clips which use the same soundtrack or video if it has been registered as copyrighted.However theOpen Video Alliance suggeststhat "The burden of filing a dispute or a claim of fair use to restore the video falls on individual users, so it will be difficult to reverse this action."The Electronic Frontier Foundation - in its splendidly-titled "Everyone Who's Made a Hitler Parody Video, Leave the Room" - points out that ContentID lets the copyright owner remove the video "whether or not that video contains other elements that make the use a noninfringing fair use".And it's the "fair use" thing which is important here. Although there are other considerations, which we'll come to.As the EFF says,"If copyright owners want to block remix creativity, they should have to use a formal DMCA takedown notice (and be subject to legal punishment if they fail to consider fair use), rather than a coarse automated blocking tool. That is one reason we called on YouTube to fix the Content ID system so that it will not automatically remove videos unless there is a match between the video and audio tracks of a submitted fingerprint and nearly the entirety (e.g, 90% or more) of the challenged content is comprised of a single copyrighted work. That was over two years ago, and YouTube told us then that they were working on improving the tool. If YouTube is serious about protecting its users, it is long past time for YouTube to do that work."US copyright law (which YouTube generally functions under)allows you to make "fair use"of extracts from a larger copyrighted work for the purposes of, among others, criticism, satire or art. (There are all sorts of "balancing" conditions too, which include whether the new works "supersede" the original, or whether it is to "stimulate creativity".It's hard not to see the Downfall parodies as stimulating creativity - even if the joke has worn, let's admit, a bit thin since theyfirst began appearing in August 2006(stand up, DReaperF4 on YouTube). On that basis, Constantin isn't justified if this case were to come to court - and one suspects the EFF might want to file a complaint on behalf of the many, many video makers.But over at Gamesbrief, Nicholas Lovell points out that there are all sorts of ways thatConstantin could have used the spoofs to make money: build a YouTube channel of the videos; claim the YouTube revenues from the parodies; build a Facebook fan page; build its own webpage and have winners each month; and so on. As he points out,Downfall only took 6% of its $92m worldwide box office revenues in the US- but now everyone who's ever been on YouTube will know at least one key scene from it.And it is awell-reviewed filmwhichgarnered 4/5 stars:"This is a long, riveting, detailed movie about a nation at the mercy of a poisonous ideology and a charismatic fanatic who has led them to the brink of an abyss. Played with a horrifying intensity by Bruno Ganz, a fine Swiss actor known for his cool, gently smiling persona, this Hitler is a petulant, capricious child who has imposed his will on everyone around him and created a system to enforce it."(See, you can buy it using that link up on the top left of this post. That's another way for Constantin to make money: insist on Amazon links in any mention. Well, might work.) And now? Going, going... gone?So let's salute good old DReaperF4, with his cut - which you'll notice starts earlier than all the following ones. And I still haven't worked out what the real dialogue is..
The news earlier this week that games publisher Ubisoft is "going green" byscrapping paper games manuals- digital only for their console titles now - is a mixed blessing.  Yes, this has to be good news from an environmental point of view – Ubisoft's bank balance will benefit from the cost-reduction too, of course – but it feels a little like the end of an era to me. Ok, I'll admit it, I rarely read the manual these days. In fact, if I have to refer to one it usually means the game is not doing what it should – namely introducing players to the game in an effective way. But I will miss them, especially when it comes to role-playing or strategy games.Of course, the golden era for manuals was back when games boxes were as big as those that housed VHS tapes.  From the mid '80s to mid '90s you could barely open a game without a hefty tome to peruse. PC and Amiga games in particular – and especially RPGs – generally had large manuals, often alongside anti-piracy devices, cloth maps and the rest. Happy days indeed.Oh go on then –what was your favourite games manual from back in the day? My favourite – and, to be honest, rather obvious choice - would probably still be the manual from the original Elite. Heck, it even came with a novella too.  Modern day manuals can still be interesting – some of the GTA ones for example. But what about you? What was your favourite gaming manual?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
The phenomenal popularity of the iPhone helped Apple deliver a 90% leap in profits yesterday, sending shares in the Silicon Valley electronics empire to a record high.Apple easily beat Wall Street forecasts by notching up sales of 8.75m iPhones around the world in the three months to March, an increase of 131% over the same period last year.The colourful touchscreen devices with thousands of user-generated applications were the driving factor behind an increase in Apple's profits from $1.6bn (£1bn) to $3bn. Revenue was up 48% to $13.5bn. Chief executive Steve Jobs said it was the best non-Christmas period in the company's 34-year history.He predicted further booming revenues: "We've launched our revolutionary new iPad and users are loving it, and we have several more extraordinary products in the pipeline for this year."In unofficial trading after the close of the US stock market, Apple's shares jumped 5.4% to $257.80. The stock has doubled in 12 months and analysts heaped praise on the company's profits. "It's unbelievable. They totally crushed the quarter," said Shaw Wu of investment banking firm Kaufman Brothers in San Francisco.Apple said the boom in iPhone sales had been partly driven by deals with eight new mobile network providers in key countries – including Vodafone in Britain.Aside from phones, Apple's sales of Macintosh computers rose 33% to 2.94m, although sales of iPod music players slipped by 1% to 10.9m.
Britain's privacy watchdog has joined senior government officials from nine other countries to push Google to adopt stricter privacy controls.Christopher Graham, the UK's information commissioner, has joined countries including Germany, Canada and Spain in signing a letter challenging Google to protect its users more.The letter, addressed to Google chief executive Eric Schmidt, claimed the concerns of citizens across the world were "being forgotten" as Google introduces more  and more products. It followed  problems with Google Buzz, a social networking application that triggered a storm of protest when it was launched and automatically connected people via their email accounts. Google was forced to quickly change Google Buzz to allow users more choice in who would be in their networks."It is unacceptable to roll out a product that unilaterally renders personal information public, with the intention of repairing problems later as they arise," the joint letter said. It added: "We call on you ... to incorporate fundamental privacy principles directly into the design of your new services."The letter then listed six areas where Google should strive to do better, including only collecting the minimum amount of personal information on users of its services, telling users how that information will be used and making it easy for people to delete their accounts and protect their private data. The letter reflects growing fears in some quarters about the power of Google. The search engine has a self-declared mission to make all information in the world searchable but that has run up against numerous privacy or copyright issues. Its Google Books project to put the world's books online has outraged many in the publishing industry. Its Google Street View project also caused negative headlines by capturing images of people in public as Google cars roam the streets and then put the resulting images up on the web.In an official response a Google spokeswoman said the firm was already very sensitive to the privacy issue and vigilant over the concerns of its products' users. "We try very hard to be upfront about the data we collect and how we use it," she said. The spokeswoman added that the company would not be responding to the letter. "We have discussed all these issues publicly many times before and have nothing to add to today's letter," she said.Google insiders suggested that, in fact, the company complies with the suggestions contained in the letter and that it had been an unnecessary attack. But the issue is clearly a highly sensitive one for a company whose unofficial corporate motto is "don't be evil" but is now getting increasingly bad press about privacy and its global ambitions and dominance of the internet. In the US yesterday Google released comments it had made to the Federal Trade Commission about privacy concerns. The firm said it would support self-regulatory standards and even a federal privacy law that would establish "baseline privacy protections".
Google has hit out at state attempts to clamp down on the internet by revealing governments' requests to remove data from the web and get information about users.Tonight it released a web page with a map showing country by country where it has had government requests or court orders to remove content from the YouTube video service or its search results, or to provide details about users of its services.The release of the tool, announced on itsofficial blog, comes as it has had to counter complaints from data protection authorities in 10 countries, including the UK, that its Street View product, which provides pictures of public streets, and its ad-hoc social networking service Buzz "were launched without due consideration of privacy and data protection laws" and that Buzz in particular "betrayed a disappointing disregard for fundamental privacy norms".Details provided by Google cover requests between 1 July and 31 December 2009, and show that in the UK there were 1,166 requests for data about users and 59 requests to remove web pages in Google's services such as YouTube, or from its search results for the web. It complied with 45, or 76%, of the 59 requests, of which 43 were about YouTube videos. It does not specify which government agency – such as the police or others – made the request.Launching the new tool, Google says that "We believe that greater transparency will lead to less censorship" and links to a list which already shows that Brazil, where Google's social network Orkut is hugely popular, leads the world with 291 removal requests – with Germany, India, the US, South Korea and the UK behind it. The "censorship" numbers also include non-governmental court-ordered removal of sites or results for defamation or criminal proceedings – though the company will try to clarify that in future updates to the data, probably every six months.However China has no listed requests – because, as theonline toolexplains, "Chinese officials consider censorship demands as state secrets, so we cannot disclose that information at this time." If China were included it would almost certainly be in the top spot, because its government only allowed Google to operate inside the country if it hid thousands of web pages from search results.Google portrayed the data release as part of its continuing championing of openness of information, which fits into its mission "to organise the world's information and make it universally accessible". It also fits into its ongoing struggle with the Chinese government, whose censorship of search results – and suspected encouragement of hackers to break into Google's most important systems – finally proved unbearable for top Google executives including co-founder Sergey Brin in January after four years. Google has now withdrawn to Hong Kong and ceased censoring its results – but people inside China cannot see them because of the "firewall" operated by the government.David Drummond, the company's chief legal officer, said in ablogpost about the new toolthat while it regularly receives demands to remove content such as child pornography (which it has a policy of removing at once), it also receives demands to take down other content to aid police or other enquiries. "The vast majority of these requests are valid and the information needed is for legitimate criminal investigations," noted Drummond. "However, data about these activities historically has not been broadly available. We believe that greater transparency will lead to less censorship."A Google spokesman insisted that the timing of the release was coincidental with theprivacy complaint in a joint letter from data protection authoritiesfrom the UK, Canada, Israel, France, Spain, Ireland, Italy, New Zealand, Germany and the Netherlands. "We've been working on this for months and months," he said.But the criticism over Google's data practices, and Street View and Buzz in particular, led data protection authorities to call on Google to collect "only the minimum amount of personal information needed" for a service and to make it clear how that information will be used, as well as offering "privacy-protective default settings", ensure personal data is adequately protected, and make it easy for people to delete accounts.Google is coming under increasing pressure from governments to reduce the amount of data that it keeps about its users, and to reduce the length of time that it stores it.The data provided do not include requests from normal non-governmental users such as individuals or companies for the removal of content such as pictures, blogposts or YouTube videos. Those would probably be many orders of magnitude greater: there are thousands of "user flags" of inappropriate or misused content on YouTube videos alone every month.
Yes, you knew that it had to come. In fact it's incredible that it's taken hours for it to happen: iPhone 4G, the Downfall parody. Note: if the video above doesn't play, that's because it's in MP4 format, and this is an HTML5 embed. We're being a bit HTML5-y today. It works fine in Google Chrome, for example. You can find the originalhere(where it should play - though still in an MP4 HTML5-y way. IE6 users, consider yourself warned.)Meanwhile Danny Sullivan of SearchEngineLand has done his own "search story" for it.It's OK, but somehow there's no story that isn't made better by a good Downfall video.
In the podcast this week Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur speak with two parliamentary hopefuls standing on technology platforms:Denny de la Haye, fromgetavote.org, andAndrew Robinson, from thePirate Party UK. The team tackle issues of democratic reform and copyright as the political machine accelerates towards the May finishing line.In the wake of this discussion, Aleks speaks with Freedom of Information Act campaigner and investigative journalistHeather Brookeabout the process she used to uncover the MPs expenses scandal in 2009.Finally, Keith Stuart meets withOskari Hakkinenfrom Remedy Games, and quizzes him aboutAlan Wake, the Xbox 360 title that's set to reinvent video game narrative.Don't forget to submit your questions for next week's election special, as we drill Labour'sStephen Timms, minister for Digital Britain, the Consevative Party'sJeremy Hunt, shadow secretary of state for culture, media &amp; sport, andLord Razzal, Liberal Democrat spokesperson for business, enterprise and regulatory reform.Details are here.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Since the US release of the iPad earlier this month,there have been complaints from some quartersthat many of the games available for early adopters have been priced too high.These objections were played down by Gonzague de Vallois, senior vice-president of publishing at Gameloft, which recently launched eight titles for the iPad."If you look at our games you'll see that our prices are actually very close to the pricing we had when we launched those games on iPhone a couple of months ago, or in some cases a couple of weeks ago; our games are priced between $6.99 (£4.55) and $9.99," he said."I have seen some games [from rival publishers] at $14.99. But in terms of game depth, the number of levels, the experience, our iPad games are pretty close to the iPhone and iPod Touch versions, so that's why we are pretty reasonable in our pricing."However, de Vallois is keen to stress that the iPad-specific releases do represent a step up. "What we've done for the eight iPad apps is, we've worked in 2 directions really. One is the graphic design, because to really leverage on the beautiful screen of the iPad, if you use the iPhone/iPod Touch version, you won't have at all the same graphic refinement. And the second direction we've worked on is the controls and the user interface, so there really are some elements that add to the experience."Johnny Coghlan, head of publishing at games company Chillingo, also dismissed gripes over pricing: "The great thing about the app store is that consumers determine which price points are successful, which games succeed, which apps succeed, and people can choose what they want buy. So there's no monopoly, there's no captive market, there's no forcing someone to consume something unwillingly, paying a price they're not willing to pay."Right now it's far too early to say 'this will be the price point of choice' – I think the iPhone showed there can be a variety of different price points, premium and lower price points, dependent upon the software."Dungeon Hunter game for the iPadChillingo had 14 titles available for the iPad on day one. Coghlan says: "We haven't just thrown everything at the platform to see what happens. The market that we saw going for the iPad, there's obviously the early adopters, the folks who are Apple enthusiasts through and through, but then we're also going for the more mass market audience, which I think the iPhone has already done a really good job of integrating."Gameloft is also targeting a broad range of consumer with its early releases, says de Vallois. "I would say our eight iPad titles represent a pretty great variety of games from different genres," he says. "So we have our version of the card game Uno for very family, casual types of gamers, and on the other side we have our FPS NOVA, which is more targeting serious gamers.""We have not yet announced how many titles we'll be releasing for the iPad, but we are strongly supporting the device, so you can expect many more titles coming in the coming days and weeks."Asked how Gameloft expects its iPad titles to perform, de Vallois identifies two variables: "One is the number of hardware units sold, and that's looking pretty exciting from the numbers we're hearing. The second is who's buying it, and who'll buy it in the future, so that will also drive our sales. We don't have precise numbers in mind, but we believe in the platform, we feel it's going to be successful. In terms of games sales and what types of games will sell, it's a bit early to have any forecasts."We do, though, have a significant number of additional games in development on top of the initial eight. Our next step will be to think about games purely for the iPad – we have titles in development now. As with the iPhone, on a daily basis we'll be monitoring sales and we'll adapt our line-up to those numbers."Chillingo's Coghlan is similarly optimistic about the platform's prospects. "The iPad is a key focus for us," he says. "We've got great trust in it, we know the platform very intimately and know how high quality it is, and the great potential it offers, and I think we're only scratching the surface right now. There's a very bright future for the platform, assuming that the developers, and the people making the games and making the apps, harness that. The hardware's there – now it's up to the software to face up to the challenge."
Five years, ago film critic Roger Ebert wrote that video games were inherently inferior to film and literature. Whenquestioned on this stanceby one of the readers of his Chicago Sun-Times column he responded:"To my knowledge, no one in or out of the field has ever been able to cite a game worthy of comparison with the great dramatists, poets, filmmakers, novelists and composers. That a game can aspire to artistic importance as a visual experience, I accept. But for most gamers, video games represent a loss of those precious hours we have available to make ourselves more cultured, civilized and empathetic."His argument provoked a furious response from games writers, pundits and players, many of whom mistakingly understood his position to be generally anti-games – and therefore evil. Perhaps because of vociferous barrage his comments gave rise to, he has refused to clarify his position.Until late last week, when he wrote a piece unambiguously entitled,Video games can never be art.He was prompted, once again, by a reader, who urged him to view video footage of a talk given by game designerKellee Santiagoof experimental studio,ThatGameCompany.The talktackles Eberts stance, but tries to show that games are in fact, already a primitive form of art and that this artform is undergoing a gradual process of evolution – as all artforms have before it. She cites Braid, Flower and (perhaps unwisely) the interactive art installation,Waco Resurrectionas examples. Ebert remains unimpressed:"Now she shows stills from early silent films such as George Melies' A Voyage to the Moon (1902), which were 'equally simplistic.' Obviously, I'm hopelessly handicapped because of my love of cinema, but Melies seems to me vastly more advanced than her three modern video games. He has limited technical resources, but superior artistry and imagination."Amid all the subsequent chatter about what constitutes art (a foolish endeavour considering Plato et al have effectively failed in producing a satisfying definition), whether art based on games is still a game, andwhy Ebert is wrong, there remains one central question, which Roger himself puts forward:"Why are gamers so intensely concerned, anyway, that games be defined as art? Bobby Fischer, Michael Jordan and Dick Butkus never said they thought their games were an art form. Nor did Shi Hua Chen, winner of the $500,000 World Series of Mah Jong in 2009. Why aren't gamers content to play their games and simply enjoy themselves? They have my blessing, not that they care."Strangely, I don't think I've ever been entirely convinced by any argument on either side of the divide – mostly because video games transcend traditional demarcations between ludic, narrative and visual experiences. Those who jump to the conclusion that games are not art, are often precious luddites or even ghetto-ised fanboys who don't want their hobby to be "gentrified". But those on the other side often lack the wide cultural, philosophical and semiotic knowledge base to draw effective comparisons.Deep down, I think this is another one of those generational rifts. No one will be asking this question in 20 years. It won't have been answered, it just won't be relevant.
Orange mobile phone network advert/info film at the London Transport Museum. Photo bySarah G...on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNielsen: Facebook's Ads Work Pretty Well &gt;&gt; Advertising Age"The study of more than 800,000 Facebook users and ads from 14 brands in a variety of categories shows a marked increase in ad recall, awareness and purchase intent when home-page ads on the social network mention friends of users who've become fans of the brand in the ad."Geek Power: Steven Levy Revisits Tech Titans, Hackers, Idealists &gt;&gt; WiredLevy wrote Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution, which came out in 1984. In a big Wired Magazine story, he looks at how geeks took over the worldScience hack weekend June 19+20: Get Excited And Make Things With Science!At the Guardian's offices in King's Cross, London. Bring your own bunsen burners. (Actually, don't.)10 questions to ask before buying iPad &gt;&gt; BetanewsJoe Wilcox bought one for his wife after her Mac failed (though it was repaired with impressive speed).Companies Slowly Join Cloud-Computing &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comCloud-based services have had a strong appeal for start-ups but now providers are trying to sell to large corporationsWhat you should know about HTML5 today &gt;&gt; Mindy McAdamsA teacher's primer to HTML5, but also useful for students - and everyone who isn't a teacher or student.Anatomy of a tweet &gt;&gt; ReadwritewebYou only see the 140 (or fewer) characters, but there's far more attached to those words.XAuth: The Open Web Fires a Shot Against Facebook Connect &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebA consortium of companies including Google, Yahoo, MySpace and Meebo have announced backing for XAuth cross-site authentication (logging in, which could provide competition for Facebook Connect, or not.Publish or Perish &gt;&gt; The New YorkerCan the iPad topple the Kindle, and save the book business? by Ken AulettaSent From His iPad &gt;&gt; Tumblr.comAnother collections of Steve Jobs's emails to total strangers. Probably more comprehensive, though less specific, than the other Tumblr one.Introduction - Google Cloud Print &gt;&gt; Google Code"Although Google Cloud Print is not yet available..." Do they need someone to put paper in?Why Google can't out-open Facebook with XAuth by Peter Yared &gt;&gt; VentureBeatA perceptive guest post about the problems Google's XAuth faces against OAuth, and how Facebook could displace Google in the futureWhy the Library of Congress cares about archiving our tweets &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe Library sees Twitter as a "technology change" in the way we communicate. Those don't happen often, and the Library has an interest in documenting each major new communications platform, says Ars TechnicaEmails from Steve Jobs &gt;&gt;TumblrCollecting emails sent to random strangers by Steve Jobs. (In response to random strangers' emails, obv.)Two Billion Laptops? It May Not Be Enough &gt;&gt; New York TimesMatt Keller, vice president for global advocacy at the OLPC Foundation, provides an update on the progress of the One Laptop Per Child project...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A seller on eBay who drove up prices for goods by secretly bidding for them faces fines of up to £50,000.Paul Barrett used a second account on the internet auction site to also post positive feedback.The company said the case, the first prosecution of its kind in the UK, was a clear warning against the practice of "shill bidding" to bump up prices.Barrett, 39, who runs a minibus hire firm in Stanley, County Durham, admitted 10 charges of false bidding for items ranging from a Range Rover to a pie and pasty warmer. He was caught after a separate complaint over false mileage on a minibus prompted an investigation into his dealings by North Yorkshire trading standards officers.Skipton magistrates heard that Barrett had set up an account with the user name Shanconpaul. But he placed bids using a different identity, Paulthebusman. Trading standards officer Claire McKinley said the ploy increased the price of dozens of items, including mobile phones, a cash register and a Mercedes car."He raised the price and left positive feedback on his own eBay site, leading buyers to believe his reputation was better than was the case," McKinley said.Barrett, who was prosecuted under the Business Protection from Misleading Marketing Regulations and Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008, said he did not realise he was breaking the law."eBay let me open the second account and I gave all my personal details and home address to do so," he told the magistrate."I realised the price was too low on some things and put the prices up using the second account. I've never been in trouble before and would like to apologise." The two regulations, which became law after growing complaints about internet fraud, carry fines of up to £5,000 for each offence.Jo Boutflower, head of enforcement, intelligence and process at North Yorkshire trading standards, said: "We hope this case is a wake-up call to people who trade on eBay, or other auction sites. Some people do this either themselves or by getting friends and family to bid on their items. They may not think they're doing anything wrong but actually they are breaking the law."Vanessa Canzini, head of corporate communications for eBay in Europe, said: "We are extremely pleased to learn of the conviction of Paul Barrett. Shill bidding is illegal and it is important for people to understand that there is not, nor has there ever been, room for illegal activity on our site."We invest over £6m each year in state-of-the-art technology to detect shill bidding and other illegal activities. This acts as a strong deterrent to the small minority who attempt to use our site inappropriately but, more than this, it helps us to work with law enforcement agencies to secure successful prosecutions if anyone decides to try their luck."The case was adjourned for sentencing at Bradford crown court on 21 May.
Google's internal system which lets people access its services via a single password was the target of the Chinese hacking attack last December that led the company to withdraw from the mainland,according to the New York Times.The system, known internally as "Gaia" – after the overarching planetary consciousness posited by James Lovelock – is behind the interface which lets not just users but also Google developers to log in and gain access to the company's resources. Millions of people use that interface to access documents and email from anywhere in the world using Google's "cloud" services. However, users' passwords have not been compromised: Google is understood to follow standard security practice, by which passwords are only stored in encrypted form known as a "hash". When a user logs in, the password they supply is encrypted using the same method and compared to the hash. If the two match, access is allowed. Reversing the process is computationally unfeasible.But if the hackers could gain uncontrolled access to Gaia, they might be able to change the emails to which password resets are sent (for instance when people forget their original one), and then trigger a password reset – effectively capturing the account. They might also be able to limit or expand what an account was allowed to access.The hacking was a two-stage process. First the hackers gained access to an internal Google system called Moma, which holds information about the work activities of each Google employee: the hackers may have used that to find specific employees. Then a China-based member of Google's staff was sent a link via Microsoft's instant messenger system to a website which infected their computer and gave the hackers access to the company's internal network.The New York Times said that a person with "direct knowledge of the investigation" had provided the details of the hack, which it said lasted less than 48 hours. Google had no comment today, referring enquiries toits original blogpost from 12 Januaryin which it revealed that it had been attacked, when it called the hack "a highly sophisticated and targeted attack on our corporate infrastructure originating from China that resulted in the theft of intellectual property from Google."It also said then that "we have evidence to suggest that a primary goal of the attackers was accessing the Gmail accounts of Chinese human rights activists".Google began making "significant" changes to its internal systems as soon as it discovered the attack. But the hackers seem to have had access to the actual program code that is used to run Gaia – which security experts said could, in theory, lead them to weaknesses in it that they could exploit which Google would not be able to detect.The attack on Google was not an isolated incident: the company said at the time that it had evidence that "at least 20" other US companies in internet, finance, technology, media and the chemical sectors had also been infiltrated and their intellectual property stolen.The attack was dubbed "Aurora" by the internet security company McAfee, which said that it had been done through a weakness in Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser.Observers have suggested that the Chinese government was behind the attacks because of the profile of the companies and the information that was targeted. While Google has never publicly backed this view, its decision upon discovering the attack to cease censoring its search results in China – and withdraw its operations from the Chinese mainland to Hong Kong – suggest it thinks the attacks were done on the orders of government.The latest details may make some businesses wary of using so-called "cloud" computing, where high-value data or important personal information is stored online rather than on individual computers under the owner's control. But the fact that it was not just Google that was affected, but internet-connected machines in other companies too, suggests that organisations will need to reconsider the threat from government-inspired hackers.
Microsoft has releasedTownHall, a cloud-based application that, it says, "combines the grassroots appeal of the town hall meeting with the reach of the web". It's part of "a broader set of resources calledCampaign Readywhich allow you to use familiar and emerging Microsoft technologies to engage citizens," says the company.TownHall was launched at thePolitics Online Conference, which concludes today in Washington, DC.TownHall runs on Microsoft's Azure platform, which is basically Windows Server in the cloud. The code can be downloaded free fromhttp://code.msdn.microsoft.com/TownHalland modified as required. However, Azure does involve usage charges.The code has already been used byNasa, for itsBe a Martianproject, which invited people to become (virtual) Martian citizens and explore the planet. Potential users can also try the idea atmicrosofttownhall.com- log in with the username "demouser" and password "demopassword" (without the quotes).TownHall uses a points-based system to encourage users to set up a profile and contribute constructively. Users can earn badges for asking and answering questions, and for voting, and so on. This is an area where Microsoft has a lot of experience thanks to the success of Xbox Live.AlthoughMicrosoft is presenting TownHall as a contribution to citizenship, it's also a way of promoting Azure, and it won't be a surprise if large corporations find it more attractive than communities. Big companies already use Azure technologies such as Windows Server and SQL Server, whereas community groups are probably more likely to use free and open source software.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
British developers have not exactly dominated the first-person shooter genre. There was Goldeneye of course, Rare's seminal Bond tie-in for the N64, which brought in a new level of depth, structure and replayability. The development team behind it would go on to make Perfect Dark and later – as independent studio, Free Radical Design - the eccentric Time Splitters series. That brief throughline effectively dominates the history of UK involvement at the cutting edge of FPS design.Ah, but then there's Black. Released at the fag end of the PlayStation 2 era and developed by Guildford-based studio Criterion, this 2006 cult classic, was a stylised, hyper-kinetic deconstruction of the FPS concept. Designer Stuart Black, a veteran of Peter Molyneux's formative Bullfrog studio, was obsessed with the simple act of pulling the trigger. He wanted to explore the bullet and its effect on the environment – hence a huge range of obsessively detailed firearms, masses of environmental damage and enough explosions to keep Michael Bay happy for a decade. It sounds dumb, but Black was smart, visceral and fizzing with creative energy. It wasn't so much gun porn as gun poetry.Now Stuart Black is creative director at Codemasters Guildford, a young development studio, that has cherry-picked staff from the Black team, as well as projects like Splinter Cell, Fable and Brothers in Arms. Their forthcoming debut title,Bodycount, takes the philosophy behind Black – ballistics as a central game design component – and drags it to the next level. "Outrageous fun is one of the things we talk about a lot," says Stuart, "We want to give people the sensation of glee when they squeeze that trigger, it's an addictive more-ish quality. You just want to keep doing it. We're talking about making acoolcombat experience. We're not interested in covering all the usual bases, we're confidant enough in what we're delivering…"The game is, of course, another FPS, and like Black, it's set amid a shadowy covert war. This time however, the action takes place in a vague near-future. You play a young operative working freelance for a global corporate organisation named The Network. The game begins with the lead character in a rundown motor home, looking plaintively at the photograph of a beautiful woman – suddenly, a helicopter buzzes overhead; it's The Network with a job offer he can't refuse. His role will be to hit the world's trouble spots take out operatives of a rival organisation known as The Target as quickly and messily as possible. "The Target are totalitarian fascist nutjobs," says Black, "You do not want to have any part of their society, or allow them any credence in the world – they're clearly evil and have to be stopped. Where the Network sits is a little more ambiguous, you have to determine that during the course of the game…"The main draw at the moment, is not the plot and its dalliance with conspiracy theories concerning the New World Order. The main draw is the incredibly destructive environments. Almost every object you see in the game can be torn to pieces by bullet fire; we played a quick test level, a sort of rundown industrial zone complete with guard towers and low concrete buildings. Firing off a G36C assault rifle at a wall sends plaster and brick flying in all directions as the surface, then the wall interior, breaks down. Shoot out a car and the tyres burst, the hood pops, steam billows from the engine."We have this catch phrase - rip it up," says Black. "You're going to rip through this environment to get to the bad guys. The single most important thing is the guns. You are a gun, there's no character on screen for you to identify with. The gun is how you express yourself. In terms of impact effects and the feeling of shredding the environment, we're not going to be beaten by anyone. We meant it. Every time a new FPS comes out, I load it up and start shooting at a wall – how does that feel? It's surprising how shit it is in most games – but it's a fundamental element, it's a core feedback."But it's not just about effect, it's about access. In Bodycount, you can blow chunks out of thinner interior walls, allowing you to burst through and catch enemies by surprise. You can also brilliantly modify cover objects – if you're hiding behind a crate and want to take out enemies without popping up from behind it, shoot a hole in it. Bingo, you've got a comparatively safe firing vantage.The difference between this and say, Red Faction or Bad Company, is that the destruction isn't limited to pre-set building sections. It's everywhere. This should, of course, grind the processor to a halt, but the team has come up with a simple compromise to facilitate its vision. "The trick is that we're not running full physics on everything," explains lead coder, Jon Creighton. "I don't want to go into too many details and a lot of it is going to change, but the important thing was, for a lot of the objects that are supporting – window frames, for example – because we know it's a constrained system we can simplify the physics, and that just made it a lot easier.In effect, you're probably not going to get buildings collapsing, a la Bad Company, because the engine relies on the structural integrity of larger objects. What you do get however, is hundreds of smaller props being blown to pieces, drastically re-shaping the immediate world around you. "In action games, really, the most important character, the character that tells the story, is the environment," says Creighton. "If you look at Half Life 2, they did wonderful work with facial expression and story telling, but really it was the devastation of City 17 that gave you that feeling of what the story was. And more recently in Bioshock, the biggest character in that is Rapture. So what we're doing is, we're taking the central character and giving it more depth. As you go through the level you are shaping the environment, all of a sudden, it's got more personality…""Another thing we solved is, how you render that. In a lot of other games, when something is destructible, you see a little edge around everything, it's almost like an old cartoon. Because of the way we process the art assets and all of the models, we get rid of all that, so it looks like a smooth surface. It's a combination of a clever solution on the rendering and a nice solution on the physics. And we're still optimising…"This is tied in with one of the best cover systems I've ever seen. While in a crouching position (gained by holding the left trigger down), you can use the left analogue stick to subtly look and aimaroundyour cover object, ducking and peeking to gain that perfect view of the war zone. It's natural, it's comfortable and it's adaptive, and it will surely consign the whole 'locking on' mechanic to the graveyard of cover system history.The meaning of BodycountBlack describes Bodycount as a glossy techno thriller, something to sit beside the likes of Heroes, Flash Forward and True Blood as a piece of slick modern entertainment. It quickly becomes clear while talking to him (or rather, listening to him talk – his turbo-charged Scottish brogue doesn't allow for much in the way of interjection) that he's an obsessive pop culture magpie. In the space of a few seconds, he name checks Black Hawk Down, Die Hard 4 and Marvel comic book series, The Punisher, before telling us that the three biggest influences behind Bodycount are Steve McQueen, JJ Abrams and Lady Gaga.The upshot is, this isn't a grimly realistic military simulation, it's fantasised violence in a graphic novel world. With character design for example, Art Director Max Cant is hugely influenced by 2000ad artists like Cam Kennedy, who retain naturalistic human proportions, but draw oversized equipment, accentuated silhouettes and gigantic weapons to create a dramatic, exciting look.This approach extends to the environment. "In this industry, there's a standard thing where people will just use photo references for all the textures," explains Cant. "That's alright, but it effectively means that everyone is working from the same stock – that's very high frequency, high-detail textures. They give you the end result, but everyone ends up with desaturated browns and grays, with rusty corrugated iron in every level. There's no real meaning. But this stuff should support the storyline, which is tied up with mood and pacing and everything. If you want to support that properly, you have to go back to basics and deal with colour. Grading and tinting are techniques we're seeing more and more in the movies. So take Ridley Scott: it's early in the morning and you do a fly over of Rome. Now Rome is all white walls and red roof tiles – but Scott's shot will be blue  - it's that kind of thinking, telling the story through colour…"So that matt, grubby, photorealistic patina so beloved of military FPS developers is gone, replaced by an over-riding gloss. As Cant explains, "Filmmakers will go into the set with a large water tanker and spray the entire set so that all the surfaces have a sheen that picks up the lighting. As you're going around [Bodycount], the light plays on the immersive glittery environment and helps to lift the mood, so you're not seeing the same drab surfaces everywhere. And instead of just using arbitrary four way-tiling textures, all of our edges have scuffing and damage, all of our recessed areas have oiling and staining. That's the comic book influence, again – it helps to stylise, but it also helps your eye to read the object at distance. Ultimately, all the edges of worn stuff will have exposed metal so you'll get lots of glints and light, again trying to lift the tone of the thing, by bringing in some iridescence and sparkling colours."Colour is even being utilised on a subliminal level. During the Africa levels for example, the key themes are pollution, corruption and sickly unease. Cant has used yellow as the predominant colour, not just because it denotes the relentless heat of the sun, but because apparently it unconsciously makes us feel hungry. It's all about creating discomfort. "We'll tie it in with audio too," says Cant. "So when there's thunder, you're hardly aware of it, but it'll be sub-bass stuff - the feel is tied in with indigestion…"There's also lots of colour-coding going on within the action: red objects are likely to explode, for example. It's a subliminal language that players must pick up in order to survive. This use of subtext extends to the iconography of the warring corporations. The Target is psychotically focused, relentless and ruthless, so its vehicles have cold steel surfaces and angular styling – it sees curves are a sign of compromise. Meanwhile, the Network wants to present itself as a customer-focused, friendly US corporation, so its colour palette is all nostalgic Americana – confederate grey, the exact blue from the Stars and Stripes – "America's smiley sell to the world," as Cant puts it.BodybuildingBodycount is split into three acts, each in a different part of the world. We know one is Africa, but Codemasters are keeping quiet about the rest for now. Each act is separated into a series of missions and locations, which can be attempted in any order – Black says it feels a little like a Resident Evil game in terms of structure; you get to re-explore old areas whenever you want.In most missions, you're given a specific target, then you go out and create what Black laughingly refers to as a 'corridor of death' leading straight to them. In other words, you kill everyone. To ensure destruction and mayhem are ramped up to the max, the team has added an interesting arcade-style combo system to the slaughter. Every time you kill an enemy, or shred up a nearby computer, they'll drop an in-game currency known as intel. This can be spent on weapons upgrades, or used to call in tactical support in the form of helicopter gun ships, predator drones or weapon platform drones. If you chain kills effectively or get multiple kills (especially through some kind of environmental chain reaction), you'll get more intel. Plus, there are several different types of enemy soldier, including medics, who'll heal their stricken comrades, and scavengers, who run about the battlefield stealing any intel you don't get to (and using it to call in air strikes on YOU). Naturally, there's a combo bonus for taking out a variety of these guys simultaneously.The team is planning favourable 'kill lines' through each level that'll offer masses of juicy intel for the correct combo sequences. However, there's a keenness to avoid directing the player too much. "We don't want an optimum way of taking out enemies, because theneveryonewill then do it that way," says Black. "We want you to think about the threat level to you versus the value in terms of combos and intel. There's no right and wrong, it depends on how you play, and your confidence. Do you take down the 50 cal guy first because you're having a hard time staying out of the way of his bullets, or do you think, 'no, I know how to deal with this guy and put cover between us, I'll deal with the medic first, because when I DO put the 50 cal guy down, I don't want someone coming around and healing him up again'. Or perhaps you get the commander because he can call in reinforcements. I'm very big on player customisation – it's their experience, they've paid their fifty quid for it, I want them to play the way they play."Another key structural concern for the team is combat staging. Often in linear FPS titles, enemy activity will be activated at pre-set trigger points – you'll go through a certain door and they'll spawn behind it. But of course, Bodycount isn'tquitelinear, and you don't have to go through the door, you can always blow a hole in the wall, so that last-minute spawning strategy is no good. Instead, it seems that enemy soldiers will be spawned into the world very early, and they'll patrol it realistically, so instead of set-piece choke points, you'll get dynamic encounters that sprawl over the playing surface.I definitely got a feel for this during my hands-on time with the game. Enemies were all over the map, working individually and chasing me through locations, or joining together to form makeshift squads, scaling over environmental objects and improvisationally flanking me. It's fun because you need constant 360 degree awareness, just like playing deathmatch, and this sense of urgency is heightened by the comparative compactness of the maps – they're around 200 square metres. Black wants a lot of the showdowns to take place in 30m zones of death. There's nowhere to run to.Body of evidenceWhat we don't have yet, is much of a plot. Black says he wants the game to engage players emotionally, but all we have is a story about warring companies and a young Captain Kirk-style hero in the middle of it all. Clearly, we'll find out more about him and his motivations later. En route, the narrative is going to involve some big decisions for the player – throughout the action you're remotely fed mission briefings by three mysterious female operatives who you never meet. But at some point in the game, the objectives they each give you start to contradict. Who do you trust? Black hints that there's much more going on behind the façade of corporate dueling that he's given us so far.One final, reasonably interesting element. Apparently, there's a 'boss' at the end of every level, but it's not a character, it's a building. Every mission area concludes with you gaining entry to the local Target HQ – and these will be absolutely cutting edge edifices. "I've penciled the Target buildings in as machine towers," says Cant. "So it's ambiguous as to whether they're actually buildings. It's not like an office block. We might do stuff like have them move…"The art team have been swotting up on the latest trends in architecture, studyingCoop Himmelblau,WORKacandDaniel Libeskind. And for the interiors they're looking at Apple, Bang &amp; Olufsen, and things like luxury yacht design. The buildings will be well defended and fiendishly difficult to enter, but once you're in, you get to tear the place up with machine gun fire in a ballet of destruction.Elsewhere, we can expect drop in/drop out for co-op and team deathmatch. Black is enthusiastic about how the destruction modifies the standard multiplayer online gameplay. "We've got 12-player deathmatch up and running at the moment," he says. "We're just starting to play it, and it's terribly unbalanced right now, but we can see how it's going to get there. And what surprised us was how destruction changes the way you play; it stays consistent throughout the rounds, so you start out playing with shotguns and sub-machine guns, and you're using them to rip through walls, creating your own route through the levels. But the more holes you make, the more the stage opens up. So you switch to assault rifles, which aren't as good for close combat, but are better at firing accurately in a set direction. And then finally, you're on the sniper rifle, and you're on one side of a building, shooting all the way through to some guy on the other side of the map."It's been a long time, then, since Britain's last truly agenda-setting first-person shooter. With Bodycount, there's a chance the wait could be almost up. From the brief demo we saw, it's frantic, bloody and panic-inducing stuff, like being shoved into the middle of Black Hawk Down, as it's noisily re-filmed in someone's rapidly disintegrating garage. It's also stylised and self-conscious; it isn't Modern Warfare, it's postmodern warfare.Stuart Black is of course, very confident about the opera of chaos and destruction he's composing. "We've got some real stars here. Not just from Black, but the new people, from Lionhead, from Media Molecule and various other companies. They're really good guys, particularly on the code side: we have an incredibly strong code team. I've been in quite a few development studios and there's an energy, a buzz, around the great teams, that isn't there in the others. And it's here. I definitely feel it here…"
Did Gizmodo buy thatiPhone 4G it's been showing off? Ken Sweetaskedwhether Gizmodo had bought the "found" iPhone 4G, and Nick Dentonreplied: yup. (EdibleApple issayingthat Gizmodo paid $10,000, but offers no evidence to back it up.)This might however put Gizmodo - or whoever handed over the money - in a difficult position. And it certainly puts the "finder" (for John Gruber - who seems on the basis of other posts to have good contacts in Apple who trust him - says it was stolen) into hot water.The reason is theCalifornia civil code, which is referred to inmy earlier story:"§ 2080. Duties of finder: Any person who finds a thing lost is not bound to take charge of it, unless the person is otherwise required to do so by contract or law, but when the person does take charge of it he or she is thenceforward a depositary for the owner, with the rights and obligations of a depositary for hire. Any person or any public or private entity that finds and takes possession of any money, goods, things in action, or other personal property, or saves any domestic animal from harm, neglect, drowning, or starvation, shall, within a reasonable time, inform the owner, if known, and make restitution without compensation, except a reasonable charge for saving and taking care of the property. Any person who takes possession of a live domestic animal shall provide for humane treatment of the animal."So basically, if you come into possession of something, you're meant to tell the owner and give it back. You can ask for some payment for your trouble (but only the trouble). If you thensellit - ooh, things get complicated. That would be, in effect, theft: depriving the rightful owner of their property. And it's very, very clear who the rightful owner is here, isn't it?Which also makes Gizmodo's buyer both an accessory to theft (possibly even having performed incitement to theft) and a receiver of stolen goods.Well, let's see if that would stick. UnderCalifornia's criminal code for receiving stolen goods, it seems the prosecution would have to prove knowledge on the part of Gizmodo:"For property to qualify as "stolen", the person who took the property must have intended permanently to deprive the owner of that property. Under penal Code 496, this intent will pass onto you if you knowingly and subsequently receive that property."This means that even if you weren't aware at the time that you received the property that it was stolen (but later learned or suspected that fact), you must immediately contact the owner of the property or the police to avoid prosecution."So the test there is whether the person who "found" the phone intended to not give it back to Apple. Unfortunately, the money changing hands is something of an indicator that the "finder" wasn't hurrying over to 1 Infinite Loop, and didn't intend to.In which case.. hey, Nick Denton, how are Gizmodo's lawyers? But you'll visit Jason Chen (whose blogpost it is) in prison, right?Denton meanwhile says that thebackstory - as in "what happened?" - is coming out later"and it's a corker".  But at this point the frontstory - as in what's going to happen - might be just as interesting.Apple, it's worth noting, hasn't thrived from suing bloggers: it lost a case against some people wholeaked details of a never-released product called Asteroid. Then in 2007 itsettled a case with ThinkSecretover leaked details.So even though there could well be a criminal case against the "finder" of the phone and Gizmodo, it's looking unlikely that Apple will pursue it. In fact, it still hasn't replied to an email sent to its press office five hours ago asking for any confirmation about the phone's origins. That's not (yet) a company on the warpath.
This week, PicPicPic had an intriguing excuse for handing in his 'Best of' contribution several days late - he was too busy with a 'burgeoning relationship'. He might not thank me for pointing that out, but then the Chatterbox editors should know by now that I consider anything they write in their emails to me to be fair game. If they squint really hard at their contracts, they'll see words to that effect somewhere in clause 456, sub-section 758b.Anyway, here's what happened in the week after Easter. I thought everyone would still be too full of creme eggs and Toblerone to chat, but I was wrong.Easter Weekend, Meat-ups and such"I didn't have any Easter eggs or hot cross buns this year. That's not how I choose to remember the Death and Resurrection of Christ. Instead, I nailed a jam doughnut to a baguette cross, with a gingerbread Roman guard piercing its side with a breadstick to see if the jam coagulates. For the resurrection, I hollowed out a large walnut loaf from the side, sealed the opening and had the jam Jesus 'roll the scone away'. To wash it all down, I had a glass of Tropicana - king of the juice."Naboomagnoli's close, yet essentially blasphemous, observation of Easter rituals was untypical for the boxers, most of whom spent the weekend drunk or playing games. Or both. Stories of excess filtered through from the latest blog meat-up in London, which seemed to be generally well-attended and alcohol-fuelled. Some bloggers perhaps had a little more action than they were expecting, with Mendoza on the receiving end of a lick from CunningStunt. Poor lad must be missing Auto.Not to be outdone, SageSmith was the vociferous proponent of a Northern meat-up in Manchester, with promises of VIP lapdancing treatment to any who wished to attend. Even if the initial response was a little muted, by the end of the week he'd managed to persuade a few more of the Northerners to attend with the additional promise of whippets and flat caps for all.Our Glasgow-based bloggers, happy for any excuse to drink[excellent use of regional sterotyping there, Pic - Keef], also tried to arrange their own meat-up but as very little was heard about it we can only assume they were already too drunk to respond. [And, you're fired - Keef]Such fun was had by the southern bloggers, in fact, that the next meat-up was arranged before the end of the week. You people really do a little too much socialising to be real geeks.Election"What's all this about an erection?" asked Crispycrumb. Yes, in case you missed it, a General Election has finally been called and for the next eight weeks our TV screens, radios and doorsteps are going to be home to a seemingly constant flow of bile, sniping (shouldn't that be 'Recon'? – Ed)[Hey, I'll do the bracketed interventions, thank you - Keef], countersniping, ball baiting and one-upmanship that counts as electioneering these days.Determined to be unswayed by such trivial things as policies and election promises, bloggers showed a wide variety of tactics when deciding upon whom to vote for. This, of course, had nothing to do with Jeremy Vine and his mental display of red, blue and gold tanks on the 10 o'clock news, but more to do with who shut their gate after calling (HenryPootle's reason to vote Lib Dem) to whose voice you'd prefer to read you a bedtime story (IagainstI's reason to vote labour). Betraying our Working Class Grauniad roots, no one seemed to want to vote Tory."If a son or daughter of mine ever voted Tory, they'd be out the door. Fact"HereComesTreble showed off some reference quality parenting skills there.Even our favourite rightwing blogger, RobLindsey, wouldn't seem to want to go that far, preferring instead to quote an anti-government tirade from occasional anti-Semitic political philosopher, H.L. Mencken.Vegan Cheese, Chips &amp; GravyI'm guessing Goatrecon's fair lady had been watching Richard Hammond's Invisible Worlds as he announced she'd ordered a parcel of Vegan Cheese called 'Schmeese', which she'd woken up early to collect and had been tracking for the last 24 hours. Goatrecon himself had other concerns,"Vegan cheese FFS. If it was Red Dead Redemption or something I'd understand but vegan cheese?" This substance, although sounding particularly disgusting, "at least won't have mites in it", according to the fastidious Ms Goat.In the random eddies of chat the blog is wont to follow, this general disgust at the thought of any cheese containing no dairy products at all soon morphed into a discussion on the merits of chippy chips and which condiment is best to garnish them. Predictably our Southern contingent, lacking imagination and general manliness[There he goes again - keef], opted for sauces red or mayonnaise whilst the savvy Northerners opted for gravy.This famous disinclination for "owt wet" from those south of, well, wherever it is that the North of England ends (Nottingham? Watford Gap? Or is the North just a "State of Mind", as according to RustyJames) seemed to be strictly followed on the box, except by Limni who showed hitherto unforeseen levels of taste and decency in a Southerner by actually liking the gravy/chip combo. Well, what else can we expect from a man with a fine line in sportscasual footwear?Chippy chips to fast food places, and which is best - Burger King, McDonald's or KFC Fries? Although BK fries were described as "like having to lick flock wallpaper", consensus seemed to be that KFC had the worst chips, but their Double Down sandwich, using fried chicken instead of bread with bacon in between, was a winner with the 'box. OfficePest asked a thought-provoking and pertinent question of whether it really counted as a sandwich if it didn't include bread, but unfortunately it was 5pm and most boxers had buggered off home to play Battlefield, so it remained unanswered.[I bet that never happened to Aristotle - Keef]Digital Economy BillIn a stunning case of intellectual elitism, politics reared its ugly head on the 'box for a second time in a week as VictoriousCupid tried to get us riled about the Digital Economy Bill. Unfortunately nobody seemed bothered the first time he mentioned it so he tried again, bemoaning the speedy way this legislation was passed through to law:"If you live in a shared wifi household and someone is downloading copyrighted material you are fucked, so many people are fucked, and the MPs putting it through seem to have no clue just how wide reaching the effects will be"Most boxers seemed unfazed, however, cynically believing that the companies paying for the lobbying to get it through won't bother helping to pay for its enforcement. Fantomex was on hand to put things in perspective:"How screwed are we, effectively? I like watching TV online rather than at the correct time on the box, am I doomed? What about torrenting, etc? This could really throw a spanner in the works for my lifestyle."Yes, those of you who stream illegal content, watch pirate TV on the internet or download music illegally might be put out by this Draconian law, but only if you use your own IP address to do it. We're all geeks here people, we should know better than this. Have none of you ever heard of a proxy? Google it.Lisa Snowdon and Fake Boob BlogThankfully this brief foray into intelligent chat was soon supplanted by the stray thoughts of one boxer commenting on the appearance of Lisa Snowdon in the new M&amp;S advert.[Uh oh, I'm not going to like this - Keef]Most of the opinions expressed by boxers are unprintable in a family newspaper such as this, but it's safe to say we're happy with this turn of events. Never one to leave a subject such as breasts alone, the talk then turned into debate over Real vs. 'Enhanced'. Once again most of the quotes, whilst being very funny, probably don't conform to the Guardian Style Guide but for those needing a definitive answer, most seem to think that 'Enhanced' are great to look at but, "feel like those gel wrist supports you get for your keyboard. Except round". Real boobs, however, are just generally great.Combining perennial blog favourites of Zombies and Boobs, PipSickness then decided to go a step too far by introducing bloggers to the concept of 'Munting' and put new meaning into the phrase 'a final nail in the coffin.' Loser managed to sum us up nicely with the pertinent question:"Did anyone ever get to the bottom of why we don't have more female posters?"Henrypootle, however, was a little more pointed with his complaint:"I just spent my own free time catching up. I won't be doing it again. Just because you can type the words doesn't mean that you have to hit the Post your comment button too."Yes, just be thankful you didn't have to trawl through it for this edition of the Best Of...Short Sleeve vs. Long SleeveFinally getting in touch with our feminine side, Friday's talk turned to the eternal choice between short sleeves or long sleeves in a work shirt. Claims that short-sleeved shirts looked cheap, untidy and unprofessional were vigorously shouted down by the bloggers who had turned up to work in one, although RustyJames' claim that his being 'checked' and so alright fell on deaf ears. He managed to save some face by not wearing it with a tie. In his own words:"Nothing says mental, sex offender like an office style, short sleeved shirt with a tie."Yes, short-sleeved shirts with a tie are only acceptable if you're a serial killer or Detective Sipowicz from NYPD Blue. Long sleeve shirts rolled up to the elbow, however, make you look "more dynamic and with a can-do attitude" so will obviously guarantee that promotion you've been looking for.There is a flipside to this, however, as KillerBee pointed out. Thanks to films like Falling Down and that one with Robin Williams working in a chemist[That'll be One Hour Photo - Keef], the lesson seems to be "don't mess with a man in a short sleeve shirt and a tie."GamesBF:BC2 &amp; MW2The two FPS games of choice for internet-based NaN action took up plenty of posting time this week, just like last week and presumably next week as well.PESGoody and SilveryFox trying to heard chickens by doing their damndest to organise something resembling the World Cup for the PES bloggers. When will they realise that FIFA is the future?Red Dead RedemptionThe new Grand Theft Horse was whetting a few appetites on the box this week, with thoughts of an online NaN posse being gunned down by all-comers just too much to take.GoW3This could be Gears of War 3 or God of War 3, but both were discussed on the blog this week. One of them has a broken jump button, apparently. The other features underwater sections and a giant mechanised armour suit. Both sound pretty damn good.Blood BowlThe return of Electronic Dice Blog as another league is in the offing amongst boxers who Take Their Hobby Seriously. Prepare for plenty of talk regarding fluffed rerolls and T16 fouling.Other notable mentionsOblivion (Now only £6 preowned for the GOTY edition in Gamestation. Bargain); Just Cause 2; FF XIII; BlurQuotes"I applied the other day for a job as a 'Games Blogger'. It was a genuine job. Man ... the things I said. The main thrust of my application was a boast about how much time I had spent on here, and how 'passionate' about gaming this showed I was. There was no reply ...."Lazybones following every 'boxer's fantasy: being paid to post here. Isn't that all we do in work anyway?"Is it wrong to fancy Samantha Cameron?"RustyJames gets to the heart of the election debate."Jo Whiley's favourite artist last year was Newton Faulkner. She's lost it. Totally lost it. Steve Lamacq probably stopped sending her indie crib notes."dizzyisanegg with the possibly libellous claim that Jo Whiley once had 'it'."I once saw an ex-girlfriend of mine in the Alma. She looked really attractive, as attractive as she ever did. I sweated and pawed at my hair, then tried to give her my phone number ... I saw her a few weeks later in the Tate Modern. She saw me too, and hid behind a giant sugar cube."Lazybones again. I read these quotes of his and feel nothing but pity...
A man walks into a bar carrying a prototype of Apple's next iPhone – with a camera flash, higher resolution screen, front-facing camera and a slimmer, glass-like case made of ceramic. But what happens next is not a joke, neither for the man (believed to be an Apple employee – or at least he was at the start of that day) nor for the company – because the man walks out without the precious prototype.Over the past few days Apple enthusiasts have been drooling over the result. According to the gadget site Gizmodo, the prototype phone – dubbed the "iPhone 4G" or "iPhone HD" – wasfound in a bar in Redwood City, California, about 19 miles from Apple's headquarters in Cupertino. Or – if you prefer the rival site Engadget – it wasfound on the floor of a bar in San José, about 10 miles from Cupertino, in the case for the 2008 model iPhone 3G. Whichever it was, the person who found it has been charging websites for the chance to get a hands-on experience with the phone, which is expected to be launched officially by Steve Jobs in June.Apple wants the phone back very badly – and California's laws require that thefinder of lost property must inform the owner. However that responsibility does not fall on Engadget or Gizmodo.Although Apple has produced new versions of the iPhone every year since its launch in 2007, there is always competition online to be the first with exact details – and, ideally, photographs – of any new product. Gizmodo is thought to have bought it from the person who found it – who was not the original owner.Apple is famously unforgiving of staff or suppliers who leak details about new products: anyone who does so can expect to be out of a job within hours.
This is an extract from a debate between the three main parties organised by the Guardian and the grassroots campaign group38 Degrees.The full programme can be heard here.
Steep learning curve? Skill and patience prerequisites for success? Yes, Monster Hunter Tri is not your typical Wii game.Tri is the Wii version of the long running Japanese action/strategy game that was previously found on Sony's PSP handheld console. Those who have played older Monster Hunter games will remember the intense challenge the series offers. Ostensibly a role-playing-game, Monster Hunter sets you the task of chatting to village locals before heading into the wilderness to seek out and dispatch hundreds of different "monsters".This simple sounding premise masks an incredibly deep and involving experience. This is not a game you can succeed at by manically pressing pad buttons. Instead, each creature has its own unique behavioural attributes and attack strategies. Some will retreat when hurt, luring you to less advantageous surroundings; others will force you to give chase across vast sections of the map. Either way, the satisfaction gained from downing a beast is immense – especially after some of the longer 30-40 minute clashes.The transition to the Wii has definitely benefited the series. The arcane controls found on the PSP are much improved when using the Wii's classic controller. Don't bother playing with the standard Wiimote though – it is far too unwieldy and imprecise. The game itself feels bigger, with a more believable illusion of a "world" rather than a series of levels. The graphics are good for the Wii too, though you can't help but imagine how pretty the vistas would be on an HD console like PS3. The biggest improvement is online, with players able to team up with fellow adventurers fairly easily. There is also some enjoyable split-screen co-op too. The learning curve is less steep as well and the whole game feels more welcoming. This is all relative though. To many gamers – and 99% of Wii owners – Monster Hunter Tri will be one of the most challenging games they have ever played. From finding out which resources create the best weapons and armour, to devising the most effective strategy to down the biggest enemies, Monster Hunter Tri demands patience, skill and time.Less committed gamers, used to quick rewards and constant praise, should steer clear. But if you are well stocked in all three then you can add at least a star to the score – Monster Hunter Tri is ready to suck up your gaming and social life.
A month ago, Infinity Ward was one of the most successful and admired development studios in the world, worshipped by fans of its Call of Duty series and surely adored by accountants at its parent company, Activision.But then one morning in early March it all started to unravel. Studio heads Jason West and Vincent Zampella were escorted from the premises; the duoclaimedthey were the victims of a trumped up indiscipline charge, formulated by Activision to avoid paying them substantial royalties on Modern Warfare 2. They slapped the publisher with a $36m lawsuit,formed their own development studio, the ironically titled, Respawn Entertainment, and announced a distribution deal with EA. Then, in early April, Activisionslapped them backvia a counter lawsuit, characterising the twosome as "insubordinate and self-serving schemers."Amid all this, an exodus of Infinity Ward staffers began. Starting with Lead designer Todd Alderman and lead software engineer Francesco Gigliotti at the beginning of April, it's alleged that up to 13 senior staff have now left the studio, though it seems none have conspicuously joined Respawn. So far. And the mood inside the stricken company? US news site Kotaku hasheard from two unnamed staff members, one of whom claimed that the studio is effectively dead, and another that:"We are not dead, we definitely lost original team members, but not all of the talent. When you talk about the people who left, they are the best in the business, but equally everyone at Infinity Ward deserves that same credential. We are here for the long haul of keeping the Modern Warfare name..."Meanwhile, Activision is doing its best to jam a lid on the spluttering cauldron of controversy. Last week, Thomas Tippl, the company's chief operating officer,told the LA Times, "we treat our developers extremely well." He also stated that Infinity Ward has "interim leadership" in place, countering the fantasies of certain videogame news sites, who are picturing something akin to Lord of the Flies in there.But the fundamental question is, can Infinity Ward recover?Well, on the one hand, history shows that the most successful studios are those with a stable upper echelon. The likes of Blizzard, Bioware and Epic Games have had the same people at the top for years and have duly prospered. At the same time, many strong developers have collapsed when the head honchos walked: legendary Britsoft studio, Bullfrog, keeled over when Peter Molyneux left; Sonic Team never shone again when the mascot's unsung creator, Naoto Ōshima, abandoned ship in 1999; and Cavedog, the creator of the critically acclaimed Total Annihilation series, never recovered from the departure of the game's creator, Chris Taylor.Structure is a vital element of the video game studio. In the west at least,  game development is a democratic pursuit, typically involving strong-minded staff confident in their own creative ideas. Without a respected figurehead, factional disagreements can destroy the sense of common purpose. It's like a premiership football team filled with superstar players - if the manager can't cope with the inherently combustible mix of talents and egos, the side is unlikely to be challenging for a Champions League position.But the thing about Infinity Ward is, it's working on a highly stable and successful series that doesn't need a lot of reinvention and innovation. This is not PlatinumGames or Team Ico - the world isn't expecting a paradigm-shifting classic with every release. Let's face it, Modern Warfare 2 is a rigidly constructed video game, but it's not a stunning reinvention of the series. What this 'franchise' probably needs is a competent, skilled and experienced workforce capable of producing compelling variations on what we've already seen. And that's exactly what it's got.Ultimately, I'm not sure I understand the growing schadenfreude surrounding the developer's difficulties. Much of it seems to be connected to the usual 'all publishers are evil' nonsense that gets whiplashed round the games forums. Sure, if Infinity Ward collapses, that'll be a mighty punch in the stomach to Activision boss Bobby Kotick who seems to have become a pantomime villain in the eyes of some vocal online pundits. But it'll also be 100 people looking for new jobs, and a fabulous game series - Modern Warfare - virtually consigned to the history books.I think Infinity Ward will survive because the demands on it are such that a dedicated team ethic is more important than a visionary leadership. I alsohopeit survives because I still love Call of Duty and Modern Warfare - just as they are, thanks. Just as they always have been.How about you?
Microsoft is beta testing a new service calledFix It, which can diagnose and fix many problems with Windows PCs, and it's free. In some respects, it's bringing the built-in diagnostics and help features in Widows 7 to a wider audience. It will be most useful to home users, but it could save small businesses a lot of money.Many Windows users will already be familiar with the Fix It buttons that are scattered through Microsoft's online support system. Clicking the button runs a script that fixes the problem without the user following what can often be complicated instructions. Many will also be familiar with trouble-shooters such as the one built into Internet Explorer, which does an outstanding job of fixing many connectivity problems. The new Fix It takes the same approach as the IE tool, and applies it to a wide range of topics.Microsoft Fix It is a program that you download and install, because you might have lost internet access when you need a fix. However, the installation invites you to create an online presence, and share your PC's technical details, so that the desktop help routines can be supplemented by web-based ones. The online service requires a Hotmail address or other Windows Live ID.When you install Fix It, the program checks your PC and its operating system before deciding how many of the 27 trouble-shooters to offer - you wouldn't want one about Aero if you're running XP, for example. The topics include TV, monitor, audio and printing issues, connection problems, software compatibility and similar matters.There are well over a billion Windows PCs in use, which represents a frightening amount of variation. Microsoft has simplified things somewhat by insisting that Fix It users have upgraded to Windows XP Service Pack 3 or Vista. (It also works with Windows Server.) Fix It can fix more than 300 problems, and download updates that help prevent problems developing. It also keeps track of updates and repairs, and small companies can monitor multiple PCs from a single account.No skill is required.http://fixitcenter.support.microsoft.com/Portal/twitter.com/jackschofield
Players ofThe Sims 3, one of the most successful game franchises of all time, will now be able to download Renault's two-seater Twizy electric concept car into their game as part of an "Electric Vehicle Pack", which also includes solar panels and other environmental gadgets.EA is very coy about calling this product placement, or even mentioning the word advertising. Instead, the deal is being referred to as a "partnership". Elizabeth Harz, EA's senior vice-president of global media sales, calls it "an important part of our overall strategy of diversifying revenue-streams".However Steve Seabolt, vice-president of global brand development for The Sims, admits: "Renault is investing in this, yes. We don't characterise it as paid advertising space. But yes, they have made a substantial investment."Apart from sporting, motoring and fictional franchises, the computer games industry has been slow to adopt product placement. Within The Sims universe, brand-descriptions have always been carefully satirical and slightly eccentric, designed to raise a chuckle.This looks set to change. Seabolt says: "We are in active conversations with companies like Proctor and Gamble and Unilever. In theory, if a good or service exists in the real world there is the possibility to integrate it into the game. Could you bring a shampoo into the game? Of course. Could you bring a laundry detergent? Yes, you could."Because the player chooses whether or not to add the car to their Sims family home, Seabolt argues that in contrast to Hollywood product placement, the EA model represents an "opt-in experience". The car has the effect of reducing monthly bills within the game as an incentive for players to include it.The Sims 3 has sold more than 4.5m copies worldwide to date, a currently-untapped marketing opportunity. "What's in it for EA," says Seabolt, "is validation of video games as a crucial marketing medium. In the case of Renault, which really wants to influence people, this is the place to reach cutting edge consumers."Harz does sound a note of warning, however. "We are very strategic about both the companies that we partner with, and [are always worrying], 'will this be organic to gameplay, will this be viewed as a plus by the player?' Because everything we do should feel to the player that we've respected their relationship with the game and enhanced it."
Volcanic ash cloud over Hanover city. Photo byf650bikeron Flickr.Some rights reservedReuters' conflicted reporting on Google's earnings release practices &gt;&gt; IR Web ReportGoogle puts another cat among another set of pigeons. This time: releasing its earnings on - gasp! - a blog rather than paid PR wires.Tweet Tweet Boom Boom &gt;&gt; New York magazine"A new generation of tech entrepreneurs in the city is trying to overthrow old media and build a better New York – with the help of their iPhones. Are they dreaming? Definitely. But in a good way." Just like the old days of the dotcom boom, in fact....Art Made at the Speed of the Internet: Don't Say 'Geek'; Say 'Collaborator' &gt;&gt; The New York TimesSeven on Seven matched seven artists with seven "technologists" and gave them a reality-show-era deadline of 24 hours in which to come up with creations to present on Saturday to an audience at the New Museum in New York.Why Linux is not attracting young developersToday's Linux developers are the same as they were 10 years ago. "Submitting open source drivers to Linux today means you are doing the same work that others are paid to do for companies like IBM and HP. You're basically free labor for large tech corporations and the work you do will go on unnoticed and have no impact on the success of Linux in any context."Flash Player and Adobe AIR Betas for Android &gt;&gt; The Flash Blog"You can now sign up to be notified when the first public betas of both Flash Player 10.1 and Adobe AIR 2.0 are available. We just started the private betas,".How WebKit Loads a Web Page &gt;&gt; Webkit blog (Surfin' Safari)Just in case you were wondering.Get ready for decades of Icelandic fireworks &gt;&gt; New ScientistIceland's volcanoes are entering a few decades of greater activity. So does this mean that by the time air fuel will make flying too expensive, it won't be feasible anyway?Top 10 most ridiculous movie tech moments &gt;&gt; APC magazineThe problem with technology in films is that it's either mundane, like the ones we use, or outlandish. Where's the 10 best?Out of the Loop in Silicon Valley - The New York TimesWomen now outnumber men at elite colleges, law schools, medical schools and in the overall work force, and own 40% of the private businesses in the United States. However, they account for just 6% of the chief executives of the top 100 tech companies, and 22% of the software engineers at tech companies.The United States of Apple - TUAWA map of the USA showing the highest concentrations of Macs - which is basically the same as a map of the highest concentrations of rich people.An Open Letter to Apple Regarding The Company's Approach to Conversation &gt;&gt; John Battelle's SearchblogJohn Battelle and Tim O'Reilly write an open letter to closed Apple, "the Howard Hughes of our industry".  Of course, it's also a plug for "this year's Web 2.0 Summit" on the topical theme "Points of Control". But the chances of a company based on control-freakery turning up are pretty slim.Microsoft finalizes Office 2010 | Beyond Binary &gt;&gt; CNET NewsMicrosoft Office 2010, beta tested by 7.5m million users, has now been released to manufacturing....Advantages and Disadvantages of Working with Multiple Screens &gt;&gt; Web Designer DepotIncludes a Showcase of Multi Screen Work Stations.Microsoft Youth Movement: Social Networking Phones &gt;&gt; Investors.com"Microsoft may be thinking that they don't have to do everything well but instead do one thing really well that people demand — and that's social networking" says Kevin Burden, an analyst at ABI Research. So at least one person gets it...Tonight, volcanic sunsets over Europe &gt;&gt; Flickr BlogHow would we have seen these before Flickr?RIM chief: no market for tablets, touch-only phones &gt;&gt; ElectronistaMike Lazaridis is RIM'S CEO: "The company leader also dismissed the importance of touchscreen phones. While it's important to give customers what they want, touch-only phones like the iPhone aren't that popular, Lazaridis argued. He claimed that most of the people buying touchscreen phones are going back to phones with hardware QWERTY keyboards, like those that made RIM "famous.""&#10;&#10;We welcome studies showing how many people are giving up touchscreen phones for keypads.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Engadgetseems to have acquired a prototype version of a fourth-generation iPhone– possibly lost by an Apple employee who was using it "in the wild", as the site says that "apparently the phone was found on the floor of a San Jose bar inside of an iPhone 3G case".The updated phone is expected to be launched in June, and according to the specifications, the "iPhone 4G" (as it is being called) has 80GB of storage, a front-facing camera, and looks exactly like aTwitpic posted in February(though possibly it's been removed by now if the phone was lost by an Apple employee – who, if Steve  Jobs finds out about this, can surely look forward to an interesting future in the foundations of some new building).Update:whoever found the iPhone (which is not Engadget or, see below, Gizmodo) isrequired by law to tell the California police. Will they, we wonder?The phone at first booted up into a "new" iPhone OS (probably the iPhone OS4 that was announced last week) but has since stopped booting – which would indicate that Apple has remotely disabled it.Some suggestions that it was a Japanese counterfeit have been discounted after images posted in Japan turned out to be faked.Engadgetsaid yesterday:"Additionally, a source – who confirms this is the next Apple iPhone – also tells us that the device apparently does have a higher res screen on-board, a front-facing camera, a higher resolution camera with flash, and takes MicroSIM cards (that's the little 'button' around the side you see in the Twitpic which is floating around the internet)."Update:Gizmodo, the sworn deadly enemy (something like that) of Engadget, has upped the stakes,posting a video which it says is the new phone. (We can't show the video here as it's non-embeddable.) And it says that it can specify what's new:• Front-facing video chat camera• Improved regular back-camera (the lens is quite noticeably larger than the iPhone 3GS)• Camera flash• Micro-SIM instead of standard SIM (like the iPad)• Improved display. It's unclear if it's the 960x460 display thrown around before – it certainly looks like it, with the "Connect to iTunes" screen displaying much higher resolution than on a 3GS.• What looks to be a secondary mic for noise cancellation, at the top, next to the headphone jack• Split buttons for volume• Power, mute, and volume buttons are all metallicThe back casing isn't rounded either - it's flat. Hard to tell from the video if it's really ceramic.. which it might be. Because what has intrigued people is that the back of the prototype iPhone 4G seems to have an unusual enclosure.John Gruber of Daring Fireballalsopoints to apatent that Apple was awarded in 2006for a "handheld computing device [that] includes an enclosure having structural walls formed from a ceramic material that is radio-transparent".Gruber says that this answers two questions he's had about the iPhone 4G leaks. "Multiple sources familiar with the next iPhone have confirmed to me that the back is made out of some sort of fancy glass," hewrites. "Now, the thing I've been curious about ever since hearing about this 'glass' back is durability. Everyone knows that dropping your iPhone is like dropping a piece of buttered toast – there's a good side and a bad side it can land on. Put a glass back on these things and, in terms of drop survivability, it'd be like a piece of toast with butter on both sides, as it were."Ceramics, though, could be glass-like – transparent, yet also tough. (Or, of course, potentially fragile; that mug you dropped on the kitchen floor is ceramic.)The key thing about radio-transparent enclosures being that you'll get better phone reception with them – or that you can use lower power systems and get the same quality of phone reception. The use of ceramics is ingenious: the problem with metal casings for phones is that they shield the aerials from the signal (in a Faraday cage effect). If you can replace that with something that's both radio-transparentandcomparably tough as metal, you're onto a winner. According to the patent, the enclosure would be a "tube-like main body that is extruded in its entirety with the ceramic material". That sounds like quite a manufacturing/engineering feat; I can't think of any ceramics that have been widely used for consumer electronics – and certainly none that are presently used for. In case you're thinking "Bakelite!", that's a plastic. Have I missed a few? Apple says in the patent that:"It should be noted that ceramics have been used in a wide variety of products including electronic devices such as watches, phones, and medical instruments. In all of these cases, however, the ceramic material have not been used as structural components. In most of these cases they have been used as cosmetic accoutrements. It is believed up till now ceramic materials have never been used as a structural element including structural frames, walls or main body of a consumer electronic device, and more particularly an enclosure of a portable electronic device such as a media player or cell phone."The Apple patent is intriguingly broad: it allows for the structure to be used for a mobile phone, media player, handheld computing device, and offers both zirconia and alumina as the ceramic bases.But why use ceramics rather than cheaper and more easily malleable plastics? Apple, after all, has plenty of experience with those (it pioneered a particular translucent material for the first iMac). The company answers that in item 0018 of the patent filing:"The lighter enclosures, which typically use thinner plastic structures and fewer fasteners, tend to be more flexible and therefore they have a greater propensity to buckle and bow when used while the stronger and more rigid enclosures, which typically use thicker plastic structures and more fasteners, tend to be thicker and carry more weight. Unfortunately, increased weight may lead to user dissatisfaction, and bowing may damage the internal parts of the portable computing devices."Besides which the mechanical assemblies mean you get seams, cracks and fastenings – things that Apple finds unacceptable. (That's not in the patent. Just implied.)And Apple already has its eyes on particular implementations: it suggests that the ceramic enclosure could be applied to future iPod Nanos or its smallest iPod, the Shuffle, or its remote controls.And they could come in lots of colours: Apple helpfully explains how you make a ceramic for manufacturing (though of course it's obliged to, because it wants the patent):"Zirconia may be embodied in a variety of colors including white, black, navy blue, ivory, brown, dark blue, light blue, platinum, gold (among others). The colors may for example be created by adding doping materials to the ceramic material. Other materials may also be added including Yttrium, which helps keep the crystalline structure intact across all temperatures especially for maintaining strength as the part cools down."It's an excursion into the rare earth metals: you'll be seeing zirconium, yttrium, hafnium, chromium, and possibly others.Quite aside from the iPhone 4G details – which look predictable enough, in that you'd expect a phone with a better camera and so on – the use of ceramics could make a dramatic change to materials. The original iMac drove a swathe of engineering companies to retool to produce translucent plastics with that "iMac look"; but ceramics hold out a lot more promise.
Was your weekend gaming as non-existent as mine? The good weather and sporting events meant gaming time was limited for me although, as always at the moment,Might and Magic: Clash of Heroesgot a another quick session on the DS. I did also have a final go ofMonster Hunter Tri(Wii) ahead of my review next week. There really is nothing else like Tri on the Wii and anyone seeking a challenge should sign up now. Make sure you get the classic controller though. Downsides? Apart from the learning curve the only real regret is that is you can imagine how good Tri would be in HD and on a console with a better online service....Anyway, how was you weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
The ten worst tech film moments are back - though we've been here before, haven't we? Back in September 2007, when we asked which theworst technology fu... goof was in a film.And you can relive them with theAPC mag's top ten, which interestingly lists quite a few of the films that we did for the worst tech (The Net, Swordfish, Independence Day).But here's a trickier question: what are your top ten films where technology is crucial, but it's done just right? Not overdone, but pitched just right given the time when it's set. (Obviously, this needs to be time close to ours. It's no use saying "Star Trek isexactly rightbecause it's hard to know what the 24th century is like, or if there will be anyone to record it.)As an example, we'd offer Minority Report. Nooooo, you say. But look: given that it's pitched some time in the recent future (my favourite phrase from the SF writer John Brunner, who says he heard it on TV program), the touch screen manipulation that you see Tom Cruise, as Police Chief John Anderton, doing is actually not that far off what's really feasible.There must be more where technology has been crucial, a plot point, and yet been believable. (And not just where the computer is a boring prop which doesn't have any role.) But which? Suggestions, please.And for a reminder, here's what the touch screen stuff in Minority Report looked like:
Stephen Timms, Lord Razzall, Jeremy Hunt, all taking part in our Tech Weekly debateThe political parties have published their manifestos, campaigning is underway and the televised debates are set.  Not wanting to be left out, yourTech Weeklyteam have decided to get in on the act.If your vote in the forthcoming general election could be influenced by the three main parties policies on technology or the internet, then this a call to get involved in a special podcast that will be recorded on April 28th and will be available to download the following morning.Joining us to discuss their plans for broadband, piracy and filesharing, rights and copyright, the digital economy act, digital radio and more are:Labour:Stephen Timms, MP for East Ham, Financial Secretary to the Treasury, and Minister for Digital Britain.Conservative:Jeremy Hunt, Conservative MP for South West Surrey and Shadow Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport.Liberal Democrats:Lord Razzall, spokesperson for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.Quizzing them will be our Tech Weekly team -Aleks Krotoski,Charles ArthurandJemima Kiss- and, we hope, you.If you would like to submit a technology related question, then leave a comment on the blog below orour Facebook page.You can tweet your questions to us - @guardiantw is where you can find us on Twitter, but please add the hashtag #techvote.You can alsoaudioBoous a question - remember to introduce yourself, keep it short (about 30-40 seconds) and listen back to your question to make sure you can be heard. Remember to tag this with #techvote too.We'll update this page with any more information between now and the debate.
Lower development costs for mobile gaming have allowed for a rush of originality on the platform. Scores of small developers are now able to take on the big studios andSpace Miner: Space Ore Bust(Venan, iPhone, £2.99) is a great example of the fresh thinking now thriving. Taking control of a space truck to harvest ore and save the family mining business from an unforgiving bank, the story's told in a refreshingly witty style. The game itself combines Asteroids-style shooter and resource management sim, with added RPG elements, as you fight off enemy ships and space rocks while harvesting the precious ore, then spend funds upgrading the truck and its weapons. With a huge galaxy, including nearly 50 areas, there's much fun to be had.Not all mobile offerings are so innovative.Namco Bandai has decided to bring its venerable 3D fighterTekken(Java, £4) (above) to mobiles, and not your fancy touch screen models, but simpler handsets such as the Sony Ericsson K800i. It's been scaled down to a 2D offering, but other than that it hasn't got anything we've not seen before. What is pleasing, however, is how well it works. It can be difficult pulling together 10 hit combos on the keypad, but with eight different fighters the game offers plenty for fighting fans to enjoy.
The videogame equivalent of a straight-to-DVD action movie (you know the one, Jason Statham is almost certainly in it),Dead to Rights: Retributionis thoroughly enjoyable while it lasts, but forgotten as soon as the credits roll. You play renegade cop Jack Slate, tackling bad guys with fists, feet and guns, alongside attack dog Shadow, whose propensity for munching baddie gonads amusingly heralds a "Scrotality" achievement.This unlikely pairing propels the third-person action, in a briskly-paced adventure with elements ripped fromGears of War,Batman:Arkham AsylumandUncharted. It doesn't compare too badly with its influences either: solidly made, with the action engagingly silly and gory.It's just a pity the scriptwriter wasn't on the same page as the designers; the dialogue is as bone-headed as they come, littered with excessive profanity, while Blank would be a more appropriate first name for the charisma-bypassed protagonist. Still, this is a guilty pleasure while it lasts, and worth experiencing for Shadow's unique brand of testicular trauma.
Last week's announcement by Apple that the UK launch of the iPad will be delayed by a month was the headline news for consumers, but for geeks a more significant development came on Thursday with some changes in the 21,000-word "agreement" that you have to sign if you are going to develop applications for Apple's iDevices.Section 3.3.1 of the document stipulates that "Applications must be originally written in Objective-C, C, C++, or JavaScript as executed by the iPhone OS WebKit engine, and only code written in C, C++ and Objective-C may compile and directly link against the documented APIs (eg, applications that link to documented APIs through an intermediary translation or compatibility layer or tool are prohibited)."Incomprehensible, eh? An API is an application programming interface – ie the protocol that programmers must follow if their software is to work with the iDevice. The really interesting clause, though, is the one enclosed in brackets. Translated into English it reads: screw you, Adobe!Some background may help here. Adobe makes a lot of influential software – the Photoshop image-processing program, for example; and Acrobat, the program that enables people to create and read PDF files. Adobe also sells Flash, a multimedia platform that has become the de facto standard way to add animation and interactivity to web pages; currently about three-quarters of all online video material is encoded in Flash format.When the iPhone launched, many consumers were puzzled by the fact that it wouldn't play Flash video. When pressed about this, Steve Jobs claimed testily that the rationale was technical: Flash was "buggy" and allegedly the most common cause of crashes in Apple's Safari browser; and it hogs processor time. If true, these would be reasonable objections: operational stability is far more important for a phone than it is for a PC; and processor power on phones is pretty limited.Naturally, Adobe disputed the slurs on its product, but – on the (plausible) assumption that Steve Jobs wasn't going to change his mind – set about devising a workaround. On Monday, Shantanu Narayen, Adobe's CEO, launched the latest (fifth) version of the company's Creative Suite – its toolbox for creating multimedia products. "The Adobe CS5", burbled Narayen, "is a phenomenal release which enables you, our customers, to create without boundaries while speeding the creative process from concept to execution. In addition to providing great design tools we also focused on helping you to achieve maximum impact by reaching the broadest number of customers possible." Tucked away in CS5 is a new tool, a Packager for iPhone, which is effectively a program for converting Flash applications into something that will run on the iPhone.Which is precisely what Apple set out to exclude four days later. The Adobe Packager is what Apple calls "an intermediary translation or compatibility layer or tool". It'd be tempting to see this as just petty vindictiveness, but in fact it's a declaration of war. Steve Jobs sees Flash's near-dominance in the online animation and interactivity sphere as a strategic threat. If Flash continues to spread, then, in the end, Apple will find itself at the mercy of Adobe's development priorities and strategy. And Steve Jobs didn't get where he is today by being dependent on anyone.There's a lot at stake here, and it's not at all clear how things will pan out. In one scenario, Apple's rebuff of Adobe's new tool will be seen as hubristic folly. As one expert, Dominique Jodoin, put it: "1.2 billion mobile phones are Flash-capable; 70% of online gaming sites run Flash; 98%  of internet-enabled desktops use it; 85% of top 100 websites use Flash; it's the No 1 platform for video on the web – 75% of all videos use Flash (including Hulu, Disney and YouTube); 2-3 million person Flash developers community; 90% of creative professionals have Adobe software on their desktops. With numbers and penetration rates like that, the better question is, why wouldn't I choose to support this technology?"On the other hand, Jean-Louis Gassée (a former Apple executive) proposes a simple thought-experiment: "By the end of 2010, there will be more than 100 million iPhone OS devices (iPod Touch, iPhone, iPad). You're the webmeister at an important content site. The boss comes in and asks you why you're not supporting the iPhone OS devices. 'Our stuff is all Flash-based, chief, those guys don't run Flash'. You're about to become the ex-webmeister. The boss, a really patient sort, asks you to 'think different' about all these 'noncompliant' customers, each of whom has an iTunes account backed by a credit card, and has developed the habit (encouraged by Apple) of paying for content. So, one more time, with feeling: what's your answer?"I wish I knew.
Never thought you'd see the day, did you ? The Royal Shakespeare Companyis now on Twitterto promote its current (and rather fine) yoof-oriented production of Romeo and Juliet, using probably not the worst pun out there ('Such Tweet Sorrow') but even so... has it come to this?For those of you who are cynical about Twitter, I can understand your misgivings. It seems to represent the worst of the boiled-down, sound-bitten, gadget-ridden, contentless, dehumanised, celebrity-obsessed swamp we seem condemned to inhabit. Communications – as in so many of our media – are minimally policed and may be complete fabrications presented by fictional constructs, rants from special interest groups, thinly veiled advertising, horribly unveiled self-promotion, or simply drivel. Tweets are limited to 140 characters and offer hitherto undreamed-of opportunities to find out how many complete strangers are experiencing transport difficulties on any given day and how whiny and/or needy and/or unhinged the well-known can get – how indistinguishable they are, in fact, from the not-at-all-known. And then again…This needn't be an illusion of democracy – maybe it's entirely healthy to know that Derren Brown had too much coleslaw last Christmas, that my mum likes telling strangers about the weather, that readers out there are checking facts in newspapers and political statements – that we're all in this together and not necessarily as ugly, stupid and greedy as we're repeatedly told we've become. In a world of thuggish advertising and idolised nonentities, if a person's or an institution's tweets are boring or unpalatable, then their followers diminish – no one has to stick around or pretend to be impressed. In a nation where education is derided and inarticulacy is celebrated, Twitter is a forum where the written word rules, where being funny, kind, interesting, passionate, loquacious is appreciated and, very obviously, not just the preserve of those who encourage us to slump into ignorance while they tell us what to think. Joining Twitter is a little like walking into a cafe, or a pub – some folk you'd keep away from, but if you hang around and listen, you'll be amazed at the stories anyone and everyone can tell, the people they can be. This is a more dignified, democratic, eccentric and lovable reality than you'll ever see on reality TV.More and more of us are working longer and harder to keep afloat, more and more of us are stressed and isolated – there's something entirely reasonable and human about using Twitter to pass on or receive little messages of normality – so and so is enjoying a video you might like, someone else is in love, somebody's girlfriend has flu. We are not alone. With news media revenues plummeting and with them budgets for serious reporting, Twitterers can choose to tweet increasingly rare examples of quality journalism, or criticisms of shoddy reporting, news of campaigns, examples of bravery, appeals against cruelty, acts of charity. Eddie Izzard deserved to raise a staggering amount of sponsorship for Sport Reliefwith his multiple marathons– that he did so, is in part due to Twitter.At which point,I have to say that I tweet, partly for the reasons that many people involved in the arts do – we're tired of being isolated from our audience, tired of being misrepresented and having what we love both mystified and over-simplified in ways that help no one except those who seek to make themselves necessary as intermediaries. On Twitter I get what I used to from good arts broadcasting – I hear about musicians being blown away by performances or pieces, I get to understand a little of how much work goes into an actor's performance, or to hear if a comic's last set went well. Which brings me to the other reason for my tweeting. All the people I've actually met who are on Twitter are either comics, or they work in comedy – they tour a lot, keep irregular hours, meet strangers and miss friends, they spend inordinate amounts of time waiting. Between that and a life of sitting in rooms with imaginary strangers and then typing round them, you'll forgive me if I find Twitter helps to keep things vaguely sane.Music:Lady Gaga is the fifth most followed Twitterer – one behind Barack ObamaLady Gaga. Photograph: FilmMagic.comAttention-seeking, ego-massage, contact with adoring fans: it's obvious why pop stars have been such keen Twitterers. However, with the music business as the coalmine canary when it comes to the impact of digital technology on the arts, they've also been among Twitter's more inventive users. Last year, Nine Inch Nails frontman Trent Reznor joined a Twitter campaign to raise money for a fan in need of a heart transplant and helped drum up $850,000.Increasingly users search for music on Twitter, using devices such asTwisten.fm, but as yet, no artist has used it to release an album. However, last April the Streets' Mike Skinner did experiment by tweeting three new tracks, although they were not exactly his finest work. More recently, singer-songwriter Imogen Heap attempted to take her fans with her to this year's Grammys by wearing a "Twitter dress" matched with a necklace that revealed live tweets from her million or more followers. "I just thought it'd be nice for them to come with me," she said.But if it's pop star silliness you're after, there's always Lily Allen, whose brief feud with Courtney Love played out via Twitter in February.@ladygagaWith over 3.5 million followers and tweets as eclectic as her outfits, Gaga is currently the fifth most followed on Twitter, one behind Barack Obama.@lilyroseallenAlways with an opinion, a recent twitter spat with Courtney Love being a highlight.@popjusticeWebsite brainchild of Peter Robinson. Irreverent, very knowledgeable, and funny.@laverneshowLauren Laverne and her producers Gary and Jon tweet during the Radio 6 show and probably all day. Fun, free downloads and fine tracks.#nowplayingThis hashtag site is inspiring if you are looking for musical inspiration, with around 100 tweets a second about what people are listening to.@arZEEzra Koenig of Vampire Weekend muses on life and music. Poetic,  refreshing and interactive.@imogenheapHeap is a prolific tweeter and is currently using the site to find a cellist for her tour.@MCHammerA bizarre insight into MC's life. He tweets on parties, politics and MC Hammer pants.@bbc_introducingHighlights undiscovered musicians, tweets that link to the blog including new music, competitions and favourite YouTube clips.@recordofthedayDoes as it promises; a new track each day, plus industry news, discussions and occasional job opportunities.Gareth Grundy &amp; Jessica HopkinsStage: 'Jules is over and out!!' was one great line  in Such Tweet SorrowCharlotte Wakefield and James Barrett in Such Tweet Sorrow.Like many of her contemporaries, 19-year-old actress Charlotte Wakefield keeps in touch with her fans on Twitter. "When I was inSpring Awakeningin the West End," she explains, "I realised it was a good way for audiences to feel part of your life without being stalkerish." Arts marketers have long used Twitter as a simple means of promoting productions but recently, as Wakefield has discovered, it's become the medium of choice for performers to document their off-stage life.Last week, however, Twitter was transformed from a communication tool to a stage in itself, hosting Wakefield and five other actors in a headline-grabbing theatrical world first.Such Tweet Sorrow, a reimagining ofRomeo and Juliet, staged 24/7 over five weeks by the RSC, involves six actors sending improvised daily tweets to audiences and each other. The actors auditioned on Twitter and then built elaborate online personas for their characters. "Every day we get emailed a breakdown of what our character will do the next day based on a story grid. We then work out what to tweet to develop the plot," reveals Wakefield, who plays Juliet (aTwilight-obsessed teenager whose tweets include "Jules is over and out!! Xxx."). "I'm nearly 20 so I would normally type in quite a sophisticated way, but a 15-year-old today will use a lot of text speak." Is she enjoying the experience? "It's intense and I do miss live theatre – the adrenaline, the applause, other actors – but being part of something new is exciting, I've had tweets from as far away as Korea and Australia."Similar projects such as the Royal Opera House'sTwitterdammerunghave previously used the medium to turn crowd-sourced tweets into scripts for performance. But Roxanna Silbert,Such Tweet Sorrow's director, believes their project could revolutionise storytelling: "There's no point trying to compare this to a film, a play or a novel. We're going to have to find a new vocabulary to talk about these kind of projects." So what does she think Shakespeare would make of it? "I think he would've loved it. All you've got on Twitter is the actor, the story and the audience. I've directed at the Globe where there aren't lights, sound effects or much staging so in fact there's something rather pure about this."Twitterdammerung at the Royal Opera HouseBilled as the world's first Twitter opera, the libretto to this 20-minute work was composed entirely of tweets.@n2nbroadwaySix weeks after opening on stage last spring, the producers of broadway musicalNext to Normalbegan retelling the story on Twitter.@opera24Last March Robert Butler tweeted 12 hours in the life of the Welsh National Opera'sThe Marriage of Figaro, including a live relaying of the performance (also translated into Welsh).@barbicancentreA good example of a venue using Twitter for marketing, with live artist Q+As.@ashleybouderDocuments the often injury-filled life of a New York City Ballet dancer.@TheRscThe RSC's Twitter uses include asking the public to summariseHamletin a tweet.@ShentonstageTheatre news and reviews rounded up by critic Mark Shenton.@KevinSpaceyDry insights into the star-studded life of the Old Vic director and Hollywood actor.@ianmckellen118National treasure Sir Ian details his theatrical jaunts .@yokoonoLennon's widow takes her  performance art on to the medium, offering 140 character mini-performances.Imogen CarterTV &amp; Film:The site builds relationships and blurs  the lines between consumers and creatorsActors, directors and producers are tweeting in their droves, breaking down the barriers between fans and filmmakers.Mad Mendevotees set up Twitter accounts under the characters' identities in 2008. The network AMC shut them down, but the wisdom of free advertising soon prevailed, and Don Draper et al were allowed back online, followed in 2009 by the official feed, @MadMen_AMC. In the words of fan Bud Caddell's blog (who doubles on Twitter as Sterling Cooper employee @bud_Melman): "We call it the blurred line between content creators and content consumers, and it's not going away."This blurred line means film and TV-watching tweeters (tveeters?) can build relationships with those behind the screen and get involved in the creative process. Shonda Rhimes, executive producer ofGrey's Anatomy, answers tweets about anything from her work to her childhood. Newsreader Krishnan Guru-Murthy invites followers to send in questions for his interviewees, and even conducted an interview live on Twitter this week with Conservative candidate Grant Shapps.@AIannucci (Armando Iannucci)The satirist founded his own Twitter police force for Wigan.@ScreenplayTipThe Sixth Borough Screenwriting Competition, based in Hollywood, tweets daily tips.@don_draper"Maddicts" have adopted the Mad Men characters' identities on Twitter, surviving the network's attempt to shut them down.@krishgmFollowers can tweet Krishnan Guru-Murthy  questions, and read "twinterviews".@ThatKevinSmithEverything from a 24-hour tweetathon to promote his  book, to ranting about being thrown off a flight for being too fat.@shondarhimesThe creative force behind US medical dramaGrey's Anatomyoffers the show's legion fans a kind of behind-the-scenes soap.@theTVaddictLinks to interviews, articles and spoilers and starts discussions on all things concerning American telly:Glee,Gilmore Girlset al.@diablocodyWriter ofJunoon her work, her pregnancy and other stories. Sample tweet: "As my belly grows, my navel strongly resembles the CBS logo. They should pay me for the ad space."@BFIA good stop for film-lovers, including ticketing info for forthcoming BFI releases and lots of links.@RebeccaFrontThe Thick of Itactress puts her comic spin on anything from backache to science.Moya SarnerComedy: 'Stuck with the 140-character limit, you  realise brevity truly is the soul of wit'Peter Serafinowicz. Photograph: Tom Watkins / Rex Features"Stuck to a 140-character limit," says comedian Peter Serafinowicz, "you realise brevity truly is the soul of wit." The 37-year-old, whose sketch show was on BBC2, has more than 370,000 followers thanks to a consistent stream of very funny tweets.There can be no art form better suited to Twitter than comedy – tight one-liners are the perfect length for an individual tweet. Serafinowicz says that his regular use of Twitter over the past year has helped hone his writing skills. "I'll think of a joke and quickly try to chip it away from a big lump of a funny thing into an intricate little sculpture of a gag."The success or failure of a joke can soon be gauged by the number of times it is retweeted. Sometimes people will suggest improvements or even, he says, "better jokes that I should have done. I recently posted a stupid joke – 'I hope Apple and Blackberry merge, yum!' – and somebody replied: 'It's more likely to be Palm and Siemens.'"Serafinowicz is not alone in using Twitter  to test-run material, "without the potential  of someone in the crowd throwing a beer bottle at you".Comic Gary Delaney specialises in one-liners in his stand-up and most of his tweets are new jokes he's trying out. Tiernan Douieb arranges online "gigs" at what he calls the Twitter Comedy Club, with artists like Mark Watson invited to do "sets", tweeting for 10 minutes at a time on scheduled evenings.@serafinowicz"These Viagra tablets do work, but you have to push alotof them into your penis."@TiernanDouieb"Trying to kill time in lovely Narbeth before the gig. It appears murdering a concept is difficult wherever you are."@GaryDelaney"Just seen Arthur pull Excalibur from the stone. Legend!"@shitmydadsaysThe musings of Justin Halpern's father are an official internet phenomenon that has spawned a book and (soon) a sitcom.@GlinnerWriter Graham Linehan (Father Ted,The IT Crowd) ponders story ideas on Twitter. Recently: should there be an "arresting the pope" plotline in one of his shows?@Nat_LuurtsemaComic who turns the events of an average day into amusing tweets. "Watching Harry Potter. Voldemort's nose looks pixellated, like he's wearing a celebrity's child's face on his upper lip."@JosieLongCute whimsy from the popular female stand-up. "This evening I saw a woman rollerblading with her dog. I can only think she got the idea from a tampon advert."@TheOnionThe peerless comedy news site has a lively, oft-updated Twitter feed, offering just its headlines which are usually the best bit: "Cool Dentist Doesn't Give A Shit About Patients' Flossing."@azizansariAsian-American stand-up, with a predilection for bad films. "Something very sad about the fact I haven't readMoby Dick, but I have read theKindergarten CopWikipedia page."@alyankovicAnnoying comedy songwriter Weird Al Yankovic is a prolific and surprisingly amusing tweeter. "I would tweet more often, but @BarackObama is following me, and I don't want to be too much of a distraction."@DianaInHeavenEnraging middle England, an anonymous tweets as Princess Diana, regularly encountering dead celebs above the clouds. "The Popes are planning a breakaway Heaven..."Tom LamontBooks: 'The obvious route  to go down' for writers alive and deadAlain de Botton. Photograph: Karen RobinsonForget the villanelle; the essential form  today's authors must master is the 140-character tweet. Its pithiness holds particular appeal for Alain de Botton who sees the aphorism as "the obvious route to go down with Twitter. It's a chance to make some kind of provocative, very brief statement and get people thinking. I've always read people like Wittgenstein and Nietzsche or La Rochefoucauld and loved the one-liner."This is probably the first time Twitter has been described as a vehicle for continuing a Nietzschean tradition but, as de Botton also observes, it's a site that writers (and everyone else) can put to varied,  idiosyncratic use. At its most practical, it provides writers with a testing ground for their lines. As de Botton says, "the journey from thought to writing to publication to reviews can happen in about five minutes as opposed to four years."Some of the best literary accounts on the site, though, come from dead writers – Pepys, Vonnegut and Chandler among them. The most engaging of all is the Don Twijote project, a suitably quixotic enterprise aiming to reproduceDon Quixotein its entirety, in 140-character bursts. Now who said Twitter was for twits?@MargaretAtwoodThe author recently blogged about her enthusiasm for the site, describing it as like "having fairies in your garden'.@alaindebottonThe philosopher keeps his 26,632 followers entertained and educated with his own thoughtful aphorisms. Example, "The reason to travel: there are inner transitions we can't properly cement without a change of locations."@chandlerismsBite-sized delight from Raymond Chandler fans, master of the hardboiled detective story. Twitter was made for his one-liners - including, "She smelled the way the Taj Mahal looks by moonlight."@GladwellNew Yorkerjournalist and author Malcolm Gladwell recently tweeted, "I'm doing more talking than listening these days, despite my wishes. What type of ratio does twitter encourage?" No doubt his 50,000-plus followers don't mind the imbalance.@DougCouplandTheGeneration Xauthor's  feed attracts  300,000 followers. Example: "life really would be more interesting if cats were the size of dogs."@paulocoelhoTweeting in Portuguese and English, the famously technophilic Brazilian author has over 360, 000 followers.@harikunzruCalls himself a "skilled user of social media as a work avoidance tool". Sample tweet: Samuel Beckett "is the only Nobel laureate to have an entry inWisdenCricketer's Almanack."@Writerer(AL Kennedy)Wry, warm tweets that keep her followers up to date with her writing and touring life.@samuelpepysChronological snippets synchronised with the current date to keep us informed of the events of 1667.@bookninjaIlluminating Twitter feed for the Canadian literary website that calls itself as "the world's deadliest books site".Hermione Hoby
The past 12 months have seen somewhat of a renaissance in the fighting game, a trend continued withSamurai Shodown Sen. That it's urged on so vigorously is unsurprising as the title was developed by SNK, long-standing masters of the beat-'em-up genre. Sen is actually the 11th edition in an acclaimed cult series that started life in the arcades and, like its predecessors, boasts lavish, stylised visuals and intense weapon-based martial arts combat.For genre-purists, the difficulty curve may feel a little erratic, but if you're a nostalgic or curious player looking for a flavour of the rasping arcade machines of the past,Samurai Shodown Sendoes a fantastic job of providing a contemporary taste of a golden era for gaming.Best played with friends, SNK's effort delivers a bold, action-heavy experience quite distinct from more mainstream beat-'em-ups. At a time when sober adventure titles still dominate the gaming charts,Samurai Shodown Senoffers a lively, pick-up-and-play alternative.
Funny Or DieThe UK version of this Will Ferrell-backed video site is a great place for guaranteed laughter. A voting system means only the best survive, with less amusing clips democratically dispatched to the dumper. Alongside bloopers and US comedy clips are exclusives, such as Peter Serafinowicz's incredible 50 impressions in two minutes, Matt Berry's guide to film-making and a gritty northern short starring Peter Kay's wing man Paddy McGuinness as an unemployed ninja. The site also houses vintage classics such as Matt Lucas and David Walliams's pre-Little Britain mockumentary series Rock Profiles.Flynn LivesTron. Photograph: RexTron: Legacy, the sequel to Disney's 1980s videogame classic, isn't out until December, but a sizeable buzz around the film is building online, thanks in part to an Alternate Reality Game and some viral marketing which last month led to a fake press conference in San Francisco being sabotaged by a character parachuting in. Most of the action centres around this fictional campaigning site run by protesters who believe the wherabouts of gaming genius Kevin Flynn (played by Jeff Bridges), missing since 1989, are being kept secret by his former employers Encom. Links to other sites reveal clues, let you hack into Encom's intranet, and unlock movie footage and soundtrack music by Daft Punk.Blog Roll: Classical musicAlex Ross, The Rest Is Noise. Photograph: Lisa CarpenterThe Rest Is NoiseNew Yorker critic and author Alex Ross on a range of music from Wagner to Pavement.On An Overgrown PathWhat's wrong with Radio 3, the secret life of an Arab record label and a hot new Latvian composer.Entartete MusikIn celebration of the 150th anniversary of Mahler's birth, plus the young Pavarotti and Czech opera.StandpointThe worst job in music, the National Youth Orchestra of Baghdad and Chopin overkill.IntermezzoHow far Dmitri Hvorostovsky will go to get a laugh and the humiliation of conducting.NMCInteractive map connecting composers.What we learned on the web this weekThrough the legs posters: Kingpin. Photograph: AllstarMovie posterdesigners love a through-the-legs shotMalcolm McLaren'sbest post-Pistols hitsHow toinsult a giant squidThe versatilityof Alan RickmanLove is… a Boyz II Men monologueThe sartorialbrilliance of GagaBarry Venisongets the respect he deservesDads areto blame for the financial meltdownSeven signsyou're taking Facebook too seriouslyThe 10biggest jumps of all time
Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Conviction, PC &amp; Xbox 360Gravel-voiced Sam Fisher is back, this time turned renegade and on a mission of revenge. That means all that mucking about knocking people unconscious has given way to the odd bit of lurking in the shadows before jumping out and snapping necks. It's a far more visceral game than past outings, featuring gruesome interrogation sequences, which only involve pressing one button yet make you feel implicated in Fisher's wince-inducing brutality. Other innovations include a ghostly outline of your last known position, letting you outflank guards, and a system that lets you label opponents before taking them down in a flurry of silenced gunfire. With a neat side story co-op mode and multiplayer adding the usual longevity, Splinter Cell: Conviction is a superbly entertaining and well-rounded package.Ubisoft, £25-£40Monster Hunter Tri, Nintendo WiiMonster Hunter Tri.Monster Hunter Tri has you wandering its world's surprisingly complex ecosystem, observing, cataloguing and then hunting its wide variety of beastly denizens. Find and pick herbs and mushrooms, catch insects, uncover relics and kill creatures for meat and resources to upgrade weapons and armour. Designed predominantly to be played online with a group of friends or newly met acquaintances, this is the nearest console owners can currently get to a massively multiplayer online game – a kind of World Of Wii-craft. It's not easy to love, though, and it will take 10 or more fairly tedious hours before the clumsiness of its controls and repetitive nature of the tasks give way to an engaging and addictive rhythm that draws you fully into its milieu.Capcom, £30-£40Espgaluda II, iPhoneEspgaluda II"Bullet hell" games form a genre so-called because enemies' missiles arrive in such densely-packed formations that each passing second you survive – which requires timing and learning each foe's habits – can feel like a miracle. Espgaluda II isn't quite that gruelling, having been re-imagined for the iPhone's touchscreen from its previous Xbox 360 incarnation. Amazingly, its increasingly complex control schemes work beautifully, with your craft belching an upgradeable stream of pulsing plasma towards enemies, precipitating explosions and taking advantage of the ability to convert incoming missiles into collectable gems. The combination of its pounding techno soundtrack, rippling fiery graphics and in-the-zone play mechanics soon produce a trance-like state, capable of helping you miss your bus stop.Cave, £2.99
Ning, which lets anyone set up their own social network service, is slashing staff numbers from 167 to 98 and changing its strategy. Recently-appointed chief executive Jason Rosenthalsent staff a memothat said: "we are going to change our strategy to devote 100% of our resources to building the winning product to capture this big opportunity" -- that being the premium service, not the one supported by advertising."We will phase out our free service. Existing free networks will have the opportunity to either convert to paying for premium services, or transition off of Ning," added Rosenthal.Over its life, the service has received about $120m in venture capital backing, but does not appear to have made a profit.Ning ("peace" in Chinese) has been well regarded partly because of its chairman,Marc Andreessen, who led the development of the Mosaic browser and co-founded Netscape to replace it (hence Mozilla, a Mosaic-killer). His co-founder and former CEO at Ning, Gina Bianchini, also made a name for herself.Ina video interviewpublished at Vator.tv last month, Bianchini said the next-generation Ning would be launched this year, and that the company was hiring. She was also happy to talk about revenue streams. She said about 13% of the user base paid for some premium services, and Ning also made money from "virtual gifts". As an example, she mentioned "bloody chain saws" being sold on the Lost Zombies network.But the day before that enthusiastic interview was published online,Andreessen announced that Bianchini had "decided to step downafter five and a half years of hard and terrific work".Ning had banked on its user base expanding virally, and in his announcement about Bianchini, Andreessen claimed that ""Ning today is one of the world's top social networking properties, with more than 2.3 million user-created Ning Networks and more than 45 million registered users, and is far and away the market leading social platform for interests and passions."However, inEyeballs still don't pay the bills, a blog post at 37Signals (the company behind Basecamp, Backpack, Campfire, Writeboard etc), David Hansson said: "Ning's problem is not a lack of eyeballs but its inability to turn them into cash money to pay the bills. Getting more of something that's a net-negative is not going to make up for it.""The just-give-it-away-for-free-and-they-will-come-and-we'll-be-rich automatron is as broken now as it was in 2001."On Andreessen's numbers, millions of users could now be faced with paying for Ning's service or abandoning the networks that have taken them so much time and effort to build.This is a useful reminder that no free online service is guaranteed to remain free, or even to survive. Indeed, it's a fair bet that at least 90% will, in the long term, disappear. Those lured with the bait of cloud computing should bear this in mind and make sure they have complete backups of all their data, plus an exit strategy for when the worst happens.Alternatives to Ning includeSocialGo,elgg, andIgloo. Other suggestions are welcome, but most people will probably just use Facebook….twitter.com/jackschofieldUpdate: On Twitter,Bea BrodericksuggestedKickAppswhilecolonellosuggestedBligoo(he seems to be a director of its parent company), as did Thaxe in the comments below.Also,ScriptstarpostedSeven sexiest alternatives to Ning, with screen grabs, andPhil Bradleyposted a number ofAlternatives to Ning.
Despite the fact that this third-person shooter/brawler franchise is making its first outing on the current generation of consoles, Dead To Rights: Retribution feels curiously old-fashioned in many ways.Its determination to shepherd you along a single path and lack of an online element, along with a general roughness around the edges, bring to mind the days when games were mostly played in arcades. However, once you learn to accept its foibles, it does provide an entertaining experience.It casts you as hard-bitten vice cop Jack Slate, struggling to maintain order in the near-derelict Grant City, with the help of his faithful police dog, Shadow. The plot, involving the inevitable conspiracy, is every bit as cheesy as that basic premise, but at least it isn't allowed to impinge on the gameplay, which is good enough to rescue Dead To Rights: Retribution from otherwise deserved obscurity.Most of the game is about third-person shooting, generally from behind cover (the cover system works, but feels more than clunky when compared with the likes of Splinter Cell: Conviction), and in particular lining up head-shots, which build up your Focus meter, which lets you slow down time temporarily when outnumbered. When enemies break cover, you can take them on with your fists – a particularly satisfying disarm move solves the perennial problem of third-person shooters: that when enemies get too close, the camera can't move quickly enough for you to see where they are. In this case, you can rip their guns out of their hands and then launch a bout of fisticuffs; once enemies are sufficiently weakened, you can trigger finishing moves, which also replenish your Focus meter.The fighting engine, which lets you build up combos, is pretty good, and the weaponry can't be faulted – ammo is in fairly short supply, so you need to keep moving and pick it up from dead enemies. There are also a number of stealth sequences in which you play as Shadow, who has a fearsome ability to sneak up on enemies and kill them, but (unlike Jack Slate), can't survive taking more than a couple of bullets.The critical among us will find plenty to gripe about in Dead To Rights: Retribution – the camera is often too tight, making it difficult to see who is shooting at you (although that does at least encourage you to keep moving around rather than cowering behind cover); although Shadow moves fairly convincingly, he seems to float about an inch above the ground; and context-sensitive commands such as snapping to cover or disarming enemies require you to face in exactly the correct direction, although as the game progresses, you learn how to time your button-presses correctly.In other words, Dead To Rights: Retribution lacks a considerable amount of polish compared to what we have recently become used on the PS3 and Xbox 360. But it has a very well thought-out learning curve and isn't afraid to put you in hair-raising situations involving large amounts of highly skilled enemies, so it gives you a great impression of being a one-man (and his dog) army – not unlike old arcade classics such as, for example, Double Dragon. If that appeals, you should enjoy it; if polish and neatness are the main assets you seek in games, you'd best steer clear.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I don't use that many, but I do love my iPod – and I have the old school 20GB version, with the wheel. It works beautifully. I have everything on it, and I just think it's my favourite piece of kit. It's just a genius invention.When was the last time you used it, and what for?It was actually yesterday – I downloaded the Il Postino soundtrack because a friend of mine was telling me about the Chilean poet it was based on. I bought Rhianna's Rude Boy as well – just the single, not the album – on iTunes.What additional features would you add if you could?I think if this one ever does break down, I will get the updated version that you can get video on as well. But I'm the kind of person who doesn't get carried away with one piece of kit that does everything.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I can't imagine how you can beat something like this for having your whole music collection on.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Probably that I don't understand it as much as I should, but I just don't have the time and the inclination to keep up – it does move very fast.  I don't really have my finger on the pulse as much as I should. And many of my techie friends are much too obsessed with all their gadgets.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?No, I can't think of anything that I've bought and hated because I'm very selective about what I buy – I tend to buy things I know I'm going to get a lot of use from and enjoy.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Get to know the item that you've bought, and spend the time to go through the manual. If you're going to spend the money on something, get to know everything it can do.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I do think I'm a bit of a nerd, but more of a science nerd than a techie nerd. I'm a biologist and a biochemist, so I'm still a nerd – just a different type of a nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Maybe just my laptop? I bought a Sony Vaio a couple of years ago, which I'm still using – it's grand.Mac or PC, and why?PC, from what I've just said. All my friends have Macs, but I'm not a graphic designer, and I don't edit videos – I know Macs are good for that. I think PCs just work better for what I need them for. I use my PC all day, every day. I've just not looked to the Macs.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I'm beginning to download my music off iTunes all the time now. I have all my old stuff on CD, but now I find it easier to buy music off the internet. I'm still buying DVDs, and the last thing I bought was Revolutionary Road and Notes From a Scandal. I watched them both in one day, and was so depressed at the end of them!Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I depends on how good they are. Can you really get a robot butler who would do everything as well as the human butler would? If you did have a machine that did all your day-to-day stuff for you, it would be handy in so many ways.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'm just about to buy a Nokia N900, because they look cool, and I'm quite excited about that. I've had my old Nokia phone for six or seven years now, so the new one is going to be so much fun to play with.•Liz Bonninco-presentsBang Goes The Theoryon Mondays, 7.30pm, BBC One andMuseum of Life, Thursdays, 8pm, BBC Two
Porn virus publishes web history of victims on the net - BBC NewsKenzero virus "takes screengrabs of the user's web history and publishes it online in their name, before sending an e-mail or pop-up screen demanding a credit card payment of 1500 yen (£10) to "settle your violation of copyright law" and remove the webpage."John Battelle On The Future Of Search: Part Two - Search Engine LandThe latest discussion includes "Siri, an iPhone app that offers a personal digital assistant that's really a voice activated meta-search tool."Glympse Brings Real-Time Location Sharing To Facebook - TechCrunchGlympse "now allows you to share you location with Facebook friends via the News Feed, using a nifty widget that plots your position on a map and updates it in real-time."Apple Software Security Inferior to Microsoft's, Says Iconic Hacker - SoftpediaMarc Maiffret, chief security architect at FireEye, "told InSecurity Complex that Apple's software was inferior to Microsoft's in terms of security and the capacity of protecting end users, despite claims to the contrary."Eyeballs still don't pay the bills - 37signalsIn response to the Ning cutbacks, David observes: "The just-give-it-away-for-free-and-they-will-come-and-we'll-be-rich automatron is as broken now as it was in 2001."Sony announces 'division two' VAIO laptops - PC Pro"Sony is to launch a "division two" of VAIO laptops that are made and designed by other manufacturers," reports Tim DantonTwitter turns against Labour on debate day - Reuters"An exclusive analysis for Reuters.co.uk shows 27% of tweets in our survey were anti-Labour today, versus 13% yesterday. That's the highest since April 6."Must Be A Bull Market: The Dumbest Job Ever, Day Trading, Is Cool Again - BusinessInsiderThe PCs are faster, the internet is faster, but as ex-Wall Street analyst Henry Blodget (no longer allowed to work on Wall Street..) points out, it's still a slow grind to make no money at all.Twitter stats on paper - The Next WebInfographic based on the speech Twitter co-founder Ev Williams gave at the first Chirp develper conference. Pity about the typos....Google back in hiring mode, biggest job growth in two years - Techflash"20,621 permanent workers, an increase of nearly 4% over the fourth quarter of last year."Hands-on with the WebStation Android Tablet - BetanewsStart with the picture: it uses a stylus. And then things don't get better either. Remind us why everyone's going to buy non-Apple tabletsthisyear?Ning's Infinite Ambition - Fast CompanyFrom 2008: apparently Ning had a "viral expansion loop". Pity it didn't have the right number of users.Mark Fiore can win a Pulitzer Prize, but he can't get his iPhone cartoon app past Apple's satire police - Nieman Journalism LabIn the weird new world where everything is controlled by Apple's thought police, Mark Fiore's NewsToons are banned "because, as Apple put it, his satire 'ridicules public figures'."Real-world iPad annoyances: A timeline - CNet"What we didn't know about on iPad Day, April 3, was all the little things that would drive us up a tree."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Facebook has developed sophisticated algorithms to monitor its users and detect inappropriate and predatory behaviour, bolstering its latest raft of initiatives to improve the safety of its users.Having launchedan education campaign, an improved reporting procedure and a 24/7 police hotline on Monday, Facebook told the Guardian that it has introduced a number of algorithms that track the behaviour of its users and flag up suspicious activity, including members with a significant number of declined friend requests and those with a high proportion of contacts of one gender.Another filter, common on web publishing sites, scans photo uploads for skin tones and blocks problem images – the "no nipples" filter that caused pictures of breastfeeding mothers to be inadvertently flagged and removed by the site last year.Facebook is the world's largest social network, with 400 million users a month, and employs 1,200 staff including a significant development team: its mainstream success can largely be attributed to its technical prowess. It believes that "under the radar" security systems developed with these engineering skills are more effective than public deterrents.Facebook's international law enforcement is lead by Max Kelly, a former FBI agent who worked on cyber-crime and counter-terrorism before moving to Facebook five years ago.Kelly explained that the site analyses users' actions and compares that behaviour to a average set of actions. "The site makes an assessment about that behaviour and if it is too far from normal mode, will degrade the user's experience. So if they are sending too many messages, the site might present a warning or show somecaptchas[the distorted text which a human can read but a computer can't]."Persistently aggressive behaviour, or pursuing particular types of contacts such as young women, would be handled by a review team, with some users eventually blocked. Serious offences such as child porn would be removed and the user banned immediately, said Kelly, who described the site's own user base as "the secret weapon" in monitoring and reporting much of the inappropriate behaviour.In the US, where Facebook's relationship with law enforcement is more established, the site responds to investigations by providing information about, for example, a suspect's location. It has called for a UK equivalent to its partnership with government in the US, which gives it access to data on sex offenders to help identify them on the site. In cases involving children, information and material will be passed to the USNational Center for Missing and Exploited Children. Though the centre has links to its UK equivalent, theChild Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, or Ceop, Kelly admitted the procedure needs to be improved."If they tell us the user is in the UK, that data goes to Ceop. We have had several meetings with [Ceop chief executive Jim] Gamble but that relationship is not working well," he said, adding that the UK needed a dual reporting system.Kelly added that the site had to balance its duty to respect its users while meeting its legal obligations, but emphasised that it "only shares data with very good reason"."If the warrant relates to the location or certain data about a witness or suspect, the team won't dump all the data on that user," he said. "It's not our data to share. The corporate philosophy about data is that the user is in control, and they choose how to share and distribute it. If we are presented with a legal situation where we have to disclose data to law enforcement, the philosophy is to provide the minimum amount of data required."Media coverage of the site's safety procedures have largely focused on the rift with Ceop over Facebook's refusal to introduce a "panic button" – a logo linking to Ceop – as a deterrent. Ceop's head of safeguarding and child protection, Dr Zoe Hilton, characterised talks as "robust" but said the agency's primary concern was that Facebook did not appear to be passing on reports of grooming and inappropriate contact."There is absolutely no legal barrier that would stop a US company passing reports of day-to-day grooming of children to the UK," she said. "They have internet experts managing and assessing risks to children – we have social workers and police. We want a better dialogue on all aspects of their safety, and underage users should be one of those things."From Ceop's perspective, use of a branded button on popular websites is an important part of a wider campaign to unify safety reporting procedures. Following an education campaign in UK schools, it claims that 5.2m children now recognise the Ceop name and logo. With MySpace and Bebo on the decline, the cooperation of Facebook is essential.Recent research by Ofcomfound that a quarter of children aged eight to 12 had profiles on social networking sites, even though most require users to be 13 or over. Though Hilton welcomed Facebook's technical methods of monitoring suspicious user behaviour, she said they were not new and not a substitute for  clear reporting.Ceop had received 253 reports of grooming on Facebook in the first quarter of this year, she said, and 75% of those had come through the Ceop site. "That means those people had to leave Facebook, find our site and then click through 'report a concern', and that's too many stages."She denied that Ceop was struggling to deal with the volume of reports, and invited Facebook's team to Ceop to see how they manage their caseload. In the long term, she emphasised, Facebook and Ceop needed to have a "strong and warm relationship" and that ideally, a member of Facebook's safety team would be embedded with Ceop to inform its work across education, new technologies and investigations.Privacy campaignerChristina Zabasaid Facebook needed to do more to stop persistent stalkers and bullies who could use multiple identities, and cautioned against the automated profiling of users. Flagging users with too many friends of one sex could penalise gay people or those organising groups such as the Girl Guides, she argued, while users with many declined friend requests could be PRs, campaigners or journalists trying to reach a new audience."There are many human variables that are too complex to be monitored in this way," Zaba said. "I'd be happier if the lines of reporting were clearer, and if concerned users could speak to a real person."Facebook's rival MySpace does not carry the Ceop logo, while Bebo, whose members are generally younger than Facebook's, includes a small Ceop logo on every profile. The branded links havesignificantly increased the number of reportsbeing sent to Ceop since they were introduced.
Okay, I've overlooked this one for too long. Just look at the press info:Set to release in 2010 for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation3 platforms, players will take on the role ofNaughty Bear, a bear driven to seek vengeance after the other bears don't invite him to the big birthday party. Scorned for the last time, Naughty Bear becomes hell bent on manipulating and terrorizing the blissful bears inhabiting the Island of Perfection.So the idea is to frighten other bears using a variety of weapons, objects and scare tactics. There are 30 levels to work through, each opening up a new arsenal of terrifying items for your hideous pleasure. Think Manhunt reimagined by Enid Blyton in the midst of some kind of breakdown.Behind this bizarre title is Montreal-based indie,Artificial Mind &amp; Movement, previously responsible for third-person shooter, WET, and a ton of licensed titles. Nothing in its reasonably long history indicated that the studio would one day create a game based around a character resembling a sociopath in a poorly made bear outfit.Of course, this is not the first title to subvert the idea of cute, anthropomorphic critters. Who could forget cult platformer, Conker's Bad Fur Day (effectively a Rare nasty)? Or conversely, who couldrememeberFur Fighters, a massively overlooked Dreamcast shooter from Project Gotham developer, Bizarre Creations?Any other fuzzy favourites?
If you came across an old book in your bookshelf, would you like to know what your great grandfather thought about it? If the answer to this is "No" then read no further. If the answer is "Yes" then welcome to the next revolutionary thing on the web: the geography of things.Every object in the world could, in theory, hold memories of its own history and even "talk" to other objects. How is this possible? For years geeks have been talking about the "internet of things" in which products such as a light bulb could have their own unique web address and more recently the phrase  "geography of things" has been discussed but somehow never got anywhere near real life experiences.Until tomorrow, when a group centred on University College London launchesthe Tales of Things websiteto turn it all into reality. Among their immediate plans are to tag every object in an Oxfam shop to see what happens to them and to deposit a number of tagged books in public places. But that's only the beginning.All this is possible because of the convergence of two technologies – the mobile phone and the new generation of 2D bar codes. Last year I wrote about the revolutionary prospects for the bar code (with which I have been boring colleagues on the Guardian for years), but I didn't expect it to happen so quickly. Smartphones such as the iPhone, Google's Android range and Nokia can now scan a bar code automatically. You don't have to press a button you just point the scanning application at a bar code and it takes you to a website giving details about the product.So, if you wanted to, you could attach photographs from your Flickr account to a wine glass to remind you of a pleasant evening or tag your car so memories are preserved for you and could, if you so wished, be left there for future owners. Initially objects would be tagged with stickers, but soon they could be embedded using ceramics.Dr Andrew Hudson-Smith, senior research fellow at UCL's highly rated Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis, told a conference at UCL this week that he first got the idea when he was at an event where one of the artists kept banging annoyingly with a bowl and someone said wouldn't it be nice if the bowl could talk. Why not, he thought. They got a grant and a team of his colleagues has been beavering away ever since.When I talked to delegates afterwards, there were clearly mixed feeling ranging from strong support to a feeling it was all a bit crazy and why did they get a grant for doing this sort of thing. My reaction was rather different. I thought I was looking at something that could – repeat, could – be really big. If it was happening at a university in the US researchers would already be thinking how they could turn it into the Facebook of things. For heavens sake, why shouldn't a big company be spun out of UCL and its collaborators? It is not that they have invented anything new, it is simply – as so often happens – they have put it together in an interesting way. Which means they have to act fast before someone else moves in.Unlike the early days of Facebook and Twitter, there are obvious ways to monetise the project. Insurance companies, not to mention auctioneers, would die to have all this data tagged, and once objects are chronicled it would be easy to link to a website if you wanted to buy something similar.There are obvious problems, as Dr Hudson-Smith pointed out. Would it increase theft (because burglars might know where things are), or would it reduce it if objects had embedded tags that were difficult to remove? But then that's we British all over: always looking for a reason not to do something rather than leaping at the opportunity.twitter.com/vickeegan
Worldwide PC shipments grew by an unexpectedly high 27.4% to 84.3m units in the first quarter of 2010, according toGartner, or by 24.2% to 79.1m units, according to rival research companyIDC. This is the best growth since 2001, although it's more a result of the recession-induced slump at the start of 2009. Still, PC sales are now approaching the one million-a-day level, which is remarkable for a market that is now over 30 years old.The resurgence even included a growth in desktop PC shipments, instead of the usual decline. IDC also credited "continued recovery in emerging markets, improved business sentiments, and growth of specialized designs like All-in-One PCs". Gartner's Mikako Kitagawa, principal analyst, added that "Major PC replacement demand driven by Windows 7 will become more apparent in the second half of 2010 and the beginning of 2011."The world's top five PC suppliersbecame a top six at Gartner. HP continued in first place, shipping 15.3m machines for a market share of 18.2%, followed by Acer (14.2%), Dell (12.1%) and Lenovo (8.3%). Toshiba and Asus tied for fifth place with 5.5% each, after Asus increased its shipments by 115%.HP also kept the top spot in theUS market, on Gartner's figures, shipping 4.4m PCs for a market share of 25%. It was followed by Dell (23.4%), Acer (15.6%), Toshiba (8.6%) and Apple (8.0%). Both Acer and Toshiba grew shipments by 50%, and Apple by 34%. IDC's numbers were similar except that it gave Apple a 6.4% share of the US market and growth of only 8.3%. (No, Gartner did not include the iPad, which it classes as a "media tablet". It is clearly not a PC.)InEurope, Acer continued in the leading position it achieved last year, shipping 5.8m PCs for a market share of 21.3%. HP came just behind (20.4%), with Dell (9.2%), Asus (8.1%) and Toshiba (5.1%) making up the top five, on Gartner's figures. Acer's shipments grew by 53.6% compared with the same quarter last year, and Asus's by a remarkable 132.5%. Both show the influence of netbooks on the PC market.UK-based Gartner principle analyst Ranjit Atwal said: "The professional PC market has begun to show some improvement, driven mainly by small businesses. The future remains positive in this segment as organizations start to replace older PCs and migrate to Windows 7."InAsia/Pacific, Gartner said PC shipments increased by 36.9% to 26.5m units, whileLatin Americagrew by 35.4% to 7.2m units.Numbers for the rest of the year will not benefit from such a strong rebound effect, but PC market shipments could still grow by 15% or so, on an annual basis.Note: HP's shipments include PCs sold under the Compaq brand, while Acer's include the Gateway and Packard-Bell brands. Lenovo owns the IBM ThinkPad brand. PC shipments include netbooks (mini-notebooks) but not handhelds or servers.
It seems that the volcanic ash - even now creeping over the UK like a slightly low-rent piece of CGI in an under-scripted horror movie - could also affect satellite communications. John Yates, Chair of the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) Satellite Network, says: "The 1991 Mount Hudson volcano eruption - one of largest of the 20th century - affected satellite communications systems in Chile.  The ash affected satellite communications in Los Antiguos, a town 120km from the volcano, in the same manner as a snow storm can disrupt satellite communications."Volcanic ash can also reduce the performance of satellite dishes.  The degree to which ash affects the dishes depends on climatic conditions; wet conditions prior to ash falling will cause the ash to stick to satellite dishes - heavy rainfall afterwards will wash it off."The ash cloud is currently at high altitude, but if it was to come towards us and we experience rainfall beforehand, this could cause problems."So that will be a lot of Sky owners and engineers anxiously watching the skies. A warning about volcanic dust (which personally I do have some experience of - I was in holiday in Barbados in 1979 when a volcano - Soufrière -went off on the island of St Vincent): if it gets on your car, don't try to polish it off - you'll destroy the car's finish with myriad scratches. Just blow it off with compressed air if you can, or let the rain do its work.Two bonuses, to set against the cancelled air flights and heightened risk of asthma: you get great sunsets; and volcanic dust makes for fantastic farmland.
Volcanic eruption on Iceland. Photo byKrummaon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWatch Air Traffic live &gt;&gt; flightradar24.comRelevant today because of all the distraction of volcanic ash from the Icelandic volcano, but interesting at any time. (Note: does not show timeliness of flights...)Google Follow Finder: Find some sweet tweeps &gt;&gt; Google LabsAn experimental system for finding Twitter users to follow, from Google LabsPC Shipments Jump 27% in First Quarter, Gartner Says &gt;&gt; Business WeekGlobal personal-computer shipments topped estimates in the first quarter, rising 27 percent to 84.3 million units, said Gartner Inc., citing a recovery in Europe.Five rational arguments against Apple's 3.3.1 policy &gt;&gt; 37signals"Lots of developers, me included, have had such a gut-turning reaction to Apple's new policy that we have a hard time thinking and speaking rationally," writes David. "So ... allow me to go through five (mostly) rational arguments for why this is a bad idea."Twitter Makes Itself More Useful &gt;&gt; New York TimesThe Bits blog reports on Chirp, Twitter's first developer conference.The T-Grid: Handheld PC Pro vs. the iPad &gt;&gt; TechnologizerHarry McCracken  compares the iPad with the sort of Jupiter/Windows CE device that Microsoft was trying to promote 12 years ago. (And some of them were tablets, though not this one.)Hmmm…Software That Predicts If You Will Do Crime &amp; Time &gt;&gt; Gigaom"The UK Ministry of Justice also uses IBM's predictive software on its criminal population, to see which ones pose a greater threat to public safety upon release." File under "things that make you go hmm".Israel customs confiscating iPads &gt;&gt; HaaretzBecause they haven't been tested against Israeli Wi-Fi power standards (which, like European standards, tend to require lower power than US ones). Confiscations so far: 10.Kin Could Be Microsoft's Stupidest Move Yet &gt;&gt; DaniwebHaving absorbed the Danger phone, Microsoft needed to re-emit it. The question is, is the effort worth it? Why is it splintering its efforts in this way?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
