The address ishttp://virtualearth.msn.com/but the servers seem to have been swamped.
I haven't touched a video game since a brief flirtation with the first generation of Space Invaders in 1979. I love sport but I don't like games that involve sitting passively. I don't play chess because I can't do anything requiring concentration. Occasionally, checking email in internet cafes, I've seen kids playing video games and have been appalled by the look of tranced concentration on their faces.Even though I have almost no direct contact with them, video games still contaminate my world. If I go to the cinema I have to time my arrival to avoid previews for the forthcoming films that - when I've been unlucky enough to catch them - look like video games writ large and loud. My attitude to the subject under discussion, then, is a volatile combination of near-total ignorance and extreme hostility.The one chink in the armour of resistance is that my abiding memory of being a child without brothers and sisters is of chronic boredom. From the point of view of the lonely only child, the solipsistic world of the video game offers the promise of virtual salvation.Quite a shock to the system, though, to find myself actually taking delivery of an Xbox, PlayStation 2, Donkey Konga and God knows what else. The house filled up with vast boxes and cartons. It looked like the day after Christmas. And guess what I had to do once I'd got all this stuff? That's right, the first principle of consumerism immediately kicked in: spend the money and then... spend more money. On an extension lead adaptor.When I was growing up we had two power outlets in our living room. Now, we've got about 10 appliances plugged into every socket and still we crave more outlets, more voltage, more power.OK, I went and bought an extension lead adaptor. I was ready to go. To be precise, I was ready to go to Dixons again to buy a scart lead adaptor. The telly, already wired up to the DVD player, the stereo, the Freeview box, the video, the answering machine and the blender, didn't have any orifices left to stick something in.Still, within half an hour of getting connected I was up and running, in the thick of no-holds barred action, otherwise known as a blazing row. My wife came home from work and was none too pleased to find our boutique living room turned into a cross between a teenager's bedroom and an amusement arcade. A little background: she grew up in a house with a grand piano but no telly. As a consequence, even watching Newsnight has the erotic frisson of transgression, but the sight of her middle-aged hubby with 'that stupid thing in your hands' ('I believe it's called a controller,' I shot back) didn't excite, it offended. I was pissed off as well because although I had this thing in my hands I'd not yet controlled anything with it. The instructions were quite inadequate. They presupposed a basic knowledge that is hard-wired into the brain of a 15-year-old but which mine did not possess.Unable to face all the sword and sorcery nonsense and the alien warrior bollocks, I opted for Ace Combat: Squadron Leader. As I inserted the disk I was reminded of the time, many years ago, before there were cool shops like Sh!, when I had cause to buy a vibrator. Passing through the red-beaded curtain into the adult section at the back of the shop was like entering the world of the damned. It felt like that now except - and this may well be the defining character of damnation - it was profoundly boring. I was stuck in an endless loop of previews. The world of Ace Combat was sort of convincing and sort of cartoony, bearing an allusive relation - 'the Belkans' - to existing politics. I couldn't make the transition from preview to game but I could hear the sound of the piano (digital, naturally) coming from upstairs: an elegiac yet interminable piece, played with considerable vigour, called something like The End of Culture As We Know It.It was still going strong when I finally got into game mode, but Ace Combat was, for my taste, too like staring at a computerised simulation. This is probably what it's like if you're really flying a stealth bomber into 'Beghdad' but I was hoping for something a bit more, well, a bit more Spitfire, frankly, a game designed by a descendant of Barnes Wallis that enabled you to experience all the thrills and spills of the Battle of Britain in the privacy of your own home. I tried Red Dead Revolver - a western theme - but I couldn't get the hang of that either.'It's so stupid,' I kept saying, but what I meant was that I was too stupid. I twiddled the knobs randomly and jabbed every button available. I didn't have the patience to properly get to grips with it all and, as a professional writer, I didn't have the time. It was summer, you see, and I wanted to be out playing tennis. If I wasn't out playing tennis I wanted to be at home watching it on TV.As well as eating into my leisure activities all this video gaming was interfering with the crumbs of spare time normally devoted to the life of the mind. I was supposed to be writing a long essay about Rodin and Rilke. A few years ago Sven Birkerts, author of The Gutenberg Elegies: The Fate of Reading in an Electronic Age, was asked by an American literary journal to choose his book of the 20th century. He picked Rilke's Duino Elegies 'because it is there we find the most potent possible distillation of subjective inwardness, our most endangered attribute'. Endangered, needless to say, by stuff like Sudeki and Brute Force ('Dangerous Alone, Deadly Together'). I wasn't enjoying Crimson Skies or Dead or Alive but they did make the task of thinking about Rilke and Rodin ('dangerous alone, deadly together?') seem a tad thrill-less.A choice had to be made and I opted for the high ground of literature - or at least the bit of it occupied by Conrad and the famous exhortation in Lord Jim: 'In the destructive element - immerse!' Specifically, I immersed myself in the immensely destructive element of Grand Theft Auto.Set in San Andreas, a simulation of LA gangland, it looked more real than a lot of the other worlds I'd sampled. (Getaway: Black Monday takes places in a London that is both drearily familiar and, since no one wants to play a game that involves being stuck in traffic for days on end, implausibly deserted.) In Grand Theft Auto this homey, Carl, gets dumped in the middle of another gang's territory and has to make it back to his own hood through a gangsta rap city of drive-bys, whores, foul language and anthropologically interesting handshakes.I soon found I could make him move. I could put him on a bike. I could make him pedal down the highway. He wobbled and veered through the streets - straight into a brick wall. The breakthrough came when, having tried and failed to leap over a mesh fence, I - ie Carl - backed up, took a running jump and cleared it. This was sort of fun.I located the punch button. Carl walked up to a pedestrian, smacked him in the face six times and then jumped on his head. This really was fun. Who needed subjective inwardness when you could jack a car and go tearing down the freeway, leaving a trail of destruction and mangled bodies in your wake? I turned up the volume. No, I didn't, I pumped up the volume.With the house ablaze with screams, sirens, rending metal, smashing glass and gun shots I didn't hear the key turn in the door when my wife came home.'What is going on?' she wanted to know.'Go play your piano, bitch!' I shouted (I wasn't angry: I had to yell to make myself heard), glancing up just long enough for her to catch the look of tranced concentration on my face as Carl waded into a bunch of Latinos. This wasn't a game, this was true interactive entertainment.Time sped by. There was, obviously, a certain amount of maiming and killing going on. At one point, due to a random press of an inadequately understood button, I picked up a knife and slashed a couple of cops. There's no shortage of hookers in San Andreas and I am informed you can score points by having sex and then beating them up instead of paying. Now this, it hardly needs saying, is not nice. Nor is it quite what Matthew Arnold had in mind when he wrote of culture toggling us towards the sweetness and light. One of the virtues of these games, though, is that they allow you to customise your experience, and so, after that initial orgy of violence, I abandoned all attempts to 'progress' or get back to the sanctuary of the hood (wherever that was). I preferred to go for a stroll through the city or for a spin on my bike.The challenge, as I saw it, was to stay out of trouble and do nothing that diminished the enjoyment or threatened the safety of other people in this virtual world. Granted, I occasionally let off a little steam by wasting someone behaving in an anti-social manner (there is, surely, huge potential for a game called Yob Killer) but most of the time I just wandered through the infinite city, having a nice time and being a good citizen.Once I discover how to do it, I bet it's even possible to find a tree on a hillside and sit there quietly, with my Rilke, reading the Duino Elegies.
Over the past 12 months, I've been lucky enough to drive more than 100 cars, from a &#163;6,000 Daihatsu to a &#163;160,000 Ferrari. I've hurtled up the M4 in a factory-fresh Porsche and spluttered down the A303 in a 45-year-old Sprite. I've been scared senseless in a 200mph dragster (24 gallons to the mile) and cruised serenely in an electro-petrol hybrid (89 miles to the gallon) ... But for most of us, cars aren't only about torque values and axle weights, they're also about cup holders and losing our keys and arguing with traffic wardens. In this spirit, I've spent the past year getting lost and locking myself out. I've wiped fromage frais off leather seats. I've stalled, run out of petrol, and been snapped by speed cameras. In short, I've tried (with the exception of the dragster) to live with the vehicles in the same, everyday way that you might.Your questionsQMy daughter will be 17 at the end of next month and I'm frankly terrified about driving with her as a learner. Any thoughts on how we can avoid a nasty mother-daughter collision.Carol Hastings, KentAHand her over to a driving-school instructor, Carol, and you'll never have to sit next to her while she's learning - though she'll probably need more lessons if you don't practise with her. To let her get a taste of life behind the wheel you might consider a young-driver course. Motorvision Sport runs these at tracks across the country and it gives children a chance to spend three hours in a traffic-free, safe environment while you enjoy a stress-free coffee. Courses cost &#163;75, go towww.motorsportvision.co.uk/MSV-info/MSV-youngdriver.aspQHi Martin, I'm a self-employed businessman and drive around 30,000 miles a year. I've recently picked up two speeding tickets after passing cameras I didn't notice so I invested in a Road Angel GPS device. Why is it that this shows I am doing 40mph when the car's speedo shows 44mph?Dave ListAHi Dave, This is because speedos over-read to be on the safe side. A discrepancy of up to 10 per cent is allowed by law - in the right direction, of course.QI'm a third-year nursing student. What's the cheapest and most economical car I can buy?Janey, ExeterAI'm afraid cheap and economical are rarely the same thing. I was at an auction near Bath recently and a car went for a fiver. But it didn't look all that economical to run. Each month, Test Drive magazine publishes a pence-per-mile cost for every car it reviews, a figure that takes into account depreciation, tax, servicing and fuel economy. The lowest figure I've seen was for Perodua's Kelisa - 32p. I'd splash out an extra penny, though, and go for Vauxhall's Agila or VW's Polo, both 33p. The highest? Bentley's Arnage - &#163;4.89 per mile.QI'm a very anxious driver. What's the safest car on the road?Angela Phillips, CardiffAAngela, The glib answer would be to say any car which isn't involved in an accident. However, if you are unlucky enough to have one, then Peugeot's funky new 1007, a sliding-door supermini, is officially the safest according to the crash testers at Euro NCAP.QI'm a computer operator and suffer with RSI. An attack makes my arms feel heavy and painful, but I need to use a car to ferry my teenage kids to school. Which car, in your experience, is roomy and has the lightest steering?Tom Holder, NottinghamASorry to hear about the RSI, Tom. Power steering now comes as standard on pretty much every car. However, a big heavy vehicle is still going to need more effort to manoeuvre it. You need to think light and nimble. And for headroom for your growing children, you'll need to say hello to the supermini. The new Nissan Micra would be ideal. Toyota's excellent Yaris is worth a look, as is Renault's Modus and even Citroën's snazzy city car, the C1. If you're feeling a little wacky, Suzuki's tall and thin Wagon R might get you started.QHi Martin, My girlfriend is a lousy driver. She says it's because she's a Gemini and can't concentrate. Is she crazy?Jim, GlasgowAJim, Speaking as a Gemini, probably. And I'm afraid she's also going to need a new excuse. Prudential Insurance recently quizzed 2,000 customers and checked their star signs against their driving records. Most likely to make a claim were, in fact, Cancerians. While the lowest number of claims came from the Twins. I also asked our astrologer, Neil Spencer, what he thought. This is what he said: 'The butterfly Gemini mind is astrological legend. On the other hand, one of her Twins should be able to handle the driving while the other flits over a dozen topics in as many seconds.'QI am interested in buying a new car. Could you tell me if the Mitsubishi 2.0 Turbo Evolution MR FQ-340 would be suitable for shopping and collecting the kids from school? I'm a 38-year-old postman and live in Halifax. Also, what does the FQ stand for?Nick DawsonAThe answer is yes. It's a full-on road-going rally car, but the Evo also offers a spacious boot and five-seat practicality. With a top speed of 155mph and a 0-60 of 4 seconds, it'll mean you had no excuse for the post being late. FQ stands for something like Flipping Quick ... sophisticated Japanese humour.QI'm ethically minded and a motorist. Is there any way I can have my cake and eat it?Pat Richards, BristolASorry, Pat, the answer's no. But you can significantly help your case by reducing your carbon emissions (eating less cake, if you like). Your mileage per gallon will go up with diesel. But also consider converting to LPG (visitwww.boostlpg.co.uk), or buying an electric hybrid, such as Toyota's Prius or Honda's IMA Civic. It might also be worth looking into car pooling (seewww.greenride.com), or car sharing (www.liftshare.org). Failing that, there's always a bike ...
The arrival of video gaming as an element in both my life and popular culture was heralded not with the visceral thrill of punk rock or the glacial romanticism of Joy Division (both of which would later go on to inform my lifelong love of pop music) but with the metronomic recreation of a slowly speeding up heartbeat. 'Duh-Deh. Duh-deh. Duh-deh'. It was the sound of rows of pixilated aliens advancing slowly downwards towards a blocky spaceship - it was Taito's Space Invaders and it would inform my lifelong love of computer games.Purists point to 1962's SpaceWar, or the paddles and ball classic Pong as the birth of gaming but, despite its simplicity and the fact that you always lost in the end, it was the sheer popularity of Space Invaders that places it at gamings' year zero. It was Space Invaders that forced the Japanese mint to press more &yen;100 pieces to feed players' demand; it was Space Invaders that captured mass imagination and it was Space Invaders that spawned an industry.From kids shovelling 10p pieces into a cabinet in smoky seaside arcades, gaming has created a market now worth &pound;3.7billion across Western Europe - the sort of high-score figure most gamers can only dream about. The smoky arcades soon spawned simple home consoles (remember the once-powerful Atari?), which led to rudimentary home computers that created a cottage industry of home programmers, pushing the machines to their limits (and for which a burgeoning retro-gaming market now exists). Many of those early games programmers would later go on to become major players in the modern-day business.Then, as public interest waned, the modern gaming era began. Nintendo introduced its 8-bit (a measure of processing power - the equivalent amount needed to create a modern shortcut icon on a desktop PC) home entertainment console in the mid Eighties. It was a direct forerunner of the systems that are so popular now. The new home consoles gave us household names such as Mario and Sonic the Hedgehog, and the rise of the unlikeliest success of them all, a simple yet infuriatingly addictive puzzle game invented by Alexey Pajitnov, entitled Tetris.Within 10 years gaming was no longer a niche hobby enjoyed by the socially maladjusted. Sony joined the party in 1995 and became dominant. Lara Croft (a fictional character created from numbered code, let's not forget) became an icon, Metal Gear Solid took hold, and the explosion in processing power of PCs has meant that fragging aliens or racing at Monte Carlo is becoming more realistic and absorbing with every new release.As games playing has grown, so its demographic has changed, now including a large age and gender mix and increasingly targeting adults with disposable incomes - some of whom cannot help but hear echoes of that repetitive Space Invaders mantra ringing down the years.
Earlier this summer, Michael, a sales assistant, was sitting in the cafe in London's Holland Park. 'Then I saw them - Gwyneth Paltrow and Stella McCartney,' he says. 'They were pushing prams. So I got out my camera. At first, they didn't appear to notice.' As Michael explains, a camera like his - a small Canon, the size of a credit card - is not very conspicuous. 'But then I think Gwyneth realised what was going on.'Michael always carries his camera with him - 'it's just easy, so small, always there in case something happens'. One of the resulting photographs was published in Heat magazine, in a slot called You've Been Snapped! which features celebrities caught, unposed, by members of the public.In May, chef Matthew Stevens, 24, was cleaning out the freezers at the Quantuck Gateway restaurant in Bridgewater, Somerset, when he was bitten twice on the hand by a deadly Brazilian wandering spider that had made its way into the kitchen via the restaurant's delivery of bananas. Despite 'feeling really dizzy and quite sick', Stevens managed to fling some hot water over the spider, 'which seemed to stun it'. He then fired off a few pictures of it using a Motorola V600, using the digital zoom to get in nice and close.A few hours later, by which time the entire right side of his body was paralysed and he was being stretchered off to receive oxygen at Musgrove hospital in Taunton, the doctors finally managed to identify the spider by emailing the images on his phone to Bristol Zoo. They could then administer the correct anti-venom drugs and Stevens made a full recovery, although he insists he 'checks the bananas much more carefully now'.Another 'camphone' image - this time a murky snap taken at a birthday drink in a north London pub - has provided key evidence in the investigation of an attempted murder. It shows David Sayer, who was later stabbed five times; in the background are three men playing pool. The image was taken discreetly using a mobile phone, rather than a camera, which may explain why the assailants seem unaware their faces are being captured. The picture was the centrepiece of a recent BBC Crimewatch appeal.Three very different examples. But now so many of us have tiny digital cameras or boast cameras in our mobiles - one in five mobile phone owners in the UK, according to Jupiter Research - that most of life can be documented.'Rather than the traditional concept of "the few watching the many", the popularity of camera phones has created a situation where the many are now watching the many,' explains Les Back, professor of sociology at Goldsmiths College. We're all now monitoring each other, ready to snap any moments of weakness and record them for posterity, or in some cases, profit, as Prince Harry will readily confirm.That infamous shot of Harry wearing Nazi regalia at a fancy dress party - taken with a mobile phone - was sold by a fellow party-goer to The Sun for about &pound;7,500, a very humble figure given its impact and the sales benefit to the paper.According to Nokia, which now likes to call itself the world's biggest camera manufacturer, the number of camera phones sold globally had exceeded that of digital cameras by mid-2003 (at 200 million). Nokia predicts this figure will treble by 2006. But at present, according to Jupiter Research, not even a fifth of UK camera phone owners have taken a picture with their phones, and only 6 per cent have sent a picture message, also known as an MMS.The big problem was that, until very recently, the quality of images was rather shaky. This was partly due to the technology itself, but also because the resolution was often set deliberately low, so as not to use too much of a phone's memory. But this is less of a problem in the era of removable memory cards. We also shouldn't confuse the ropey quality of a highly compressed MMS with a phone's underlying ability to take pictures, which can then be (expensively) emailed from the mobile, or transferred on to a computer.Either way, until the very latest models, camera phones have simply not produced a calibre of photo worth printing. In fact, they've not even been good enough for angling enthusiasts to document big fish that they've landed, according to a senior news reporter for the Angling Times, who ruefully warned that 'the real horror story is when the occasional angler catches an absolute whacker, and photographs it using a mobile phone or a disposable camera, only to find that the picture isn't of publishable quality'.Yet there's an old saying among photographers that the best camera is the one you have on you at the time. In this sense, small digitals or camera phones are now an indispensable tool for journalists, whether fashion editors air kissing at the catwalks or hardened newshounds. The BBC now issues Nokia camera phones with beefed-up microphones to 'most news reporters', according to the corporation's TV editor of newsgathering, Jon Williams. 'Television is all about pictures,' he says. 'So not having any isn't a position that I feel comfortable with.'As reporters inevitably get to the scene of a breaking story before film crews, they are in an ideal position to provide 'first responder stuff' and, as they can then email these shots directly from a phone to a news desk, they can provide 'holding images', until better material arrives. That this can now be replicated from any part of the world 'unlocks the potential for getting more stories, from more places, more quickly,' says Williams. 'Without wanting to overstate it, this technology liberates TV production.'He adds that the pictures taken on a good camera phone 'can actually be quite decent', before explaining that - even before the London bombings - they had already provided images for broadcast stories that would otherwise have remained unseen, including the 'ghost ships' loaded with toxic materials - camera phone pics were taken by a reporter from another ship off the north east coast - and the recent floods in Thirsk, north Yorkshire.Williams is keen to encourage the public to continue emailing any news-worthy images they've taken on their phones, a process he calls 'the democratisation of newsgathering', adding that the BBC might pay for a really hot story - though probably 'less than four figures'. The London bombings earlier this month were largely documented through mobile phone pictures.Williams is not particularly anxious about hoax images. 'It's the same as any other news story,' he says. 'Always check your sources. At some point, somebody will get hoaxed, we hope we have the processes in place to prevent it being us.'What's more, since pictures can be sent instantly, people are increasingly using them to lodge complaints about iffy holiday accommodation, say, by emailing the images directly to the holiday company while they are still abroad rather than having to find a travel agent.Permanently packing a camera phone can also help preserve a no claims bonus, says Philip Southgate, spokesperson for Prudential Motor Insurance. 'People's ability to document accidents has evolved with technology,' he says. 'As well as noting details on paper, nowadays photographs taken with a mobile phone can also be compelling evidence.' Southgate explains that even a crude image, showing the vehicle's road positioning or the weather conditions, can be very useful. A good tip since two-thirds of Brits involved in road accidents admit liability at the scene, according to Prudential.Professor Back is less optimistic. He thinks camera phones lead to 'the memorialising of bad behaviour', by which he means the so called 'happy slapping' phenomenon, insisting that it is all part of a wider cultural syndrome. 'The obsession with moral weakness, bad behaviour and becoming spectators in other people's lives is having a damaging effect,' he says.His point is illustrated by events that took place in Edinburgh a few weeks ago, as a 34-year-old man stood precariously on a small ledge, 100ft above the glass roof of Waverley Station. In what it called 'a sad indictment of today's society', The Scotsman reported that a ghoulish crowd 'camera-phones held aloft, manoeuvred themselves into the best spot to get a snap. "Just jump," shouted one sadistic voyeur.' The technology itself is not 'unremittingly negative', says Professor Back. 'It's how people use it that matters.' Knives are clearly for chopping, rather than stabbing, and no one disputes the usefulness of glue, despite the fact that some teenagers choose to sniff it. What many people are concerned about is the surreptitious nature of the way camera phones work, and the impact that has on privacy. Some employers have made noises about security. Grave warnings have been issued to parents to cover up their toddlers in the park, and health clubs are rattled about their potential use in changing rooms.Andree Deane, communications director of the Fitness Industry Association, explains that 'most major health club chains have a ban &#91;on camera phones&#93; in place, with signs in the changing rooms. In fact, a number of gyms now don't allow mobiles at all.'In truth, short of banning all mobile phones, it is hard to see how anything can be done to stop people using cameras. There have been suggestions that we adopt a similar approach to Korea, where manufacturers have voluntarily prevented the shutter noise on camera phones from being disabled. But is this likely to happen here?Professor Peter Whittaker is a member of the European Group for Ethics in Science and Technology, which advises the European Commission on policy. 'This is something people ought to be concerned about,' he says, 'and a matter I will certainly be bringing up with the EU ethics group.'Inevitably, the communications director for Nokia, Mark Squires, thinks this is all a non-issue, pointing out that 'digital cameras can be just as small, and the way people carry &#91;camera phones&#93; clearly indicates they are taking a picture'. He also makes the point that in the early days of audio recording technology, the kit was supposed to make a bleep every four seconds so people knew they were being recorded.Even the Ministry of Defence does not seem unduly concerned about the use of camera phones, simply asking all its staff, whether in active military service or civilian, to exercise 'common sense usage'. An MOD spokesperson said: 'There is no policy banning mobile phones on the front line, whether they are camera phones or video phones. We trust our personnel to use them responsibly.' There is, however, a 'restricted mobile phone policy' in certain areas of MOD buildings. 'If you start taking pictures of documents and pinging them to your friends, it's treated as seriously as if you're sending them to the Russians.'It's notoriously hard to quantify exactly what impact the rising tide of camera phones is having on the overall camera market, seeing as so many are now sold online, but the major manufacturers all reported poor financial results for the first quarter of 2005, according to Jupiter Research. The Carphone Warehouse's UK chief executive, Andrew Harrison, says his company has 'seen an increasing shift towards camera phones, particularly since Christmas'.What's definitely true is that cameras are becoming a standard feature in phones, in the same way that alarm clocks and colour screens already are. It will gradually become easier to send and receive high-quality pictures and footage. We already live in a society where, for good or ill, we are all watching each other more closely than ever before. So, welcome to the snaparazzi society.
Motorola V3The V3 was awarded a coveted innovation award by Stuff magazine in September 2004, and it's not hard to see why. The ultra slim (just 14mm) phone weighs in at a meager 95g and is crammed with function such as Bluetooth, a camera and 5MB of memory. It also manages to be outrageously stylish, dully gleaming in its aircraft-grade aluminium jacket. This is a gadgeteer's dream come true.For: the Tech Headwww.motorola.com/ukBlackberry 7100XThis phone is the king of messaging - and, after the iPod, the big technological success of the past few years. However, the keyboard layout is a little odd and can take some getting used to - there are two letters per key. While the BlackBerry still has no in-built camera (surely the next development), it is without doubt the best email-capable phone around, and a must-have for any business traveller.For: the Workaholic Poseurwww.blackberry.com.ukThe Motorola A1000Loaded with features, the A1000 is equipped with a 1 megapixel camera, a 65k colour screen and Bluetooth capability. It's so powerful it can practically run your life and your business, although that's not advisable.For: the Hip Civil Servantwww.motorola.com/ukMDA CompactMost palmtops are bulky beasts, too big for the average city gent's bespoke suit pockets. The MDA Compact is an eminently more pocketable creation. Powerful enough to run more or less anything your average Pocket PC can handle, the Windows-run MDA, with its 64MB Ram and 416Mhz processor, is the best solution for those who want computing power without the computer.For: the Entrepreneurwww.t-mobile.co.uk/mdaNokia N91Meet the future of the mobile phone. The N91 not only allows you to store up to 3,000 songs in its 4GB memory and drag and drop them from your PC, but also lets you snap 2 megapixel-quality photos as well. Plus there is the added bonus of being able to do all the things traditionally associated with a phone, such as talk to your friends.For: the Forward Thinkerwww.nokia.co.uk&#183;Compiled by Carl Wilkinson/Stuff magazine
Sally Dixon has several mobile phones, a Nokia 7200 Navigator (which is a bit like a BlackBerry and, actually, she's got one of those too), four plasma screen TVs, a car that she can activate by remote control from her flat (so that it's warmed up by the time she gets to it on frostier mornings), an iBook and a super hi-spec Mac G5.She's got a pair of Bang &amp; Olufsen telephones, a digital camera and a Bose Lifestyle entertainment system that controls the individual output of each of the four amps she has wired into different rooms in her house. She's got a first generation iPod and was the first person she knew to hear about MP3 players, let alone actually possess one. 'And then I got a mini iPod too, because, well, it was pink.'Sally Dixon loves gadgets. 'I just think it's fascinating, the things they can do,' she says. 'I covet gadgets like I covet handbags, like shoes. Probably more in fact. It has been ages since I spent loads of money on a handbag. I go to the Selfridges technology department, just for a look, just to pass the time. Whenever I'm in an airport, I'll have a quick look in Dixons. I always want something new. If I see someone else with something new, I want that, too. I've got a wish list in my head. I'm a little bit obsessed. Do I sound like a freak?'Perhaps less of a freak, and more of a pioneer. She's hardly your traditional technology consumer - your gadget-fixated, spec-obsessed nerdy archetype. She is a young, glamorous, fashion editor for the glossy magazine B - and quite inescapably female. Sally Dixon is the technology consumer of the future.In fact, increasingly, she and women like her are the technology consumers of right now. According to a recent report (commissioned early this summer by Dixons, who are unsurprisingly keen to tap into this burgeoning market) electronics retailers have experienced a 20% increase in female customers over the course of the past two years.Silke Schilde, press officer for Sony, claims that in the UK last year, 'the number of female versus male purchasers of laptops, cameras and TVs is about the same. Women seem to be buying gadgets, just as much as men.'New research by ICM suggests women spend three times as much on gadgets as they do on beauty products and treatments each year - an average of &pound;634 on MP3 players, digital cameras and mobile phones, compared with &pound;222 on cosmetics, facials and manicures. And in the teen market, statistics show that girls aged 13-18 are more likely to use mobile phones, digital cameras and DVD players than their male equivalents.Two things are widely believed to have fuelled British women's love affair with technology: increasingly good styling and developments in 'sociable' gadgetry - gadgets such as mobile phones and digital cameras that enhance, accommodate and facilitate their user's social life rather than limit it, as televisions are perceived to do.'Fashion and technology are converging rapidly,' says Joanne Illingworth, brand marketing manager of Dixons. 'Look at the number of adverts devoted to gadgets. They're taking up space and time slots that were previously occupied by fashion or make-up. Technology is a fashion statement. What's the first thing anyone does when they get to a pub or a restaurant? They get their phone out of their bag and put it on the tabletop - partly in case they get a call or a text, but partly because they're showing off. Women need their mobiles, and their gadgets generally, to make a statement.'Katie Lee, journalist and editor of Shiny Shiny, a weblog for gadget-obsessed women, agrees - to an extent. 'Women want good design, absolutely, and there's nothing wrong with that. But also women, more than men even, need to see a use in every gadget. They need to know exactly how it's going to fit into their lives, what it's going to do for them.' Lee is sitting in an east London pub with the contents of her handbag strewn across the table. It's an impressive array. She possesses gadgets I've never heard of and accoutrements (such as a phone charm made of Swarovski crystal) that send me spiralling into what Sally Dixon calls 'gadget envy'.'More than styling, size has had a big impact,' says Lee. 'As things have got smaller, women have got more interested because physically these laptops, phones, whatever, are easier to carry around. So there's a straightforward appeal in things being pink or sparkling or cute. But if they don't do what we need them to do, or if they're too big, we don't care.'Lee agrees that the social function of gadgets is crucial to women: 'Women like gadgets that have nothing to do with sitting in a darkened room, hunched over a keyboard. They like mobile gadgets. That's why mobile phones were such a major gateway gadget for so many women. Watch this.' Lee takes a picture of me with her phone and fiddles about with its keypad for a few seconds. 'Now you're on my moblog,' she says. 'It's a mobile weblog, a photo log. I take pictures with my phone as I go about my day, post them on my moblog, and people can have a look to see where I am and what I'm up to.'It's taken the various major electronics manufacturers a surprising amount of time to catch on to the fact that they should be marketing directly to Lee, Dixon and their female contemporaries. Apart from Apple - who were way ahead of the game when they launched their jewel coloured iMacs in the late nineties, machines that evolved into all-white iBooks, the much-coveted iPods and the white, airy, women-pleasing flagship stores in Manhattan and Regent Street - and Samsung, who, Lee points out, have pretty much built an entire business on the back of a female market with their elegant, compact-like silver phones, it's only really over the course of the past year that most companies have started targeting female customers.But they're getting the hang of things now. Dixons, for example, has doubled its training budget in the interest of teaching staff about body language, speech patterns and attitudes that might help them engage with female consumers. By 2008, they hope to have at least a 45/55 split on female/male employees. In mid-June 2005, they also launched an evening entitled 'Glam, Gizmos and Geek Chic', a women-only shopping event that will roll out through their UK stores over the course of the next few months. While general opinion indicates that they would do well to put some of that cash towards prettifying their stores and carrier bags, you have to commend Dixons for the effort.Elsewhere, Sony's sleek, chic, boutique-styled stores, which are located on major shopping thoroughfares, sandwiched between shoe shops and fashionably contemporised department stores, were certainly developed with a female consumer in mind. Siemens is in the process of planning a 'women's only' launch of a mobile phone designed by an all-female team, while Sky+ was launched with a keen eye on the female market. Fashion designers Matthew Williamson and Cath Kidston have even been drafted in to design limited edition Sky+ boxes.Kate Rainbow, the 31-year-old owner of a communications company, is a woman with both a personal and a professional interest in technology. She believes dressing up gadgets so they appeal to more women will be the next huge growth area.'It's only now becoming obvious, but the market in accessorising is huge,' she says. 'Swarovski crystal covers for BlackBerries, laptop bags, phone fascias and phone charms. The potential to customise phones and gadgets will grow immensely. People, women in particular, want to make their gadgets individual in some way. I've customised every phone I've had. The technology won't differentiate between male and female consumers. But the packaging, the styling and the accessorising will.'Lee agrees: 'Increasingly the lines between jewellery or accessory and gadget are being blurred. You can literally wear your phone or your digital camera around your neck on necklaces designed for that purpose (although I'm not keen on that look). You can strap your iPod shuffle round your arm with the bracelet provided. You carry your laptop in a Roland Mouret or a Julian McDonald laptop bag - laptops are quickly becoming the new handbags.'But there are rumblings of discontent about all this from certain factions of the female technology market. There is, perhaps, something offensive in suggesting women should be sold to as one undifferentiated lump, and that you'll charm the hard-earned cash from their Mulberry purses simply by coating electronics in sparkles and Hello Kitty logos.Lee receives a lot of flack from disgruntled female bloggers who object to Shiny Shiny's appreciation of gratuitously pink gadgets. Even she thinks the girlification of gadgetry has its limits. 'I went to Paris recently for the launch of a Roja phone,' she says, 'and it had a mirror on it and a specially designed perfume to go with it. Let's face it, that is pretty patronising.'And despite her pink mini iPod and her stylist sensibilities, Dixon prides herself in knowing a huge amount about the interiors of her gadgets, which she often researches hard before she makes a purchase. 'I can generally fix them. I'm good, particularly with computers.' She will certainly not be availing herself of the services of companies such as Geeks on Wheels, freelance IT men who charge a premium to speed round to the homes of girls incapable of unfreezing their iPod screens or resetting their Freeview boxes.Lee thinks that the manufacturers, the female consumers and society at large still have some way to go. Popular culture, she says, is refusing to acknowledge women's interest in gadgets.'Carrie Bradshaw had an iBook in Sex and the City, and everyone had mobile phones. But, apart from that, you don't see a lot of evidence of female take-up of technology reflected on TV.' Lee has written sporadically for women's magazines on the subject 'but they only ever print very half-hearted coverage. Sooner or later they give up. They simply don't understand the level of interest there actually is.'But this will change. We're unknowingly raising a generation of kids who are so technologically literate that they make Dixon and Lee look positively 20th century.Paul Jackson of Forrester Research, a company that specialises in technology market research, thinks both male and female teenagers embrace consumer electronics products simply because they've grown up with them. 'They don't necessarily see it as technology any more,' he says. 'They just accept it, like we accept electricity or television.''My niece is 14,' adds Lee. 'She had a CD player, a DVD in her room before she was in her teens. She got an iPod as soon as she could. She has countless email accounts. She was IMing (instant messaging) before I was. She doesn't like gaming though.'What's next for women and gadgets? Dixon thinks it'll all be the gadgeting up of our homes. 'People look for technological extras when they're buying new houses,' she says. 'That's why I incorporated so many into mine. I spent more time and cash on them than I did the soft furnishings.'Jo Illingworth of Dixons thinks televisions will become more important to the female buyer. 'Women love plasma screens. Because they're flat they don't take up any space. Women aren't so interested in the high definition, but more in the way TVs fit into their homes.'Rainbow thinks the future of women and technology rests on targeting different types of women and beyond. It'll be about all sorts, she says, 'about breaking down specific markets. For example, early this year Nokia developed an incredibly simply mobile in Japan, that had huge buttons and only two functions - to make and receive calls - and they launched it as a granddad phone. It proved incredibly successful. I think we'll see more of that.'Which, of course, would be the best idea all round. Never mind technology for women. The future is technology for individuals. As Lee says : 'Just make things that are small and look nice - because men like nice, small things as well.'Katie Lee's five favourite gadgetsPhilips Shoqbox &pound;99.990906 101 0016 orwww.philips.co.uk'This tiny portable stereo system makes a lot of noise. You can store music files on the internal memory, listen to the radio or plug in your music player, which means it's perfect for picnics or holidays.'Orange SPV C550Free with an Orange contractwww.orange.co.uk'It runs on Windows so it's like having a mini computer on you at all times - but one that's the same size as a normal phone. I keep it synchronised with my Outlook diary and use it to check my emails and browse the web when I'm out.'Sky+ 160 &pound;29908705 800 866 orwww.sky.com'There's enough room to store 80 hours of TV on this white box, and you can get it to record your favourite series for you automatically. Looking back, I'm not sure how I managed to live a full and happy life before I had one. So easy even an adult can use it.'Nikon D50 Digital SLR Around &pound;600www.nikon.co.uk'Most digital SLRs are too heavy to lug about, but this is one of the smallest out there and it's a great place to start if you fancy getting a bit serious with your snaps. It's nice and easy to use, but you get to feel like a proper photographer when you're using it.'Pretec I-Tiny&pound;29.95www.girlsstuff.co.uk'I have loads of USB memory sticks - they're so handy for storing images, music and files, and are a much easier way to transfer stuff from your laptop to your computer than discs. This one is tiny and pink so it's perfect for girly girls.'
The Apple iPod ColourLess a gadget, more a phenomenon. And ever more difficult to argue with. In June, Apple announced it would be discontinuing the iPod Photo and combining the original iPod with the colour-screen technology of the Photo, to create the iPod Colour. Available in 20GB or 60GB models, the new hybrid can store up to 15,000 songs or an incredible 25,000 photos, which places it head and shoulders above most of its competition.&#183;Price: from &pound;209For: Pretty Much Everybodywww.apple.comCreative Zen MicroIn the burgeoning mini MP3 market, Creative has gone all out to combat the rise of the iPod Mini and the iPod Shuffle. Days after the release of the Mini updates, Creative launched a rainbow of colourful new models - a 4GB, 5GB and 6GB Micro - with up to 12 hours' battery life, which aim to provide a very real alternative to Apple.&#183;Price: from &pound;149.49 For: the Long-Haul Flieruk.europe.creative.comFor: the Long-Haul FlierToshiba GigabeatThe Gigabeat has a passing resemblance to the iPod. Available in 10GB, 20GB, 40GB and 60GB models, it has a colour screen, shuffle mode, docking cradle and computer software to help manage your music collection. Plus it can store your digital photo collection for easy access.&#183;Price: from &pound;199.99For: those Allergic to Appleswww.toshiba.co.ukSony NW-HD5Sony has had to work hard to keep up with Apple's now-iconic MP3 players, but the HD5 is a masterpiece. It has 40 hours of playback, a clearer screen than past models and a louder output. Some techno-heads argue that in the battle of the players, Sony is now seriously challenging the iPod. The mainstream shopper is yet to be convinced.&#183;Price: &pound;185For: the Clever Clogswww.sony.co.ukThe iPod ShuffleRandom is the new order according to Apple. The 512MB or 1GB models can take up to 240 songs and then play them back in a random order (although you can play songs in sequence too). And at only 0.78 ounces it has to be the smallest MP3 player on the market.&#183;Price: from &pound;69For: the Indecisivewww.apple.com&#183;Compiled by Carl Wilkinson/Stuff magazine
One evening in 1939, taking a break from designing fighter aeroplanes, Anthony Fokker returned to his holiday chalet in St Moritz and drew the curtains. The Dutchman didn't do this the way most of us do - with our hands and a tug and a swish - but with a remote control. He also had a way to turn off all the lights in his house at once from his bedside. And the house's climate control system was able to adjust itself according to the amount of draughts from open doors.Fokker was a gadget freak and, because the people who now work at Panasonic and Matsushita had yet to be born, he had to design the gadgets himself. He was a pioneer and had he not already been famous for his First World War DVII and the DR1 triplane, he might have been acknowledged as the inspiration behind the Microsoft Smart House, in which everything is possible with voice commands and digiboxes and remote sensors, all of which speak to each other, much like people used to before email.As it is, it is now the responsibility of Bill Gates, born 65 years after Fokker, to bring automatic curtain drawing into the digital age. Earlier this year, Gates was the keynote speaker at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, the biggest trade fair in the world, with 125,000 delegates from 110 countries. This was the place where all the companies unveiled all their great new stuff: if something was thinner, shinier, bigger, smaller, cheaper, more powerful, more connected and more likely to get you a girlfriend than last year it was there.There was no bigger name to open the fair than Gates, the richest and most famous geek in the world.But there was a problem: Gates isn't the best communicator in the world. It was thought best not to let him speak in his bland monotone all evening but instead have him interviewed at the Las Vegas Hilton by the late-night talk show host Conan O'Brien.When Bill Gates walks on to this stage in a few minutes, the average net worth of each person in this room will be $128 million,' ran O'Brien's introduction. 'Congratulations. Enjoy. If you're going to hit on somebody, do it now.' He then announced the big theme of the convention: gadgets are not just for geeks anymore. And, because computers and the digital revolution are no longer the exclusive domain of techies, it is now the privilege of grandmothers, housewives and teenagers to download porn 24/7.Then Gates came on in his traditional pullover and talked about what excited him about the digital future. He mentioned the 'digital hub' based around the computer in the living room. He talked about how gaming was not just for kids. He mentioned fancy watches, movie downloads, hardware for the car dashboard and something he called 'organising your memories in a rich way', which meant putting your photos on your computer. The future was all about unifying standards and simplicity, about a single remote control for everything we own. Gates held up the latest examples of MP3 players, and a fat digital camera that could send pictures to a computer without wires. There was also a box that was designed to show the latest developments in high-definition television. The problem was, there were so many technical glitches with the demonstrations on a big screen behind them that at one point O'Brien reminded the audience that Las Vegas was also a good town if you liked gambling, and maybe we should go away until everything was working.At the end of the evening, Gates said his industry was moving fast and he was so excited by the gadgets being produced now that he wanted some for himself. It was, he said, 'an amazing opportunity for all of us to mess around'.The CES, which, paradoxically, is not open to the public, lasted four days and filled every hotel room in the city. The Great Exhibitions and World Expos that once occupied glass palaces with internal combustion engines and dreams of one telephone in every village have been transformed into a series of strip-lit hangars that contain thousands and thousands of silver-cased products that do everything we desire for &pound;299 and can fit in our pockets.Before entering the halls to see the goods, journalists were invited to attend a 'boot camp', to prepare them for the tough days ahead. We were told of the motorised carts that would take us from one end of one hall to the far recesses of another, and introduced to the show's keyword, which was 'grow'.It was inevitable that the director of communications' laser pointer wouldn't work. Or, as Tara Dunion herself put it, 'the laser's kinda being spotty'. Dunion explained that the exhibitors covered 1.5m sq ft of floor space, an area so large that everyone was advised to wear sensible shoes . To demonstrate what Dunion meant by sensible shoes she held up a pair of dark-coloured loafers. This demonstration was photographed for posterity by Japanese press with digital cameras smaller than their eyes.Dunion passed the microphone to Sean Wargo, the director of industry analysis for the CES, who highlighted trends for this year. The first was phenomenal growth - a 10.7 per cent rise in wholesale shipments over the past year, which was called a 'product explosion'. He also mentioned that everyone now obviously wanted flat tellies and loads more storage for their digital songs and movies. The other big message was that VHS and most other analogue products were officially over.There were five technologies to watch this year, he went on. First off, media servers, which meant anything with a hard drive that stored digital content and had the capacity to distribute it around the home. Then there were portable entertainment devices, including portable video players; hybrid white goods - smart kitchen gadgets such as ovens that can download and cook recipes from the internet; innovative gaming, soon to be given another boost by new PlayStation and Xbox consoles; and telematics, which means things embedded in cars being able to talk to things that people bring into cars, such as the wireless transmission of downloaded movies on portable players to screens in the back of passenger head rests.The 100,000 yards of carpet laid at the Las Vegas Convention Center would stretch twice across the English Channel. The carpet is needed to muffle the aural assault from all the phones and televisions and audio systems being demonstrated at nosebleed volume. One afternoon in the place may put you off microchips for ever. It is worth noting that when the scientists at the Manhattan Project were looking for a snappy name for the first atomic bomb, they called it Gadget.Everything on the stands was either getting bigger or smaller. The televisions were getting bigger. Soon, no wall would be too big to be covered with a flat screen, and they were getting so flat they could bend. Phones were getting smaller, too. Some were so small they had become impossible to dial. Radios were becoming crackle-free, and video surveillance was becoming easier to conceal. The most popular new word at the fair was Blu-ray, a DVD-type disc that can hold 50 gigabytes of data, which is about 25 hours of television and about 10 times more than a regular DVD; once they can decide on a standard format, the manufacturers predict Blu-ray will replace DVDs within a decade. There were other new words, such as HiWave, a new form of wireless networking, and there were phrases that had lost something in the translation, such as products on the Korean S.Cam Co stall, which gave out a leaflet asking, 'Need More Capa but tight budget? We always miss SH100 more than our next breath!'And then some objects were just getting ridiculous - a watch that was also a camera and stock tracker, a television that could film and record the viewer.Wandering the aisles, every gadget I ogled presented that familiar and terrible dilemma: should I place an order now or wait until it got better and cheaper? Everything is made on the understanding that in six months a new sales pitch will render it useless. This is not a new thing. Once, cars were something we owned until they died, but then they put gorgeous fins on them and we ran slavering all the way to the showroom; once the products no longer broke down, the big companies decided they had to break down the customers. And now the pace of built-in obsolescence has accelerated to such a degree that we are made to feel inadequate if we don't buy, and inadequate a few weeks after we do.Another problem reverberated as I gazed at these desirable, absurd things: does technology make you happy? I think it makes you happy for a while, but then it's just like all the other drugs. I came to CES with a mobile phone, a laptop with Wi-Fi, a thin stick of flash memory, an iPod and noise-cancelling headphones. Did I have a great time? Yes. Did this technology have anything to do with it? A little. I could check my email, I could phone home easily. But my email was mostly junk, and the big news from home was that my wife had forgotten to pay the congestion charge. When I got back to London I was very pleased to let the batteries go flat on everything and disconnect for a while.In Britain, where the consumer electronics market is booming, we can't wait to get our hands on the products they were showing in Vegas. A recent issue of Stuff magazine already contained many photos of products that were still prototypes at the trade fair but now have a price tag in Tottenham Court Road. The HP iPaq HX2750 PDA, which plays video games; the Ricoh Caplio GX8 8.2 megapixel camera; the iChair, in which built-in shoulder speakers and a 'vibrating transducer' beneath your backside transform television and games into more immersive experiences; the Nokia N91 phone with a 4-gigabyte hard drive; the Archos AV700 100-gb seven-inch portable video recorder and player.'We like to call it product porn,' says Oliver Irish, Stuff's editor. 'The magazine is a buyer's guide dressed up in editorial clothes - total consumerism.' Irish is 31, bang in the middle of the magazine's target audience. Stuff sells about 75,000 copies a month, and almost all of them are sold to men. 'Mostly they're 16- to 40-year-old guys, might work in IT, perhaps have one of those "what does your job title mean?" jobs. They get &pound;2,000 in their account every month and they take out &pound;300 to treat themselves.' He says his readers are sophisticated and highly networked, reliant on instant information from many sources. 'It's empowering for us as consumers to feel we're in control of these networks, even though the companies are really in charge and generally leading us a merry dance.'Irish says that some of his favourite movie scenes feature Q taking James Bond through his newest contraptions. Like most of his readers, he is a typical early adopter. He now gets a lot of great products free, and even more awful ones, but before he made his living from gadgets he used to buy whatever he could afford. 'I wanted them because of their newness,' he says, 'and because they might make me feel more contemporary among my peers. I had the edge, even if I threw it away after two months. It sounds incredibly shallow and desperate. I suppose I was ashamed and proud at the same time. I did have this attitude: if I pull out this phone or MP3 player then kudos will follow.' Irish says he has a 'gadget cupboard' at home, and within it lie 'a first generation iPod, a second generation iPod - all the generations of iPod.' There is sometimes a temptation to take them out and sell them on eBay, which is a familiar course of action for the early adopter, but Irish has found another attraction. 'Why not hang on to it, and every now and then, on one of those sad lonely nights, take it out of your cupboard and have a look at it?'Like its main rival T3, Stuff invariably features almost-nude women on its covers. Apparently this is not because its readers need a cheap thrill - this is available elsewhere on the newsstands and on the internet - but to ensure the magazine is placed on shelves next to GQ and Arena rather than What Hi-Fi and MacUser. Gadgets are now mainstream lifestyle products, not specialist obsessions. Also, the women on the covers aren't superbabes, Irish assures me, but girl-next-door types. 'They are sexy but attainable. Our readers don't buy the mag for T&amp;A. They like to see sexy pictures of gadgets.'Occasionally the gadget magazines include products that reflect a time when innovation came a little slower. A popular item is the traditional heavy Bakelite phone handset that can be attached to a mobile phone and makes the user look both ironic and stupid. There are also new mobile phones that don't do much apart from phone, a reverse innovation popular among older people and technophobes, but also suggestive of a wider trend.'I don't think British consumers have ever wanted machines that are jacks of all trades,' Irish says. 'We want specialist things that are dedicated to one use and are good at it. I think the average person wants a brilliant phone, a brilliant digital camera, a brilliant MP3 player.' Which may be another way of saying that the Batman utility belt and James Bond spy briefcase from our childhood will always be a more alluring fantasy than one little gadget that does everything. Because if one thing did everything, what on earth would we spend our money on?
Apple Powerbook G4The Apple 17-inch widescreen laptop packs enough power to run the affairs of a small country thanks to its 1.33Ghz G4 processor and 80GB hard drive. It also offers a 4.5-hour battery life, has a great graphics card with 64MB of memory plus integrated Bluetooth and Wi-Fi for easy internet access on the move. But let's face it, you'll probably just end up playing minesweeper in vivid widescreen.&#183;Price: &pound;1,700For: the Multimedia Playerwww.apple.comSamsung X25The ultra-light, ultra-slender x25 ticks all the boxes. A 1.86Ghz processor, 15.1-inch screen, 512MB RAM, 80GB hard drive and DVD writer make it the perfect all-rounder equally at home managing a spreadsheet as playing a DVD and if it wasn't for the sheer riches on offer from Apple it would be top of the list.&#183;Price: from &pound;1,500For: the Tech-Savvy Nomadwww.samsung.co.ukAsus W5000AMoving up from merely supplying the parts for big-name laptops, Asus has been creating notebooks with some success. The W5000A is no exception. It manages to cram in a Centrino Dothan processor, a DVD writer and a 1.3 megapixel camera.&#183;Price: &pound;1,100For: the Familyuk.asus.comFujitsu Siemens Lifebook P7010Improving on its super-smart P5020, Fujitsu has increased the specifications on its new notebook to include a 1Ghz Pentium M processor, 512MB of RAM and a 60GB hard drive. Although this notebook may be light, it's far from lightweight.&#183;Price: &pound;1,450For: the Business Travellerwww.fujitsu-siemens.co.ukSony Vaio PCG TR5MPThe TR5MP is a compact with both brains and brawn. A 1Ghz Pentium M Processor, 512MB RAM and 40GB hard drive lie beneath a diminutive sleek exterior. And the 10.6-inch, X-Black LCD screen brings absolute clarity even in direct sunlight, making it perfect for outdoor summer use.&#183;Price: &pound;1,585For: the Alfresco Freelancerwww.sony.co.ukCompiled by Carl Wilkinson/Stuff magazine
My first job was as a researcher in a publishing company. Spat from the conveyer belt of formal education into a dazzlingly blank future, I was assigned a project called The Book of the New. An apocalyptic title, but then this was the tail end of the Nineties and with the millennial countdown already ticking, I spent my days immersed in the thoughts of cranky crystal-ball gazers, wading through hip style mags and stacks of medical and scientific journals, hunting for innovations premature enough that they might still seem new when our presses finally began rolling.In the end, the book was overtaken by the company's present tense reality - dwindling resources, staff cutbacks, same old story. Nothing dates quite so fast as the future, yet looking back I'm struck by how many of those predictions that we channelled seven, eight years ago are now taken for granted: advanced keyhole surgery; glasses made of 'memory' metal that ping back into shape when sat upon; all manner of spooky sounding genetic wizardry. The future creeps up on you, but there's another school of thought that says it's already here. As William Gibson noted: 'The future has already happened, it just isn't very well distributed.'Humankind is as hardwired for curiosity about the future as nostalgia for the past. We may have done away with God in the secular West, but we still want horoscopes dished up with our daily news. Similarly, science fact has long since surpassed science fiction, yet psychics and fortune-tellers continue to make a living, just as sales of Nostradamus's cryptic scribblings remain buoyant.For clues to the long-term future, the ancients consulted oracles, our medieval forefathers listened to clerics, and in the Enlightenment it was philosophers and historians who were believed to hold the key to tomorrow. In the 20th century, we looked to science fiction for our future fix. And in the 21st?Perhaps it has to do with the psychological effect of passing the 2000 marker, of all those zeros. Perhaps it's linked to the accelerated pace of change - the snowball effect of 'positive technology feedback', as it's known, whereby the more advanced technology becomes, the faster it improves. For whatever reason, the future feels somehow to have edged that bit nearer to our here-and-now.Human dreams - and nightmares - about what lies around the corner haven't really changed, the only difference is that where once it was artists and novelists who conjured them up, now it's scientists. Just last week, a book landed on my desk called Breaking the Time Barrier: The Race to Build the First Time Machine. If you want to read it, you'll need to look on the non-fiction shelves. Likewise, last month two professors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pennsylvania predicted that teleporting could be with us within a generation, and in May, BT's futurologist Ian Pearson told this paper that he anticipated digital immortality by 2050. Eerily, Kazuo Ishiguro's most recent novel, a dystopian fable of human organ farming, is set not in the distant future but the recent past.At this post-future point in time, we look to futurologists to tell us as much about gizmos and gadgets as about our human selves. In a world of rapidly evolving technology, human nature remains a constant, and futurologists ground their predictions about breakthroughs in nano, bio and nuclear technology in the emotional and the irrational.Stroll down Commercial Road in London's East End and you'll find yourself in a melting pot of old and new. This patch of land has been home to successive waves of immigrants: Huguenots, eastern European Jews, Bangladeshis. All fled here to forget their pasts, clinging to traditions that reminded them of who they were even as they embraced a future they were determined should be better, brighter. Today, if you gaze eastwards along Commercial Road's low-rise length, you'll see the Gherkin plonked down in the middle of the city like an alien spacecraft, a mirage of tomorrow shimmering in the summer heat and smog.The Future Laboratory is based nearby, a four-year-old thinktank that gazes from two to five and from five to 10 years into the future for clients such as the BBC, L'Oreal and Unilever. Its founders, Chris Sanderson and Martin Raymond, live in the building, exemplifying the lean, laid-back office of the 21st century: a tall, skinny house with desks in the basement, a library in the loft and wireless broadband throughout. There's even a garden and a curly coated black dog, Jasper. Its staff of 15 are all young and dressed for a stroll in the park, the computers are all Macs and paperback fiction lines the bookshelves, battered just so. (Like most modern futurologists, they've no time for history.)For the futurologist community, Gibson is a guru, quoted as frequently as Rudyard Kipling's 'If', another of their rune-like favourites, and sure enough, there he is on the first page of the lab's nattily bound turquoise manifesto: 'The future has already happened; it just isn't very well distributed.' It's a sentence worth rereading for its insidiousness. The future is already here. There is nothing we can do to prevent it. It also offers a very honest appraisal of the futurologist's work. For though they seem a thoroughly modern phenomenon - smooth-talking management consultants, stripped of suits and ties and reincarnated for the 21st century - the means with which they divine their hi-tech messages are astonishingly low-tech.In the case of the Future Lab, it's a 'LifeSigns Network' of 2,500 academics, geneticists, photographers and the like, spread throughout 25 cities around the world. 'These are people who are living slightly ahead, who are slightly eclectic in their tastes - an applied ethnographer, say, or a retail anthropologist,' explains Raymond. The plan is to put the network online, but for the moment, it's all done manually, with questionnaires emailed out to each person separately four times a year.As we speak, the LifeSigns team is lying at our feet, names and numbers crammed into a series of fat rolodexes. Amid all this good design and relentless modern-mindedness, to see them there, huddled in a nest, is oddly reassuring. These people are the Future Lab's tea leaves. It's their thoughts, ideas and inclinations that are checked against a 1,000-person snapshot, and then against in-depth interviews with 100 people. 'Within reason,' Raymond hedges, 'You can get it right.'The lab's 'technicians' come from design, fashion and journalism backgrounds but, generally, futurologists still tend to be scientists. Ian Pearson is BT's man of tomorrow and knew he wanted to be a scientist from the age of 12, when he would play in his scientist dad's laboratory after school. He joined BT 20 years ago and has worked as a performance engineer, network planner and cybernetics maven. The job description 'futurologist' is a mad professor-style title that gives him licence to roam wherever his curiosity takes him, attending some 100 conferences at home and abroad each year.A 44-year-old father of one, Pearson is the man who invented text messaging (he's not alone in this claim, but insists he arrived at it independently of the competition). Among his other hits he counts the rise of the search engine and interactive digital TV. There have been some misses, too, including virtual reality, whose allure he vastly overestimated. His predictions stretch ahead as far as 50 years' time, and though he concedes that beyond 20 gets you into the realm of guessology, at a distance of up to 10 years, he sets his success rate at an impressive 85 per cent.'It's really just common sense and intuition,' he explains. 'You've got to keep abreast of things but an awful lot of my time's spent thinking.' When he gets stuck, he tries ordering his thoughts by bashing out an article, or else hops in his car and turns the stereo up loud. He rarely takes notes, and never on computers. 'Computers are no use for that - you learn very quickly that you can't explain all the stuff in your head to a computer.' Refreshingly deadpan and neither optimistic nor pessimistic about the future (he predicts 'life might be slightly better in 20 to 30 years' time'), he tells me that he tries hard to like gadgets, but it's generally to no avail. 'I want the gadget you can't buy until 2010,' he jokes.The founder of BT's futurology lab is Peter Cochrane, who began calling himself a futurologist 15 years ago. Since then the world as a whole has shifted, he explains, from a do-it-for-me to a DIY mentality. Technology is now firmly in the hands of the consumer.'Take text messaging,' Cochrane enthuses. 'It was never sold, promoted or marketed, and now it's a number one service - isn't that cool?' Eventually, he predicts, the corporate IT department will go the way of the typing pool. Already, he tells me, BP is offering a trial bonus to employees who use and maintain their own laptops and PDAs. 'It's an enlightened view,' he says.His own seer's system consists of gathering a group of 'consultants' aged between five and 90 years old and letting them loose on new technologies. 'They'll always do something different and unexpected.'This DIY revolution has driven the demand for futurologists. When camera manufacturers realise that the new camera is in fact the mobile phone, they panic. It's a sense of panic and opportunity both that prompts executives to call in the Henley Centre. With a history of gazing ahead that stretches back 30 years, the Henley Centre has never been based in Henley and flatly refuses to call itself a futurology consultancy. Last month, it merged with Headlight Vision, a research agency with clients including Nike and Nokia, and now calls itself Henley Centre Headlight Vision.But, curiously, the people there don't even believe in the future, but instead in 'creating better futures'.Yet, as Tamar Kasriel, currently head of knowledge venturing, talks me through their business and walks me around the office - tubs of Duplo bricks, star-shaped baubles hanging from the ceiling and a sort of nature corner filled with exotic products brought back by globe-trotting employees - it all sounds markedly like futurology. Are the futurologists wrong to call themselves such?'I'm not even sure what the term means,' Kasriel says. 'What's important is that you have a model for understanding how your market operates, rather than the answer. It goes back to that idea of the future as being to some extent in your hands. Otherwise, you're just reacting all the time.'It's a sound point. So much of futurology seems to be about making us feel passive and powerless. As another guru, Alvin Toffler, says: 'The future always arrives too fast ... and in the wrong order.'Futurology has a thriving conference circuit that runs the gamut of opinions, from those who believe that the Martians have already been and gone (leaving behind the pyramids, of course) to the hardcore technophiles. Evangelical zeal and pseudo-religious vocabulary (until recently, Orange had a 'head of prophesy' on its payroll) are in abundance, yet there isn't really any magic to the business of futurology.Really, the job is all about listening, looking and reading voraciously. It's about asking 'what if?' and knowing when to be sceptical. These people are visionaries only in as much as they conjure up a series of vivid pictures - and charisma and the gift of the gab play a vital role.A large part of the Future Lab's message is packaging. Their design and journalistic backgrounds combine to produce catchy copy - think 'flashpacking', 'turbo-shandy man' and 'globesity' - coolly, seductively styled. Ian Pearson might seem a world away yet he, too, values humour and storytelling, and as a boy took to heart Einstein's insistence that if you can't explain a scientific principal to a child, you probably don't understand it properly yourself.'The stage is very important. There's no point coming up with something brilliant if nobody hears it,' agrees Kasriel of the Henley Centre.To a large extent, futurologists make their prophesies self-fulfilling.Pearson attends around 100 conferences each year, Sanderson is just heading off when I arrive, and trying to schedule an appointment with Kasriel reveals two day-long conferences in the space of a week.On a sticky Friday night a few weeks ago, sat in the air-con cool of one of Notting Hill's media dens, I met the real thing. Tall, blonde and gauche, Janus Friis is a Dane based in London and, at 28, the co-founder of Skype. Skype, aka The Global Internet Telephony Company, deploys peer-to-peer technology that enables you to use your computer as telephone, dialling up over the internet and speaking directly into the microphone on your desktop or laptop. As the usual crowd of wannabes and has-beens got their weekends under way, he politely shrugged off enquiry: 'I'm just an internet kid.'In truth, technology is evolving faster than human need. As Cochrane confirms, anything likely to be delivered in the next five years will already exist in the corner of a laboratory somewhere. 'Labs have been perfecting the iris scanner for over 15 years,' he goes on. 'But it took post-9/11 security concerns and increased identity theft to create a need for it.'But is it evolving faster than human imagination, too? Log on to LongBets.com, and you can glimpse the future as others see - and don't see - it: by 2029 - or 02029 as they put it - a computer will have passed the Turing Test, thereby proving its ability to think; commercial passengers will routinely take pilotless flights by 02030; at least one human being alive in the year 02000 will still be alive in 02150. Others feature extraterrestrial life, over-the-counter tickets to the moon and technological implants. From the Utopian corner we've the end of racism, 4-day working weeks and immortality, with dystopias pitching bioterror and bioerror, lessons in defence against robot attacks for school children and, depending on your take on it all, a world government.None of it's exactly new, it's just become more real. With the future bearing down on us with such velocity, even futurologists are finding it hard to predict what life might be like in 30 years time, let alone in 50 or a 100.Not that one againFuturologists' favourite quotesHenry Ford:'If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses.'Alvin Toffler, futurologist and writer: 'The future always arrives too fast... and in the wrong order.'Prof Alan Kay, computer scientist based at UCLA: 'The only way you can predict the future is to build it.'Rudyard Kipling:'If you can dream - and not make dreams your master.'William Gibson:'The future has already happened, it just isn't very well distributed.'
High-heeled shoes that come with a built-in morphine injector to neutralise the pain of wearing them.Posted by MarieGlasses with a built-in head's-up-display, a microphone, voice control and wireless net connection.Posted by PhilI'd like to see clothes that have nano-fibres that get cleaner the more they move about: so if you wore the same pair of trousers a lot, they'd clean themselves.Posted by ShirazSelf-powered mobile phones that generate electricity each time you press the buttons, so the more you use them, the longer they last.Posted by BobbieGenetically modified chocolate that doesn't melt at room temperature.Posted by BrianJI've always wanted a video recorder that you could phone up and ask to record something that you're about to miss when you're out. No more calling your mum (who's the only person you know who will be in on a Friday night, but the one person least likely to be able to tape anything).Posted by JonA device that reacts to those spine-piercing soundwaves emitted by Joss Stone. It must counter this ongoing aural threat in the most brutal fashion possible.Posted by HecklersprayA credit card that gives you credit and not debit.Posted by GreggRestaurant menus don't contain much information about the food, and the waiters often don't have a clue. Customers want information such as calories, carbs, GI index, allergy info, whether a dish is vegetarian, contains pork, was ecologically produced and the ingredients' country of origin. We need a simple information system that can be used by all restaurants. This could be achieved by putting SMS numbers beside each course. Send a text to this number and you instantly get a reply with the info.Posted by HenrikFit a breathalyser to a PC. Large amounts of alcohol are dangerous when coupled with an eBay or iTunes account.'Hey, let's listen to Tiffany again - it's only 79p and she's so funny!'Posted by IainClothes needs re-invention. The basic designs are still 18th and 19th century, and the materials have not developed much compared to everything else. I want clothes made of fabrics that repel dirt, regulate the insulation level according to body temperature, and are sold in a true 'one size fits all' - a design you can stretch or shrink in all directions any time you feel like it.Posted by HenrikAn answering machine for the doorbell.Posted by BillyRubbish bags that eat away at what they contain.Posted by NickA GPS device specific to chemists that can lead you to the moisturiser without having to minutely examine the entire store in the same manner as a forensic pathologist might search a murder scene.Posted by PatrickHeadphones that accurately and instantaneously gauge changes in the noise level around you and adjust the volume of your music accordingly. No more changing the volume between stops on the tube or on roads with heavy traffic.Posted by BrianJA volume control for your ears so you can turn down everyone and everything else when you need to, and listen to your thoughts for a while. And no, the Bose sound-reducing headphones don't quite cut it.Posted by KarenAn omni-charger that charges up anything. Doesn't matter what it is: iPod, mobile phone, laptop. It emits energy so when you are near an omni-charger everything on you or in your bag gets charged up, even your watch.Posted by KevnClothes that grow - and shrink I suppose - with you so you never have that moment when you can't get into your jeans and you never have to put up with your other half moaning about needing yet another dress because she forgot to go to the gym for two days.Posted by SteveGMP3 players that display the lyrics of the songs while they play, then you can sing along while you listen.Posted by ShirazVocal Post-It notes. You record a memo and then stick it on the fridge. When others come home they press a button and hear your message.Posted by BarnsCar alarms should call or text their owner's mobile phone when they go off. The owner can return to the car, check if the alarm has gone off by mistake and reset it - then everyone who lives nearby can get some sleep.Posted by BadDadI'd like central locking on all my home doors and windows, so I could just press a button and know they are all locked. I'd also like some kind of central timer control for things like lights, so they could come on when I'm not there. Maybe all controlled from a mobile phone.Posted by FinchyNanobot pills. If you needed a bypass, you could take a pill and tiny robots would go and unclog things.Posted by GavStarA weight suit with elastic fibres sewn into the lining, making each movement slightly more taxing. Wear one for a whole day and at the end you'd be ripped.Posted by David
1 Yodobashi Camera, Shinjuku, TokyoTokyo's allure is irresistible to the global gadget hunter - the city boasts the very hottest techno toys, often available in lurid colours eschewed by conservative European markets. Tourists flock to the tech-laden Akihabara district of central Tokyo, also known as Electric City, yet the truly essential pit stop is Yodobashi Camera's flagship superstore in Shinjuku. This technology emporium is sheer electronic nirvana, offering everything from exotic 'Organic LED' palmtops, right through to authentic shiatsu massages to help soothe your tired legs. It's worth haggling, though you might have to be creative since few Japanese sales assistants speak English. They are, however, unremittingly polite, no matter how rude you are, or how hot the weather is, concluding most transactions with a sharp 90&deg; bow. European shoppers should stick with well-known brands with a proper international warranty and although, like many Tokyo stores, Yodobashi has a section devoted to export-friendly products, this is inevitably choked with less interesting kit. Also pop over to the Sony Building at nearby Ginza. The lair of the mighty electronics beast houses a truly comprehensive showroom with everything Sony, from Aibo to Vaio, including prototypes of gadgetry-to-come and the original Qualia Store, which displays Sony's esoteric range.2 B&amp;H Photo-Video, New York City, USWith the dollar still weak, New York has rarely been a more attractive prospect for a cheeky shopping expedition. So if you're hankering to plug any spaces in your luggage with fine gadgetry - bearing in mind that the UK's duty free limit for items other than alcohol, cigarettes and perfume is &pound;145 - then B&amp;H Photo Video is the superstore for you. The shop spans an entire block in Manhattan's garment district. Despite specialising in cameras - and there's a whole department devoted to second-hand and vintage models - this characterful building groans with all manner of enticing electronica. Aside from the sharpest pricing in the city, enjoy the curious spectacle of overhead conveyor belts frantically whizzing purchases to startled-looking tellers.3 Dubai International AirportCurrently the epicentre of one of the world's most intense property booms, Dubai has long been a deeply popular stopover for the international gadget lover. Indeed, it's not unknown for travellers to desert their original flight plans in order to slip in a brief visit. There are plenty of tech-heavy, tax-free malls in Dubai, but the beauty of this Aladdin's cave is being able to bag your bargains in a couple of hours, without having to leave the terminal, 24 hours a day. Be assured that haggling is practically a national sport here. In fact, failure to do so may offend. If you are planning to plump for a major piece of kit, make sure you've done your homework before you land - and don't come back home without a UK-compatible power adaptor.4 Mongkok Computer Centre, Hong KongThe fatal attraction of pirate movies and software may have dimmed in the age of peer-to-peer networks, but if iffy disks make you feel like a million dollar baby head to the infamous Mongkok Centre. Hong Kong is no longer the pricing paradise it once was, but a meander through these dangerously crowded stalls is stillintoxicating. Not only can you find the most intriguing and obscure electronics accessories on the planet, but nobody else loves mobile phones with the same ardour as Hong Kongers. The island also uses the same GSM network standard as the UK.5 The Science Museum, Exhibition Road, LondonTo be honest, the double whammy of EU import tariffs and VAT combine to make gadget shopping in the UK far from an international attraction. And, in any case, why include a museum when we're discussing grubby commerce? Because not only does it boast all manner of interactive exhibitions, including one dedicated to nanotechnology (see page 24) and another showcasing the science (and indeed, gizmos) paraded in the recent Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy film, but it also has a shop festooned with intriguing gadgets such as electronic coin sorters and clever robotic kits. Current favourite is a levitating globe - a map of the world that hangs in thin air, supported by a magnetic force field, and rotates after a quick nudge. The world floating in space - what else could anyone possibly want? And, if it makes you feel better, you can take along a child and pretend it's all educational.
WI-FI hotspotsOr places that offer fast wireless internet access, via your laptop.Generally hotspots are commercial beasts, such as airport lounges or branches of Starbucks, charging an exorbitant hourly rate. In truth, any hotel, pub or cafe can cheaply set up a hotspot to help haul in punters. There are also public spots, including much of Bristol's city centre, which is nice. You can even latch on to free hotspots, because nearby offices have set up Wi-Fi but haven't entered a password to secure their excess online capacity. To snout these truffles, you either need free Wi-Fi-finding software or a cheap keyring-based 'sniffer' widget. The range of most hotspots is currently just a couple of hundred feet, but that will increase dramatically once Intel introduces its long-awaited new WiMax technology later this year. Wi-Fi has long been heralded as the holy grail of internet access on the hoof, and if the rising number of latte-slurping customers peering ardently at their laptops is anything to go by, its day may finally have dawned. And if these public hotspots overlap, they might one day create giant 'digital lillypads' for us all to enjoy.Voice Over IP (VoIP)Or using a computer to make phone callsYour voice is transmogrified into bite-sized chunks of digital flotsam, which are pinged across the internet as raw data, either via the 'voice chat' function of Instant Messenger systems such as MSN and Yahoo, or with special VoIP software, the best known of which is Skype. You need a broadband connection, a decent headset and a tolerance for echoes. Big companies have been using VoIP for years. The technology is now accessible to consumers, which is tickety-boo for business travellers itching to call home cheaply using their laptop. Skype can already make (and receive) calls to any phone, via a computer, and intends to release VoIP for 3G mobiles soon - a chilling thought for the major network operators. The snags are that, as things stand, you still need a landline, and most VoIP services can't call 999. So keep a mobile by the bed in case the house catches fire.BiometricsOr using information from your body to confirm your identity.Being swaddled in passwords is the price exacted of us for the digital conveniences of the techno-loving Noughties. A simple fingerprint scanner that plugs into the USB port of any laptop will cost you just &pound;30 and some palmtops now come with them as standard. The US and several EU countries are already gearing up to include biometric info, stored on a chip, in the next generation of passports and ID cards. The UK Immigration Service is already running a live trial of iris scanning, to help speed up its queues, and the EU's Joint Research Centre recently described biometrics as 'inevitable and necessary', admittedly more in the realms of checking passports than blocking access to emails, but who knows?PodcastingOr making radio programmes available as audio files.An ever-swelling number of radio stations - and quite a few ardent hobbyists - now make programmes available to download. They can then be transferred on to a digital music player. The ubiquitous iPod gives this phenomenon its name, but you could just as easily use any other MP3 player, using Windows Media Player to shift these files on to your preferred music gadget. Or, alternatively, just play them on your computer. Due to the complexity of rights involved, most podcasts are spoken word, rather than musical. This means they can be of low sound quality, which helps keep the files small and easier to download. For instance, the BBC already offers the Today programme and the popular sports chat show Fighting Talk as part of its trial of this new platform. The real beauty of podcasting is that anyone can get involved. Many bloggers now post their own basic podcasts. Check out Podcast Alley.Personal Video Recorder PVR)Or recording TV using a hard drive, as opposed to a blank DVD or cassette.No more scrabbling around for a tape as the theme music to Emmerdale kicks in. Of course, other benefits include a new-found ability to pause or rewind live TV The best known example of a PVR is Sky+, which also allows you to perform all manner of nifty rescheduling jinks, such as capturing an entire series of ER with one regal poke at your remote - even if the time slot shifts. Surely, the great technological achievement of the 21st century so far. Naturally, these are deeply handy tricks should your phone ring during the match. To the TV junkie, they're as addictive as crack and, at a tenner a month, considerably cheaper, even if the daddy bear-sized 160GB (ie 80 hours) Sky+ set-top box will cost you &pound;300. The cable operators will soon have their own versions on offer, and subscription-phobes will love PVR FreeView boxes.Blu-RayOr the next generation of high-end DVD.According to Sony, that is, which is punting it as the new global standard. Huge improvements in storage mean improvements in terms of quality and the sheer amount of posh content on each disk, boding well for the PS3, which will showcase it. Blu-ray is already embraced by Apple and Disney. The snag is that a competing group - led by Toshiba - isn't going to let Sony take the whole cake, and is furiously talking up a competing standard called HD-DVD, which is really a major refurbishment of existing DVD technology. Its champions include various big movie studios and, of course, the major DVD manufacturers. Blu-ray boasts more capacity and some clever new features. HD-DVD will be cheaper to make and has the benefit of the strong DVD brand. Compromise talks are ongoing, but it's unlikely that the two standards can be merged. In which case, a standard war looms that will make the VHS vs Betamax saga look like a playground scrap.RSS FeedsOr how to streamline your daily web-browsing.RSS is generally agreed to stand for Really Simple Syndication. Unusually for technology, it is both really useful and just as simple as it sounds. In short, it's a way of simplifying browsing. Rather than visiting all your favourite sites, many now provide a self-updating RSS 'feed', which is really just a posh bookmark that automatically provides the latest headlines from whatever online source you select. If you bring together a cluster of your favourite feeds, you'll then have instant access to a huge amount of highly-customised links. To get cracking, you need either a basic (and often free) software utility, such as FeedReader, Sauce Reader and FeedDemon, that will create pages of headlines to skim through, as with email, or try the excellent Firefox browser, that allows you to instantly bolt on any RSS feeds you find.NanotechnologyOr the manipulation of materials on a tiny scale.One of the most misunderstood buzz phrases. It simply means doing fancy things on a very small scale - one nanometre is a millionth of a millimetre, or about one eighty-thousandth the width of a human hair - in order to create substances with unique properties. This is not entirely new. Nano-sized particles of gold pigment have been used in stained glass windows since the 10th century, and there have been decades of nano-scale work on computer chips. Nevertheless, there are exciting developments in all sorts of directions that will create more effective suntan creams, windows that allow dirt to wash away in the rain and lightweight paint for aircraft. Scientist have already created tiny tubes of carbon over 100 times stronger and far lighter than steel. This is still fantasy island, but experts have made nano-sized metal legs leap around by fusing them with a rat's heart muscles.
Until a national newspaper alleged that I was Britain's most notorious blogger, Belle de Jour, the call-girl of the web, I had kept my distance from the internet. I had been quite excited until I discovered that one could only access the catalogue of the British Library, not actually read the books, so as far as I was concerned the net was for cheap flights and recherch&eacute; pornography.We enjoyed mutual indifference until the journalists started calling. The day the article ran, incredulous friends rang to snigger at the idea that I might be able to operate my own website in secret, when I have never even owned a television. Or a microwave or a car or a camera or a digital clock radio.I had reluctantly acquired an email address some time after the turn of the millennium, but barely used it. I had never even heard of Belle's blog, and thought chat rooms were what serial killers did on their days off. Feeling rather grand, I cautiously Googled myself, discovered a whole new universe aimed at the terminally under-occupied and logged off smugly with my prejudices reinforced. What kind of arrogance could claim that QVC online constituted a humanist revolution?For most of my life I have been a proud Luddite, though perhaps this resistance was born of nothing more than nostalgia. As a child in the Seventies, I looked forward every Thursday to the arrival of the Pop Man, who sold limeade from a horse and cart. Summer smelled like evaporating sugar mixed with leather, sweat and hay. It wasn't a gimmick, the horse was old and the Pop Man was older and they did their round as they had always done, until, presumably, one of them died. I forgot about the Pop Man until, years later, I saw a laptop for the first time in the library of my university.When I started college, students still communicated by pigeon post, the internal mail or by notes scribbled on pads stuck to our doors. Language really mattered, flirting was a (horribly precious) form of literary showing off, and the excitement of anticipating a letter was as good as receiving it. By the time I left, everyone had a mobile, and undergraduate posturings had been replaced by the functional fatuities of the text message. There was a poignancy to seeing that laptop, though I didn't quite appreciate that I was witnessing a crucial historical moment, the final breaking with an ancient tradition. I just remembered the Pop Man, and it seemed that a little bit more magic had been drained from the world.Still, there's something painfully unoriginal - if not dispiriting - about lamenting the advance of technology. And I don't want to be one of those fearful folk, the sort of person who would have refused to have her photograph taken in the 19th century in case the camera drained her soul. So I had something of a conversion, I really did.Surely gadgets, like maths equations, can be beautiful if we learn to perceive them, right? John Donne used a latter-day gadget, the compass, as the central image for 'A Valediction Forbidding Mourning', one of his most elegant love poems. Thomas Hardy was inspired by the change in perception brought about by the speed of the steam-train. Technology can be spiritual, poetic. Think of a night nurse in an intensive care ward, moving in the darkness between the machines that sustain life, their soft lights glowing like candles before icons.Might not the debate about the elusive harmony of form and function be as well served by the Oakley Thump - a combined MP3 player and pair of sunglasses - as the gorgeous Norman Foster-designed Millau bridge in the Massif Central? Gadgets we love can become objets d'art, retained for pleasure long after they are mechanically obsolete. And technology can be a delightfully irrational indulgence, as exquisitely unnecessary as a pair of Jimmy Choos. Choosing a gizmo the way one might pick out a frock is something I can relate to - in New York recently I confess to being tempted by the decadence of a cashmere iPod sock, as a present, naturally.Futurologists have identified early adopters, so maybe they could invent a category for those of us who yearn to be born again. I suggest 'Blinkies', in tribute to that flashing video clock that no one got around to setting for a decade, until it was traded in for a DVD. Or to the expression on our faces as we stab in helpless randomness at the remote control. Like the Pop Man's old horse, we see only so far into the future as is necessary. We Blinkies use technology up to the limit of our present need, crawling practically behind the passionate early adopters, absorbing innovation only when its absence becomes a difficulty.Our adventures may be modest, but the rewards can be surprising. I've recently acquired a Nigella Lawson mixing bowl in robin's egg blue. It doesn't qualify as technology, but nestles close to the body with such cosy sensuality that I'm beginning to see the point. And, for the first time, I took a look at the box of delights that is Wired magazine and lost all urge to smash my loom. Perhaps us tardy revolutionaries are the winners in the end, as by the time we eventually get round to buying something, it's always the latest model.&#183;Historian Lisa Hilton's latest book is Mistress Peachum's Pleasure:The Life of Lavinia, Duchess of Bolton (Weidenfeld)
I have an issue with outsourcing. I don't mean the relocation of employment to low-wage economies. I don't have a problem with that (although I'd be pretty upset if I came home to find a note on the table saying: 'Sorry, I tried, but it was unsustainable. Gone to Bangalore. Love, your job'). I have an issue with outsourcing in the sense of people devolving their social obligations to bits of machinery. For the first time this year I got more birthday text messages than cards. And most of them were late.The mental outsourcing process starts with the mobile phone. We used to know people's numbers by heart - lots of them. Sequences of seven digits stored in our heads. And there was still room for birthdays and anniversaries.I admit that my own numerical memory is now handled off-site by a Nokia handset. Thanks to picture messaging my visual memory is going the same way. I have outsourced my social life to a PDA and my political opinion-forming to a handful of blogs. My entire working life is conducted through a keyboard. My body remains essential only for carrying around the technology.The more devolved your life is to bits of technology, the more you start to see them as extensions of yourself and the more likely you are to become one of those people who answers their phone in the pub, half way through someone else's sentence, palm outstretched to indicate 'hold that thought, I'm on the phone, you've been conversationally gazumped'.There is no mistaking the epidemic of ill behaviour that has accompanied the spread of hand-held devices. We can skip over the rant about phones going off in cinemas and theatres. In order to maintain any faith in humanity you have to assume that such episodes are the result of innocent forgetfulness or stupidity, rather than callous indifference. But what about the other aberrations: taking phone calls at the dinner table; taking phone calls in bed; taking phone calls in coitus; turning up at someone's house and asking if you can check your email on their computer; playing with your BlackBerry in meetings; playing with your BlackBerry at funerals; turning up at someone's house and asking if you can download their entire music library on to your iPod - 'Hi, you've devoted a lifetime of angst-sodden geekery to collecting cool music. Can I swipe it all in a few seconds, please?'Part of the problem lies in the time lag between acquisition of a gadget and recognition of the tacit rules of use. I remember once, in my internet ingenu days, sending out a message to a group of friends lamenting the lack of electronic traffic to keep me entertained at work. I got one reply pointing out that such fishing for distraction was an attention-seeking breach of protocol equivalent to streaking naked through the court of Louis XIV.An unacknowledged appeal of adopting new technology early is the window of smug satisfaction it allows you to sneer at the vulgarity of the mass market. 'Oh, I see you're still at the check-it-every-three-minutes phase of BlackBerry use. I'm down to once after meals and maybe with a glass of port in the evening.'The rules evolve as fast as the technology. Neolithic columnists probably wrote tirades against uncouth people who started fires indoors and rolled wheels recklessly near children. But it is hard to resist the feeling that, with the current round of technological innovation, something really new is happening. By making bits of our interior world portable, we have let our private lives spill into public view. We are constantly invading our own privacy and making involuntary intruders of our neighbours. You know the sort of thing: 'Excuse me, can I get by, so as I was saying, I had really bad diarrhoea this morning, but it seems to have cleared up now, yeah, all over the place. Oh hang on, gotta go, it's my stop, excuse me, I'll call you later.'Once a device has become bundled up with our private world, its very presence in the room becomes antisocial. Some people may think it is OK to check for messages in company, as long as you don't read them. (It's not, by the way. Rule. Deal with it.) A lot of people believe answering the phone, even if it is just to excuse yourself and promise to call back, is OK. (It's not. Divert it, that's what voicemail is for.) I bet you used to answer emails as soon as they arrived. You don't any more. It's the same with phone calls. Most of them can wait.But is there, perhaps, an anthropological reason why we find this logic so hard to accept? We may be wealthy beyond the wildest dreams of our distant ancestors but our savage little troglodyte minds have not caught up with the change in circumstances. Maybe, deep down, we are programmed to see tools for communication as important. Our instinct tells us to keep the phone on because there is a corner of the brain listening out for the drum beat that signals a sabre-toothed tiger attack.Perhaps things will reach the stage where trying to engage someone in a conversation when they are plugged into technology will be considered rude, like talking with your mouth full. Or will there be a backlash - a technological equivalent to the anti-globalisation movement, with people demanding an end to outsourcing and calling for the repatriation of human interaction from machines? There is already technology that can block phone signals from airports and royal palaces, but the economics of socialising has so far kept it out of bars and restaurants. People don't want to be cut off.Meanwhile, as people continue to get richer, and everyone has the latest hi-speed miniature internet gadget, the leisure to communicate inefficiently will carry all the kudos. There will be a fashion for hand-written notes, delivered by footmen. Carrier pigeons will be the new BlackBerries.Personally, I'd be happy with the middle ground: turn your phone off in company, wait until you're on your own before checking emails and, for God's sake, remember my birthday in time to send a card.
Jamie has thescoopon Channel 9 [with thanks to Scoble for the link].
"Brazilian police arrested 10 people on Thursday accused of selling drugs using Google's international social networking site Orkut, which is hugely popular in the Latin American country," reportsReutersfrom Brazil."Several million Brazilians have become devotees of Orkut (http://www.orkut.com) since Web search leader Google Inc. launched the popular social-networking site in January 2004. They make up more than half of Orkut's 7 million plus members."
"Trainee journalist Dilpazier Aslam had his contract with the Guardian terminated" on Friday, reports ourNewsblog. "The move followed an internal inquiry into Aslam's membership of the political organisation Hizb ut-Tahrir."Comment:Dilpazier Aslam's comment piece was mentioned in a comment to Onlineblog, and blogging features in the after-story, but I think it's best discussed over there....
A new generation of dotcom punters yesterday discovered a financial fact of life: shares in Google can go down as well as up.The 6% fall that greeted the search engine's second- quarter earnings was hardly a rout, but was still a broad hint from Wall Street that Google requires perfection every time to maintain the sky-high rating on its shares.At $300, having run up from last year's flotation price of $85, the company is worth about $84bn (&pound;48bn). Its revenues - that is, its turnover, not its profits - are likely to be $5.6bn in 2005, so Google is being valued at about 15 times its annual sales, a valuation that is madness on any traditional investment measure.The argument from Google's fans is that traditional yardsticks should be abandoned when dealing with a revolutionary entity. Hasn't Google invented a new business model? Won't it double its revenues this year? Doesn't it achieve operating margins that old-media dinosaurs like newspapers and TV broadcasters would die for?Well, yes, yes, and yes, but the second-quarter figures also suggested that this revolutionary is not wholly immune from normal business pressures.Revenues in the second quarter of $1.4bn (&pound;800m) were up 98% year on year, but only 10% higher than in the first quarter. Quarterly sales growth of 10% is impressive, but when you're expected to double annually, investors are entitled to fret.Worse, Google itself hardly talked up its prospects for the current trading period. "I would like to emphasise that Q3 is historically a slower quarter for growth in both advertising expenditures and internet usage," said chief executive Eric Schmidt. So now we know: mundane seasonality even affects businesses that have changed the way the western world operates.But it was the slip in profit margins that was most significant. The first quarter saw 35.2% and the second 34.4%. That's not a collapse, but outsiders will wonder whether we have seen the top.The issue of margins is the real long-term worry about Google. It is comparatively easy to accept that the business might double its sales annually for a while yet, but harder to believe it can continue to convert over a third of its turnover into profit.Google is ultimately in the game of selling advertising space. Demand for such space is currently booming as corporates appreciate the power of the internet to shift goods, but Google is not operating in a vacuum. Yahoo!, Microsoft and others are competing for the same pie.Competition from a range of well-funded and technically innovative companies suggests that returns on capital in this business will eventually settle down, just as they do in most industries.We won't know where precisely they settle for several years, which is why investing in Google will continue to be an act of faith. Prudential, the big US brokerage, yesterday declared Google's latest quarter "extremely impressive" and set a target of $400 for the share price.Googlemania clearly is not over yet. But, in time, July 2005 may come to be seen as the moment when investors in this impressive company were warned that no share is a one-way bet for ever.
Big Mutha Truckers 2: Truck Me HarderPS2, XBoxThe name Big Mutha Truckers: Truck Me Harder, effortlessly sets the tone for a game that features more than its fair share of coarse, deep southern stereotypes and articulated lorries. In common with the first game, you're beholden to the grotesque Big Mutha, who this time needs to be broken out of prison, and you have to visit seedy truck stop bars to collect new missions before trading appropriately unpleasant-sounding commodities between cities to make cash. The whole sorry affair is tied together with woolly-feeling drives between towns during which you can crush other motorists and evade policemen - an experience that will leave you begging for less. At &pound;20 this looks, feels and is monstrously cheap and tacky.&#183;Empire Interactive, &pound;20Gungrave: OverdosePS2Sequel to ageing action game Gungrave and featuring characters that will only be familiar to lovers of Japanese anime, Gungrave: Overdose is a straight-up no-pretensions shoot-'em-up. Playing as enigmatic super-freak, Beyond The Grave, your job is to use guns and the huge armoured coffin your character lugs around to defeat an unceasing onslaught of badly drawn enemies. Combos are earned for shooting anything at all - from enemies to crates to garden sheds - and the game's signature of a screen full of burning debris fast becomes routine. Brainless, jerkily animated and plotted by madmen (unless you're a regular manga viewer), this is exercise for trigger finger only.&#183;Play It, &pound;20Alternate reality gamingPerplex CityIn the 1980s, Kit Williams' book Masquerade contained clues to a treasure hunt that would lead the successful reader to dig up a jewelled sculpture of a rabbit for his or her trouble. This century things are naturally a little more convoluted, and when Mind Candy Design decided to bring the opportunity to win £100,000 to the attention of a jaded public, it did so in the form of the mysterious Perplex City. Using a series of cryptic messages sent by post and online, it leads players into the mystery of a missing cube, the recovery of which will bring your reward. As an Alternate Reality Game (that's ARG, acronym fans), the solution is scattered around websites, blogs and items in the real world. Begin your search atperplexcity.com.
Websites that exist away from the stranglehold of their radio stations are rare among the DJ fraternity, but the forum at Danny Baker'sinternettreehouse.co.ukformed an integral part of his BBC shows. Now off air, ex-listeners continue to use the site to nitpick life's trivialities.Among the rare breed of DJ fansites, the loyal devotees of Radio 1's breakfast behemoth keepchrismoyles.netawash with news and audio, whileunofficialmills.freshosts.comhas an archive of Scott Mills' very funny celebrity prank calls - Al Pacino calling a Liverpool hairdressers is a particularly good one.Meanwhile,jameshyman.com/blogprovides an interesting peek at Xfm's premium tastemaker. Talking of which, strangely enough, the biography attimwestwood.comneglects to mention the ageing DJ's formative years in the ghettos of Norfolk.
MondayGTA creators choke on their "hot coffee". Industry feels the burn.Don't believe the hypeTuesdayHalf Life 2006 (World Cup Edition)Chinese addicts get State-supported helpWednesdayEuro PSP arrivesThe king of casual gamesThursdayThis weekVideogame scandals are boringFridayBeautiful gamesGame Off
Monday, July 18iTunes breaks 500m barrierMurdoch: $580m to Fox up MyspaceTuesday, July 19Talk time: Niklas ZennstromDon't panic, but the future is at stakeWednesday, July 20Would you stay up late for a new phone?The mum, the nanny, her blog and some othersThursday, July 21Beethoven vs Bono: the classic mistakeFriday, July 22Firefox: best product of 2005Longhorn no longer: MS redubs new WindowsOnline fads, so hard to beat
Mahir: he kiss you. Photograph: Eric Risberg/APInternet fads... donchya just love them?Where would the humble technology reporter - or indeed the amusing news story - be without the bizarre and eclectic concoction of memes, and catchphrases that the internet has provided us with over the years? Probably skulking around the local bar with some cheap tin and hoping for a story to fall out of the sky. Actually, that isn't so far from the truth... but at least internet crazes have provided a few chuckles on the way.CNethas been kind enough to list what it thinks are the top 10 internet fads of all time: from actual services that caught on like wildfire to websites that simply got everywhere.There's a place for more serious sites like Blogger.com, Friendster and HotOrNot, but also for the stupidity of the Dancing Baby, Mahir (pictured above) and All Your Base... but what's top of them all?It had to be, of course,Hampster dance.
We always wondered when Microsoft would kill off the horrid moniker for, Longhorn. Andit's happened: no more Longhorn... now it's Windows "Vista".The beta's apparently going to be released on August 3, but the name change came too late to stop the godawful jokes about "Tiger mauling Microsoft's Longhorn" and suchlike.I would say anything less bovine is welcomed --- except now this one's going to produce a lot of "Hasta la Vista" headlines.
According to PC World magazine's100 Best Products of 2005, the open source web browserFirefoxis product of the year.Elsewhere in their top 10 is Google's Gmail, Apple OS X Tiger, Belkin's pre-G Wireless Router, Skype and the PalmOne Treo 650... but there's no high-ranking place for favourites like Sony's PSP (just #19), Flickr (#51) or Motorola's Razr phone (#90).And although Apple's iTunes and iTMS make the chart (positions 34 and 86 respectively), the iPod is squarely outfought by its rivals - iPod Photo comes in at number 78, and there's no place for iPod Shuffle.
I've just visitedGame- you know, the videogame shop with its own "unique" smell. Haven't been for a while and one thing struck me - and it wasn't just the eau d'teenage boy. There was a large in-store presence for theiPod. Now I know it's a tough retail environment at the moment, but the focus on non-gaming products, plus the fact that every game seemed to be on special offer, suggests that the traditional summer drought is worse than ever. The PSP/Christmas blockbusters can't come soon enough. Or does everyone just buy off the web these days?
It's been a good week for football sim fans. On Wednesday Sega sent out a press release with scintillating new details of Football Manager 2006. The latest addition to Sports Interactive's series is already looking promising thanks to the addition of half time talks (so finally you can scream obscenities at your players when they trudge back to the changing rooms after going down two goals to Wigan), but now there are several new tactical features.You will, for example, be able to get players to swap positions mid-way through a game - great for when you have roving creative types like Robben or Cristiano Ronaldo in your squad. There's even a new time wasting option for when you're one-nil up with five minutes to go. Previously we had to rely on switching to an ultra defensive formation and opting to keep all eleven men behind the ball, but this was always prone to last minute equaliser heartaches.And yesterday we got some confirmed details on PES 5 for PSP...Yes, the PSP version of Konami's defining footie series will boast 57 national sides and 136 club teams, and will allow Wi-Fi multiplayer gaming. Interestingly, the game keeps a tally of all the matches won, goals scored, etc, so you'll be able to build instant leagues with your friends. It'll also be possible to import your teams from the PS2 version of the game, and swap teams with other PSP owners. As usual, genius.
Nokia: hopes its 770 internet tablet could help fortunesFinnish mobile manufacturer Nokia had some good news yesterday: profits were up. But the big news, at least for financial observers, was that it wasn'tso happy about the future.The firm said third-quarter earnings will come in around... three-quarters of the level investors had expected. Nokia said third-quarter sales will be [around] £5.5bn, also below expectations.The problem isn't that Nokia's not shipping enough phones - it sold 61 million units last quarter, that's around a third of all new phones around the world - but that the price of phones is coming down. Nokia have intrinsic benefits over their rivals: long-standing domination thanks to durable products with familiar and intuitive interfaces. They're putting a lot more emphasis on 3G and smartphones these days, in a market where (particularly in developing countries) the demand is for low-cost handsets.Can they keep dominating the market, or is the future bleak for Finns?
Google last night posted a fourfold increase in profits during the second quarter but slowing revenue growth raised concerns on Wall Street and sent the firm's shares crashing back below the $300 mark.Meanwhile Microsoft reported a 38% increase in earnings in its fiscal fourth quarter. For the full year, Microsoft reported profits of $12.3bn (&pound;7.1bn), up from $8.2bn in the previous 12 months. Revenue was $39.8bn, up from $36.8bn.The two companies are competing fiercely in the internet search engine sector. The rivalry was underlined on Tuesday night when Microsoft announced it was suing Google after it hired one of its former search executives.Google reported earnings of $343m, up from $79m in the same period a year earlier. Its shares fell more than 9% in after hours trade to $284.05. Revenues of $1.4bn, an increase of 98%, fell short of Wall Street forecasts and were only 10% higher than the firm's first quarter, suggesting that advertising growth is running out of steam. In a conference call with analysts the company appeared to temper expectations for the current quarter.Yahoo! this week reported earnings of $756m for the three-month period, a more than sixfold increase, and similarly lowered expectations for the current quarter.Google said that advertising appearing on its own website alongside search results generated $737m of revenue, 53% of the total. Revenue from selling advertising for partner sites, such as the New York Times, was $630m.The firm is expanding its services beyond search to include email, web logs, video search and comparison-shopping but search-related advertising still generates almost all of the revenue. Google made its stock market debut last August at $85 a share.Microsoft reported profits of $3.7bn during the quarter, up from $2.7bn in the same period of 2004. The software firm's revenue rose 8% to $10.2bn but it forecast a return to double-digit sales growth in the upcoming year.The company said there had been strong demand for laptop computers and corporate servers running its software during the quarter.
The world's largest mobile phone manufacturer Nokia sent investors reeling yesterday as it warned on profits after announcing weaker than expected second-quarter earnings.The Finnish company, which analysts had hoped was back on track after a bumpy year in 2004, announced earnings per share of &euro;0.18 for the three months to June, better than the previous year but below what analysts had forecast as a result of tough competition.The firm said third-quarter earnings will come in around &euro;0.14 to &euro;0.17, three-quarters of the level investors had expected. Nokia said third-quarter sales will be between &euro;7.9bn (&pound;5.5bn) to &euro;8.2bn, also below expectations.There is intense demand for mobile phones - in the last three months Nokia shipped 61m phones, up 34% - and it raised its forecast for worldwide sales this year to 760m. But the average price of Nokia's phones dropped to &euro;105 from &euro;110 in the first quarter of 2005. The firm has been forced to compete on price with entrants from Asia Pacific in western European markets and produce cheaper phones in new emerging markets. Senior management said prices will continue to decline as it chases business in markets such as Brazil and China.Separately Swedish mobile infrastructure firm Ericsson reported strong second-quarter earnings and upped its forecast for the networks market. Ericsson said it expected "moderate growth" in the network market this year compared with its initial forecast of "slight growth".The company made a second-quarter pre-tax profit of $1.1bn (&pound;636m), which was better than forecasts.
I mentioned itbefore, but Sunday evening sees thefirst book signing in a virtual world. Author Cory Doctorow will be signing copies of "Someone Comes to Town. Someone Leaves Town." in the online "game"Second Life.While this isn't the first time an author has placed a John Hancock using virtual methods (Doctorow's fellow countrywomanMargaret Atwooddid it for her last excellent novel, Oryx and Crake), it is the first time a virtual version of an author (Cory in avatar form) will sign virtual versions of the book (released for free download from 1 July), which people can then read in virtuality.Cool.
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!connecting to server ...Current host:Chris2Current topic:The Home Office plans to appeal against a High Court ruling which found that designated town centre "curfew zones" were illegal. Should the police have to power to detain under-16s who aren't breaking any laws?Jdogg:u cant arest some1 for being youngLadeezMan:why notPashmina:yeah why notHost_Chris2:we're not talking about arrest per se, just a "coercive power" to escort children homeJdogg:its rasist innitBronco has entered the NewsRoomBronco:hiPashmina:hi broncLadeezMan:moronBronco:meLadeezMan:noJdogg:we got rights tooBronco:himLadeezMan:yeahPashmina:I hate kids wearin them hoodies &amp; stealin &amp; vandelisinJdogg:its borin round ere nothin 2 doBronco:here to. nothin to do but sit around all dayLadeezMan:u at work thenBronco:yeahPashmina:why dont u read a book!Bronco:i aint that boredPashmina:not u!Jdogg:u just forgot wot its like to be a teenBronco:I remember I was a dickheadHost_Chris2:can I ask how old you are, jdogg?Jdogg:14 whyHost_Chris2:permachat.co.uk policy requires chatters to be 16 or overJdogg:that aint fair!!!LadeezMan:bad luck spottyHost_Chris2:I'm afraid you'll have to leave jdoggJdogg:that is discrimanationHost_Chris2:it is policy neverthelessPashmina:so get back to schoolJdogg:I am at schoolJdogg has been kicked out of the NewsRoomBronco:so u at work ladeezmanLadeezMan:no still playin grand theft autoPashmina:must be difficult 2 be young todayLadeezMan:especially if ur lazy &amp; stupidBronco:lolIam18 has entered the NewsRoomIam18:young poeple needs more respectPashmina:jdogg that uIam18:noconnection to server has been terminated ...
Legal music downloads have tripled in the past year, an international record industry lobby group said yesterday, citing the figures as further proof it is winning the war against piracy.IFPI, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, which represents 1,450 record companies in 75 countries, said there were more legal downloads in the US, Britain, Germany and France in the first half of 2005 than in the whole of 2004.There were 180m single tracks downloaded in those four countries between January and June this year, compared to 57m last year.Britain recorded the strongest growth, with a tenfold increase in legal downloads to 10m in the last six months. Legal music downloads are estimated to have nearly tripled in America, to 159m.There are now 300 legal digital music websites, three times as many as existed a year ago. iTunes offers 1.5m tracks and Napster offers 1.2m. Digital music services have registered 2.2m subscribers around the world, up from 1.5m in January.IFPI chairman John Kennedy said music fans were increasingly being deterred from illegal file sharing. "Whether it's fear of getting caught breaking the law, or the realisation that many networks could damage your home PC, attitudes are changing, and that is good news for the whole music industry," he said.Since the record industry began taking legal action against music pirates in September 2003, more than 14,000 proceedings have been announced in 12 countries. Lawsuits are in progress in the UK, US, Japan, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Iceland, the Netherlands and Italy. Offenders are most likely to be men aged 20-35 who live in cities and the fines handed out have averaged &euro;3,000 (just over &pound;2,000).A recent survey in Britain found a third of file-sharers had stopped the illegal activity because they feared legal action.The international music industry has stepped up public warnings about the consequences of illegal downloads.
Last Christmas, the dollar was so weak you could fly to New York, stay in a hotel, do your shopping and still save compared with shopping at home. The pound won't buy you quite so much now, but the currency exchange still makes a mockery of some technology prices. Why does a copy of Photoshop cost &pound;535 when it is only $599 in the US? Why does Microsoft's remote control keyboard for Media Center cost $105 there and &pound;99.99 here?When I asked Adobe about the discrepancy, it blamed the uncertainty of the currency markets, saying the customer would be harmed when the pound-dollar relationship swung the other way. Unless, of course, Adobe adjusted the price again when that happened.Not only would that be a lot of work but, as Paul Hart, Microsoft UK's director of finance and administration, explained, retailers and large companies prefer pricing that stays the same. Then they can predict how much they will make or spend. Prices for Microsoft software generally haven't gone down - or up - over the past five years, and the companies buying most of the software that Microsoft sells prefer it that way.UK prices aren't pegged to the dollar but to the euro (and 12 European currencies). Plus, Hart says, doing business here is more expensive: from the cost of localising software and manuals, to providing support, to paying higher salaries than in the US. Profit margins are higher, too, which hurts those who don't buy enough software to get a discount.Smaller suppliers facing competition are more likely to change their prices. Good Technology recently dropped the UK price for its software from &pound;220 to &pound;195. Says Good's Sue Forbes: "While the temptation is to retain extra profits from currency fluctuations, this short-term attitude will ultimately lead to unhappy customers."If you are an unhappy customer, buying a grey import or online will save you money but you could still end up out of pocket. PlayStation Portables are on sale in London's Tottenham Court Road for about &pound;210 (marked as secondhand but still in the shrink wrap). The problem is that you are not likely to get the same technical support, and any guarantee won't be worth much.Support will be a problem if you buy abroad, and you won't be able to use a US version of Photoshop to qualify for low upgrade prices in the UK. Do your sums carefully: British prices have to include VAT (or make it obvious that they don't). US prices are usually quoted without sales tax because it varies so much (from 4% in Hawaii to 11.5% in Arkansas). And you will also pay import duty.Essentially, we are a captive market, but taking advantage of that too obviously doesn't do software companies any favours. For one thing, there are often open source alternatives. And then there's the fate of the music industry. Peer-to-peer networks gave people the technology to download music without paying for it - but the industry helped them justify it.When companies kept CD prices high enough to trigger repeated investigations, listeners lost respect, making illegal downloads more acceptable. High prices don't justify piracy, but they make it more attractive.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so
TrashedIf you're the sort who likes getting trashed on a Monday night, then the Trash website should do it for you. The site was launched in 1998, a year after the club itself graced London's nightlife at Oxford St's Plastic People. It was relaunched a few months ago with a new design and content devised by resident DJ Rory Phillips. It contains some brilliant video and photo footage of bands that have played live and DJed at the club over the years - from Tom Vek to Felix Da Housecat - including at its current abode at The End. It has a popular community forum, DJ sets from their top turntablists, such as Erol Alkan, and a comprehensive links page. Best of all, however, is the Trash radio, which streams from the PlayLouder site, also well worth a look if you are into this sort of thing.www.trashclub.co.ukwww.playlouder.comSnap to itSnapsearch, a new price comparison search site, displays eBay search results side by side with internet search results on a split screen, allowing you to easily compare different sets of product prices. While this is handy, the internet searches do not display the prices as clearly as they do on Kelkoo, another price-comparison site. In most cases, you have to click on the selected websites to open a new page and display product details, which can be time consuming. But the extras on Snapsearch are good, including individual country searches, and RSS and email updates on the latest eBay results.www.snapsearch.comwww.kelkoo.co.ukZoom inAsk Jeeves has launched a new search feature, Zoom, which increases search relevance and shortens the time it takes to find the specific site you are looking for. Enter a search term, such as "Batman Begins", and hit return - on the right-hand side of the page, there now appears some sub-categories that either expand or narrow your search, or provide related names.Under expand, for example, are listed other movies based on comics, such as Superman and Spider-Man. Under narrow, you will find a list of specific Batman movies, including the Batman Begins site and movie cast site. And under related names, you will find star of the show Christopher Bale.Click on any of these links, and you get taken to a new search under that term - more specified or more expanded, as you request. The Zoom feature uses the company's Teoma search technology, which divides the web into topic communities, examines their relationship and identifies conceptually related topics. It may not mirror the search sequence of your own mind, but it comes close.www.ask.co.ukWest Wing witWest Wing fans will love this one. SCOTUSblog and its sister site, the Supreme Court Nomination blog, include up-to-date gossip and guidance on the appointment battle and other happenings at the Supreme Court of the US. With one Supreme Court justice retiring and rumours of another, it is as if Josh and Toby were being witty and wonderful in your very own living room.www.scotusblog.comwww.sctnomination.com/blogFun and gamesIt is a sad state of affairs when a government-backed website has to tell the kids of today how to play It and Hide and Seek. But it is progress of sorts, and the Playground Fun site - launched by Culture Online, part of the Department for Culture, Media and Sport - should give some good outdoor gaming ideas to fun-seeking adults, too. The site includes guides on how to play the games, what equipment - if any - you need, and a cute section where you can build your own games, with tips for writing rules.www.playgroundfun.org.ukSix of the bestEdinburgh festivalsEdinburgh International Festivalwww.eif.co.ukFringewww.edfringe.comFilmwww.edfilmfest.org.ukBookswww.edbookfest.co.ukT on the Fringewww.tonthefringe.comThe Guardian's festival pickshttp://tinyurl.com/7h49n
The VHD 5500, from inventive Japanese company NHJ, is the first hard disk music player that comes with a wireless stereo Bluetooth headset. You pair the two devices, press play on the rectangular-shaped unit, and listen to music wirelessly within 10 metres of the device. That it works at all is a minor miracle, but the 5500 delivers a continually engrossing sound that, thanks to its good-quality headphones, is better than many of its rivals. The system is flexible, too, maintaining a connection if the player is left in a bag or even an adjacent room. The wireless link will, however, break if the player is continually moved around, so don't take it jogging.The 5500 has plenty more going for it, including a five gigabyte hard disk, compatibility with MP3s and WMAs, a microphone - so it can moonlight as a voice recorder - and a battery that lasts for 14 hours and is recharged via USB. On the downside, users must carry around the large-ish headphones, and make sure their batteries, which last for eight hours, are topped up. There are also no controls on the earphones, apart from volume. The 5500 is a superb player, although whether the benefits of going wireless are enough to justify the &pound;250 price tag, only you can decide.&#183;www.nhjapan.com
Windows licencesI ripped all my CDs on to my hard drive as .wma files. If I try to play them now, I'm told to download a licence, although I've backed them all up, as advised. I'm now being told I have downloaded the licence more than 10 times. Could it be something to do with importing back-up Registry files, which I sometimes do if I catch a particularly nasty virus? Do I have to delete all the WMAs and start from scratch? I'm using Windows 98SE.Simon GilmanJS:The system is intended to stop you transferring WMA (Windows Media Audio) files to more than 10 computers, and as long as you are using the same copy of Windows, it should be enough to reload the saved licences from your hard drive. However, the root of the problem is that Microsoft stupidly shipped Windows Media Player with the default setting to copy protect music. Before ripping anything with WMP, you should have gone to the Tools menu, selected Options, clicked the Copy Music tab, and unticked the box that says "Copy protect music". Re-ripping your CDs without copy protection is probably the best long-term solution. Although it is convenient to use WMP to create WMA files, and it does include a Lossless option, consider alternatives such as using EAC (Exact Audio Copy) to rip the CDs then converting to another format using Lame. There are several websites that will walk you through the process, such as Radified (http://mp3.radified.com/eac_lame.htm) and The Coaster Factory (http://users.pandora.be/satcp/cd2mp3-en.htm). Hydrogen Audio has a good guide to setting up EAC (http://wiki.hydrogenaudio.org/index.php?title=EAC_Drive_Configuration) and can also help with using EAC to create FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec) files: seehttp://wiki.hydrogenaudio.org/index.php?title=EAC_and_Flac.Music buffI listen to classical music on my elderly hi-fi kit using CDs and vinyl LPs. I have now found out how to create MP3 files from my LPs, and while my basic sound card does the job I can't judge if I should get a better card and at what price. Should I continue to play the MP3 or WAV files back through my hi-fi, or get bigger speakers for my PC?Richard CuretonJack Schofield replies:A better sound card should make an audible difference, but PCs are not hi-fi devices and computer shops generally know little about hi-fi. With an elderly hi-fi, it's probably not worth going beyond Creative's Audigy range, but if you want to get serious, look at Digital Village's website (www.dv247.com) or visit one of its high street shops (there are eight, but four are in London).In hi-fi terms, I'd expect even an elderly set-up to outperform a PC, because PC sound systems are generally more oriented towards game sounds (such as gunshots and explosions) than a viola da gamba. However, if your PC output sounds as good as CD or vinyl via your system, then it would be better to spend the money improving your hi-fi. Try comparing your system with a Denon DM-31 or DM-33 micro system: these are roughly at the level where good audio starts to become real hi-fi. The drawback with modern amplifiers is that they rarely support turntables, but you can always buy a separate phono stage such as a QED Discsaver.Free photosI am editing a magazine, printed in black and white, for a local organisation and want to use small illustrations, cartoons etc to break up the text. Google's image search provides a pretty uninspired selection. Can you suggest a better source, or is no one is interested in black and white anymore?Anne NewbouldJS:The main problem with Google's image search is that almost all the images it finds are someone's copyright. Try searching somewhere likewww.freeimages.co.ukinstead. There are several sources listed on The Free Site athttp://thefreesite.com/Free_Graphics/Free_photos/andhttp://thefreesite.com/Free_Graphics/Free_clipart/Although colour illustrations predominate, most if not all graphics programs can convert a colour image into a black and white one. This can usually be done by changing the colour depth to a "grayscale" setting, or by setting the hue/colour saturation to zero. If your picture editing program provides RGB channels for red, green and blue, you may find the green channel provides a usable black and white image. There are also plug-ins that will do the job, at least for Photoshop.Hard lifeI have let my anti-virus program check my hard disk every week or so. A friend maintains that this reduces the active life of the hard disk. Is this true?Christopher NichollsJS:The two things most likely to kill a hard drive before it has completed its expected life are shocks and vibrations. I've never seen any evidence that normal use - such as anti-virus checking - has a significant effect. However, there are programs that will assess the health of a hard drive and estimate its life. You could try BinarySense's HDDlife (www.hddlife.com), which is free, or the shareware Drive Health (www.drivehealth.com).&#183;Send comments and questions toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but include full details
Take up spaceWhy would anyone pay &pound;400 for a 4GB Buffalo Technology USB mini storage key (What's new, July 14), when you can get a 60GB iPod for &pound;100 less, use it as a USB or FireWire external hard drive and - if you fancied - have plenty of space to store a few songs as well?Niall O SioradainDun Laoghaire, IrelandDisc deliveryI read your article about the Knoppix 4.0 DVD (Knoppix has it covered, July 14) and would like to make a suggestion: how about including a live CD/DVD with your newspaper? It needn't be Knoppix, as there are plenty of other live systems out there.Simon G BestPressed for timeIs there any chance you can make the Knoppix disc available to readers? I have been trying to get hold of it but am having no luck. Downloading 4GB of DVD takes a long time even when it doesn't keep breaking.Ian DeveneyBrightonLanguage barrierAfter your initial news on Knoppix 4.0 a few weeks ago, I tried to obtain the DVD, but was told it was only available in German at present. I consequently bought 3.9 on CD, which was just as well as I am not certain I could get a DVD to boot up on my machine. Although version 3.9 has booted up successfully, I am frustrated first by its inability to recognise my printer (Canon S600). The error message "Connection to CUPS server failed" comes up so I cannot print out useful notes. Also, I have not been able to find any catalogue/ list of all the software included. Does the further article on Knoppix 4.0 mean it is now available in English?Lauri NelsonDerbyTake no interestWith regards to your interview with Paul Merton (Talk time, July 7). My gran also has absolutely no interest in computers and technology, if you'd like to interview her for Online.Mat WalkerWalled garden trapI bought a new 3G phone - a Nokia 6680 - first because I was attracted by the cheap contract and then because of the Wap facilities. There are a great deal of applications that can be downloaded for the phone, including streaming radio, independent email and chat facilities. And then, of course, sites such as the BBC provide many services designed for mobile devices. The problem is that 3, my service provider, will not let you out of their "walled garden" of services. Is this not going to put people off upgrading to 3G? 3 does not make this clear when you sign up. It is a shame that so much has been developed for these phones, but then we are not allowed to use them.Max CroweSystem on a downDo other readers suffer from any of the following problems? There is an anti-spam system called Sorbs, which blacklists internet protocol (IP) addresses from which spam has been sent. Unfortunately, spam has been sent from IP addresses used by my provider, Wanadoo.fr. At least five of the internet service providers (ISP) of my friends use the Sorbs system - and it bounces all my messages to them. It refuses to stop doing so until my ISP stops spammers from using their IP addresses. Sorbs says it is up to Wanadoo to put a stop to the spammers. Wanadoo.fr has not replied to any of the 12 messages I have sent them about this.Similarly, Verizon.net has cooked up a new anti-spam system that requires you to fill in a form and supply various details before it will forward messages to subscribers. I filled in the form but did not know one piece of information requested. It refused to accept the form, and asked me to re-submit it with the "valid information". Verizon and I are now in a loop, where I write them detailed messages explaining my side of the problem and they send me, time and again, a request for a form with information I do not have. Therefore, I cannot communicate with anyone with a Verizon.net address. Is this really what ISPs want?Don MontagueSaint-Innocence, FranceBlogbackBT has introduced a new Privacy service, which registers users to the telephone preference service (TPS) to prevent unsolicited phone calls. But it doesn't seem to stop automated diallers, particularly those originating in other countries.Gorse FoxOur silent calls have dropped to zero since signing up with TPS. Until I worked out was happening I had found it very disconcerting. For an elderly person living alone it is tantamount to harassment. Direct marketing should be opt in not opt out.SteveWe may suspect that BT has an additional motive in promoting the TPS. Many rivals use tele-marketing as a way of pinching customers for their CPS (carrier pre-selection) services.Silent call victim&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
PC sales boomPC sales exceeded expectations in the second quarter of this year, according to a Gartner research report. Shipments increased by 14.8% to 48.9m units, thanks to growing demand for portables and "aggressive price cutting" in the desktop PC market. Dell held on to the top spot with shipments up by 23.6% to 8.8m units. This gave Dell a 17.9% worldwide market share, ahead of Hewlett-Packard's 14.6%. China's Lenovo came third with 7.5% following its takeover of IBM's PC business division. Taiwan's Acer increased its PC shipments by 67.6% to take fourth spot with 4.3% of the market, ahead of Fujitsu Siemens, the German/ Japanese combo, with 3.6%. Dell also took top spot in the US, shipping almost 5m PCs for a 32% market share. HP placed second, shipping 2.7m PCs for a 17.4% share, while Gateway (including eMachines) trailed in a distant third (890,000 shipments, 5.7%). According to a similar report from IDC, second quarter PC shipments grew by 16.6% to 46.6m units. Both companies have problems accounting for the vast numbers of "white box" PCs sold by local vendors.Dell projectsDell has launched a small and light portable projector with infrared remote control/laser pointer and carrying case for the mobile professional market. The 3400MP uses Digital Light Processing (DLP) to deliver a maximum output of 1,500 lumens with XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) resolution. The 3400MP weighs only 1.09kg and costs &pound;899 plus delivery and VAT.Be secureYahoo UK has launched a Security Centre with virus and security news, and a security campaign to try to get users to protect their PCs and passwords. A Yahoo survey of 1,500 users found that "61% of computer owners use one main password wherever possible". Yahoo's Mark Helvadjan says: "Our campaign encourages consumers to adopt the same mind-set online as you would in the offline world. You wouldn't have one master key that simultaneously unlocked your front door, your car and your safe, yet that is basically what a lot of computer owners are doing."www.yahoo.co.uk/onlinesecurityE-gov honoursNominations are being sought for the e-Government National Awards 2005. The awards are being supported by the Cabinet Office e-Government Unit, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Society of Information Technology Management (SocITM) to celebrate online achievements in the public sector. The organisers hope the awards will focus attention on e-government projects and foster a vibrant development environment. Presentations will cover 11 categories split among excellence awards for government, local authority and general public sectors. Nominations are being filed online and the closing date is the second week of October, followed by the ceremony at the Savoy Hotel in London on January 25.www.e-governmentawards.org.ukCorporate thoughtsIBM is testing weblogging as a corporate collaboration medium. The company is offering developers a product called Weblog Preview on its AlphaWorks website as an extension to Workplace Collaboration Services. Blogging is becoming widely adopted by special interest groups as a way of sharing ideas and forming open discussion groups on the internet. Within a company, blogging offers a way to let employees air their thoughts and share information on a variety of subjects or within specific projects. Weblog Preview allows enterprise-wide blogs to be created but access can also be restricted to specific users through the Workplace Membership Portal.www.alphaworks.ibm.com/tech/blogpreviewFast pathIntel has launched two new high-end Itanium 2 chips that speed up the communication between the processor and system memory. The new chips boost the front-side bus speed from 400MHz to 667MHz, an increase of 65%. This enhancement to the Madison version of the Itanium 2 prepares the way for the next generation Montecito, due at the end of the year. The new 1.66GHz Itanium 2 with 6MB of cache and 667MHz FSB costs $2,194, while a version with 9MB of cache costs $4,655.www.intel.com/pressroomSpyware chokeZone Labs is extending its firewall to include protection against spyware. The release of ZoneAlarm 6.0 introduces a kernel-level firewall to monitor suspicious processor activity. OSFirewall disables any potentially destructive programs, such as Trojans, keyloggers and rootkits, before any real damage is done. Like antivirus software, ZoneAlarm uses its OSFirewall to block new malware, so-called zero-hour attacks, but it also has a blacklist database, DefenseNet, to quickly remove known threats when a system scan is executed. When a new threat is validated, it is added to the list and searched for when the user downloads the current update.http://download.zonelabs.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
How important has online gaming been to the revival of the Lottery?We launched that about two years ago and it accounts for the lion's share of our interactive sales. We went on to interactive TV with SkyActive (www.skyactive.tv) and launched on mobiles at the end of last year. People have accused us of being slow but the Lottery's integrity is critical - the day anyone could claim they could hack into our systems and change the outcome is the day the Lottery would be finished. We launched initially with "instant win" games, as they are small and self-contained. We had to check that all our firewalls and security worked properly.So it's pretty secure?We worked with Experian (www.experian.co.uk) to create a robust registration system, as you are not allowed to play unless you're 16 or over. We probably occasionally reject legitimate players but I'd rather that than allow people who shouldn't be playing into the game. In a secret test last year, NCH (www.nch.org.uk) got an underage person to try to register on 32 online gaming sites. She managed on all of them except ours and one other site.And games on mobile?We allow you to play the standard games - you can buy a ticket for Lotto via your mobile - once you have gone through the registration process and set up your electronic wallet. We haven't devised games specifically for the mobile, so I think the next stage will be about tailoring our offers to the facilities that the net, interactive TV and mobiles enable.Have many new media projects benefited from Lottery money?One of the distributing bodies involved in internet projects is the Millennium Commission (www.millennium.gov.uk). It will be subsumed in the big lottery fund when the new lottery bill goes through. Some &pound;35m was given to UHI (www.uhi.ac.uk) to create a virtual university for people in the highlands and islands so they could access the same resources that would be available on a city university campus - apart from the student union bar, I imagine. Scran (www.scran.ac.uk), an arts and history resource, has had &pound;16m.Was addiction a consideration when you were setting up online games?Absolutely. Our raison d'etre is to maximise the returns to good causes in a socially responsible way. We care about all our players but we are particularly concerned about three groups - under 16s, those on low incomes and those with addictive tendencies. We have a thing called the Game Design Protocol (www.camelotgroup.co.uk/responsibilities/x_design.jsp), which is a research methodology. We have benchmarked all forms of gaming and gambling in the UK so every time we launch a game we put it though the protocol to ensure it won't have undue appeal to any of those three categories. If it does have excessive appeal, we'll modify it or not launch it. When you register, we encourage you to set a limit on the amount you can spend per day. If you want to increase your limit there is a facility to do it but it won't be done for 24 hours.Visit:www.camelotgroup.co.ukandwww.national-lottery.co.ukDianne Thompson's bookmarkswww.ryanair.comwww.bbc.co.ukwww.ebay.co.ukwww.ask.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
A growing number of Britons are investing in flat-screen TVs that are compatible with High Definition TV (HDTV) transmissions. But until Sky debuts its HD service in the summer of next year, all they will be viewing are standard definition pictures. Unless, of course, they watch images of themselves.In the same way that HDTV is ushering in a new era of television viewing, it is also having a considerable impact on the camcorder market.JVC pioneered HDV (High Definition Video) camcorders in 2003 with the GR-HD1, a consumer version of one of its professional models. Sony has since broadened the appeal of HD camcorders with the &pound;1,500 HDR-HC1, which launched this week. Panasonic should deliver a version of its professional AG-DVX100 model for consumers shortly, while Sharp, Hitachi and Canon may have models on the horizon.Both the JVC and Sony models deliver footage that is considerably more detailed than even the best standard definition models are capable of capturing. Images are ultra sharp and highly colourful. Yet isn't high-quality imagery a bit over the top for consumers who generally only want to archive family footage?"So far, much of the interest has been from the professional sphere, including broadcasters who want a small, high-quality camcorder," admits Carolyn Duffy, Sony's camcorder product manager. "But consumers are waking up to HDV's potential, too. If they want to future-proof their memories, it is a good bet to opt for HDV, as come 2012, the footage shot in 2005 will be of the same quality as the other video they watch."There are, however, questions as to the best system to store the HDV footage on. Both the JVC and Sony models shoot video in standard MPeg2 mode and then save the footage on mini DV (digital video) tapes.Yet in almost every sphere, cassette is being replaced by optical disk and hard disk formats. "We expect tape to be around for a while yet," says Duffy, who sees versatility and price as key factors in its favour.JVC, however, has a different point of view. "We expect to launch a HDV version of our Everio hard disk-based camcorder late next year," says senior product manager, Neil Wilson. "On a model with a 30GB hard disk, users could capture over two hours worth of HDV footage. The hard disk system makes it very simple to edit, too, as well as being easy to transfer it to a PC hard disk."Wilson is also convinced that quality images will win the day. "Once viewers see the difference in quality between HDV footage and standard definition footage, they won't want to go back. It'll be the same as moving from VHS to DVD."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Just when you thought you were getting used to the blogging phenomenon, along comes podcasting - a kind of audio equivalent. A podcast is, essentially, a downloadable radio show, but technology means that you don't need a studio: just a little imagination, a recording device, some software and a website. With podcasting, the one man radio station was born.The format was created less than two years ago as a means of broadcasting audio files to iPod owners. Now there are hundreds of "podcasters" worldwide creating mini radio programmes listened to by hundreds of thousands on their computers, iPods and other MP3 devices.Like radio programmes, podcasts cover myriad areas and styles but, due to copyright issues, most of the music used is by unsigned bands.The beauty of podcasts is that they can be delivered via the automatic news feed system known as Really Simple Syndication (RSS). So if you like a particular podcast you can arrange for it to be automatically downloaded to your computer every time a new broadcast is available.In the UK, there are about 60 podcasters regularly pumping out their "shows". Output varies in length and production quality, with the typical podcast lasting about 30 minutes and put together using cheap equipment. Most are listed on Britcaster.com, a directory for UK podcasting.The daddy is US-born Adam Curry, referred to by some as the "Podfather", due to his early work on podcasting software. His 40-minute Daily Source Code podcast, which he produces from his home in Surrey, has 100,000 regular listeners who are addicted to a diet of chat, clips from recommended podcasts and news and views on podcasting.Podcasting is also a natural home to more esoteric tastes. Simon Toon, a London-based IT manager, runs the Slam Idol podcast, which celebrates the world of performance "slam" poetry. "I take poetry from all over the world and put it into a show," he says. "This is a unique form of communication that would be difficult to deliver any other way. It's about people communicating feelings and views. I present the show but the emphasis is on the contributed work."Podcasts are also venturing into the world of business. Alex Bellinger is the producer of Smallbizpod, a weekly business podcast launched in March: "Everyone is really passionate. There is a real buzz about the fact that there are people listening to your output. You get a lot of feedback and a real sense of community. The great thing is you can find whatever it is that interests you, from factual through to comedy and music."Like radio broadcasters, podcasters are always keen to increase their audience. Most of the marketing is done over the internet in blogs and via other podcasters. The number of UK podcasters is small, but they will have a chance to assess their progress when the first podcasting conference is held in the UK in September.But the future looks far more secure now that Apple has created a podcasting link within its iTunes service, which links to 3,000 podcasts - all vetted by iTunes."I was gobsmacked to see my podcast on iTunes," says Paul Nichols, a lawyer who, under the nom de plume PodcastPaul, produces a weekly 30-minute show consisting of unsigned music and chat. "It has definitely increased my audience and makes it easier for people to subscribe automatically."Broadcasters are also getting into the act. Virgin Radio, which launched the first commercial podcasts in the UK, packages the conversational element of its morning breakfast show into a daily podcast and even sells "podvertising".Despite the problems of copyright, there are sources of music on the net. "We support podcasting," says John Buckman, who runs Magnatune, an online record company that allows its music catalogue to be used freely on podcasts. "We want to encourage podcasters to use our music so we have a special button that allows them to download it free specifically for use on their shows."But he is concerned about the future: "My fear is that podcasters will be seen as broadcasters and will be clamped down on in the same way internet radio was."Adam Curry: Daily Source Codehttp://live.curry.comPaul Nichols: PodcastPaulwww.podcastpaul.comSimon Toon: Slam Idolhttp://slamidol.tripod.comAlex Bellinger: SmallBizPodwww.smallbizpod.co.ukMagnatunewww.magnatune.comUK's first podcasting conventionwww.podcastcon.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The web has been wonderful for reading information but not so good for more complex tasks such as filling in forms or handling email. That's because everything has to be sent from the remote web server: booking holidays, online banking and similar applications often involve filling in the boxes, clicking a button, waiting for a result ... then filling in all the boxes again.But this is starting to change with the arrival of responsive new systems such as Google Maps and Flickr. These are, effectively, applications which run inside your web browser, meaning you don't have to refresh the whole page to get the information you want. They use an approach called Ajaxing, set to become one of the big buzzwords on the web.Adaptive Path, a US-based user experience consultancy, coined the name Ajax (Asynchronous JavaScript And XML) for browser applications based on a combination of languages - HTML, CSS, JavaScript and XML. However, these technologies have been around for many years.In 1998, Microsoft released Internet Explorer 5, which introduced XMLHTTP, a set of tools used to transfer XML data from a web server to a browser, all controlled by JavaScript. The browser document object model arrived around the same time, and was used for Dynamic HTML.One of the first applications to take advantage of a combination of these technologies was Microsoft Outlook Web Access. OWA uses a browser to connect to an Exchange mail server, and delivers a user interface that looks and behaves like the familiar Outlook desktop application even over the web.However, writing code to handle the server connections wasn't easy, and it wasn't supported in every browser. Unsurprisingly, the early attempts at Ajax fell by the wayside... until the arrival of Google's type-ahead Suggest service popularised Ajax's cross-browser features. While the core of any Ajax application may be as small as 12 lines of JavaScript, developers need to add complex business logic to handle asynchronous connections, and it's a lot harder than putting together an HTML form.Toolkits that make building Ajax applications easier are rapidly becoming an important part of any web developer's arsenal. The open source Ruby on Rails includes Ajax as part of a complete web application framework. Ajax toolkits are available for most Lamp (Linux/Apache/MySQL/ PHP) open source web platforms, and the SAjax Simple Ajax Toolkit also supports Microsoft's ASP and Macromedia's ColdFusion.Ajax meets Flash and Java, meanwhile, in the OpenLaszlo user interface toolkit. All the big players are taking an interest in Ajax, and IBM will include its features as thin client components in a future version of its WebSphere Studio.Microsoft, on the other hand, recently announced Atlas, its Ajax framework for .Net developers. This will initially consist of a Client Script Framework, a set of ASP.Net 2.0 server controls, tools for linking Atlas browser applications to web services, and a set of basic services to help control application personalisation.John Montgomery, director of product management for Microsoft's Developer Division, describes Atlas' strengths as "delivering applications with an appropriate user interface, using familiar tools".There's a bigger story behind Atlas than just Ajax, though. It will be an important tool for Longhorn developers, as future versions will also be able to work with Avalon, Microsoft's future XML-based user interface technology. There is also the possibility that Atlas will allow what Montgomery calls "scalable user experiences. This is where the same code provides a user interface that is as rich as possible in the user's browser - whether that's something basic in Lynx, better in Firefox, and best of all in Avalon.Technologies like Ajax make it easier to deliver more intuitive user interfaces. An IBM research project uses it for applications that wait three seconds after a user stops typing and then automatically submit the form to a server. The approach could help deliver more effective call centre applications, allowing staff enough time to input and edit information without having to move off the keyboard to click a mouse.Imagine an Ajax-based insurance quotation application. You can fill in your details and see the resulting quote on the same page. If you need to make changes, you can do it straight away and get the new results back quickly - all without leaving or refreshing the page. Sam Roddick, director in consulting at Deloitte, says Ajax can give companies a competitive advantage over traditional web applications.Corizon is one company that's taking a serious look at Ajax. Its products bring many different functions from many different applications into one web application. One problem Corizon's developers have is managing and displaying responses to many queries on one screen.Ajax's asynchronous nature solves the problem: a single page can link to several different applications, displaying the responses as they are delivered. It's a technique that will help call centre staff answer questions and solve problems more effectively.Google Maps is currently the most well-known Ajax application in operation, and Telcontar's mapping platform lies at its heart. For vice president of marketing, Marc Prioleau, Ajax changes the way people think by changing the user interface. Mapping applications that use Ajax start with the map and help people think spatially. With tools like Google Maps, it is easy to search for restaurants near a hotel and see all the options together, rather than trying to juggle maps, search results and printouts from different sites.Despite the youthful state of development toolkits, Ajax has significant business benefits beyond a more intuitive user experience. The XML data sent between client and server can be made up of snippets of data, rather than a whole page of HTML. This keeps server load to the minimum - and that, in turn, keeps applications responsive. If you have tried to use the web to buy presents on Christmas Eve or flowers just before Mothering Sunday, then you will know the symptoms of an overloaded ecommerce site: pages that load slowly (if at all) and order forms that say the server is busy and delete the contents of your shopping basket.In contrast, an Ajax ecommerce solution would make users feel they are getting a much better online experience, without much additional hardware from the business. A site could put its basic ecommerce Ajax application on a small web server farm, and then direct XML requests to and from its core business systems - leaving the Ajax application to do all the formatting and display.By passing XML messages between your browser and business servers, Ajax can link your web applications into an existing business process. Businesses can use Ajax to build web user interfaces into servers and service-oriented architectures. And IBM has already demonstrated Ajax applications that connect directly to web services.Ajax is set to dramatically change the way we work with web applications. Even without a fancy interface everyone can see the advantages: no more back button and no more "server busy messages".&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
As part of BBC Radio 3's recent homage to Beethoven, the corporation made all the composer's symphonies freely available to downloaders. You could go and stick the stormy German's complete works (as played by the BBC Philharmonic) onto your iPod and it wouldn't cost you a penny.Unsurprisingly, it was phenomenally successful. As theGuardian's reportthis morning pointed out:Final figures from the BBC show that the complete Beethoven symphonies on its website were downloaded 1.4m times, with individual works downloaded between 89,000 and 220,000 times. The works were each available for a week, in two tranches, in June.Apparently, this places Ludwig way ahead of his online rivals. After all, the Live 8 version of Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, one of the most popular downloads ever, has sold a mere 20,000 tracks in a fortnight - something which "contrasts poorly with the admittedly free Beethoven symphonies".But there's the rub: the Beeb's Beethoven cost nothing. Is this really comparing like for like?The short answer is simple: no, it's not.Comparing Beethoven to Bono is off the mark. It's more accurate to say "free stuff more popular than paid-for" - which doesn't sound quite so revelatory. The honest truth is that free music plus a big name equals lots of downloads. End of story.In fact, the real story here is just how popular classical music is: the success of the BBC's project blows apart the idea that there is no interest in digitised versions of classical music. The BBC's Beethoven was so popular because it's a genre that remains relatively uncatered for on the web.The mainstream sales points simply don't carry much of it. Apple's iTunes may be the dominant force in legal downloading, recently passing the milestone ofhalf a billion songs sold, but it's not brilliant for those who aren't into mainstream music.A quick search of the iTunes Music Store shows just 150 results for "Beethoven" - a middling amount for the casual fan, but hardly comparable in scope to the million other tracks iTunes also sells.Another reason for the lack of online support for classical is that many serious fans are vociferous and dedicated hi-fi wonks: they use technology to chase the perfect musical experience, but they don't much care for the degraded file formats like MP3. Downloads just aren't good enough for their cultured ears. I can vouch for that - the Mozart I have on my iPod is clearly not as high quality as over my stereo.Classical's not dead - it's discerning. Fans aren't uncooperative - they're uncared for.The old stereotype that classical music fans have no interest in technology continues to run riot. But if we can't see that the BBC experience blows this nonsense out of the water, then we never will.
Digital camerasSteady starterKonica Minolta has become the latest digital camera manufacturer to offer an entry level digital SLR. The Dynax 5D, due in September, has many of the features of the Dynax7D, but they have been shoehorned into a smaller and lighter frame. The camera takes 6.1 megapixel images, features a 2.5in colour LCD and includes the company's anti-shake technology, to ensure pictures are in focus when the camera is used in macro mode. It also features an extensive range of manual and creative controls, and is compatible with any Dynax system lenses. It costs &pound;600 without the lens.www.konica.co.ukBroadbandUser upgradeBT has announced that it will upgrade all its broadband customers to 2Mbps speeds for &pound;17.99 per month. This has been the entry level for BT Business and BT Yahoo customers since February, but now 95% of all BT Broadband customers should benefit. It's the latest throwing down of the gauntlet in a tit-for-tat war with other internet service providers, but also means BT has accelerated its basic connection speeds by nearly 400% in about six months. "These higher speeds open up a wealth of new possibilities for the use of broadband, such as high quality video over broadband, online gaming and superfast downloads of music tracks and film clips," said Gavin Patterson, BT's group managing director.Mobile phonesPlay onThe latest in Orange's series of SPV Windows Mobile-based smartphones is to launch at the end of the month. The SPV C550, below, combines traditional Windows features (Outlook, Pocket Explorer and compatibility with Word etc) with a 1.3 megapixel camera and Bluetooth. It sports a quartet of dedicated music buttons that enable users to easily play back MP3, WMA and AAC+ audio files. Orange's Music Player application, which gives access to full track AAC+ downloads, is also built in. The phone comes with a 128MB mini SD storage card and is available from free on contract.www.orange.co.ukMalwareWorm in the AppleHow safe is your iTunes? Not as safe as it was, according to Trend Micro, an anti-virus firm, which says it spotted last week a new strain of an internet worm masquerading as the execution file of Apple's popular media player. Taking the name WORM_OPANKI.Y and travelling through AOL Instant messenger, the worm downloads and executes other applications, including malicious adware programs, into affected machines. The worm is activated when users click on an instant message containing the phrase "this picture never gets old", which contains a link to a downloadable file, ITUNES.EXE. The message - nothing to do with Apple Computer - is then sent to all online contacts of the affected user. It is believed to be the first time users of the popular media player and download service have been targeted in this way.Music playersTiny tunesThe world's smallest music player has arrived in the UK. The cube-shaped MobiBlu DAH-1500 is one inch in height and length - about a third of the size of the iPod Shuffle - and weighs 18g. It is available with three storage capacities - 256MB, 512MB and 1GB - and features MP3 and WMA playback. Other facilities include an OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode) display offering track and artist details, as well as time/date and an FM radio. Battery life is about 15 hours, while the casing is made from extruded brushed aluminum, and is available in six colours.www.advancedmp3players.co.ukCreative cutsCreative is to debut its latest alternative to the iPod Shuffle and Sony's NW-E500 series Flash-based music players next week. The Zen Nano Plus, will be available in 10 colours and comes in four storage sizes - 128MB (&pound;49.99), 256MB (&pound;59.99), 512MB (&pound;79.99) and one gigabyte (&pound;99.99). It is compatible with MP3, WMA and WAV files and can record tracks directly from a CD via its line input. Users can also drag and drop music files on to the device. Other features include a blue LED screen, an integrated FM radio and voice recording facilities. Battery life is about 18 hours.www.creative.com&#183;Contributions from Ashley Norris, Sean Dodson and Mike Anderieszá If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Mobile phone gaming is growing, but it has been hampered by the sheer number of handsets and rising cost of making games. And, according to new research, those problems could prevent mobile gaming reaching revenues of about &euro;1.4bn (&pound;1bn) by 2010 - unless operators and content providers learn to work together.One of the key areas highlighted by the report, from Jupiter Research, is the public's distaste for paying for games. Although mobile players are numerous and cover several age groups, fewer than 5% of all mobile users are willing to pay to download mobile phone games.These more dedicated mobile gamers are also firmly rooted in the 15 to 19-year-old male category. The truth is that although mobiles have become an everyday part of our lives - and, to a certain extent, so have the basic pre-installed games that come with them - there is still a lack of awareness regarding finding and downloading new games."How do we capitalise on a market that exists and plays a lot but doesn't know how to download?" ponders David Gosen, chief operating officer of the mobile games firm I-Play. "Clearly there's a need for all parties to be responsible for boosting awareness. We all have a vested interest in making it as easy as possible, because it is ease that will drive the desire to download."For I-Play, a large part of this means adapting franchises that have proven as successful as downloadable mini PC games. A prime example is the recent Jewel Quest, which racked up 3m downloads in the three months it was available on iwin.com. "By taking familiar franchises and making them easy and accessible to download, we can help drive overall penetration," explains Gosen.The report also cites Nokia's decision to roll out a new generation of smart phones next year, which will have the gaming abilities enjoyed by the N-Gage but across a number of handsets, as a "wise move". Not only will this aid the spiralling cost of mobile games development (partly due to the variety of handsets), but it will also bring sophisticated gaming experiences to audiences who don't fancy the chunky N-Gage .There is a marked desire among mobile manufacturers to increase the range of titles, as mobile gaming moves into what Nokia is describing as "the next generation of mobile gaming". Partly this is being fuelled by the big players: THQ and Ubisoft are running successful mobile divisions; Electronic Arts has stated its desire to bring 15 to 20 of its titles to mobiles; and even legendary Doom developer John Carmack is dabbling in mobile games development.More importantly, the future of mobile games development is about creating new experiences. Infospace intends to give players new reasons to play when it brings its successful For Prizes games to Europe. These allow players to compete in tournaments for games such as Tetris and Solitaire, with a chance to win daily prizes.And while the N-Gage looks as though it will have to share the gaming glory - if it is not phased out altogether - Nokia is still striving to place itself at the head of creating innovative mobile gaming. Last year's Pocket Kingdom (also known as "Pocket Crack") proved that multiplayer online games could be successful on a mobile format, while the recent rave reviews of Glimmerati - an racing game meets Sex and the City blend - has shown that mobile developers shouldn't shy away from creating original properties."The mobile gaming barriers are being broken down," claims Gerald Wiener, Nokia's general manager for games. "We need to make top-quality gaming available to everybody, we need to push the 'always on' connection to the next level and create a world where everyone plays."á If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
People have been writing obituaries for IBM's OS/2 almost since it appeared in 1987, and it has been on death row since 1994. Now IBM has finally announced the funeral arrangements.The news follows a settlement whereby Microsoft has agreed to pay IBM $775m in cash to settle claims that resulted from the US government's anti-trust case.Whether Microsoft's anti-competitive practices made any real difference to OS/2 is another matter, because IBM did enough damage on its own. As Jason Perlow, former Team OS/2 member, told eWeek: "Never again will we see such a bizarre and intense dichotomy of grassroots support by a product's fans, and absolute blundering and self-sabotage in terms of marketing, and lack of support by a product's owners."OS/2 went wrong from the beginning. It should not have been written (Unix already existed), it was written in the wrong way for the wrong processor (Intel's 16-bit 80286 instead of the 386), and although developed with Microsoft, it was part of an IBM plan that turned out to be a disaster.IBM was desperate to take back control of the personal computer market, which was being swamped by companies producing clones of the IBM PC. IBM decided to change the rules, by changing the hardware and software interfaces to ones it could control. In April 1987, it therefore replaced the PC with its new PS/2 (Personal System/2) design running OS/2 (Operating System/2), though one didn't necessarily need the other.The master plan was to make the PS/2 running OS/2 Extended Edition a fundamental part of IBM's new System Application Architecture. SAA tied together all of IBM's incompatible ranges of proprietary mainframes and minicomputers (except the ones running Unix, which were shunted off into a small, parallel universe). Since IBM had a monopoly of corporate data processing, it reckoned big companies would buy into SAA, and sheer market power would crush the rest. But SAA flopped.What actually happened was that rival PC manufacturers formed a Gang of Nine to carry on the old IBM PC-compatible market, with Microsoft and Intel gradually taking over from IBM as PC standards setters. They were so successful that even IBM's own PC division switched sides.OS/2 was finally doomed after IBM hired an outsider, Lou Gerstner, as chief executive officer in 1993. He was shocked to find himself in the middle of a "religious war" with high-level IBM executives "almost obsessed" with taking control back from Microsoft."What my colleagues seemed unwilling or unable to accept was that the war was already over and was a resounding defeat," he wrote. "The last gasp was a product called OS/2 Warp in 1994, but in my mind ... all that remained was to figure out how to withdraw."IBM is still doing that, though no doubt the OS/2 diehards will keep arguing for another decade or two.Today, most people use what could have been OS/2 version 3, which Microsoft quickly rejigged to support Windows applications. It's now called Windows XP.á If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukLinksA Short History of OS/2http://www.millennium-technology.com/HistoryOfOS2.htmlIBM's OS/2 Reaches the End of the Roadhttp://www.eweek.com/article2/0,1895,1837768,00.aspWho Says Elephants Can't Dance?: How I Turned Around IBMby Louis V Gerstner Jrhttp://www.amazon.co.uk
Email authentication standards aimed at reducing email spam have been dogged by rivalry between vendors. But fresh hope surrounds an encryption technique that is an open technology and has considerable support.Yahoo and Cisco Systems are the lead vendors behind a new email authentication specification that will be considered as a possible industry standard by the Internet Engineering Task Force at the end of the month.Called Domain Keys Identified Email (DKIM), it represents a blending of earlier attempts by both companies to tackle spam and its most virulent form, phishing, which commonly uses spam messages to redirect online banking users to fake sites.DKIM effectively merges Yahoo's DomainKeys system - submitted to the taskforce in March last year - and Cisco's Identified Mail system. DomainKeys had made the most headway with widespread testing and adoption. Yahoo says it receives 350m emails signed with it every day.DKIM essentially puts electronic signatures on outgoing email. It uses cryptographic keys to give each email a unique signature that enables its source to be identified. Each email domain owner holds a public and a private encryption key. The public key is held on record and the private key is stored on any DKIM-enabled mail server.When an email is sent the signature is added to the email header. On arrival at its destination another DKIM-enabled server reads the signature and verifies the source from the domain system.The end result could be that only those emails with a verified source appear in your inbox. The rest would be held in quarantine.Yahoo and Cisco believe DKIM could cut out spoofing, whereby spammers use the header information to make it look like the email has come from your bank or other confidential source. The list of supporting firms includes Sendmail, SPG, Alt-N Technologies, AOL, Earthlink, IBM, Microsoft, and Verisign.Eric Allman, chief technology officer and co-founder of Sendmail, said: "It's not an exaggeration to claim that the email industry would eventually collapse without an initiative like DKIM. The aim is that DKIM can become a public standard that is open and has the support of key players. The key is breaking down the barriers."Most industry watchers believe the specification has momentum so long as it remains open. In a recent security update, Graham Titterton, an Ovum analyst, said: "Cisco and Yahoo have prepared the ground well and obtained the backing of several major players in the industry, so their chances are good. But they must ensure they make the standard "open" and do not succumb to the temptation to make cash out of the desperation of email users."And if DKIM gathers momentum, the emphasis may shift from earlier approaches, most notably Microsoft's Sender ID, which is making its way through the standards process. This system uses what is known as Sender Policy Framework (SPF) record from each server - in essence a list that matches mail servers with a unique IP address. Instead of using signatures it examines the domain from which the message originated and checks if it has come from an authorised server.Sender ID was knocked back at the end of last year after Microsoft refused to allow it to be used in open source applications. The company has also angered some in the industry when it was reported that in November its Hotmail service would delete messages without a valid SenderID record. It retaliated by saying that SenderID records will weigh more heavily as a means of filtering, but a mix of filters would still be used.Supporting vendors say the two can work side by side. The first commercial product to use DKIM is Alt-N Technologies email server software MDaemon 8.10, due for release on Tuesday. Arvel Hathcock, founder and chief executive of Alt-N Technologies, said: "MDaemon already includes full support for SPF and DomainKeys. DKIM adds the latest in cryptographic authentication."Others are waiting to see how things develop. David Vella, product manager of anti-spam specialists GFI Software, said: "Using DKIM requires upgrading your mail software on incoming and outgoing mail servers, and may require purchasing a new server."We don't have plans to support DKIM because drafts have yet to be released. So we will wait to decide if our anti-spam product, MailEssentials, will support it."He remains sanguine about the biggest challenge to beating spam: "Good technical guidelines do not mean the problem will be solved since the weakest link is always the individual running the system."á If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
