It was supposed to be one of those safe, unglamorous ways of making money out of the technology boom, but over-capacity in the "internet hotel" sector is now likely to lead to a wave of collapses and mergers.That was the warning delivered by business continuity specialist Guardian iT yesterday as it became the latest group to pull out of hosting web services for big technology firms after admitting that supply is outstripping demand by three to one.Chief executive Peter MacLean said the retreat would force his company to write off &#163;12m little more than a year after he thought it would generate millions in profits."For a number of the players left in this sector the future looks particularly bleak. There's massive over-capacity and very soon that is likely to lead to massive downward pricing on services."Expectations about this sector were set an incredibly high level and actual demand is only about one-third of the available capacity. Consolidation and rationalisation has to happen."His comments come less  than a week after the collapse of privately owned internet hotel chain CityReach and a warning from market-listed TeleCity that conditions in the sector were "extremely difficult".Internet hotels are the warehouse-like buildings where firms rent customised space for their servers and telecoms equipment.A year ago independent analysts were predicting great things for the sector as firms demanded faster, more powerful and more reliable internet access. Commercial estate agency DTZ forecast that 3.5m sq ft would be needed in London alone by 2003 but uptake is well below 1m sq ft.Mr MacLean said that Guardian iT had secured 30 customers since it opened its internet hotel facility at Heathrow in January and was generating revenues of around &#163;1m a year from it. "We needed about twice as many to make the venture viable." Shares in Guardian iT rose 7.5p to 275p.Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items rose to &#163;5.2m for the six months ended June, up from &#163;4.2m a year ago. Turnover climbed 75% to &#163;58.3m.
When Steve Case, the head of America Online, announced his company's takeover of Time Warner in 2000, his speech was pure, flag-waving victory. "This merger will launch the next internet revolution," he said.On August 21 this year, when AOL Time Warner announced 1,700 job cuts, the world's largest internet and media company said the restructuring would help it exploit the web's "next chapter".In 19 months, exactly the age of this column, the revolution has become a book and the world has completely changed. Or rather, reverted to something like its old self.The company conceived in the first few days of the new millennium is still our best and biggest example of the enormous changes wrought on the media industry by the internet. Yet AOL Time Warner's travails over little more than a year and a half show how fleeting the flag-waving was. The company is now being forced to prove itself as a good ol' cost-cutting conglomerate. Its short history provides yet more evidence that new technology, no matter how powerful, cannot overturn normal business and economic cycles.The stock market provides as good a tool as any to chart how much things have changed. When the merger was announced, shareholders were paying $76 for every AOL share and $90 for those in Time Warner. Their combined market value was something in the region of $353bn. Anyone can now buy a stake in the combined AOL Time Warner for about $40, or roughly half what the internet service provider alone was thought to be worth when it launched its audacious takeover.What gleeful rivals and unhappy shareholders now wonder is how Time Warner could have let itself be bought at the height of the internet boom by an upstart. Shareholders would have made more money if they had been given a dollar every time someone said that Gerry Levin could have bought AOL if he'd just waited six months longer.AOL Time Warner's shares have been crushed by both last year's collapse in the dot.com market and the US economic slowdown. Company executives have exacerbated   the problem by sticking with aggressive targets for both revenues and earnings. Nineteen months ago, the company predicted that it would increase earnings by 30% to $11bn on sales of $40bn this year because of the power of its combination. Since then, the advertising market has collapsed, fuelled by a shrinking economy and the fact that there are no pet dot.com companies left to spend a fortune advertising on primetime.Universal McCann, the advertising company, predicts that ad sales will increase just 2.5% this year, compared with an increase of almost 10% in 2000. Ad sales contribute about one quarter of AOL Time Warner's revenues. There are now fewer analysts who believe that AOL Time Warner will meet its ambitious financial targets than there are profitable dot.coms.Which takes us back to the bloodletting. In order to prove that it is serious about both the numbers and its ability to manage a downturn, AOL has cut 10% of the staff at its core internet division since the beginning of this year. The latest round of cuts comes after the company has sacked thousands of former Time Warner staff. The axing of cubicle workers in Virginia, however, acts as a warning to other employees.Gordon Hodge, an analyst with Thomas Weisel partners in San Francisco, says, "My guess is that AOL felt it had to lead by example. There was certainly less fat in the old AOL than at Time Warner. If I worked for the latter, I'd be worried right now."But while things look grim for some of the 90,000 people still employed by the company, AOL Time Warner has become the company to fear in the media industry.A former executive of a struggling financial news site says, "Their merger set a new benchmark. After that, it was obvious that you either had to be very, very big, or very, very small and focused. It was no longer such a big deal to be nimble and new."In the months following the merger, news websites started to follow each other off the cliff, either into the arms of bigger companies or straight to their death. Large media groups, meanwhile, rethought their strategies.Many are still rethinking and all have retrenched. Only technology companies such as Microsoft and Yahoo!, it seems, are still willing to experiment with new media services. Witness Yahoo's efforts to act as the online marketer of choice for Hollywood and Microsoft's desire to buy a satellite business with Rupert Murdoch.The next chapter of new media history is unlikely to seem as revolutionary as the events of 2000. But a variation of an old theme is still worth reading.
The United States has opened a new front in its information war with the Chinese authorities by financing the development of a computer system designed to thwart Beijing's attempts to censor the internet.The CIA, through its Washington technology company In-Q-Tel, is investing in SafeWeb, a computer company which specialises in technology to help internet users cover up their tracks.SafeWeb says its mission is to "develop solutions that protect the flow of digital information on the internet" - in other words, to enable people to use the web without leaving traces of which sites they have visited.SafeWeb, based in northern California, has acquired many customers in China who do not want the government to know what they are accessing. Its service lets them turn their PCs into gateways into the SafeWeb network, thus foiling attempts of the Chinese and many other governments to censor the internet.The scheme is likely to be seen as provocative in Beijing at a time when several prolonged spy rows with Washington have stretched the tolerance of both sides.The CIA will fund the project from its $5m allowance from Congress for "internet and multimedia enhancement". The CIA and In-Q-Tel confirmed yesterday that they had a contract with SafeWeb and were discussing further projects.There are 30m internet users in China, three times as many as two years ago.This attempt to give them access to banned sites, mainly those providing news or human rights information, or concerning the Falun Gong movement, is given an extra dimension by the fact the SaveWeb's chief executive, Stephen Hsu, is a Chinese American.Dr Hsu, currently on leave from his position as professor of theoretical physics at the University of Oregon, said it became clear that the Chinese government was acting energetically to restrict the internet access of its citizens.Some western sites, he said, were already practising self-censorship by not putting articles that might offend Beijing on their sites.Sandra Song, communications director of SafeWeb, said other governments tried to prevent their citizens accessing the internet. One of the worst was Saudi Arabia. Others were Singapore, Vietnam, Iran, Algeria, Yemen, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates."China is not the only offender, but it is the largest," she said."Not only are they the biggest challenge, they are quite active. They have been shutting down internet cafes. It wouldn't be safe for us to set foot in China. It definitely is a battle."SafeWeb, which was set up in February last year and employs only 20 people, believes it has a big part to play in the debate on internet access.In evidence to the House of Representatives' sub-committee on commerce, trade and consumer protection in June, Dr Hsu said: "Approximately 327m people worldwide use the internet today, and an estimated 502m will be online by 2003."We can expect privacy concerns to escalate and grow increasingly volatile. The public has only just begun to realise the extent of the problem, and has only just begun to explore the possible privacy solutions."
The first simple "his and hers" DIY fertility tests are being sold over the internet for &#163;31.99.Scottish company Med- Direct is also offering a men-only package at &#163;19.99, claiming that a new era is on its way with men taking far more responsibility for their part in procreation.And very soon other researchers hope to offer men another self-testing kit, for chlamydia, a disease that causes few problems for men but can lead to infertility, ectopic pregnancy and even death for women.The women's part of the fertility kits is based on a long- established technique, using test sticks to detect the surge in urine of the hormone responsible for ovulation, an indication that ovulation will occur within the next 24 to 36 hours.But the test for men is new, involving them testing their sperm with reagents twice within a week to assess their sperm count.Med-Direct concedes it cannot differentiate between dead and motile sperm.However, a competitor, to be sold next year by a London firm Genosis, will be able to do so. Its women's kit will also be more advanced, testing for the follicle stimulating hormone, which will be an indicator of the store of a woman's eggs in their ovaries.Robert Barlow, managing director of Med-Direct, accepted his product could lead to "a tiny proportion of men having a positive result but with predominantly dead sperm". But for the majority "it will be an entirely valid first-line screening".He added: "People want to take more control of their lives. They are more informed and educated but we have always left men out of the loop in the fertility game."The his and her kits, known as BabyStart, were aimed at couples, while the men-only product could help individuals monitor their condition. Sperm counts worldwide are falling and bodybuilders and those who worked in some industrial processes might be at greater risk of fertility problems.Dr Barlow said: "People buying from us fall into all sorts of categories. Many couples wish to conceive quickly and confidently to fit in with their career aspirations, but many are in their late-20s or mid- to late-30s and have put off having a family because of career pressures."About 600 British men have already tried the fertility kit but it has not been widely advertised. Although the company would consider over-the-counter sales , the internet is thought more discreet.Dr Barlow said he could not envisage British men going into a chemist's shop and asking for a testing kit, especially from young women.Ian Banks, president of the Men's Health Forum, welcomed the move towards self-testing for men.
Officials in the US say they have traced the Code Red computer worm, which threatened to slow down worldwide internet performance and triggered an FBI warning last month, to a university in China.The US has been investigating the worm since it launched itself on computer users in July, infecting up to 300,000 machines before bombarding the White House web site on July 19 with requests that threatened to overload the site's server.Keith Rhodes, chief technologist at the general accounting office (GAO), told the bipartisan House committee on government reform that he believes the worm originated at a university in Guangdong, China.But the GAO did not add any detail to that claim, and the defence department made it clear that no one country or person was being treated as the prime suspect at the moment.The Indian press said the web address associated with the outbreak of Code Red was from China's University of Foshan. Papers there have speculated from the beginning that China was the source of the outbreak, arguing that the name 'Code Red' referred to China.US reports said the name was taken from an American soft drink called Code Red that is popular among computer programmers.China was a natural line of inquiry for US investigators, as some of the computers attacked by Code Red displayed the words "Hacked by Chinese".Experts say that could simply be a red herring intended to lead investigators away from the worm's true origin. A Chinese government spokesman said the country had no information about the worm.The Code Red worm spread by infecting computers that run Microsoft IIS, a corporate internet software programme that contained a security hole.The company released a patch to fix the flaw and joined the FBI last month in warning users to secure their systems against Code Red.Related articles17.08.2001: Web prepared for Code Red return01.08.2001: Code Red fails to cause internet meltdown31.07.2001: Businesses warned against Code Red wormExplainedThe Code Red wormUseful linksCommittee on Government ReformUS national infrastructure protection centreMicrosoft patch for IIS flaw
A key pledge of the Labour-Liberal Democrat coalition in Wales - to give all Welsh schoolchildren their own email addresses - has been shelved by ministers because of safety fears, it emerged today.The Welsh assembly cabinet has put the plan on hold because  of fears the addresses could get into the hands of paedophiles on the  internet.There was particular concern over the possibility of identifying  children by name or in pictures on school websites.The pledge was a key policy in the programme drawn up by  Labour and the Libl Dems when they formed their  coalition at the assembly.It was due to be implemented by last month. But the Welsh  education minister, Jane Davidson, called on cabinet colleagues  to review the pledge.The decision only came to light with the recent publication of  cabinet meeting minutes on the assembly's website.An assembly spokesman said: "There was concern about  security and safety for pupils. We were concerned that if  children went into internet chatrooms their email addresses  would be available."It was discussed at cabinet and the minister said rather than  recommending delaying the implementation she wanted to  recommend the implementation should be reconsidered. The  cabinet agreed."They thought internet access for pupils rather than individual  email addresses was the priority."The department for education at Westminster issued new  guidelines to schools earlier this year on the safe use of  emails.Assembly officials will now include questions on email  security in an audit of information technology in schools.Minutes of the cabinet meeting state: "The overriding need for pupil safety and security meant that the commitment needed to be amended. Cabinet agreed that the implementation of the commitments should be reconsidered."The discussion took place just days before the policy was due  to be introduced. Officials insisted it was a genuine fear and  was not being used to give them more time to meet the  promise.There is growing concern about children's access to the  internet. Fears have been raised about the risk of misusing  chatrooms, an issue raised in a recent storyline on the ITV soap Coronation Street.Special reportThe Welsh assemblyUseful linkThe Welsh assembly
The European Union today accused Microsoft of tying its Media Player product to its Windows operating system.Microsoft's Media Player is software that allows PC users to use of audio and video files without lengthy download times. The latest move from the European commission, the EU's executive arm, follows an investigation into Microsoft's Windows 2000 operating system launched early last year."This statement of objections supplements one sent to the company a year ago and adds a new dimension to the commission's concerns that Microsoft's actions may harm innovation and restrict choice for consumers," the EU's competition watchdog said in a statement. The EC said Microsoft has two months to respond.Microsoft denied any wrongdoing and said it was committed to working with the commission to "resolve the issues; expeditiously. "We believe our business practices are fair and legal," said John Frank, Microsoft's head of legal and corporate affairs in Europe. He also welcomed the EU's decision not to block the launch of Microsoft's newest operating system, Windows XP, set to arrive in the shops in October.The commission said Microsoft may have also violated European antitrust laws by using illegal practices to extend its dominant position in the market for PC operating systems into the market for low-end server operating systems. Those cheaper servers are usually used by companies to network personal computers, as well as web servers.The commission said Microsoft may have "withheld from vendors of alternative server software key inter-operability information that they need to enable their product to talk with Microsoft's dominant PC and server software products".Related articles25.08.2001: Crimebuster will sit in judgment of Microsoft03.08.2001: appeals court blow to Microsoft20.07.2001: Microsoft in new court appealUseful linksEuropean commissionMicrosoft
Remember the glory days of Napster? The file-sharing service was trumpeted as online democracy at its best, with 55m people using it to swap music from bands as diverse as Steps and Sepultura. Then the nasty Recording Industry Association of America stepped in and brought Napster to court for copyright infringement. It won its case, and the music wasn't free any more.Well, Napster is back on track, according to its new chief executive, Konrad Hilbers. Before you rush off to download the latest track from Kylie or Kraftwerk, take note of Hilbers' words to tech leaders last week.  He said he firmly believes in what Napster stands for, which he defined as "making available things like my   children's Christmas carol singing".The Hilbers children must be some sort of Ëber von Trapps if Konrad believes their warbling can entice millions of former Napster users back to the file-sharing service.  The Napster we knew and loved is now much reduced, soon to become a subscription-based service lacking any great volume of music for sharing, as its former users have migrated to other free file-sharing applications such as Gnutella, Audiogalaxy, BearShare, and LimeWire.The legacy of Napster, however, may well feature more highly in tech history books than the service itself. Napster is a peer-to-peer (P2P) application, meaning that the music files its users swap are not stored on a central server, but on the users' individual computers. Any user can download any music file from any other user's computer, provided   the other user is logged in to Napster at the time.Napster was not the first P2P application, by any means. The internet itself was originally a P2P application. Before the introduction of browsers and central web servers, internet users exchanged files directly.But Napster was the P2P poster child, bursting on to the scene just as the internet population reached the critical mass necessary to make it a success. Shawn Fanning's brainchild brought P2P to the fore and countless start-ups hopped on the bandwagon. Last year alone, venture capitalists invested over $500m in new P2P companies.One of the main business applications of P2P is decentralised collaboration, which allows people in different locations to work together on projects. Others include distributed search and information sharing, and distributed processing, which harnesses the computing power of thousands of individual PCs so they work as one supercomputer.New P2P firms tend to be fancifully named. Many could be characters from the next Harry Potter book: Yenta, Oculus, Rapigator, Ogg Vorbis, Pandango and Jabberzilla. Many will also have gone out of business by the time the next Harry Potter book is published.The current downturn means that fallout is as inevitable in P2P as in any other technology sector, and even more likely with the recent arrival of Intel, Sun and Microsoft onto the scene.Although the behemoths may swallow up the baby firms, or force them out of business, they also lend a credibility to P2P that it previously lacked.  Medium-sized firms are starting to see P2P as a legitimate business application, rather than something used by slackers and students to share songs.  The research firm Frost &amp; Sullivan recently reported that more than 60,000 business users now use P2P   networks, and predicted that number would rise to 6.2bn by 2007. It also says revenues from the enterprise P2P market will reach $42.8m this year, and $4.53bn by 2007.For this forecast to bear out, however, P2P developers need to overcome a number of hurdles, security issues being the major obstacle. Current P2P applications do not guard adequately against viruses or the theft of digital assets.  P2P developers must also tackle the lack of common standards, the need to protect copyright, and the possible inability of individual PCs and networks to withstand a huge volume of file exchange traffic.Assuming these problems can be overcome, P2P looks set to change the face of computing, and not just for businesses. Individuals will be able to use P2P applications for things as diverse as online learning and multi-player gaming. But thus far it has been non-profit organisations that have made the most of P2P. The best known is SETI, or the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence. Participants in the SETI@home project are asked to download free software which allows SETI to make use of spare processing power on their home PCs.To date, 3.2m internet users have donated 700,000 years' worth of processing power to help in the quest for aliens. If there are aliens out there, they had better get packing to a galaxy far, far away, or they will be tracked down any day now.Other non-profit projects are using P2P to find a cure for cancer, to analyse the human genome, or to solve complex mathematical problems. And these non-profit projects are the greatest proof that P2P is really a technology for our time. In society and in politics, decentralisation and international collaboration between like-minded individuals are overarching themes, most evident in the anti-capitalist and environmentalist movements.P2P is the technological sibling of these movements. At best, it could revolutionise business processes and help scientists find a cure for cancer. At worst, we will be swapping audio files of the Hilbers' children's greatest hits with our new-found friends on Mars.&#149;  Kathy Foley is the editor of Nua.com, which reports on internet trends and statistics.&#149; Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukUseful linksNapsterNua.comRecording Industry Association of AmericaSeti@home
Bloody Roar 3PlayStation 2	 £34.99
Hudson/Virgin	***It's beat 'em up time again with yet another fighting release for the PlayStation 2. But while the core elements are included - special moves, cliched characters, grating rawk music, risible attempts at plot - Bloody Roar 3 at least offers a small slice of originality.Rather than pummelling your opponents with weapons, BR3 lets you transform yourself into a wild beast, allowing for enjoyably visceral combat. The list ranges from armoured moles and rabbits to oversized 
lions and leopards, with each creature having its own unique style.This innovation aside, 
BR3 is decidedly average. Despite some effective animation, the graphics are 
disappointing and struggle to reach the heights set by the two-year-old Dreamcast 
classic, Soul Calibur. Also the one-player action soon becomes tedious, with only the multiplayer mode lasting the distance. 
Even the initially impressive transformations lose their appeal; the difference between human and 
animal alter ego having 
more to do with aesthetics than action. Yes, the beasts cause more damage to your opponent but, while the moves look different on screen, the pad controls are the same.Of course, unless you are a veteran of fighting games, it's likely that Bloody Roar 3 will be played when bloody drunk, with players manically bashing the buttons. While there is something to be said for this, it doesn't bode well for longer-term play. After all, why bother learning special moves when your opponent can have as much success hitting the pad randomly?
Thankfully, while 
there is little innovation here, there are some defensive moves and counter-parries included to satisfy more 
tactical combatants. Just don't expect to be loading 
this up a month after you buy it, as this Roar rapidly reduces to a purr. (GH)Ski-doo X-Team RacingPC	 &#163;19.99 Mindscape/Daydream Software	***Probably the first ever snowmobile racing game, following trend-hoppingly closely in the slipstream of the various snowboarding/skateboarding/go-karting/milkfloating titles that have trundled out these past few years.The standard controls (accelerate, brake, left, right) will get you through a basic race, but you can also lean back or forward in the seat and pull off a few stunts.One of the drawbacks of racing on the white stuff, of   course, is that all the tracks look pretty much the same. But on the plus side, the homogeneity of the backgrounds has freed the designers to pay more attention to more important matters: the trees, billboards and the snowmobiles themselves are all rendered in loving detail.This is just as well, since you will be seeing a fair bit of those trees. The blasted arboreal obstacles are ubiquitous, and with the ill-defined track and blind hills, winning early races is like banging your head against a wooden wall. To make matters worse, whenever you crash into a tree (or other object), the game restarts   you_ right in front of the tree. So half the time you crash into it again.As if that weren't enough, every tree-precipitated fall is accompanied by some wise-guy commentator bleating, "Ow!" or "Now you'll never have kids."The solution, of course, is to avoid the trees in the first place, a skill that comes after slightly too much practice. At this point the racing actually becomes enjoyable. Not quite enjoyable enough, however, to quash my new-found ambition to become a lumberjack.  (AB)
What exactly are comics? The answer is not always clear, even to the artists who make them. In his comic book about the form, Understanding Comics, Scott McCloud goes through six pages of elaborate discussion before dryly defining comics as "juxtaposed pictorial and other images in deliberate sequence". Which is about as far from Kapow! as you can get.One thing is clear, though: while mainstream culture is just catching up with comics - sugaring the pill by calling them "graphic novels" - comics have already moved on, by moving online. Free publishing space, interactivity and the possibility of animation are giving an old medium a new life.If comics to you are all superpowers and utility belts,David Gaddis's Piercing, with explicit Van Gogh references and more than a nod to Lucian Freud and Marvel Comics' Jack Kirby, should convince you that the form goes beyond caped crusaders.Gaddis, who also works in print, says he is excited about the formal possibilities for online comics. He also admits the cost of printing Piercing in full colour would have been prohibitively expensive.The Japanese influence on the new wave is clear: at Patrick Farley'se-sheep.comyou can see a range of stylistic techniques, including a Manga version of the New Testament, with a Pokemon theme: the Apocamon ("Yeah Verily, thou shalt require the Flash 5 plug-in"). There is even an Apocadex to help you tell your False Prophets from your Fallen Angels ("Gotta Fear 'em All!").The expressive freedom in these online works has a downside: none of the artists are paid for what they do on the web. McCloud, the man Doonesbury's Garry Trudeau called a "Baedeker of the Toon", maintains a regular graphic novel column, I Can't Stop Thinking, in which he explores the comic form and some of the consequences of the web, including a recent controversial piece on payment for online art. If you love a good scrap, read itherethen read the parody atwww.penny-arcade.com/view.php3?date=2001-06-22.Despite the tiff, McCloud's work has been enormously influential in the online comic world. You can read about the sequel to Understanding Comics -Reinventing Comics, a comic examining the future of comics - at his website,www.scottmccloud.com. McCloud proposes a range of approaches for comics on the web; what he calls "durable mutation" within an "expanded canvas".He puts his money where his mouth is, with an online mini-series atwww.comicbook resources.com/columns/zot. You can try some of his wackier narrative experiments atwww.scottmccloud.com/comics/carl, or read an autobiographical strip with real literary weight, a kind of "graphic memoir", atwww.scottmccloud.com/comics/chess/chess.html.Serious comics have been around offline for a while. Back in 1986, Alan Moore's Watchmen drew admiration from mainstream critics. A film version of Moore's recent From Hell, an occult take on Jack the Ripper starring Johnny Depp, is out in Novemberwww.eddiecampbellcomics.com/fromhell/movie. But it isn't the first time Moore, an elder statesman of serious comics, has been sniffed out by Hollywood.If you are a fan (seewww.alanmoorefansite.com) you may know Watchmen nearly made it via Terry Gilliam to the big screen: you might not know that the script by Ben Hamm (Batman, the new Planet of the Apes), now unlikely ever to be made, can be read athttp://fearfulsymmetry.batcave.netwith a new ending admired by Moore. Alan Moore represents the old guard of comics: successful in print, and under-represented online.Some comics publishers offer free stories on the web:Fantagraphics, the publisher of the meticulously poignant Little Jimmy Corrigan by Chris Ware also publishes short works by new artists free atwww.fantagraphics.com/comics/comics.html.But in general, the old guard have no time for working on the cheap. If you want more than a fan-site you have to turn back to the young brushes, pushing the boundaries of the form online. Mark Martin has an online portfolio atwww.markmartin.net. And atwww.demian5.comyou can see the intriguing (if a little bizarre) When I Am King, a right-scrolling Egyptian tableau in a modern style.David Gaddis feels comics and animation are distinct forms. "Comics are still images you move through actively, whereas animations are images you sit back and experience passively," but even he admits web artists such as Demian 5 are blurring the line. If you feel like stepping over the line while it still exists, watchThe Dough, the animated story of one Canadian man's struggle to cash a cheque. It is great fun.  Many of these works seem concerned with the age-old struggle between commerce and art: for now at least, the web offers art a head start.
Some are calling them the sofa surfers: mass-market consumers who want net access but do not want to buy a PC. They are the target of digital television operators who want to sell interactive services - shopping, banking, above all gambling - via the set top boxes that sit on top of their televisions.But the trouble to date is that the boxes have not always met expectations. BSkyB's set top box (STB) has come with a sluggish 28k modem. Its internet access is limited to sites - vetted by Sky - written in WML, the language usually reserved for Wap phones. The cable operators offer fuller net access, but you can't send attachments, access newsgroups or download MP3 music files. For those used to surfing the web on a PC, sofa surfing has been an altogether more passive ride.But the next generation of STBs (Sky's is due out in September and Nokia's next year) promises to change all that. Not only will they offer digital television and the internet, they will also come with powerful hard disks capable of recording hours of television or storing computer games. And what's more, the sofa surfers will be willing to cough up hundreds of pounds for them. Or so claim the manufacturers.A recent report placed STBs in a quarter of UK homes at 5.3m, an increase of 1.7m this year. But take-up of the interactive services that run on the boxes has been slow. A further report by media consultancy Continental Research claimed that only one person in 10 has used an interactive TV service in the UK and only one third knew they could send emails via their STB.But there has been good news too. The BBC reported 4.5m unique viewers (a third of all sofa surfers) tuned in to the BBC's two summer interactive sporting events - Wimbledon and The Open golf championship. Meanwhile, over at music channel MTV, a new series called Video Clash uses SMS messaging to allow viewers to vote for their favourite tracks. It has become its most popular show - and earns a pile of cash for the channel to boot.To date, STBs have been basic machines with little or no memory. They have usually been given away free as part of a subscription deal. Companies such as Philips and Scientific Atlanta also manufacture STBs, but two models threaten to dominate the market for the next generation of boxes: Sky+ built by Pace Technologies of West Yorkshire and the Nokia Media Terminal. Both boxes will come with significantly more memory and consumers are expected to buy the box from high street retailers, rather than be given the devices by their television provider.Pace Technologies operates out of Saltaire Mill near Shipley, West Yorkshire - an area that once powered Britain's industrial revolution. In the past decade, Pace has grown from a tiny company selling external modems for PCs to an international firm employing more than 1,300 people. The company has made fortunes for its two founders, local boys David Hood and Barry Rubery. Hood is reportedly the highest earner in the north of England, while Rubery has spent a large slice of his fortune as chairman of Huddersfield Town.In May, Pace Micro Technology announced it was cutting 470 jobs at Shipley when it shifted production of STBs overseas. In June it announced profits before tax up 61% to £44.3m.The Sky+ is the first of Pace's next generation boxes. It is also its first box to feature a TiVo-style hard disk recorder, or personal video recorder (PVR) to allow users to record up to 20 hours of television, pause live TV and "time shift" programmes - effectively create their own schedules. Sky+ will retail at £300."The key thing is that you have to roll out the services gradually," says Kuldip Johal of Pace. "Consumers can feel overwhelmed by technology. Sky has timed their PVR to come out after people have got used to digital TV and some basic interactive services."But it is not just the internet and TV that Pace wants to offer through Sky+. Pace has also moved into the games market. Earlier this year it signed a deal with Sega that will allow sofa surfers to download Dreamcast games on to the Sky+ hard disk."With Sega announcing that it was not going to make hardware anymore, the logical step for it was to move into STBs," says Johal. "The whole concept behind the deal was that you have now got a device in the STB that is effectively a storage medium, so why restrict that storage  to TV?"Pace has something approaching a monopoly of the UK market. It supplies each of the UK's four main operators (BSkyB, ITV Digital, NTL and Telewest) and is   better placed than most to extend its dominance into the next generation of boxes. But if a market for the new boxes does emerge, it is not going to have it all its own way.Nokia has been building STBs, mostly satellite decoders, since 1976. This autumn it will launch the Media Terminal in Germany and Sweden (the UK will have it next spring). The new device includes a heady mix   of digital TV, gaming, email, instant chat, and - via a 40GB internal hard drive - the ability to store MP3s, movie and picture files.Interestingly, Nokia has opted for an "open platform" that will allow other companies and software programmers to integrate their software with the device.  To Nokia, the Media Terminal is essentially a PC that supports digital television. For the IT community, the most exciting aspect of the Media Terminal is that it is based on Linux's open source computer code."We've moved away from being a manufacturer of low-powered, broadcast-based STBs with a little bit of   memory and some internet capabilities," says David Harby of Nokia. "What we have got with the Media Terminal is something completely new. It's an internet platform built on Linux with broadcast TV on top. It also means that the sort of chips you usually associate with PCs going into a STB type device."This is why Nokia says the device will cost between £500 and £600 - although the company claims the eventual price could be lower.Initially, the Media Terminal will support ITV Digital - the 15-channel terrestrial package that requires no subscription. Eventually Nokia hopes it will attract enough partners - banks and retailers - who will sponsor the Terminal and reduce the retail price.But the Media Terminal is not quite a PC by another name. Where it differs is that users will not be able to open up the box and start tailoring it to their needs. However, Nokia says it plans to offer retail partners who will upgrade the box for you. And the Media Terminal will allow consumers to upgrade their software and will support plug-ins such as Real Player Macromedia's Flash.  "There are some key issues that we have to think about when we talk about the UK market," claims Harby. "The government wants to get analogue TV switched off as quickly as possible. And they also want to get the internet to everybody by 2005.   "We see the Media Terminal as an ideal platform to achieve those goals."It doesn't have to be a straight choice between TV and PC. Some of us will want both, some will end up with none. Simple things like checking football scores or the weather will be easier through the TV, rather than going through the rigmarole of booting the PC and going online. Serious surfing, word processing and spreadsheets will stick to the PC.No one is arguing that the STB threatens to replace the personal computer because, after all, sofa surfers are consumers rather than producers. But its advocates are saying that the STB is capable of soaking up the majority of UK homes that remain without net access.And finally, consider that the PC has just celebrated its 20th birthday. Since IBM launched the first model in 1981, it remains essentially the same peerless machine. Just how long can its absolute dominance last?Opening the home gatewayAs if the convergence of the internet, digital television and the games console was not enough, both Pace and Nokia are working on a generation of STBs that will further extend their reach.The home gateway will wire the whole house via the STB. It will funnel bandwidth through the box and then distribute it wirelessly to extra television sets, PCs and handhelds, for example.If the popularity of interactive services over the TV continues to grow, family squabbles over who controls the screen are bound to increase. The answer, says Pace, is several screens and it is even developing a special   handheld device to help spread the load.Nokia sees the Media Terminal morphing into a media server and will also distribute an internet connection through the house.The home gateway is something the network operators want too. After all, what better way to increase their average income per household than to have people spending on different screens at the same time?&#149; Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Wired showAmerica's Smithsonian Institution has led the way in presenting exhibitions on the web, and now it has surpassed the competition by reusing an award-winning idea from SmartMoney.com's Map of the Market. This Java-based graphical interface lets you browse a huge number of objects, then zoom in for bigger pictures and more information. Also try the text-only version which has a less entertaining but more useful index to the exhibits.Seehttp://historywired.si.eduandwww.smartmoney.com/content/index.cfm?story=mapBabelboxHistorywired certainly provides an interesting comparison with Babel, a William Gibson-style "dataspace" funded by East England Arts and the Arts Council. According to the artist, visitors "logged on to the site are confronted with a 3D visualisation of an abstract data space   mapped as arrays and grids of Dewey Decimal numbers". I found the result very hard to use and almost completely incomprehensible, and I'm not sure librarians would fare much better.www.babel.uk.netClock watcherTelling the time is a lot more interesting if you use the Human Clock, and if you feel strongly about 12.47am or 2:47am, those are among the times that still need illustrating. Most of the photos were taken around Portland, Oregon, by the site's designer, Daniel Giffen, and friends. And the whole thing started on an antique Tandy 100 portable computer with 32K of memory, apparently.www.humanclock.com/start.phpDance Dubya!Using one of the best examples of Flash programming around, you can manipulate President "Dubya" Bush's features, change the backgrounds, add a scrolling text and email someone a link. It is more than a little disrespectful of the Leader of the Free World, especially since he could teach John Travolta a thing or two about dancing.  eewww.oddcast.com/vhost/bush/host.phpandwww.miniclip.com/dancingbush.htmPox rocks!Hasbro, the toy giant that markets Action Man and Monopoly, among other favourites, is in the process of infecting America's youth with electronic Pox. These alien microscopic cybernetic organisms reside, as you'd expect, in handheld video game units. The trick is that they can fight one another via radio frequency signals at distances of up to 30 feet, which is a much cooler idea than Pok&eacute;mon trading cards. The New York Times recently published a huge article on the phenomenon, but the place to start is the dedicated website.Seewww.p-o-x.comwww.nytimes.com/2001/08/05/magazine/05POX.htmlHigh artThe Himalayan Art Project is assembling a complete collection of Himalayan art from museums, galleries and private collections around the world. It already provides the largest selection available anywhere. It is more of a catalogue than an exhibition. However, no matter how big you try to make them, the images are always much too small.www.himalayanart.orgAd poxHere's a site to visit straightaway: X10. If you use the web regularly, you may well be getting annoyed by X10's "pop-under" advertisements for a tiny digital camera. Visit the X10 page below, however, and you can click a link that will set a cookie to prevent the ad appearing again for 30 days. You may also want to mark your calendar to revisit the site in 29 days.www.x10.com/x10ads.htmWhat news?MSNBC's ombudsman ran an interesting experiment this month. The news site provided 10 stories, asked visitors to rank their top five, and compared the result with the picks made by its professional editors. Unfortunately, many of the stories are only of US interest, and whether it actually means anything has been discussed on the Plastic site. However, it illustrates Adlai Stevenson's saying, that newspaper editors separate the wheat from the chaff, and print the chaff.www.msnbc.com/news/606989.asp?0dm=C218O&amp;cp1=1andwww.plastic.com/article.pl?sid=01/08/15/1226202The endAnd when you've reached the end of this column, feel free to close down the internet. (Remember, Ctrl-W closes a browser window.)  Seewww.turnofftheinternet.comNew &amp; noted&#149;  Animal typography, nicely animated, Flash obligatory:www.bemboszoo.com&#149;  A second slice of America's current top grossing movie:www.americanpiemovie.com&#149;  Before they were famous:www.famousnamechanges.com&#149;  World's greatest fashion designer:www.isseymiyake.com&#149;  Sign of the times:www.exploited.org.uk/camwhore&#149;  Civilization game now in beta; expected October:www.civ3.comSix of the bestTimeWorld timewww.maps.com/explore/timeclockClocks offlinewww.mirage1.u-net.com/clox.htmJavaScripthttp://web-wise-wizard.com/javascript-scripts/ javascript-online-time-date-digital-clock.htmlTime syncwww.boulder.nist.gov/timefreqWindows timewww.softshape.com/chamSundialwww.uk.research.att.com/sundial
Having read your informative article (The cam girls, G2, August 28) I feel it necessary to emphasise the dangers stalking can bring. The internet can be fun, but it must be used responsibly.It should be remembered that when entering chat rooms and using emails people have no idea who they are talking to. I was particularly concerned that young females were seeking presents from anonymous donors, having no conception of the motives of the benefactors.It came as no surprise that offers for sex had been received and a woman had been stalked as a result of the websites. I urge those who create these websites to think through the possible consequences.Det Insp Hamish BrownSerious crime group, New Scotland Yard
In a world of ultra-tiny smart cards and high capacity optical disc based storage systems like CD, there is seemingly little place for good old-fashioned tape.  However, in the unlikeliest revival since mullet haircuts, last week Sony unveiled MicroMV, a format it is billing as the storage media   of the future for camcorders ¿ and it just happens to be a very tiny cassette.   Nearly 70% smaller than the established Mini DV   format, and yet capable of storing a similar amount   of footage, MicroMV has been designed to enable Sony to significantly cut the size of video cameras.At the IFA Consumer Electronics show in Berlin last week, Sony proved the point by unveiling a pair of camcorders that are not much bigger than a personal audio cassette player.The more expensive of the two, the £1,600 DCR-IP7 is also one of two new Sony camcorders to feature an integrated web browser and Bluetooth functionality.   Sony hopes its users will be wirelessly connecting the camcorder to GPRS (general packet radio service) mobile phones to email still images and small MPEG video files while on the move.  Other Berlin highlights from Sony included the £1,000 DSC-F707 Ü its   first 5m pixel resolution   digital still camera, a £300 cigarette lighter sized Network Walkman that can store 128MB (more than two-and-half hours) of music and a £300 ATRAC/MP3 music player integrated into   a pair of headphones.All   the Sony products will be available in the UK in the autumn.  Over at the Philips stand, Berliners flocked to catch a glimpse of the DVDR 1000, the first standalone DVD machine to sport that magic ñrecordî button to go on sale in Europe.  Designed to connect to a TV and work in a similar way to a VCR, the DVDR 1000 enables the user to store around four hours of programming on one 4.7GB rewritable DVD+RW disc. It is on sale now in the UK for £1,300.   Philips had also given its R&amp;D department space to display its latest brainwaves, which included a TV/PC screen that can be folded up and put in a pocket.   Music-lovers were also much taken by PhilipsÍ voice-activated music search software for the PC that finds an MP3 tune on your computer by listening to you hum it.Sharp announced that its SL-5000 handheld PC would be winging its way to Europe (including the UK) before the end of the year.The SL-5000 has proved a big hit in Japan thanks to its full keyboard facility, which is tucked under its front panel, and a 3.5inch TFT colour screen display. The model uses the Linux OS in collaboration with a fast Java engine.   Meanwhile, a wearable internet appliance took centre stage at HitachiÍs stand. Designed ostensibly for the professional market, the unit features an SVGA resolution colour display built into a head unit, a Windows CE-based control unit and a portable mouse.The unitÍs CompactFlash (CF) card slot allows users to connect to the net via a CF modem card, or examine documents they have stored on a CF memory card.  Other Berlin highlights included a personal DVD player screen that also has   a TV tuner built in from LG,   a TV with an integrated hard disk video recorder from JVC, a DVD/interactive games player from Samsung and   an MP3/MP3PRO hard   disk-based jukebox from Thomson.
Soft targetSo "pragmatists love Microsoft" do they? (Second Sight, August 23). For those of us concerned with such things, Microsoft may be making the user experience slightly more palatable but they have certainly made the jobs of developers and sysadmins harder.MS's history in server technologies is less than inspiring    when you consider security flaws are plentiful in its web servers and operating systems (just check out CERT advisories atwww.cert.org/advisoriesif you need reminding).If that were not enough we now have to worry about its attempts to dominate just about every single field it is involved in (Windows Media is being very aggressively pushed just now). Add privacy and security concerns about the use of Passport and the related Hailstorm technologies and it hardly tallies with the rather rosy picture Mr Denton paints.It has come to a very sad point when parts of the industry (in the US at least) seem to be relying on the release of a product that offers few real reasons to    move from the present Windows 2000 baseline to dig it out of the mire. Just because "upgrade cycles" have worked before is no guarantee that it will work again.I am a pragmatist. I like to use tools that work on platforms that are secure and efficient. I don't love Microsoft. I have to tolerate them: no more, no less.Darren Stephensd.stephens@dcs.hull.ac.ukThere is something wrong with your assertion that we should just give in and collaborate with Microsoft. If Microsoft had a good track record of collaboration then it would be different. Unfortunately, they don't. Microsoft is well know for doing only what is good for Microsoft.What seems to happen the majority of the time is that a developer comes up with something new and useful, and creates a product. When MS sees there is money to be made it moves in and either buys them or destroys them.There is no real collaboration in the sense of two parties contributing to a common goal or cause. There is very little common ground between MS and independent software developers.Also, the courts recently found that MS has been using its monopoly position to destroy competition. It just goes to show that there hasn't   exactly been a warm welcome from MS to the rest of the IT community. Also, you said that MS fails at everything outside of technology. Well, I honestly think they should not even be trying to compete in these areas. What they are really doing is cannibalising their future clients.Just because they have failed at some of their ventures doesn't mean they won't succeed in others. When they do, who is to say it won't be your area? Who is to say that someday MS won't put you out of business?Jeff Polaskinrrd@earthlink.netIn what sense does Microsoft dominate the web?Microsoft IIS web servers (not the majority, thankfully) are currently spreading the Code Red II virus around the globe - is that it?And what of publishing HTML from Office XP? Nick Denton likes "the simplicity", but what does this really mean? Does he build websites for production purposes inside XP? No, he probably produces some poor quality HTML as a by-product of his word processing.Shame about the bigger picture.Gordon Jolygordon.joly@pobox.comFlash backsChris Spark's suggestion   (Feedback, August 23) that the use of Flash in websites is frustrating, is inaccurate. The use of poor Flash in websites is frustrating - but that could be said about most things. If a website contains slow and/or confusing Flash, don't blame the program - blame the designer.Any web designer worth his salt can turn out informative and beautiful websites. Have a look, the web is full of them.Thom Whitethom@twentyfiveten.co.ukNet historyI check the stats for mywebsiteevery day; in amongst the myriad unique hosts there occasionally appears "Old Style Arpanet". I have wondered what that was. Today's Online says (Ninety billion mistake, August 23) "...Roberts was placed in charge of Arpanet - the fledgling version of the internet - in 1964." Does this mean that someone, somewhere, is still using that fledgling internet, and if so, who, and why?Leo Baxendalelbax@waitrose.comWindow wiperWilliam Hudson is mistaken. MS Windows (any version) is not an "operating" system.Dave Lucasdjlucas@btinternet.com
Last Friday, the grey skies over Seattle turned blue after a week of rain, and a helicopter took off from the Microsoft campus with briefcases holding the final "gold code" of the 
company's latest operating system, Windows XP. Manufacturers such as Compaq, Dell and IBM are not supposed to start delivering PCs loaded with the new code until September 24, and retail packages will not reach the shops until October 25.However, for all practical purposes, Windows XP has now shipped.
The RTM (release to manufacturing) stage of a new program's development usually passes without comment. In the past 20 years, 
I have never seen it turned into a lavish marketing event. Indeed, from a technical point of view, the whole thing was completely pointless: why wait for a helicopter to bring a CD of the code when you can download it from a Microsoft server in a couple of minutes?But it is not hard to reason why Microsoft felt it worth spending the money on an event big enough to be considered newsworthy by US television networks. First, it sent a message to the politicians who still think they have two months to block XP's launch: the bird has flown. Second, it started the build-up to what will be Microsoft's biggest retail product launch since Windows 95.In the run-up to Christmas, around $1bn will be spent promoting XP, including about $200m from Microsoft itself. This is twice what it spent launching Windows 95.The problem is that, in a faltering global economy, the PC market has stalled. According to Gartner Dataquest research, worldwide PC sales in the second quarter of this year fell by 1.9% to 30,429,000 units, the first "negative growth rate" since 1986.Gartner and IDC researchers blame the weakness of the consumer market, and this is what makes XP so important. The manufacturers don't just want you to upgrade to Windows XP, they want you to buy a new PC to run it.There are good reasons for taking the software upgrade. The home edition of XP is the first consumer version of Windows not based on the fragile foundations of the MS-DOS operating system that shipped with the first IBM Personal Computer 20 years ago this month. It is, basically, the robust and well-proven Windows 2000 business operating system with the option of a simplified new user interface.
The Windows NT (New Technology) foundation of Windows XP means it works more efficiently than Windows 9x and rarely crashes.Although there are other "new" features such as built-in messaging and multimedia, most are already familiar from Windows Me, the stop-gap version of Windows 9x.The main drawback is that XP is less compatible with earlier versions of Windows. Although Microsoft has put much effort into making XP more compatible than Windows 2000, there is a limit to what can be done with what is, not to put too fine a point on it, rubbishy old software and hardware. Today's more expert Windows 9x users may also find it hard to cope with a new system where most of their old tricks don't work.Microsoft has been trying to shift users off MS-DOS based systems for most of the past two decades, without success. It tried launching Xenix, a version of Unix, in 1984, and then the "crashproof" OS/2 operating system, produced with IBM, in 1987. It launched the first version of Windows NT in 1993, and renamed NT version 5 as Windows 2000 in the expectation that it would be the natural successor to Windows 98.It hasn't happened. While business users have adopted the new system, albeit slowly, the mass market has resolutely chosen compatibility over reliability. Whether Microsoft can make the change stick this time remains to be seen. I suspect there will be a lot of hold-outs, and second-hand copies of Windows 98SE - much the best DOS-based version - will become prized possessions for a while. But if PC manufacturers concentrate on shipping XP pre-installed, it should eventually prevail.While we don't know how much PC manufacturers will pay for XP, its success could be good for Microsoft's profits. While the new system could be said to offer a massive price cut compared with earlier versions of NT and similar operating systems, it will be about 10% more expensive than Windows 9x.In the US, the upgrade version of XP Home Edition will cost $99, and the full version, $199. The Windows XP Professional upgrade will sell for $199 and the full version for $299. UK prices have yet to be announced.
What computer do you use?At work we have a network of PCs running theENPS television newsroom softwaretogether withOmniBus, which allows us to view pictures and do basic editing. At home I use aniMac DV SE, which I bought last year. It is my first Mac and I am a convert. On the move I use myPsion Series 5mxto pick up email. Laptops are too cumbersome.What do you use your computer for?Searching for wire copy, facts, old scripts and contacts is very easy on the systems at work. Being able to view feeds of pictures so easily on your desktop is great. I have started using the iMac with my digital video cameras because they connect so easily through theFirewire.Can the net challenge traditional news media?It is more about how the two come together and provide a news service on various platforms. Our website is strong partly because it runs a lot of video but it also offers information and resources that you can't fit into a 50-minute programme. The net must be about adding value to what exists. As well as its basic website,ITNwill be providing news on mobile phones and direct to PDAs. We will soon be watching the news on our desktops, able to download more text and video to our TV screens at home. There will always be room for all media - I will still buy newspapers and listen to the radio.Any favourite gadgets?I tend to change mobiles every few months and may get aGPRS phoneeven though it is probably a waste of time! I have two digital video cameras - aSony DCRPC110Eand aCanon XM-1. My most ridiculous gadget is a &#163;400 ironing board which blows and sucks air through the board to speed your ironing... only I don't do my ironing anymore! I want aSatnav systemfor the car, but it is such a rip off!Any favourite websites?I likewww.nexis.com/researchandwww.guardian.co.ukfor news. TheBBC news siteis excellent for information, though it needs more video. I usewww.google.comregularly andwww.192.comfor tracking people down. I basically use the net for work so I don't have sites I use everyday. I look for what I need and probably never go back there again.What makes a good news site?Most news websites are badly designed - too cluttered and hard to search. A good site should be simple, clear and act as a gateway to vast arrays of information. Broadband will make video on the net a fast, high quality reality rather than the slow rubbish we have now. That will make a big difference in terms of news, programmes, movies and music, but I will still want to go the cinema.&#149; Visit:www.channel4news.co.uk
US authorities are investigating a credit card fraud at Flooz.com that could have cost users of the US online currency company $300,000.A ring of credit card thieves operating out of Russia and other parts of eastern Europe are suspected of using stolen cards to buy the currency over the last three months.Robert Levitan, chief executive of the New York-based company, said yesterday that the fraud became a real problem last month as banks ceased all payments for goods purchased using the online currency.He blamed the fraud as well as the difficult economic environment for the collapse of Flooz.com after raising more than $35m over the past three years. Other challenges included a downturn in demand from companies using the site for corporate gifts and em ployee recognition awards.Cisco, which announced a massive round of redundancies earlier this year, was one of the company's biggest partners.The company is to file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection in the next few days. In contrast to Chapter 11, which offers some hope of a reorganisation, Flooz.com is unlikely to survive after paying off of its creditors.Flooz, which launched a high-profile advertising campaign using Whoopi Goldberg in 1999, was one of the best-known purveyors of an online currency in the US. Some $25m of Flooz was sold to consumers last year, who then used the currency at a range of participating retailers including Barnes &amp; Noble, the booksellers, and Tower Records.Ms Goldberg is understood to have given her time free in order to become a business partner in the company. The company also planned to launch a fully-fledged UK venture. These plans were shelved in December after the company had reached agreements with several retailers, including Thomas Pink, the shirtmaker.Online currency vendors promised to overtake credit cards as the payment of choice over the internet during the heady days of the boom. There are now few of any size left after Beenz.com, a Flooz rival, also announced that it had suspended operations last week.Mr Levitan said yesterday that such companies had been ahead of their time. "It was a great idea and somebody will do something similar in the future," he said.But the fraud investigation has reopened fears about the safety of using online currencies as payment. The New York Times reported that the Federal Bureau of Investigations was investigating the possible fraud at Flooz.com yesterday.
The BBC has abandoned plans to generate cash from the overseas users of its licence-fee funded internet services.Ashley Highfield, the BBC's director of new media, said yesterday that the logistics of charging non-licence fee payers accessing the corporation's services made it near impossible to implement.The BBC has examined means of raising cash from the websites international traffic including advertising and some form of charging for access."The government would like us to try and monetise the non-UK traffic but it is actually bloody difficult," he said. "It is not always easy to tell where someone is accessing from."The ability of international traffic to access BBC news online and other publicly funded services has caused some controversy. Some &#163;53m of the licence fee a year is spent on news, sport and education services. Plans were discussed around nine months ago for a news-based service aimed directly at international users which could carry advertising.Director general Greg Dyke is also understood to have retreated from the idea of carrying advertising on other online sites following a review carried out by strategists at the corporation.
Shoppers in New York and sunbathers in Los Angeles looking up at the sky this week will find, traced over the cities in aircraft vapour, an unusual message: "Back to Germany".This is the slogan for a campaign that has far-reaching implications for policy-makers in Germany and throughout the developed world.The skywriting - as well as advertisements in the New York Times and a website (move-back.com) to be launched tomorrow - was commissioned by Wirtschaftsf&ouml;rderung Region Stuttgart GmbH, a recruitment agency in south-west Germany. It is aimed at German computer specialists thrown out of work when the US dot.com bubble burst.This initiative highlights a   growing dilemma facing the German authorities. In an apparent bid to win public support for mass immigration, Gerhard Schr&ouml;der's centre-left government stressed the need for computer specialists from the developing world.It was hoped this would not only plug a skills gap but also help erode the stereotypes of immigrants as unskilled. However, its 'Green Card' system, offering temporary residence to up to 20,000 information technology workers has been hit by the downturn in Germany's hi-tech sector.Walter Rogg, the man behind the Stuttgart initiative, told the news magazine Der Spiegel: "We are arguing over ... legal regulation of immigration while forgetting our most important target group - the Germans who have gone abroad."
They had it all: headlines, bodyguards, and enough money to throw lavish parties fuelled with gallons of champagne. The pair behind iewww.boo.com), the online retailer that crashed spectacularly last year, burnt through their &#163;100 million war chest so quickly even some of their employees were astounded.But now, to the fury of the company's shell-shocked backers, boo.com's Swedish founders - a poetry critic and a former  Vogue model - are set to clean up as Hollywood turns the story into a blockbuster.November sees the publication of  BooHoo.Com , the inside story of the riotous collapse of the dotcom that became as famous for its sybaritic lifestyle as for its lamentable attempts to sell urban sportswear over the internet.Written by the founders, Kajsa Leander and Ernst Malmsten, the book - subtitled  A dotcom story from concept to catastrophe - chronicles the highs and lows of the boo rollercoaster which crashed 18 months ago with the loss of 300 jobs and acute embarrassment for two of Wall Street's biggest banks - Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan - who had staked their reputations on backing the firm.The lavish book launch promises to be as lively as boo's hedonistic parties. Everyone mentioned in the book will be invited. Malmsten, desperate to meet Kate Moss, has even devoted a spurious paragraph to the supermodel in the hope she will attend.Publisher Random House is hyping it with boo-like marketing aplomb. Serialisation rights were sold months ago. As a result, Leander and Malmsten find themselves uncharacteristically gagged from talking about their epic failure. The hope is that the book will become a must read for all wannabe mammons. 'It's being promoted as the  Barbarians at the Gate (the defining business book of the 1980s) for the dotcom generation,' said Malmsten's agent, Lesley Shaw.But even if the book follows the fortunes of its subject and bombs, Leander and Malmsten are still poised to make a killing. Sources in the publishing world say a film giant, thought to be Vivendi Universal, is close to securing the film rights for a six-figure sum. 'It's a very substantial deal. It's nearly concluded. It's definitely going to happen,' said one person close to the talks.In a typical display of Malmsten and Leander's belief in aiming big, they are already suggesting that Ed Norton, Brad Pitt's co-star in  Fight Club, has been approached to play Malmsten, while Cameron Diaz would play Leander.They will have rich material to draw from. Boo was fuelled by the 3 Cs - caviar, champagne and Concorde   (although some say a fourth C was cocaine) - and the tales of excess are as astounding as the company's lofty ambitions. With its global headquarters in London's expensive Carnaby Street, boo attempted in one single push to build an empire in 18 countries, opening up plush new offices in many of Europe's biggest cities, even before they had tested the market.At first everything seemed to be running smoothly. Helped by Leander's willowy good looks, the boo pair made it on to the front cover of  Fortune magazine. With a record amount of cash in the bank for an internet start-up, boo's bosses could afford to live the high life. Executives would fly first class to glitzy locations for brain-storming sessions which would revolve around the large-scale consumption of grapefruit-and-vodka cocktails. Intoxicated as much by the lush locations as by the cocktails, they would indulge in untrammelled blue sky thinking which resulted only in the planning of even more lavish parties and huge marketing campaigns.Their favourite Soho drinking den was called The Midas Touch, and they spent &#163;30m on a series of television ads alone. Much was done to promote the image of Miss Boo, a virtual reality character who would help online shoppers choose a wardrobe on the website. There was anguished discussion at the   highest levels over what colour Miss Boo's hair should be. A leading hairdresser was drafted in, but the technology behind Miss Boo was so clunky that potential buyers were driven away because it took too long to download her. The fact that few sportswear manufacturers were prepared to sell their goods through the site didn't help either.Yet the cash burn rate continued unabated. Each day vans would appear outside the firm's offices bringing staff fresh supplies of fruit juices, chocolate and cakes. The carnival atmosphere was helped by the fact that many staff had been drafted in from abroad and didn't speak English. Employees were showered with free mobile phones and laptops.The launch party was lavish. 'They knew how to have a good time,' said one boo aficionado. 'They booked a huge hall in Ladbroke Grove, hired some top bands and DJs and invited several thousand people to celebrate, um, nothing. It turned out that the site wouldn't be launched for several months after the opening party.'The firm's decadence terrified its chief financial officer. Dean Hawkins, formerly with adidas, resigned after two months in the job. The company eventually launched six months late at the seventh attempt.As their fame turned to notoriety, boo's founders developed a rock star mentality. Leander would carry a video camera with her everywhere to chronicle the company's inevitable rise to global prominence. In true rock star style the pair are now banned from several hotels on the South Coast as a result of their predilection for defenestrating televisions.But the greatest sign of excess, which hasn't been disclosed until now, was the extraordinary steps boo took to protect Leander and Malmsten from the threat of kidnapping. With its backers   telling it the company was worth &#163;1bn, boo decided it was important to protect its most valuable assets - with no fewer than 40 Gurkhas to escort the founders wherever they went. Fiercely loyal, the Gurkhas prevented accountants KPMG from entering the company's offices after it went into liquidation.For months after the company was dismantled the unpaid Gurkhas continued to 'protect' boo's senior executives, travelling with them wherever they went. Eventually the liquidators managed to gain access to the building and sold boo's technology for &#163;170,000. The brand name went for a similar sum.Since then, Malmsten and Leander have enjoyed a lucrative sideline in   after-dinner speaking. They travel the globe telling anxious investment bankers about the horrors of giving twentysomething entrepreneurs millions of pounds in funding only to watch them burn through it with ungrateful abandon.For Malmsten, the fame he has achieved far outweighs the stigma of the collapse of boo. One person who knows him well said: 'All he ever wanted was to meet beautiful women and go to parties. He's got all that now.'Malmsten must be delirious with excitement at the prospect of the film premiere. Strangely, Goldman Sachs declined to comment on whether any of its bankers would be attending.jamie.doward@observer.co.uk
How are the mighty fallen. The  San Jose Mercury News - house magazine of Silicon Valley - reports that office space is available on Sand Hill Road.Sand Hill Road was the centre of the technology boom. It is where many of the world's fanciest venture capitalists hang out. At number 2750, for example, you will find Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, the company that orchestrated the development of AOL, Compaq, Amazon, Sun, and Genentech, among others.There was a time when funding for internet start-ups was so easy that what came to matter was not how much you could get but where it came from. And if you got it from Sand Hill Road, Wall Street regarded that much as Catholics regard a benediction from the Pope.Two years ago, you couldn't get a place on the Road for love or money. But now America's most prestigious business zip code has space for rent. According to the  Mercury , at least half a dozen companies have left or are leaving the famous half-mile in Menlo Park - and gone are the throngs once waiting to pounce on office space even before it became available. With the bursting of the technology bubble, the vacancy rate, zero last year, has shot to 7.5 per cent. Monthly rents that hit $17 a square foot have dropped as low as $11.As the chickens of the internet boom come home to roost, even the venture capitalists are having to downsize. This seems mild punishment for the lunacies they perpetrated.It is interesting to see that irate investors are suing the investment banks that induced them to put money into technology IPOs, and that regulators are finally taking an interest in the way the Chinese wall between analysts and bankers - paper-thin at the best of times - seemed to dissolve entirely during the boom.As ever, greed proved a potent solvent for ethical dilemmas.Corporate suits are forever going on about the due   diligence they have to undertake before committing shareholders' money. It is difficult to believe that the boys from Sand Hill Road exercised much diligence in relation to many of the start-ups they funded.A friend of mine once took a group of clients round Silicon Valley in the early days. The idea was to give them 'a sniff of the Zeitgeist', as he put it.They visited a firm that was using FedEx to move parcels from one floor of their building to another.And they encountered an executive who ordered Mont Blanc ballpoints by the gross because he 'just kept losing' them.The most fascinating glimpse into this money-burning culture, however, focuses not on writing implements but on office furniture: in every start-up office, de rigueur, was the $700 Herman Miller Aeron chair. (An Aeron chair is to an office stool as Concorde is to a paper aeroplane.)There is a fascinating article in  Salon by Amy Standen on the correlation between Aeron purchases and dot-bombs. 'At a time when venture capitalists were sinking hundreds of millions of dollars into net start-ups, promising tenfold and 20-fold returns to their investors,' she writes, a lot of those companies were blowing that money right back out the door on Aeron chairs. Many dot-coms were redirecting significant portions of their first rounds of funding to Herman Miller, the 77-year-old Michigan design firm.'Due diligence, my eye. I hope they all go bust on Sand Hill Road.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
Malmsten and Leander are not the only people to be cashing in on the dotcom demise. Several other high profile netheads are also baring their souls in print. These include:F'd Companies by Philip Kaplan.Kaplan was the brains behindwww.FuckedCompany.com, the website which follows the fortunes of dying dotcom firms in the US. The site became so popular that Kaplan was able to start selling advertising space on it.A Very Public Offering: A Rebel's Story of Business Excess, Success and Reckoning  by Stephen Paternot and Andrew Essex.The book tells the story of how Paternot founded internet zinewww.Theglobe.com, floated the firm, and then watched it lose 99.5 per cent of its value.Dot.Bomb: My Days and Nights at an Internet Goliath by David Kuo.Howwww.Value America.comwas hyped as the future of retailing only to go bust two years later.
At this time of year, thousands of people return from holiday refreshed, revitalised... and determined to find a new job.Workers who barely had time to eat and sleep during their daily routine suddenly find themselves with a fortnight to reflect on their career, their family and their aspirations. No wonder, then, that their annual break from the rat race leads many of them to decide they need a change.So, if you've returned from holiday with a tan and a yearning for a change of scene, or if you are planning to use the bank holiday to take stock of your career as you paint the garden fence, you'll be job hunting in the coming weeks.This used to be a long and painful process, but now one of the simplest and fastest ways to test the market and explore the career options open to you is the internet.Guardian Unlimited has just revamped its recruitment site to provide an even better service and you can now search the Guardian Unlimited database of jobs more quickly and precisely.To make life easier, we've also upgraded the technology which allows you to save searches in your own personalised section of the site.If you don't find what you are looking for straight away, you can choose to receive   daily emails with jobs that fit your search criteria.Many employers are waking up to the benefits of the internet and it is now easy to apply for jobs online via the Guardian Unlimited site. If you've been out of the country and missed job ads you can find them in the online database, where they are stored for several weeks.The site carries every job ad posted in the Guardian and the Observer, plus many more online-only job ads. It is a great opportunity to search through past and   present jobs and compare pay and opportunities, not just by job name but also by sector.The interactive tools help you filter out posts that you are not interested in and save you time by delivering to your computer the range of jobs by which you will really be excited. It's this interactivity which makes job hunting on the web so much quicker and easier than the traditional process.There are several ways to find the vacancies that interest you most. If you are inter ested in the media, society or education sectors, there are special sites for these sectors where you'll find vacancies organised in a way that suits you (it's essentially like browsing through the ads in the relevant section of the Guardian newspaper).For this service go to:www.EducationGuardian.co.uk/jobs,www.MediaGuardian.co.uk/jobs or www. SocietyGuardian.co.uk/jobsAlternatively, you can also browse by sector by clicking on one of the sector links on the homepage of Guardian   Unlimited Jobs. Each link will take you to a page where you can search for jobs within that sector.The third option is to search the entire jobs site by keyword, or by using our detailed search.The Guardian has long been a pioneer in online recruitment. Its first recruitment site was launched in 1996 and Guardian Unlimited Jobs is among the top 10   recruitment sites in the UK.It carries more than 2,500 Guardian and online-only quality jobs for ABC1 professionals and graduates in 14 categories including media, marketing and PR, secretarial, IT&amp;T, finance, government, graduates, charities, health and social care.But finding the job you want is only the start. A good CV can get you short-listed for interview, but unless you prepare properly, nervousness and tough questions can mean you miss out.To help you cope with this, Guardian Unlimited Jobs incorporates a dedicated career centre, where you can work through the whole process from using a recruitment agency, finding a job, preparing for interview, getting the job and negotiating salaries and benefits.If you feel you need a new challenge but you are not sure whether you should move to a new employer or go for an internal promotion, there is also advice from experts on how to build your career, plus tips on how to go freelance, motivate your team and develop charisma.
Dot.com firms are still paying their workers more than other companies do despite the burst of the internet bubble, new figures reveal today.Pay awards in e-commerce companies are averaging 4%, a full percentage point above settlement levels for the whole economy, according to pay experts at Industrial Relations Services.Two thirds of firms offer their employees share options, while over half offer short-term incentives such as sales commissions or variable bonuses."Despite the dot.com downturn, employees in the e-commerce sector continue to enjoy above-average pay rises and potentially lucrative share options," said Jeremy Baugh, the editor of IRS's pay and benefits bulletin.Pure internet companies are offering bigger pay rises than the internet divisions of traditional companies. Pay deals at the latter are rising by 3.25% on average.But with share prices in the sector still languishing, options schemes are no longer such a draw. Staff at internet companies are also much more likely to have their pay linked to performance."Half the standalone internet companies operate all-merit schemes, where pay is linked to some measure of employee performance," said Mr Baugh.Employees in the internet divisions of traditional companies tend to have the same terms and conditions as other staff.For all the hype about different ways of working in the new economy, flexible benefit schemes are rare, operated by just one in seven firms surveyed by IRS.
About the conferenceThere has been a lot of interest in the smaller business in recent years from suppliers and regulatory authorities alike. The classic explanation is that technology and, in particular, the internet enable the small business to compete on an even basis with the mega-corporation.It does no such thing, of course. The ten person organisation will never have the marketing and branding clout of a big corporation and probably does not want it. Nevertheless, information technology does offer new opportunities - in terms of market reach and actual financial transactions. It should open up new areas to many small and medium enterprises.Realistically, a day's conference and seminars can only touch on some of the practical issues facing companies wanting to trade in this way. In presenting a full programme of qualified, experienced speakers and a set of seminars backed up by real-life examples, the organisers hope to equip attendees with the best possible start in this evolving area.Conference speakersKeynote speakerDouglas Alexander MP, minister of state for E-Commerce and CompetitivenessFurther speakersRobert Bond, Hobson AudleyGraham Brown, Neaman BondProf Alan Cawson, Sussex UniversityMike Connell, Connell Trading Company LtdAndy Coote, E-Business Solutions International LtdAnne Hinde, The Information Commissioner's OfficeJohn Hopkins, Rewinds &amp; J. WindsorRobert Schifreen, consultantDr Hugh Smith, chief executive officer, EIBSDanny Sullivan, searchenginewatch.com, Califia ConsultingPhilip Trease, WeaversPrice of conference&#149; Full rate£225 plus VAT (£264.38inc)&#149; Supported rate (e.centre member)£195 plus VAT (£229.13inc)VenueCBI Conference CentreLondon WC1To registerEmailyvonne.siegel@guardian.co.ukor call 020 7713 4429 for full booking instructions. Alternatively download the conference programme and booking form as a pdfhere.
For seekers of true internet gems, there is nothing more rewarding than weblogs. Weblogs (or blogs as they are     frequently known) began in the early 90s as basic, text-only online diaries, quickly taking on some of the     multimedia trickery that would later kick-start e-commerce.The basic premise, however, has remained     unchanged. Imagine your own precious little black book (probably a distant teenage memory now) spread open for     the world to see. All your hopes, mistakes, peeves and secrets made public but lurking anonymously in the depths     of a search engine, daring to be discovered.There are two ingredients to a successful blog. The first is an     individual prepared to share their lives and to do so in an interesting, funny or bizarre way. Unsurprisingly, lots     of people think they have amusing stories to tell but when you read them you may think otherwise. Equally     common are those who have fascinating lives (policemen being a prime example) but who describe it in terms that     would send a fleeing suspect to sleep.So where do you search for the perfect blog? Well, there are a couple of     handy places to start. The first iswww.blogger.com, one of the first blog repositories and also a good place to     try if you want to start writing your own. By registering here you are provided with a template for your daily     entries and the online space to store it.Your blog is then given its own address or it can be hyperlinked from     your homepage. The other advantage of blogger (or similar repositories such aswww.citizenx.com) is that they     select their own favourites for you to try, thus avoiding the need to wade through hundreds of random entries to     find some of the better entries.Top of blogger's list for this week are Lightningfield and Says Me, both very     different uses of the medium and both reviewed below. The other method of online prospecting is to resort to     the search engines, which yield surprising nuggets if you are patient and prepared to follow blind links. It was     here that I came across the delightful Loobylu and the very amusing BlogmeJoe, two different takes on the same     confessional style.Finally, as browsers become more adept at handling video, and connection speeds make this     possible to a wider audience, blogs are becoming every bit as visually entertaining as homepages or commercials     websites.MelissAGoGofor instance  crams a functioning     chatroom, webcam and weblog into a very small page, hinting at a time when ordinary people will have the means     to command mainstream media attention directly from their keyboards. Whether new writers, artists and     celebrities will be discovered this way remains to be seen, but a bright agent could do worse than checking out     the following top 5 blogs:www.loobylu.com.  Looby (real name Claire) is a twenty-something Australian graphic     artist who maintains a charmingly illustrated account of her daily life. Full of delightful detail and occasional     poignancy (the death of her grandmother in May, for instance) this site is easy on the eye.&#149;http://lightningfield.com. Put together by a Brooklyn freelance editor, David Gallagher, the crisp photographic     style strikes a chord even if the content is a little slim. Blurry cars racing across bridges, even a tantalising     glimpse of Harvey Keitel. Pure and simple every time. "Self-publishing is the best thing about the web," he writes,     something the vast majority of bloggers would agree with.&#149;www.expage.com/blogmejoe. Although only     occasionally updated, BlogMeJoe is as close to an online Bridget Jones as you could hope for, made all the more     impressive by the fact that the author claims to be a 15-year-old from Sheffield. The presentation is poor, but     the copy frequently sparkling. "Nov 5th: I just ate one of those little packets of rice cakes. Dammit. 10 calories     per rice cake. No fat, mind. My rules: Never eat anything larger then &#91;sic&#93; your fist. Never eat anything after     7pm. Drink a ridiculous quantity of water. Sorted. Respect due." The big question is who is she and what happens     next?&#149;http://sessex.blogspot.com. Taking a different tack entirely, this anonymous male author has one     over-riding concern - his mother's downhill struggle against lymphoma. The matter of fact descriptions of     treatment and drugs are balanced by frequent and always revealing insights. "August 10th 2001: Whew. I'm tired.     Mentally. Emotionally. Physically. I feel like I could sleep for two days. My body feels beat up and my mind feels     fried. And I'm not the one getting chemo-ized. (hey, that rhymes!)" And of course, no top five would be complete     without your very own weblog, in this instancewww.geocities.com/nanogog/nanolog.html. Unashamedly     self-promoting (that, after all, is the whole point of maintaining a blog) if you think you can do better, you are     most definitely encouraged to do so.
Oftel, the telecoms regulator, today stepped up the pressure on BT to boost competition in high-speed internet services by ordering the telecoms giant to provide a "reasonable service" to operators using its local services.It is the first time that Oftel has formally intervened to set service level standards that the former monopoly must offer other operators wanting access to the "local loop", the BT-owned wires linking exchanges to homes and offices.BT's local loop has 5,500 exchanges connecting more than 25m customers to the BT network. BT's local loop infrastructure is seen as crucial to the development of high-speed internet connections as it provides a direct line into every household in the country.But BT's critics allege that it has dragged its feet in allowing access to its local loop and impeded the introduction of new technology that would transform "the last mile" of old copper wires into networks for delivering broadband internet access.In February, Oftel said BT must pay operators compensation if it failed to meet agreed service levels; the operators have since complained about the level of that service. Oftel today said: "much of the complaint was justified."BT maintained that it was already meeting the standards requested by Oftel and expressed irritation at the tone the announcement. The government has pledged to make broadband internet connections widespread by ending, or "unbundling", BT's monopoly over the local loop, but the process has been mired in disputes between BT, its rivals and the regulators.Oftel said it was also proposing that BT should pay £10 for each working day an unbundled loop is unavailable and £80 per operator for each working day's delay in providing facilities.Demand for unbundled loops has largely collapsed with the cash crunch in the telecoms industry, although the Earthlease investment group has offered £8bn to buy this part of BT's business.Related articles05.08.2001: BT eyed network sell-off28.06.2001: Oftel closer to using force against BT31.05.2001: Missing the high speed revolutiontUseful linksBTOftel
Freak OutPlayStation 2	 &#163;39.99 Treasure/Virgin	***And now for something completely different. Freak Out is a welcome reminder that not all games have to involve guns, driving, sport or intense strategy.In fact you can imagine a prospective publisher's reticence after listening to the developer's pitch. "So let me get this straight. You have to control a girl armed with a possessed scarf that can stretch any part of the environment, including the floor? And by using this demonic accessory you can grip on to enemies and twang them into submission? Er, so no fast cars then?"But amazingly this bonkers premise works, at least in the short term, and offers a refreshingly different PS 2 title. Ignore the unintentionally hilarious back story and you will soon be admiring the sugar-coated action.The graphics are unique, offering a mix of gaudy shades and a level select area that borrows heavily from Aha's Take on Me video. Of course, if you are old enough to remember this mid-80s synth classic then you are probably the right age for Freak Out.The novelty of lassooing big-breasted assailants and duelling with cute, yet deadly, boss characters, is best appreciated when you are old enough to put three sugars in your double espresso (well it   obviously helped the game designers). The controls are also worthy of praise, replacing tedious button combinations with judicious use of the shoulder buttons and both analogue sticks. Unfortunately, Freak Out is over all too soon - maybe eight hours or so - although any longer and the novel, but simplistic, twang 'n' release gameplay becomes tiresome. It will probably sell about 12 copies in the UK - PlayStation gamers are a notoriously conservative bunch - but Freak Out deserves more.After all, it is not every day you get something so distinctive on any platform, let alone the PlayStation 2. (GH)ModernGroove: Ministry of Sound EditionPlayStation 2 £19.99 Ubisoft ***Given how long it took products such     as Codemaster's Music to reach the Play Station, it was surprising to see this arrive on PS2 so soon.     Nevertheless, the Ministry of Sound name gives it considerable street credibility and, being something of a failed     musician myself, I opened it with a good deal of optimism.Sadly, ModernGroove is nothing like Music. It is not a     sample sequencer, as I assumed, but an enhanced CD showcasing the Ministry's resident DJs and favoured     artists. The idea, I assume, is to produce a standard dance compilation disc that also doubles as a funky     lightshow.As far as music is concerned, you do get more than 60 tracks of house, trance and garage, mixed to a     superb quality and nicely balanced between the styles. You also get the undoubted mixing talents of Paul Jackson,     Tall Paul and others (plus their multimedia biographies, should you be swayed by that "DJ is the new musician"     malarkey.)As with any compilation CD, however, only a few tracks rise above the background noise, and you     would be hard pushed to find a single hit among them. The other half of the package is the Visual Mixer, which is     altogether more interactive and a whole lot of fun. The idea of a light synthesiser which responds to music has     been done many times before (as far back as the late 80s), but ModernGroove does go to town with the options.500 animated 3D objects, 1,200 unique images, 200 original video clips and 32 user-controllable real-     time effects, are all smoothly combined to produce a visual accompaniment to almost any musical style. Even     better, using the joypads' two sticks you can rotate, flip or morph most of these effects in realtime. There's     even a karaoke mode, where you can superimpose lyrics and your own "Bo Selecta" messages. All in all, an unusual     and creative product, but one that skirts around the real issue.What I expected from ModernGroove was all the     above plus a method of remixing the tracks themselves - a true dance workstation, in fact. With that, it might     have been an essential purchase. Without it, I might just hang around for the sequel. (MA)
I stumbled over the glacier like a drunkard, stinging sweat pouring from me like spilled wine.The rocks I had to climb over had been arduous enough on the way in, but now I was carrying a dying man on my back and at this altitude he only had three days to live.The nearest hospital in Skardu was seven days away. All the time he was conscious he was crying: "I'm sorry Sir, I'm sorry Sir."And every time I would answer through gritted teeth: "You're going to be OK Sher."But inside I was pleading "God, don't let him die, please, don't let him die."Only dreams of Scotland and the beloved images of my family and friends kept me sane as I carried him through hell for what seemed like 40 days and 40 nights.And as the days wore on and I degenerated into a dehydrated, frostbitten wreck, the memories I cherished began to flicker and fade to dull lifeless 
fictions, as if that life had never existed.And I realised that soon I would collapse and Sher and I would die together on a frozen wasteland, beneath an empty sky, far from home. How had it come to this?I had set out to run my online outdoor clothing company WildDay.com via Iridium satellite phone and laptop from K2's base camp, the wildest place on earth.Taking care of business while climbing K2 and Broad Peak seemed so adventurous from home and for some reason K2's nickname of the "savage mountain" had seemed almost glamorous.Its reputation of bringing death to expeditions seemed unreal - but death was 
waiting for me.First a friend and fellow climber died of a cerebral oedema at base camp, then a week later a Korean climber died while climbing on K2.Finally, like a scene from a darkest nightmare, an avalanche that almost reached base camp brought with it a series of dead bodies from past expeditions, their jagged limbs protruding from the snow like broken sailors washed ashore in a storm of ice.At this point I knew I had had my fill of death. So when my friend Sher Zaban, who had been our guide on the climb on Nanga Parbat, fell ill at base camp soon afterwards with what turned out to be a collapsed lung, my very soul rebelled.But as I tried to make hurried arrangements for his immediate evacuation it very quickly became apparent that there was one major obstacle standing in the way of the help Sher needed and it wasn't the glacier.Sher was poor. This meant that the authorities would not send a helicopter to take him to hospital and due to his economic status nobody else was willing to help him.Sher had slaved for 10 hours a day, carrying 30kgs on his back for a pittance, and now he had collapsed and was going to die and nobody gave a damn.At that point I realised that I would have to carry him out. Although I would have to give up my chance to reach the summit, the only thing that mattered was making sure he lived.Although I did not realise it at the time his collapse and the events that followed it revealed so many brutal truths to me that I know I will never be the same again.The conditions the porters laboured under had bothered me for the whole 
expedition.It seemed to me that their working conditions were no better than 
that of beasts of burden and they made me think of my grandfather who slaved his youth away down the mines 80 years ago.In an attempt to win humane working conditions he had become one of the founding members of the Labour party in Glasgow.I wondered what his reaction would be to my passionate commitment to an 
entrepreneurial culture.Was I the fulfilment or a betrayal of his struggle? It made me question myself; how does one balance being an entrepreneur with having a strong social conscience?I realised that for me ethical entrepreneurialism is social responsibility; that by creating wealth I could give wealth back to society. You can't help a 
hungry man if you are starving yourself.Building WildDay.com was not done so that I could drape myself in the tacky trappings of status but rather it was my responsibility to build a successful business so that I could give something back for everything that I had been given in my blessed life in Scotland.Work was my way of saying thank-you to all our ancestors, who, like my 
grandfather, created the conditions that we now enjoy.People like Sher in northern Pakistan are currently struggling for a better life the way they did.Seeing the conditions that the porters endured made me think of how my own staff are treated.Obviously WildDay.com's staff live in a completely different world from the 
porters, but even with a commitment to ethical entrepreneurialism, giving staff a fulfilling, financially-rewarding career while maintaining an efficient, fast-growing business can be extremely difficult.In fact many of my peers say that it is the most difficult facet of their whole business.Because of the difficulties of making sure staff are happy in a fast growing company, WildDay.com decided to seek external advice from a company called Kite HR in Edinburgh.Our decision was based on two criteria: they do not charge placement fees and their holistic approach meant they helped us with all the other facets surrounding employment issues in order to develop a workable 
recruitment strategy, rather than just taking commission for filling vacancies.Having fulfilled staff isn't just socially important. It is sound business practice in terms of performance, absenteeism and staff turnover.Kite HR have helped immensely in this area. (Although they did mention 
that some applicants were disconcerted being interviewed via satellite phone 
from K2 base camp and were adamant that it was some sort of test).
 
It is not easy to create a dynamic company that holds values before profit and can still fulfil the aspirations of its founders and function in a rapacious 
business world.But if we wish to hold our heads up high and be worthy of our success do we really have a choice?Finally, Sher taught me balance. How many business people lose their families, health, friends, and sometimes, through dubious business decisions, their self respect?Sacrificing everything for their career, putting ambition before everything else.Giving up my goal to save Sher reminded me of what, deep down I already knew, that humanity must always come before ambition.How does that quote go again?  "What does it profit a man if he gains the whole world but loses his soul?"I saved Sher's life and he changed mine. So I like to think we are quits.The expedition was sponsored by Actinic.Related articles12.07.2001: A bad day at the office26.07.2001: High spirits02.08.2001: Tragedy hits WildDay expeditionUseful siteWildDay.co.uk
Baltimore Technologies, the internet security firm, yesterday disclosed the depth of its troubles when it reported a half-year loss of &#163;550m and announced plans for a further wave of job cuts and sell-offs.The company, one of the stars of the dot.com boom, outlined a wide-ranging overhaul of the business designed to put it back on a path toward profitability and restore investors' shaken confidence.Staff numbers, which peaked at 1,400 in March, will be cut to just 470. "We want to recapture the original entrepreneurial spirit of the company," said chief financial officer Paul Sanders. "This marks a very important day for Baltimore and to a large extent a new beginning."The decline of Baltimore which for a short while occupied a place in the FTSE 100 is yet another example of the reversal in fortunes in the internet sector. The Irish company's market value has fallen from &#163;5.5bn at its peak to around &#163;115m. Its shares, touching &#163;13.75 in its heyday, have fallen by 98pc. Fran Rooney, the former chief executive, quit the company last month.Baltimore announced 250 job losses in May and a further 220, chiefly in the US, will be lost immediately. The bulk of the remainder earmarked to leave the group will be as a result of divestments.The company will delist from the Nasdaq market at the end of September to save &#163;2m a year. The job losses and other cost-cutting measures are aimed at saving &#163;72m a year.In a humiliating u-turn, Baltimore has hoisted the for sale sign over Content Technologies, the US software business it paid almost &#163;700m for last October. Analysts have put a value on the business, which produces the MIMEsweeper email security system, of between &#163;50m and &#163;70m.The losses for the first half include a write-down of &#163;393.8m, against five acquisitions it made last year, the largest of which was the Content deal.Mr Sanders said Baltimore had to make a decision on where to make its investment. The firm intends to refocus on its core internet authorisation and authentication business. "We do strongly believe in the viability of both businesses but we are acknowledging we can't do both of them justice due to limited resources," he said. "We are looking at divestment of the MIMEsweeper business unit, but I would stress it is not a fire sale."Mr Sanders admitted the company had lost its reputation for being innovative because its resources were over-stretched. Other smaller non-core assets are also likely to be sold.The plans should be enough to deaden the constant murmurs about the financial viability of Baltimore. The cost savings and divestments would provide sufficient funding to see it through to profitability without further recourse to investors, he said.Revenues during the first half reached &#163;39.4m, up from &#163;25.7m in the same period last year. Baltimore shares climbed 1.5p to 23.75p.
Pound notesThe pound sign does not travel well on my email. I use Shift-3, which works fine on the outgoing copy of my email but is delivered as a hash sign. Writing GB pounds is a pain, as almost every email I send needs a pound sign.Bob O'Harasearcher@dircon.co.ukJack Schofield replies:You should never attempt to send a pound sterling sign via email because there is no guarantee it will arrive as one, and a strong chance that it will lead to confusion. It may arrive as a hash sign or, worse, as =A3, leading to gross errors where the 3 is added to the start of a price. The correct way to send a pound sign is to use GBP, as defined in the ISO 4217 international standard. (Many people use UKP, which is wrong: apparently Ukraine wanted UK as well.) The general rule is to use the standard country abbreviation and the first letter of the currency name, such as JPY for Japan's Yen. Seewww.xe.com/iso4217.htmfor a list. It is wrong to use a currency symbol in email, even if that symbol is     included on your keyboard. Do not use the Euro symbol if you have one: use EUR instead. Do not use the $ sign: only USD incontrovertibly distinguishes between American and numerous dollar currencies.Music notesCan you point me at starter sources of information about using MP3 systems and doing music generally on the internet?Sean GraingerSean.Grainger@express.co.ukJS:There are two good FAQs about MP3 files atwww.mp3-faq.organdhttp://webhome.idirect.com/~nuzhathl/mp3-faq.html. For links to a wide range of music resources, try Ken Davies's Music Web Hunter atwww.dmamusic.org/kendavies/musicwebhunter. General sites are a matter of taste butwww.sonicnet.comandwww.rollingstone.comare good places to start.Risky businessI know how tdelete records of websites, so there is almost no record of me visiting a website at a particular time. However, the USER.DAT contains information of past visited sites. As the file is read-only, I cannot edit it, and if I try, the computer suffers terrible effects, ie it does not start properly.Nick Rabbittsnick.rabbitts@ukgateway.netJS:Don't touch that file! Your whole Windows system depends on User.dat and System.dat, which make up the system registry. These files are so important that Windows keeps its own backup copies, but you should make extra ones. Seehttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q256/4/19.ASP. To edit the Registry, go to Start|Run, type regedit in the box and click OK. Use the search command to search for www and that should find data such as lists of web addresses you have typed in, for example. You can highlight unwanted entries and delete them by pressing the Delete key.In general, however, I recommend leaving the Registry alone apart from     running a Microsoft utility called RegClean. For help with that, seewww.createwindow.com/wininfo/regclean.htmStop startI have had lots of problems with the company that supplied my new PC. A continuing irritant is that company's name appearing on the Microsoft Windows 98 start-up screen - the one with the flying window - when the PC is switched on. Can I edit this screen to remove the company name?Allister Forrestallister.forrest@lineone.netJS:The Windows splash screen, as it is called, is commonly stored as the logo.sys file. If you can find logo.sys, make a backup copy of it. You can then edit it in Microsoft Paint or, preferably,     something like Paint Shop Pro. If you cannot find a copy of logo.sys, or cadge a copy from someone else, you could always create your own splash screen.However, it must be a 256-colour Windows bitmap (bmp) file, 320 pixels wide by 400 pixels high, and be in C:\ or the C:\Windows directory. Since the image will be displayed at 640 by 480 pixels, you will have to use the Stretch/Skew settings in Paint, or start with a VGA screen image and     resize or "resample" it to 320 by 400. Once you get a taste for this, you may want to change the logow.sys (waiting to shutdown) and logos.sys (safe to turn off) files. Go to Tweak Central (seehttp://tweakcentral.com/t002.htm#9x_mod) for details of the splash screens in different versions of Windows.Out of keyThe @ and the " on my keyboard have swapped places. How can I persuade them to swap back again?Brian ConlinBrian@conlin31.freeserve.co.ukJS:Try pressing Left shift-Alt and see if they switch back. If not, go to Start|Settings|Control Panel and double-click the Keyboard icon. Make sure you have English (United Kingdom) selected rather than English (United States).SwitchedThe Start button of my laptop was on the left hand bottom corner of the screen and the time read-out was on the right. Now the start button has gone to the top left hand corner and the time reading has gone to the bottom left hand corner. How I can reset these buttons?Jagdishjagchdin@aol.comJS:It is not obvious but you can drag the Taskbar (with the Start button and time) to whichever side of the screen you want. Position the mouse cursor at the top edge so you can see two opposing arrows, tug down at 45 degrees and drag the Taskbar to the bottom of the screen. You may need a few goes, but it works.Catch upI caught the tail end of your advice in the issue dated August 9, but missed the original article dated July 26. Any chance of receiving full instructions please?Cyril Ballcyril.ball@btinternet.comJS:It has sometimes been hard to find Ask Jack columns on the Guardian Unlimited website. However, the most recent ones     are now linked from the Netnews section atwww.guardian.co.uk/internetnewsBackchatRecently I have been recommendingTopicato people who had been using Microsoft's Listbot to run mailing lists. Kingsley Marshallsales@vinyl-net.comthought it would be easier to take the upgrade to bCentral's Listbuilder as advertised on the Listbot service. However, Kingsley says, "the online form demands a     valid US state before it will accept payment - being in the UK, this didn't work". He was then given a phone number that would not connect from the UK. "I have now written over 10 emails in addition to faxing the company     (as they requested), used their live online support, and attempted phoning three separate numbers as advised by their tech support," he says. He cannot find anyone bothered to sort out this simple problem, and has given in. He is now trying MailKingwww.mailking.com.
What is happening to the internet? Since the middle of the last decade, the net and its most user-friendly element, the world wide web, has been trumpeted as being more significant than the invention of electricity. The internet, as the saying goes (and some would argue, went), changes everything.Now we are not so sure. "The attitude that 'the internet changes everything'   has given way in some quarters to denigration of the net as a fad - the citizen's band radio of the 1990s," writes Andrew Odlyzko, head of mathematics and cryptography research at AT&amp;T Labs, in a recent copy of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Review magazine.One reason for the backlash is the withering of the once mighty telecommunications sector. Companies are jettisoning employees and slashing revenue predictions. Last month, the Canadian   infrastructure titan Nortel declared the single largest corporate quarterly loss in history -$19.4bn. Cisco declared its first losses in its 11-year history and dumped 8,500 employees. Some companies, typically the cutting-edge upstarts, are filing for bankruptcy, as in the case of the global network builder 360networks, which has a new transatlantic cable laying idle on the sea bottom.These are just some of the companies that, according to a recent estimate,   spent more than $90bn in the past five years laying 39m miles of fibre-optic networks in the US alone. The mantra that drove the frenzied network build-out that circles the globe - "if you build it, they will come" - now rings as an empty chant. Experts generally agree that no more than 5%, and perhaps just 2%, of those networks are "lit" with traffic.For these reasons, and the indisputable fact that no one is buying much equipment from infrastructure companies, many in the telecommunications sector have declared that the net is, if not declining, then at least dormant. Network traffic is at a standstill.Or is it? Set against such gloom is the hyperbole of many industry and financial analysts, who have continued to insist - as the telco sector once did - that traffic is expanding 16-fold every year (doubling every three months, said the received wisdom). This figure - drawn from who knows where - has become an example of one of the net's viral ideas, dispersed widely across the medium, endlessly quoted, and accepted even by the US Federal Communications Commission as fact.But they have all just been proven wrong. Internet traffic is indeed increasing, but at a fourfold annual rate. Depending on one's perspective, that is either shockingly fast, or slow. And this is not a guess, claims the researcher behind the statistic: it is the first accurate snapshot of internet traffic, based on actual data, since the mid-1990s, when the US government still ran the internet and controlled the network.Appropriately, the man who set up the network, Dr Larry Roberts, made the analysis. Now chief executive of the network switch manufacturer Caspian Networks, Roberts was placed in charge of developing Arpanet - the fledgling version of the internet - in 1964.He announced his findings recently at a Dublin conference of computing luminaries. "Internet growth was something no one could get their hands on, because there was no data," says Roberts. Estimates offered by carriers such as UUNet and MCI "are basically wrong. The market is dramatically growing in ways no one suspected."According to Roberts' data, internet traffic was expanding by a factor of 2.7 until January 2000, when it jumped to 3.6 for that year. In the first six months of 2001, expansion hit a factor of four, which   Roberts expects will remain steady through 2008.To date, measuring network traffic has been a matter of guesswork. Analysts estimated network traffic flow by looking at how many new nodes (connection points) were added to the internet. They also studied sales figures of infrastructure companies such as Cisco, Juniper and Nortel.Roberts says the last time that accurate data was available for internet traffic was 1996. "After that, there were competing carriers, so there was no way of finding out what the traffic is."He obtained the data for his analysis by signing non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) with all 19 major US carriers. He also looked at the number of network trunks and nodes and the ways in which they were used for each carrier. While Roberts has a vested interest in seeing networks grow - his company builds the kind of intelligent switches needed to handle a rapidly expanding net - industry sources said he was an adept analyst of data.One fellow researcher who has welcomed the figures - while mildly disputing them - is AT&amp;T's Odlyzko, who is   joining the University of Minnesota as the director of its digital technology centre. As a self-confessed "contrarian" he is becoming well known for tackling a range of what he terms "internet myths". His analyses, once dismissed by many as too conservative and sceptical, now seem precise and prescient. "Most people give me credit - or blame me - for pointing out that the emperor has no clothes," he says with amusement.Best known for a trenchant essay on net misapprehensions entitled Content is Not King ("Content has never been king and is unlikely to ever be king. The internet has done quite well without content, and can continue to flourish without it"), Odlyzko is on the record dating from 1997, backing what he calls Moore's law of net traffic - a prediction that growth doubles every year."It could be that both of us are right," says Odlyzko, who also attended the Dublin conference and heard Roberts' presentation of data. He says their methods of analysis are different. Odlyzko looks at annual traffic flow, measured in terabytes - a total summary of traffic flow - while Roberts uses data measurements that capture rates of traffic flow.Odlyzko believes Roberts'   method incorporates sudden bursts of demand for capacity, which might plump up the figures for an "average" rate. As an AT&amp;T employee, he couldn't sign NDAs and therefore couldn't gather the data Roberts has."A key point is even if it is fourfold a year and not twofold, it is still not what people expected," he says. "If traffic were doubling every three to four months, then very soon revenue should have to explode because demand would have outstripped the ability of networks to supply capacity," he says.The 16-fold annual growth figure since 1994 would have meant traffic expansion by a factor of 16m by 2000. But that clearly has not happened. Indeed, over-capacity has meant the cost of bandwidth has steadily declined, giving US internet users access speeds through digital lines for $40 monthly today that they could only attain with a $50,000 yearly leased line   five years ago. As Odlyzko writes in an essay: "Until the end of 1994, the internet backbone was funded by the National Science Foundation, and was well instrumented. Hence we know that it carried about 15 terabytes of traffic each month."Had that traffic grown by a factor of 16m in the intervening six years, we would now have about 240 exabytes of traffic on internet backbones each month. If we generously assume that there are 500m internet users in the world today, that volume of traffic would translate into about 1.5m bits per second of backbone traffic for each user around the clock!"We may now have enough potential capacity to argue against laying any more fibre for many years. He notes in particular that: "We have way too much capacity in the popular long-haul networks, and not enough locally."But capacity will probably be increased through developments in technology. Research from Lucent shows that wave division multiplexing - sending data transmissions along separate channels of different-coloured light, rather than in one burst of white light - can increase the capacity of a glass fibre 10-fold.Much of the fibre in the   ground may remain dark, says Odlyzko. "Or else," he muses, "it may be used in very imaginative ways." In his essay Smart and Stupid Networks: Why the Internet is Like Microsoft, he argues that developers will find plenty of applications to inflict upon us: "The internet offers an irresistible bargain to a crucial constituency, namely developers, while managing to conceal the burden it places on users."In general, he sees broadband connections becoming standard in most homes, and the wireless world of mobiles and small personal devices becoming an intrinsic part of the net. He is sceptical about the general adoption of such cutting-edge and sexy applications as 3D teleconferencing. "I don't see anything coming that will be as dramatic as the web browser," he says. "The browser really woke the world up - and it had a high level of usability."Roberts and Odlyzko have one strong central point of agreement: the internet has indeed changed everything. And even if it is "only" doubling annually, the net is growing at such a dramatic speed that, to accommodate tomorrow's demands, it will require an astonishing degree of management and careful planning.
Mac vs PC - what's your preference and why?It is more a question of convenience: so Macintosh. However, mine is an ancient LC475, long overdue for retirement.Will online publishing ever rule over print media?Economic and practical factors will probably settle this debate, but not soon. Online publications will have to be more profitable and more portable to compete with print.Would you consider publishing online only?No journalist should rule out any medium. It is about getting the story out to the widest number of people in the most appropriate and accessible way. The medium is just a convenient means to an end: communication.When did you first start using the web and realise its importance?I was editor on the launch ofTime Out's websitein 1995-1996, when big companies were just starting to wake up to the web's possibilities. As one of the more dynamic publishing houses we were able to investigate the possibilities of working online without spending ridiculous amounts of cash.How did Radio B92 use the web to resist the Milosevic regime?When B92, Belgrade's key alternative voice, was shut down in 1996, it switched its broadcasts online (seewww.b92.net). The public pressure this generated got it back on air within two days, the first time Milosevic was defeated on his own turf. But when B92 was shut down again during the Nato bombing of 1999, no digital intervention was powerful enough to prevent either local repression or the collateral damage of western attacks.Is there still a place for B92 now?In the 90s, B92 became a focus for Serbs who said no to Milosevic's nationalism but were willing to fight for a better future rather than emigrating. Now B92 is part of the continuing battle within Serbia to establish principles of free speech, human rights and social justice.Has the web helped increase political interest among younger people?It may not have increased activism, but it has focused it, particularly in the anti-globalisation movement. But the essential issue is to tackle digital exclusion; to ensure access for all that want it, rather than simply those who can afford it.Favourite websites?The Institute of War and Peace Reportingis inspiring. It also operates via email bulletin, one of the most accessible ways to publish digitally. The provocative mailing listNettime, music ragPopbitchand net insider sarcasm sheetNeed To Knowall do it the same way: just pure unadulterated information. Few make money, but they are loved and respected - and unique to the medium.&#149;  This Is Serbia Calling by Matthew Collin is published by Serpent's Tail, priced &#163;9.99.
Hear the words "pervasive computing" and you think of the distant dreams of technocrats: a time in the future when everything from the fridge to the car is web-enabled, really is upon us.Yet, away from these grandiose schemes, digital technologies really are making their way into high streets, museums, pubs and clubs. The introduction of devices such as i-plus points - internet terminals which sit in streets and provide access to local travel news, council websites, job information and send-only email - may provide clues as to how pervasive computing business models may develop.The i-plus points are pro vided for local authorities by Cityspace so people can get information while they're out and about. Mark Meyohas, Cityspace's managing director explains why: "The more people get wired up, the more they become reliant on the ability to access digital services."This kind of quick, straightforward access to information is typical of the way people use the i-plus points, which can be found in several London boroughs, Cardiff, Bristol and other city centres. Most users spend just four minutes on the device, time enough to send an email saying they're running late.But while the attraction of free digital services for consumers might be obvious, what does Cityspace get out of the deal? According to Meyohas, the company has two revenue streams. One is from advertisers who pay to go on   the system, but most of Cityspace's revenue comes from local councils.Cityspace offers councils the option of paying for digital infrastructure via either a straight fee or a barter system. Instead of paying &#163;10,000 for each i-plus point, councils can opt to give Cityspace's sister company Adshel the right to erect advertising billboards. In turn, Adshel then pays a fee to Cityspace (a similar system has been used with bus shelters for years).In Bristol, this approach dovetailed with the council's wish to create a "legible city". Bristol is, in the words of Alastair Brook, team manager for urban design in the city, "very multi-centred". Brook says that, as part of a city-wide regeneration effort, the i-plus points are used in conjunction with signs and maps to help people find their way around. In addition, councils can use the i-plus points to get information out to residents who don't have access to a PC.In the near future, it's this kind of integrated advertising and media-driven model that is likely to become commonplace. Already trains to and from Heathrow show a BBC news bulletin, while bars in   London show digital ads on screens above the urinals.According to Matt Travers, European creative director of the applied concepts laboratory at e-business solutions provider Agency.com, this approach works because "marketing is a value exchange that happens between business and consumer without any actual real transaction occurring."But Travers, who helped create a text messaging pub quiz game for Interbrew, warns that the roll-out of more ambitious applications and services will depend on third generation mobile phones, and a straightforward payment system. Unless pervasive computing devices and applications are easy and fast to use, why should anybody bother with them?E-business solutions provider Crimsonwing has been creating catalogues that enable engineers working in the field to order a limited number of crucial parts on a personal digital assistant, rather than wasting time wading through all the products available on a complex electronic B2B exchange.According to chairman Mike Winch, previously IT    director at Safeway, the key lies in creating applications that are genuinely useful and delivered via devices that are appropriate to their environment. "These devices by definition will be pervasive," he   says. "We won't just have one PC, we'll have several pervasive devices - in the kitchen, in the car, on your person."Hewlett-Packard's Bristol research laboratory gives a glimpse of such a future. There, a team has been developing Cooltown, an imaginary city where "people, places and things have web presence." In such a city, your car would be able to diagnose a problem when it breaks down and then contact the garage. "What we will see is a world wide web infrastructure that is much more adapted to service, to delivery of real-time information," says Cooltown project manager Simon Crouch.For those companies that come up with applications and devices used on a day-to-day basis in such a future, the potential pay-off from pervasive computing is huge. The early evidence is coming to a city centre near you.Web addresses:Cityspace:www.cityspace.comAgency.com:www.agency.comHewlett-Packard:http://welcome.hp.com/country/uk/eng/welcome.htmCrimson Wing:www.crimsonwing.com
OS medicineDouglas Rushkoff's suggestion(Second sight, August 9)that Microsoft's operating system monopoly     should be broken by allowing other vendors to produce their own version of Windows is unrealistic.The computer     industry and its users do not need the added complexity of various new flavours of Windows going their     independent paths. In fact, it is not the Windows OS per se that is the issue with the Microsoft monopoly. It is     the way that Microsoft uses Windows to force its own solutions into the marketplace.Microsoft must be made to     swallow some of its own medicine in the form of "componentware". This has been one of its great selling points     for extensions to application software, but only in a very limited way to the Windows OS itself. Microsoft needs     to allow other vendors the chance to integrate applications and components with the OS in the same seamless     way it does for its own solutions.Now that Microsoft is converging on a single OS (Windows XP), publishing a     stable interface that can be used effectively by its competitors becomes a real possibility.William Hudsonwhudson@syntagm.co.ukFlashy flawsI cannot agree with Chris Sparks (Feedback, August 16) regarding the     implementation and use of Flash. My machine is free of this distraction, so I visited the website he sought to     rehabilitate (seewww.ippr.org.uk) to see what my browser would make of it. Connection was quick, the modem     blinked merrily, the disk whirred, but nothing appeared on screen even after this activity finished."Here we go     again," I thought, and prepared to disconnect. Just in time the modem blinked again and, finally, something fairly     minimal appeared on screen and I was informed an applet had started. This probably lasted little more than a     minute but, in the absence of visual clues, there was nothing to contemplate other than the pennies adding up.And what was there after all this? A horizontal bar with roll-over messages (shades of the maddening marquee)     and a number of inscrutable icons that the mouse had to pass over one by one before, ignoring the pointless     animation, some outline of the site could be gleaned. It is the first page of a website that counts. Frustrate the     visitor at this stage and he will go no further to explore the delights within. It is there, once the visitor is     already hooked, that it may be appropriate to deploy the armoury of fancy tricks, provided they fulfil a genuine     purpose. HTML starts to render progressively on screen even as it is being downloaded. Flash's fatal flaw would     seem to be that it is compiled as a mini program which has to download in its entirety before it can, or can't, be     activated. It should always be pre-announced and avoidable.Clive Hesfordclivehesford@compuserve.comTaxing timesIt is symptomatic of the shambles in Whitehall e-government that it is impossible to send an email to Tony     Blair. Their idea of communication is them at one end of a megaphone and the rest of us at the other: no prizes     for guessing which way it is pointing. I don't have any trouble paying my council tax to Guildford borough council.W S PalmerWSteve.palmer@btinternet.comVictor Smart suggests you can't "complain direct to the ombudsman"     online. However, you can complain direct to the local government ombudsman (as long as you do not want to send     any attachments). See our website atwww.lgo.org.ukHilary Pookhpook@lgo.org.ukVictor Smart says you can't     pay a parking ticket online. Well, I have just done that, at Merton council's website. Can't say I enjoyed it much,     but at least it worked.Andrew Leighandy.redroof@btinternet.comBitter testMy last employer sent me on three     of the Microsoft courses - Supporting Windows 95, NT4 Server Admin and NT4 Core Technologies. Of these, only     the NT4 Server Admin was even slightly useful. It at least showed you how to create and maintain user accounts.The other two were full of tedious and ultimately irrelevant details about the architecture of Windows. What was     missing from all three courses was any (relevant) information on trouble-shooting. To judge from the courses,     crashes, freeze-ups and blue-screen errors do not happen: there was not even an acknowledgement that they     occur, let alone information on how to deal with them. My experience suggests that, although you might need the     Microsoft exams to get a job in the IT sector, you need many years of bitter experience with Microsoft's     half-baked software to actually survive in one.R Edwardsredwards57@hotmail.comBeer 'n' tagsBen Powell's     defence (Feedback, August 16) of Microsoft's smart tags could not be more wrong. As someone who runs a     website dedicated toReal Ale, I aim to ensure that all links from my site lead to pages     that are relevant to Real Ale lovers. If Microsoft or anybody else hijacks my pages and inserts links to sites     praising nitro-keg or worse still porn sites, then my reputation as a reliable information provider could be ruined.This is nothing short of the theft of my right to control what links appear on my own website. It is all very well     to say I have the option of switching off smart tags, but surely it is up to anybody who wants to interfere with     my pages to ask me for permission rather than for me to have to ensure every page contains the suppression     meta-tags? Even with those meta-tags in place, there is nothing to say Microsoft won't in the future decide to     override them; they are not exactly the most trustworthy company in the world, after all.Tony Greentony@beermad.org.uk
All-terrain adventureswww.lonelyplanet.comCity listings on your Palmwww.citysync.comListings and eventswww.whatsonwhen.comCity guideswww.timeout.comGuide to 300 citieswww.wcities.com100 things to do before you diewww.whatsgoingon.com/100things.cgi
There comes a point during an occupation when resistance seems futile and the pragmatists collaborate. InSilicon Valley's long struggle against Microsoft, we have reached that point.Microsoft's domination of the webhas become first inevitable and, now, even convenient. Critics such as Dave Winer, an independent softwaredeveloper and the opinionated author of theScripting.comwebsite, are isolated. And pragmatists, such asmyself, have learned to love Microsoft. What has changed?After all, Microsoft is as much the evil empire as itwas five years ago, when the company vowed to wrench the internet browser software market from Netscape.First, Microsoft now appears less threatening to companies outside the technology industry. The failure ofSidewalk, Microsoft's city guide service, has calmed the newspaper industry. Its bill payment venture, which soworried the banks, has gone nowhere. And last month's sale of Expedia, the online travel service, markedMicrosoft's retreat from the frontline of e-commerce.Second, Microsoft's software has improved by perfectingthe art of incremental software development through rigorous usability testing. The latest version of InternetExplorer resizes images to fit the window, for instance. A small touch that shows it thought through the userexperience. MSN Messenger, Microsoft's instant messaging software, presents a cleaner interface than itsrivals. And no forthcoming piece of consumer software excites me as much as Windows Messenger, which addsrobust voice communication to instant text messaging. I love the simplicity of web publishing from Office XPdocuments.I have changed my settings so that Microsoft Word files save automatically to a web folder and inHTML, so they are instantly available for viewing over the internet. What about software for developers?Microsoft has long had a hostile relationship with independent developers. But it is the main force behind webservices, the notion that internet applications will be able to call on each other to perform specific duties; that,for instance, a content personalisation system will be able easily to call upon another service to provideintegrated online credit card payment.And web services are seen by many developers as the next frontier forthe internet. Rivals among the developer community, such as the Linux operating system, have lost momentum.Even if Microsoft only appears innovative by comparison with an industry that it has stifled, the company isproducing more interesting technology now than at any time in the past decade. As a consumer, it is easier to bewarm to a company if you respect the ease of use of its software.But that does not explain the acquiescence ofrival technology companies in Silicon Valley. For that, one needs to look at the effects of the collapse in ITspending and stock valuations, the third important change in Microsoft's environment. The fall in the Nasdaqstock market index, down more than 60% since its peak in April 2000, has undermined Silicon Valley's confidencein itself. When the first pure internet companies collapsed, companies such as Sun, Hewlett-Packard and Oraclethought they would benefit from a flight to security by corporate IT spenders.Now, with their own sales fallingwell below forecast, they are less complacent. When times were good, they could aspire to Microsoft's crown.Now they appreciate that the computer industry's fate is wrapped up in Microsoft's. Hence the industry'sacceptance of Windows XP, which ties together the operating system and Microsoft's internet services evenmore tightly than its predecessors. Rivals may not like Microsoft's power, but they are also desperate for arevival of IT spending.As Andy Grove, a former head of Intel, says: to restart demand for computers, an"upgrade cycle" has always worked before. Even Silicon Valley's venture capitalists, and the start-ups theyfinance, have put aside their hostility. Kleiner Perkins, which backed many of the past decade's would-beMicrosoft killers, spends more time pitching their portfolio companies as acquisition targets. Marc Andreessen -having failed with Netscape to dent Microsoft - proudly touts the Microsoft relationship of Loudcloud, his newcompany. Entrepreneurs, once fiercely independent, look enviously at the example of Hotmail, wise enough to sellfor $400m in Microsoft stock in 1998.&#149;   Nick Denton founded First Tuesday and Moreover Technologies.
Bot or not?A cartoon in New Yorker magazine once famously quipped that, on the internet, "nobody knows you're     a dog." Now, on Lycos, not content with leaving users uncertain as to whether they're chatting with a pooch or     not, they could find themselves talking to... a computer. Believe it or not, Lycos is publicising the fact that     they've released several "Bots" into their chat areas to liven things up. And, in a move which is certain to call     into question the intelligence of the average Lycos chatter, a Lycos boss is claiming there have been examples of     users chatting for an hour to a bot, unaware that there wasn't a human behind the cartoon face. Draw your own     conclusions about the quality of chat there...www.lycos.co.ukBallmer's ballsA few weeks ago Need to Know, the     excellent online newsletter for geeks, unearthed a remarkable video clip of Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief     executive, geeing up the troops at a company event. He rampages round a stage in front of the whooping crowd,     issuing a strange pig-like squealing, and pulling a variety of scary faces, before breathlessly announcing: "I...     love... this... company!"Now the NTK guys have found a sequel - like them all, Dancing with Ballmer II it's not quite     as good as the original, but it's certainly still worth the hefty download. Seewww.ntk.net/ballmer/mirrors.htmlPayphone funOne of the longest-running online obsessions has surrounded payphones. Don't ask why, but the     phones - especially those in exotic locations around the world, have long fascinated geeks. They enjoy randomly     picking a number to call, and then chatting to whoever picks up. The best site I've found (and I've looked at a few,     believe me) is the Payphone Project. Site owner Mark Thomas is passionate about public telephones - he feels     they are a valuable service for the disadvantaged - and started collecting payphone numbers six years ago.Now     he has 300,000 on his site (another 800,000, donated by a contact in the telephone business, are still waiting to     be added). Those numbers include, this week, a call box in Bermuda and a bright red public telephone in the     Vatican. Seewww.payphone-project.comJo Blog's diaryWeblogs are fantastic things - an easy way for folk to create     their own online presence and contribute something to the web that has been made very easy by the Blogger     system. The slightly touchy-feely nature of many weblogs (many are semi-confessional diaries,     which go into their owner's life in quite intimate detail) means they are viewed as being a very American thing,     which is a little unfair. Gblogs is a UK listing of some British blogs - you'll find the confessionals in there too,     along with others devoted to everything from telecoms to Bolton Wanderers. All the way, there's some fantastic     graphic design and some clever coding too, which goes to show the blogging revolution is just as active here as     Over There.Seehttp://gblogs.threadnaught.netwww.blogger.comPilot patterProbably best to look at this one     after you've come back from your holidays... the Professional Pilots' Rumour Network (or PPRuNe, as it calls     itself) gives a little bit of an insight into the superficially glamorous world of professional flying. It quickly     becomes clear that it's not all Club Tropicana and good tans up on the flight deck - the discussion boards have     frank discussions of accidents, near misses, the pay disputes which are causing problems for travellers across     the world and, of course, plenty on the particularly stupid things passengers get up to.www.pprune.orgDisaster   zoneAnd if PPRuNe gets you worried, best get along to Worst Case Scenarios, which advises you on how to get     out of a range of sticky situations. "Danger!", shrieks the opening page. "It lurks at every corner. Sharks.     Quicksand. Terrorists. The pilot of the plane blacks out and it's up to you to land the jet. What do you do?" It     then goes on to tell you exactly what you should do, on a series of pages with titles running from "How to Escape     from Quicksand" to "How to survive if your parachute fails to open". Are they serious?The detailed instructions,     and the fact there's a book by the same name, suggests they are. And as something of a bonus, there are extra,     web-only pages available - including how to cope with Ebola, anthrax and severed limbs. Worst case scenarios all,     I'm sure you'll agree.Seewww.worstcasescenarios.comNew &amp; noted&#149;  Health portal... www.healthsites.co.uk&#149;  Online  travel gets crowded...www.yell.com/travel&#149;  Online travel gets rammed...www.totaljourney.com
Stelios Haji-Ioannou, the millionaire founder of EasyJet, is to start offering personalised credit cards under the new Easymoney brand from next month - adding to a range of businesses which already includes internet cafes and car hire firms.He expects to make losses for at least a few years but has not ruled out floating off the business, as he has done eventually with EasyJet.Aiming for 75,000 customers within a year, all of whom will have to register for the card over the net, he also intends to start offering loans. However, Mr Haji-Ioannou ruled out trying to lure in savers with high interest accounts - the route chosen by many new entrants to the financial services arena.But his distinctive, bright orange credit card may face criticism from consumer groups because it could reject those on low incomes because of its reliance on the credit-quality scoring of applicants."What we're saying is we'll do things differently. For some people we'll be cheaper, for some we'll be more expensive if they've been rejected by another company, and for some we'll refuse cards altogether. We're trying to inject some science into the process," Mr Haji-Ioannou said.In partnership with Accucard, a new firm providing the software, Easymoney aims to allow customers to chose the rate of interest they pay on their balances, trading off cash-backs or loyalty points with other parts of the Easy chain for higher rates of interest. Customers' credit ratings will also be used to set their rate of interest, which is likely to fall in the range of 9% to 19%.To comply with industry regulations, the cards will be issued by London Scottish, a bank which focuses on clients historically turned away by high street banks. Customers who miss the target could be passed on to London Scottish.Mr Haji-Ioannou, who publicly cut up his Barclaycard in a row with the provider over the Luton airport base of his EasyJet empire, is testing the first Easymoney card. "I don't borrow, so I didn't minimise my interest rates. I maximised my cash-back instead," he said.
The Italian internet service provider, Tiscali, has put Britain high on its corporate shopping list as it bids for the top slot in the European market sector.But the group, which has historically financed acquistions with its own shares, will now use cash to fund its takeover activities.Tiscali is also seeking to break even by the fourth quarter of the year, according to its chairman and chief executive, Renato Soru.The Italian company is at present the second largest ISP in Europe after Deutsche Telekom-owned T-Online, but claims a more diverse geographical spread than its German rival.Yesterday, in an interview with the Italian newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore, Mr Soru said: "We want to achieve European leadership. We must become at least the third internet operator in every country."Spain and England will be the next destinations, " he added. But with the Tiscali share price standing at some &euro;7.5 - less than a third of its peak for the year - Mr Soru is calling a halt, for the time being, to the share swaps that have financed the group's expansion programme."It would make no sense to carry on the paper for paper operations," he said.Instead the group will finance deals from its own coffers - at least until the share price recovers.    "We will go back to using our stock when the quoted price recovers," Mr Soru said.He added that the group was hoping to be in the black by the end of the year, helped by rising advertising revenues, which Mr Soru said were showing double-figure growth."Our aim is to reach positive EBITDA &#91;earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation&#93; in the fourth quarter of this year and turnover should reach &euro;800m," he said.
About 1,000 employees working for AOL Time Warner's core internet division are to be laid off within the next few days in what is expected to be the start of a new round of redundancies at the company.The cuts represent about 6% of the 16,000 jobs at the group's internet service division - often referred to as the company's crown jewel - which has suffered from this year's sharp downturn in the advertising market.Some 720 jobs were cut from the internet division in January, when AOL and Time Warner officially merged. The combined media and internet company has already cut thousands of jobs from a total workforce of about 90,000 in an attempt to meet aggressive financial targets set before the extent of the global economic slowdown was known.An AOL spokeswoman declined to comment on the latest round of job cuts yesterday.Wall Street analysts said that they expected an announcement before the end of the week. The cuts are expected to hit all staff members at the division, though the marketing team is likely to be hardest hit.Several analysts also made it clear yesterday that they expected further cuts before the end of the year.Christa Sober, analyst at Thomas Weisel and partners, said: "There's still a lot of fat to cut within the company. Our understanding is that the cost synergies are going to continue to manifest themselves."The world's largest media and internet group announced 2,400 job losses soon after the merger was finalised. All parts of the business were affected, but CNN, the cable news division of Time Warner, bore the brunt of these cuts.The company has also announced plans to close its chain of Warner Bros Studios stores, leading to a further 3,800 job losses.At the time of its merger, the company promised to increase revenues by 12-15% to more than $40bn (&#163;27.6bn) and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation by 30% to $11bn.Most analysts expect the company to struggle to achieve these aggressive targets because of the slowdown in the advertising market and the US economy. Mr Weisel believes that they can be met but only by further restructuring, strategic alliances and accounting changes.Last week, the company indicated that it was considering further cuts in its latest filing to the securities and exchange commission."These restructuring plans are expected to be broadened to include additional restructuring initiatives in the third and fourth quarters as management continues to evaluate the integration of the combined companies," it said.The filing came after the New York group revealed a worse than expected slowdown in revenue growth for the second quarter last month. The shares declined as much as 10% on the news but improved yesterday. They are still below the $55 reached in February.It also emerged that the group's revenues from advertising and e-commerce fell below some Wall Street targets in the second quarter.Revenue at the AOL unit rose 13% to $2.1bn in the second quarter, but some analysts had expected growth of 20%.Other media groups have also cut jobs amid the advertising downturn, including Walt Disney and News Corporation. However, AOL Time Warner has been the most aggressive in terms of cuts and its financial targets.The group is keen to expand overseas in a move to end its dependence on the US market. Last month, it bought IPC Media, the British publisher of consumer magazines such as Loaded and Marie Claire, for $1.15bn.
NewMedia Spark is understood to be considering legal action against the Italian entrepreneur who yesterday threatened to derail the internet investment vehicle's acquisition of new economy holding company GlobalNet Financial.NewMedia Spark alleges that Italian software group AISoftware, run by Francesco Gardin, breached a promise not to become involved in a public takeover battle.NewMedia Spark was last night forced to increase its offer for GlobalNet to $11.25m (&#163;7.79m) in cash from $9m in order to match a competing offer from AISoftware made late last week.GlobalNet's board had threatened to call off its agreed merger with NewMedia Spark in order to accept a higher offer from AISoftware.NewMedia Spark, which owns 14% of GlobalNet, made its original agreed offer in June. That sparked interest from AISoftware, which holds 13% of GlobalNet.NewMedia Spark reached an agreement with AISoftware to allow the Italian firm to make just one approach to GlobalNet. If unsuccessful, AISoftware agreed to support the NewMedia Spark deal.The Italian company made an all-share offer for GlobalNet which was rejected because it was too complex and GlobalNet would have run out of cash before completion. But rather than retire, AISoftware went public and returned with an increased cash bid.NewMedia Spark's lawyers believe they have a strong case for demanding that AISoftware compensate the company for the cost of increasing its offer.Last night NewMedia Spark said it had received support for the deal from shareholders representing 41% of the company and that it would hold AISoftware to its promise.Privately, senior manage ment at NewMedia Spark admit that the only reason they have not walked away from the deal is the stake that GlobalNet has in EO, the London-listed financial portal. NewMedia Spark has a 20% stake in EO, while GlobalNet has about 24%.EO was set up last year, offering retail investors a chance to take part in the flotation of hi-tech companies through a web portal. Since the dot.com crash, however, it has repositioned its business and now acts as an intermediary between small brokerages and large investment banks.It is one of a number of stakes in new economy firms held by Globalnet, which which was forced to sell or close its operating businesses earlier this year. GlobalNet also holds a 49% stake in share trading platform Stock Academy and just under 30% of financial software group Synaptic. GlobalNet had originally been involved in the supply of online financial news.
Excite@Home, one of the internet's best known names, was fighting for its financial future yesterday amid growing speculation that it would be forced to file for bankruptcy.Shares in the broadband internet specialist plummeted almost 40% yesterday as analysts, credit rating agencies and even Excite's own auditors questioned whether it could survive.As its shares slumped to a record low of 44 cents (30p), Excite admitted that its chances of raising the capital needed to survive by the end of the year were slim.In an annual report filed with the securities and exchange commission, auditors Ernst &amp; Young expressed "substantial doubt about the company's ability to continue as a going concern". It said Excite had racked up "recurring operating losses and negative cash flows and has a substantial need for additional funding" to keep running.Credit rating agency Standard &amp; Poor's underlined the company's difficulties by cutting its credit rating from "B-" to "CCC", a level only usually awarded to businesses with se vere financial problems. "Severely limited liquidity is likely to lead to a further downgrade in the near term, unless the company can access additional funding," S&amp;P said after assigning a "negative" outlook.Henry Blodget, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, predicted that Excite would probably declare itself bankrupt, reorganise and sell pieces of its business to cable or internet service providers.At the height of the dot.com boom the company was one of the highest-profile US internet firms and a leading proponent of broadband internet access to the home. It has more than 3m customers taking its @Home service and 10,000 businesses subscribing to @Work.But the slump in internet advertising and mounting losses in its media division have increased debt to $1bn. Last quarter Excite lost $346.3m. Since the start of the year it has cut 800 jobs and is in danger of having its shares delisted from the Nasdaq stock market.Excite is 23% owned by telecoms firm AT&amp;T and continued uncertainty over the ownership of the latter's own broadband unit had compounded Excite's difficulties, analysts said.
Computer games publisher Rage announced yesterday that full-year pretax losses had more than doubled to &#163;17m but managing director Paul Finnegan said that the introduction of new consoles and games titles should bring a sales uplift by Christmas.In the year to June 30 Rage saw pretax losses widen from &#163;6.7m to &#163;17m because of investment in new titles. Yesterday the stock fell 0.75p to 7p.Shares in Rage have fallen sharply over the past year and investors are hoping for widespread consumer take-up of new consoles such as PlayStation 2, which was introduced earlier this year, and Microsoft's X-Box, due to reach British shops next spring.Rage has been forced to battle through a period that has been difficult for the whole games industry. Like competi tor Eidos, it has asked for fresh funds to reinforce its balance sheet and raised &#163;20m. Accounting and reporting policies have been changed and management has been shaken up.Mr Finnegan said that Rage was well positioned to exploit the upturn in the sector when it came.In the meantime, Rage would continue to seek to acquire exclusive licences from high-profile names to add to existing deals such as the one with England football captain David Beckham. The Beckham game should be in the shops for Christmas.A further four games are due for release in the coming financial year.
Mary Meeker, the Wall Street analyst once dubbed 'Queen of the Internet', faces legal action over her role as 'cheerleader' to Britain's Lastminute.com.A lawsuit is to be filed in New York this week accusing Meeker of improperly recommending Lastminute shares to investors after her employer, investment bank Morgan Stanley, was appointed to manage Lastminute's flotation. Morgan Stanley will also be named in the action.Meeker, 41, who denies wrongdoing, co-authored an upbeat research note on the travel company in April 2000, a month after it floated in London at 380p. Shares in Lastminute, founded by youthful entrepreneurs Martha Lane Fox and Brent Hoberman, have plunged from an early high of 488p to 36.5p.The multimillion-dollar class action, to be launched on behalf of investors, follows a raft of recent suits in the US alleging that senior analysts, including Meeker, abused their positions during the technology boom. The claims allege that they plugged shares in order to help their employers win lucrative banking business from the companies concerned.Daniel Osborn, the attorney bringing the new claim, said: 'Mary Meeker was in a position of conflict in which she was favouring her firm's interests over that of her customers. We believe she had a fiduciary duty to place their interests first.'His firm, Beatie &amp; Osborn,   plans to file the action at the New York state court at the end of this week. The lawsuit covers Meeker's recommendations and research on more than 20 technology companies. Osborn confirmed that this includes Lastminute, which is traded on Nasdaq and the London Stock Exchange.Lastminute is not a defendant in next week's legal action and there is no suggestion of wrongdoing on the company's part. Yesterday Lane Fox refused to discuss the legal claim or Meeker's role.Morgan Stanley promised that the claim would be defended vigorously and said: 'While we cannot comment on the specifics of a suit that has not been filed, we believe that this claim is without merit, and the case should be and will be dismissed. Morgan Stanley's research is thorough and objective. Mary Meeker is one of the most respected analysts on Wall Street, and her integrity is of the highest order.'
The greatest thinkers are always those who can learn from their mistakes. Take Fred Brooks, the engineer who led development of the operating system for the IBM 360 mainframes in the late Sixties. It was the largest software project undertaken up to that point and, like all such projects, it ran over time and budget. But eventually, the series was one of IBM's most successful products.At which point, most project managers would have breathed a sigh of relief, updated the CV, and moved on.But not Brooks. Instead he quit IBM, became a professor at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, and began to reflect on what had    gone wrong in the OS360 project and why. The result of his cogitations was an elegant collection of path-breaking essays,  The Mythical Man-Month, published by Prentice Hall in 1975. It has never been out of print since.The curious title comes from Brooks's intuition that the traditional way of measuring programming effort did not make sense. Whenever a software project falls behind, the instinctive managerial response was - and still is - to throw more programmers at it. But Brooks's experience on OS360 suggested that, in practice, adding programmers to a failing team actually slowed it further.Re-reading the book is   salutary, for although most of the technology mentioned is nowadays found only in museums, many of Brooks's central insights are as relevant as ever.A couple of years ago, I met him for lunch. He turned out to have a wry sense of humour and a rare insight into the computing industry. You could caricature it, I suppose, by calling it the view from 60,000ft. After lunch he gave a lecture on how the entire history of the computer industry can be explained as a series of ultimately unsuccessful attempts to escape from the fundamental architecture for digital computing laid down by John von Neumann in the late Forties.To reach this insight, Brooks had to strip away all the superficial gloss of successive generations of computers - all the stuff about Ram, instruction sets and pipeline caches that impresses the computer press - to get at the underlying characteristics of   each machine and compare it with the axioms laid down by von Neumann.It was an awe-inspiring performance. I came away thinking that we need more people like Brooks to help us think about the sea changes under way on the internet, from new authentication technologies for e-commerce to Microsoft's dot-Net initiative, which will alter the network's architecture in fundamental - and potentially troubling - ways.We are bombarded daily with press releases, information about new technologies and processes, White Papers and predictions about the New, New Thing. The problem is how to winkle out from this blizzard of information some real understanding of what it all means. Or, put in older communications technology, how to see the wood for the trees.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
Britain's leading football clubs are set to earn huge amounts of extra income by charging fans to watch them in action on the internet,  writes Denis Campbell .Arsenal will launch their own subscription-based web service this week. Supporters will pay &#163;13 a quarter to see goals, key moments and highlights from their Premier League games. Manchester United and Liverpool will announce similar ventures in the next few weeks.They are the first clubs to take advantage of the Premiership's new TV deal, which starts this weekend and now allows its 20 clubs to show highlights of their own league games on club TV channels or websites.Football executives believe the acquisition of 'delayed transmission rights' will eventually prove a hugely lucrative source of income.The handful of glamorous clubs which have big followings overseas will profit most. Some 40 million of Manchester United's 50 million-strong worldwide following live in places such as the Far East and Scandinavia; Liverpool have 5 million foreign fans.'This is very cheap to do, so most of this extra income is free money', said an official at one top club. 'It's a great way of connecting with the millions of fans who rarely get a chance to go to a game at Old Trafford or Anfield and turning them into customers.'United are about to launch an upgraded version of their manutd.com website in conjunction with satellite broadcaster BSkyB and video company VCI. Subscribers will be able to see action from all United's league games, home and away. A searchable archive of all the team's performances since the Premier League's formation in 1992 will let them compile David Beckham's best goals or Roy Keane's sendings-off.Although the new services may be slow to catch on at first, the gradual spread of broadband technology, delivering television-quality pictures via the internet, is expected to entice many fans to sign up.Oliver Butler, editor of  Soccer Investor magazine, said: 'Can clubs convert casual fans into subscribers? I think enough fans will be willing to pay to make this worthwhile, especially for big clubs like Manchester United. Even if they attract only a fraction of their 50 million fans, that's still more supporters than most other clubs have. This could add tens of millions to their bottom line within two years.'denis.campbell@observer.co.uk
The Industry Standard, the magazine that charted the rise and fall of the dot.com bubble, has itself imploded.Standard Media International will stop publication of the journal on Monday and said it will file for bankruptcy if a buyer cannot be found by then. All but 15 of 180 staff are being laid off after the magazine fell victim to a sharp slump in advertising revenues from dot.com companies.The announcement follows the collapse of financing talks with majority owner International Data Group. One senior editor said: "We knew it was in trouble, because it has been in trouble all year but this was sudden." The Standard's launch in 1998 was one of the most commercially successful in publish ing history and the magazine went on to encapsulate the zeitgeist of the era.Each month it would throw lavish "rooftop parties" at fashionable hotels around San Francisco where entrepreneurs, venture capitalists and investment bankers would swap business cards and gossip. Record advertising revenues from technology firms and financial institutions helped the magazine   to an enviable position of financial health and allowed it to pay unusually generous salaries to a staff of 300. As dot.com fever spread across the Atlantic a European edition was launched but almost as soon as the Americans had landed they started to retreat.A collapse in the value of many internet companies put the brakes on advertising revenues and the Standard was forced to retrench.Standard Media, which rang up sales of $140m last year, expects revenue to be nearer $40m this year. The Industry Standard's European edition closed in April. The shutdown comes just weeks after the closure of rival magazine Business 2.0."This is a very sad day for everybody who has helped make the Industry Standard a great publication," said Jonathan Weber, editor in chief.
The Code Red computer worm - considered so threatening that it prompted an unprecedented joint warning from the FBI and Microsoft last month - is set to renew its attack on Monday, but this time the FBI has downgraded its potential for damage.The worm has infected hundreds of thousands of computers by exploiting a flaw in a Microsoft internet software program used mainly by businesses.The worm spreads during the first half of a month, then launches a denial-of-service attack - last month directed at the White House website - in the second half.The FBI feared that the resulting internet traffic could slow the world wide web to a crawl.In last month's warning, the FBI urged businesses to download software from Microsoft's website that corrects the fault and renders computers invulnerable to Code Red.Yesterday FBI officials said in a statement: "Because of the rapid response from the public, industry and infrastructure providers to mitigate the potential for damage from this worm, the threat posed by the upcoming attack is significantly reduced."However, over the last month it appears many businesses - ironically including Microsoft itself - did not heed the warning.Some of Microsoft's Hotmail servers were infected by Code Red, and there were reports of infections at companies such as FedEx and the Press Association.Keynote Systems, a company that monitors the performance of the internet, said the net slowed by only about 15% the last time the worm attacked on July 20, and much of that disruption was caused by a train crash in Baltimore that cut cabling to a major ISP.The overall response to the warning has been good enough to give the FBI confidence that when Code Red begins to flood servers with requests on Monday, it will have far fewer servers on its side.Any companies running Windows NT or Windows 2000 who have not installed the Microsoft IIS patch can download it for free onMicrosoft's web site.Related articles06.08.2001: New warning over computer worm01.08.2001: Code Red fails to cause internet meltdown31.07.2001, Comment: Code Red meltdown? Don't bet on itExplainedCode Red wormUseful linksVmyths on Code RedUS National infrastructure protection centre
