'Best of' was away last week due to E3, but here we are again - five days of fun and frolics on the electronic pages of Chatterbox, condensed into several paragraphs and some lists.Here we go...Thursday kicked off with a confusing onslaught of technical issues, game demos and Warhawk complaints, obviously following on from the previous afternoon's discussions. In the early afternoon, Salubriousone popped in with a challenge - invent a videogame version of those musicals based around nostalgic pop acts (a la Mamma Mia, We Will Rock You, et al). Swash suggested a bizarre crossover of Aphex Twin and Ecco the Dolphin (Aphex Fin, naturally), Elquesodiablo went for Talking Heads: The Game, and the better, "Death Cab For Cutie. A j-pop-addled Crazy Taxi meets Death Race 2000". I also liked BeardofBees' Guantanamo Gray.Friday saw WipeOut HD delays, the behaviour of British people in Barcelona and, erm, bestiality. Somehow, things went down hill from here, collapsing into a faux-classist vortex of public transport ire and tracksuit jokes, permeated by football transfer gossip - nowthere'sa pitch for a late-night cable TV show if ever there was one. Then, in a 180 degree twist, Chatterbox transmogrified into a Mac User-style forum, with graphics tablets and music creation software emerging for serious scrutiny. For a while it looked like games might eventually get a look in... but then - ta da! - Star Wars quotes with key words replaced by 'pants'. Frankly, there was no way back from here...Monday, no messing, straight into Oblivion - the game, of course. Some took a while to get into Bathesda's bloated classic, some enjoyed doing their own thing, but disliked the main quest. "It was the repetitive nature of it that killed it for me," said Riffmagus, summing up a familiar argument, "...along with the stock responses from the NPC's and Sean 'comatosed' Bean. It has moments of genius, and then seems to be let down by perhaps trying to do TOO much." Life-swallowing games then cropped up, but this potentially interesting subject dissipated too quickly with the likes of Street Fighter 2, Age of Empires and Halo namechecked.Later, short discussions about Assassin's Creed and Metal Gear Solid IV merged together into a contemplation of how modern adventure titles seem to be geared more toward new/novice gamers in terms of difficulty. "Once you suss Assassin's Creed's counterattacking combat becomes far too easy," said Naboomagnoli in response to Swash's difficulties with a particular section. "It's not meant to be patronising, but it's simply a case of taking your time and letting the enemy come to you rather than charging them unnecessarily". Then Tenancy popped up with news of his first son - congratulations from Gamesblog!Tuesday saw talk of some Gamesblog online favourites, PES, Warcraft and 'Golf' (Everybody's Golf?) as well as a smattering of GTA achievements. Unpleasantly hot offices oozed into the conversation, then sloped off. A quick chat about the lack of really excellent PSP titles followed, with the usual suspects - Metal Gear Acid, LocoRoco and GTA: Liberty City Stories cropping up among the smattering of must-haves.This drip-fed into Wednesday with the DS and downloadable games coming in for similar treatment. There were complaints about the rather barren looking release schedule for the next month. Well, it is summer - although developers on the aforementioned PSN/XBLA/Wiiware platforms should grab this opportunity to get some undivided attention. Then Chatterbox - like the game release line-up - went quiet...Quotes of the week"I hit an old geezer in the face earlier today"Maradonna77 confesses to a random and accidental act of violence on the Northern Line."'Don't you know who I am? I'm Dr.Bender and have been coming here for over 20 years.'"Riffmagus recalls life as a cocktail barman to rowdy geriatrics"Cricket is disgusting"Silverfox073. Harsh but fair. Actually, just harsh."Any music recommendations? I am looking for a cross between The Orb, industrial, Enya and a film soundtrack..."Tiel makes the world's most specific audio request (see music list below for the wealth of suggestions from other readers)."you'd think he would have had the tact to not slap the family about until being out of the spotlight."Elquesodiablo tackles those Christian Bale maternal attack allegationsTV/MoviesCloverfield watchmen Boy A Nightwatch Bonekickers (but not in a good way) Wall-EMusicThe Brian Jonestown Massacre Delerium Doubting Thomas Controlled Bleeding Dead Voices On Air Venetian Snares Murcof Fennesz Tim Hecker Nadja Kevin Drumm Mars Volta EchochromeGamesPES MGO Fable 2 Force Unleashed Fallout 3 Oblivion Final Fantasy VII Battelfield BC Crisis Core Conan Professor Layton and the Curious Village
I'm a big fan of Xbox Live. Friend lists, achievements, ease of use - Live still towers above the Playstation and Wii online services. But then it should. Live costs around 40 quid a year, Sony and Nintendo's offerings are free. Sure the service is good but how long can Microsoft get away with charging? The news that Games for Windows Live - essentially a PC version of Xbox Live - will now beavailable for freemakes it increasingly difficult for Microsoft to justify charging a subscription to Xbox Live.Of course unlike the 360 the PC has a number of competitors for gaming services -Steam, in particular is a far slicker offering than Windows Live - and this has obviously had an influence on the price cut. And yes there are a stack ofpotentially exciting upgradeson the way for Live - Live Party and Primetime could ultimately be as important to the 360's future as Halo 4 - but you have to wonder how long we'll be asked to pay extra to play online with our 360's. My guess? Depending on US PS3 sales in the next year I reckon Xbox Live will be free within 18 months. What do you think?
According toThe Times(of London): "Eastern European hackers are suspected of placing the Asprox virus on more than a thousand British websites, including those run by the NHS and a local council, in the past two weeks." The paper says:Experts described the Asprox virus as an alarming departure from commonplace viruses, which tend to be spread through rogue e-mails and unregulated websites.Pretty shocking stuff, and you might want to check that your anti-virus system blocks it. Good luck with that one, because the "Asprox computer virus" barely exists, unless you count what Symantec calls "Trojan.Asprox(Risk Level 1: Very Low)", which is actually more familiar asaspimgr.exe.However, if aspimgr.exe turned up on a UK government server, I'd be a tad surprised.Fortunately there are other sources of information than The Times, including what I expect is The Times's source: a press release circulated by Eskenzi PR on behalf of Finjan, pointing to a Finjan blog postGovernmental, Healthcare, and Top Business Websites have fallen victims to the new round of Asprox mass attack. As Finjan says:The attack toolkit being used (which is aliased as "Asprox") has been around for few years; however, during the last year we have noticed a rise in the number of attacks using it. The attack toolkits is designed to first search Google for webpages with the file extension [.asp] and then launch SQL injection attacks to append a reference to the malware file using the SCRIPT tag.So, not so much a new virus as an old toolkit....And as the Finjan quote makes clear, what we're actually talking about is a standardSQL Injectionattack that exploits badly coded web sites that use ASP (Microsoft's Active Server Pages), JSP, CGI, or PHP programing and an SQL database. (They're badly coded because they're not adequately checking the input from the user/web browser.)What you want to inject into these web sites is a simple URL, like the one shown in Finjan's picture(click for a larger version):The highlighted line calls a bit of JavaScript --ngg.js, in this case, rather than the old b.js -- from an entirely different Web site. (What's scary about that little search for ngg.js is not how many hits there are, but how few are picked out by Google as "This site may harm your computer." Oh, anddon't visit them.)The remote malware script will make various attempts to slide something past your computer's defences, probably ending with the invitation to download something nasty, such as a codec. Obviously these attacks are aimed at Windows users, who make up roughly 90% of the user base, but anything that runs JavaScript could be attacked. This is one reason why running Firefox with theNo Scriptadd-on is such a good idea. It's also why it's dangerous to allow "cross site scripting," aka XSS, which has been exploited since the 1990s. We wrote about a recent example in April,What's an IFrame attack and why should I care?So, what can you do?Well, if you represent a company, you should read Microsoft'sSecurity Advisory 954462on Rise in SQL Injection Attacks Exploiting Unverified User Data Input, and perhaps visitSentintel IPSsecurity for a copy of its ASPROX Toolkit.Users should make sure their systems are fully patched, and Windows users should have installed XP SP2 or later. IE6 users can increase their security by upgrading to IE7, Firefox or Opera.Anti-virus software is also useful, and in my experience, the freeAvira AntiVirusactive guard is good at blocking this type of scripting attack heuristically. Finjan has sometest resultsbased on uploading malware toVirus Total.The problem for malware distributors nowadays is that relatively few people are vulnerable to viruses circulated on floppy disks, and decreasing numbers are still dumb enough to run viruses that arrive in their email. However, most people are on the web, and thousands of incompetently written dynamic Web sites can now be used to distribute malware instead.That seems unlikely to change for a while. Well, we expect the sites run by the NHS, Sony, Coca-Cola etc will get fixed, but a lot of smaller organisations may not find it easy. And stories that claim sites have been infected by the "Asprox computer virus" will not be much help.
Launch audio playerWe've been to Edinburgh, we've been to Manchester, now we take a trip to Azeroth. That's Azeroth, Second Life ... (and that's the real Vic Keegan in the pic)If you've heard of Azeroth you'll be familiar with the concept of virtual worlds – the online communities that have continued to grow in acres and miles, spreading like a digital virus through almost every online interaction we have today. To discuss developments and predict the virtual future are two experts in this area: The Guardian's Vic Keegan, and Ren Reynolds, curator of Virtual Policy 08 and founder of the Virtual Policy Network. Plus Jemima with news of Yahoo and Apple and oh, so much more...Get in touch using any of the methods below, and don't forget toSkype usand join our newTwitter feed.• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme•Get our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the week•Join our Facebook group•Join our Flickr groupSubscribe via iTunesDownload mp3Podcast feed URL
In this week's Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski...We've been to Edinburgh, we've been to Manchester, now we take a trip to Azeroth. That's Azeroth, Second Life ...If you've heard of Azeroth you'll be familiar with the concept of virtual worlds – the online communities that have continued to grow in acres and miles, spreading like a digital virus through almost every online interaction we have today. To discuss developments and predict the virtual future are two experts in this area: The Guardian'sVic Keegan, andRen Reynolds, curator of Virtual Policy 08 and founder of the Virtual Policy NetworkWe're ignoring the dramatic headlines about the real world riches to be made in these spaces and the well-publicised depravity lurking under the pixellated bedclothing, instead looking at the  ways virtual worlds are being integrated into the decisions politicians, policy makers and the legal system are making.We also explore the implications of the growing number of virtual environments aimed at children under 11 years old, from the BBC's forthcoming Adventure Rock to the education-oriented Moshi Monsters, to the overtly commercial Disney Magic Kingdom.There's the usual news withJemima Kiss, including updates on Carl Icahn and Yahoo, Steve Jobs and Apple, Erik Huggers and the BBC, plus the hottest conversations going on in the blogosphere – with discussion of the equivalent of a virtual world moon landing, and the finding that "Google may be taking over the data of the world, but it's making sex boring."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
If you haven't heard ofTom Loosemore, well, now you have. He works for Ofcom, and is presently seconded to the Cabinet Office, where he has helped in the amazing feat of getting the Royal Mail to make its (full) Postcode Address File - which tells you where every postable address is - available for the government's Show Us A Better Way competition (still open! £20,000 to be won!).But Loosemore has also been thinking about things you could do with TV - in particular, all the TV that's not on the TV any more, but which does exist somewhere out there.AtOpenTech 2008he gave a talk about the "Impossibox":an idea for a network of PVRs acting as a giant, ever-growing Storage Area Network with enough capacity to store - and then seed via BitTorrent to each and every PVR-cum-node- all the decent TV programmes broadcast in the UK. The launch of FreeSat makes the maths even more compelling, as (bit-level) identical copies of programmes can be captured off-air by any FreeSat PVR, be it in Aberdeen or Plymouth. Hence the cloud is better seeded than for Freeview transmissions, whose time signals will differ slightly depending on the transmitter.His presentation (below) sets it out in some more detail; it's all about making "All TV ever available, findable and addressable". He points out that falling disk prices work for us; and that 3TB will store "all good (UK) TV for the past 7 days." For a year's worth of the BBC's output (transcoded from MPEG-2, as it comes in digital form, to MPEG-1), you'd need 24TB.But hang, why not transcode that MPEG-2 stream to MPEG-4? Then 120TB stores "all decent" UK TV for a year. So that's 10TB per month.That way to do this? The Impossibox - a large storage system which records TV and then seeds it, via Bittorrent, to other boxes. You'd only have to sell a surprisingly small number to make it work.Here's the presentation, from Slideshare: (Javascript needed to make it work. Sadly, you don't get the commentary.)|View|Upload your ownNow, one can see a few problems with this: people don't tend to watch everything; a few programmes are much-watched, and some of them we don't frankly care about ever again. There wouldn't be any protection on those MPEG-4 streams, which would give rightsholders fits - considering their work being passed around endlessly while actors went un-re-paid.And how do you instruct one machine to record that particular programme that you don't want but that someone else conceivably might? How do you prevent people recording over stuff that is part of the heritage - say, they've got a key part of that Doctor Who episode you want to revisit, but they would rather record the X Factor?Nevertheless, you have to admit that it's an interesting concept...
The moment you've all been waiting for - the hard work of theWikistashas finally paid off. Welcome toSpaceship! The Demo! Play it in all its glory, and please do leave feedback. We'd love to hear from you. Is it too difficult? Too easy? What would help you on your way? What else do you want to see?The game is on course to be released later in the year, with a massive range of rooms and the puzzles the which gamesblog competition winners developed.If you'd like to help us with the remaining rooms and puzzles, or fancy adding your tuppence to the decor, do headherefor more information. Check out our labours, and add a few of your own.Massive props to DennisChow - this demo is his first crack at programming.Updated links from Michael Brunton-Spall (and as Dennis says in the comments below):Play in your browser(as above)Play in a java appletDownload file to play in any zcode interpretorUPDATE II: post us about any bugs you find on theproject wiki here!
Another independent blog has bitten the dust, in the sense thatjkOnTheRunhas joined Om Malik's GigaOM family. Well, that's howOm puts it: "'Acquiring,' while technically the right word, is a relatively soulless one. I prefer to think of this deal more philosophically. As I see it, we have proudly added two new members to our growing family."So, what happens to jkOnTheRun?Absolutely nothing! Sure there are going to be some cosmetic changes, including cleaning up the web site to make room for sponsors and advertisers, but if it ain't broke, why fix it?The obvious solution for an independent blog is to work through an organization such asFederated Media, which already includes 43 Folders, Ars Technica, Boing Boing, Digg, ReadWriteWeb, TechCrunch and dozens of others. Federated Media already includes GigaOM, of course.The newspaper business saw thousands of small independent papers combined into giant agglomerations. The blogging business looks to be heading in the same direction. Is today's GigaOM tomorrow's News Corp?
According toMichael Arrington: "The two companies have reportedly signed a letter of intent and are close to a deal that will bring Digg under the Google News property. The acquisition price is in the $200 million range, says one source."Google has a history of buying companies -- YouTube, Blogger, Picasa, GrandCentral, Keyhole (Google Earth), Writely (Google Docs), JotSpot (Google Sites), Dodgeball etc -- so this wouldn't be a surprise. Also, as TechCrunch points out: "Most of Digg's revenue comes from a three yearad deal with Microsoft, which will be terminated on a sale to Google." This would add a little spice, and might tempt Microsoft to make a counter-offer.The trickier question is why Google would want Digg in the first place, apart from the usual: it would provide a platform for Google to place zillions of adverts. Digg might benefit from association with Google, whichsmooches prime ministersand presidents, but would Google benefit from association with Digg, which appears to be increasingly dominated by jerks?In any case, we've been round the houses on this one before. During the last "Google buys Digg" inflammation, inMarch, Digg CEO Jay Adelsonposted a note:Normally our policy is to not comment about things like this, but this morning's rumors about a bidding war involving Google and Microsoft have created such a stir we feel compelled to tell you all directly that they are completely inaccurate.Whether this is another non-story remains to be seen....
Earlier this year, comic book writerGerard Jones(author ofKilling Monsters- a study of violent childhood fantasies) took part in a panel discussion at the Commonwealth Club of California, entitled "Taming Gaming in Your Home". Online news networkForaTVhasfootageof his response to a question about the effects of violent gaming on an audience member's son. It's an interesting and thoughtfully conceived argument, calling for a better understanding of thetypesof violence that the media exposes us to, rather than demonising the over-arching concept of violence. He also compares our hang-ups about violence to another era of history...Often what we fall into is, we want to be obsessed with violence, we want to be talking to our kids about it in sort of a nervous way, in a way that they often find frightening, but then we don't want them to play with it, to fantasise about it, or think about it. It's somewhat like how we were handling sexuality a hundred years ago - there's this obsession with it on the one hand, but then a belief that kids will somehow not bring it into their minds or their games if we act like it's not there for them.Are we living in an age of Violence Victorians, fretting over the slightest hint of physical threat, as though a glimpse of something shocking could lead to catastrophic impulses? We're all born with an interest in violence. But as Jones says, it needs to be explored and managed. It needs to be understood and analysed. This is, and always has been, a question of perspective.[ViaRock, Paper, Shotgun]
I've written on here lots of times about the excellentWater Cooler Gamesa 'serious game' blog, edited by Ian Bogost and Gonzalo Frasca, two counter-culture heroes operating in their own niche between academia and videogame design (see their development studios,Powerful RobotandPersuasive Games). Anyway, Ian hasjust written a piecefor the newly re-launched Edge Online, all about the evolving perception of videogames as a communication medium:A voice can whisper an amorous sentiment or mount a political stump speech. A book can carry us off to a fantasy world or help us decide where to eat dinner. A film can shock us with a factual account of a genocide or help us practice aerobics.It is time to take the same attitude when it comes to videogames. We must no longer be satisfied to understand and support games as leisure or productivity or nothing. We must do with games what we do already, implicitly, with every other medium we use to create or consume ideas. We must imagine videogames as a medium with valid uses across the spectrum, from art to tools and everything in between.The title of the feature is 'The End of Gamers', which insinuates that soon, gaming will escape its cultural ghetto to become just another widely accepted media. However,Ian writes on Water Cooler, that the title was provided by the website and is slightly misleading.Whatever the case, it's an interesting and lucid introduction to Bogost's theories about how videogames are becoming a part of the orthodox media/entertainment/lifestyle landscape - although many are slow to acknowledge it. It's also a sort of introduction to his wider arguments concerning the ways in which games can influence players through a new form of 'procedural rhetoric'. I heartily recommend checking out his bookPersuasive Games: The Expressive Power of Videogames, which I'm still intending to review properly on this site (months late).
There have been many occasions in which I've laughed til I cried playing videogames - only a small percentage of those were actually intended by the game developer. My own incompetence has proved the most reliable source of belly laughs, closely followed by examples of incompetent or bug-ridden design.But Dead Rising made me laugh until I couldn't see the screen anymore though the tears. Batting zombies away with a shop window dummy, ploughing over them with a lawnmower - golden comedic moments to treasure. This tale of a freelance journalist trapped in a mall with an army of undead shoppers and a series of missions to complete provided a grand guignol riposte to archly straight-faced survival horror romps. Despite the rather confusing structure.So, yes, it's lovely that the game is coming to Wii - Capcom officially announced Dead Rising: Chop Til You Drop (geddit?) yesterday. Apparently it's using the same engine as the Wii version of Resi 4 and of course, gets in some platform-specific features - "aim and fire guns, swing and throw weapons and shake off zombie attacks with added Wii Remote functionality," says the press release. You'll be able to really smack those lifeless scum down.So Resi 4, now Dead Rising - which other horror favourites would you like to see re-imagined for Wii?
We human beings get nervous if we don't know what's going on. It's the rule for creating scary stories: the unknown is always more frightening than the known. Think of The Turn of the Screw, or M. R. James ghost stories. They're frightening because, even at the end of the story, the reader still doesn't know quite what happened. And the opposite is true too: once something has been explained, the fear is gone. This is why childhood shows like Doctor Who are paradoxically so comforting: at the end of each story, all the scary things that had us cowering behind the sofa are explained and thus made safe.People respond to technology in much the same way. Most of us don't really know what's going on inside the black boxes of our computers, games consoles or mobile phones. We entrust to these devices our data, our entertainment, our ability to communicate, but we don't know how they're doing what they're doing. Which makes us afraid. To reduce that anxiety, we need to be given the impression that we do understand, that we can see inside the black box. We like to see a progress bar, a loading screen, or a transition animation. But when putting these elements in place, developers have to take account of some very peculiar quirks of human perception.Take Windows Vista. In many areas, it outperforms Windows XP, but it doesn't feel that way. In fact, Vista often feels more sluggish. Why?Because the designers at Microsoft haven't addressed the user's perception of Vista's performance.Human beings, it turns out, don't perceive time in a perfectly linear fashion. We perceive that things are progressing more quickly if that apparent progress is smooth, and if it speeds up towards the end. Because the Vista copy progress bar doesn't move smoothly, and slows down toward the end, it's perceived as slower than it really is.Gmail has done better.Its developers have recently included a loading screen with a progress bar. The transition from the login screen to this intermediate screen makes the load-time feel faster, even if it isn't.Of course it's not news that human beings are irrational. Thepeak-end rule of memory formation, for example, says that when we're evaluating experiences in our memories, our evaluations are based purely on how good, or bad, the experience was at its peak, and how it ended. In a similar fashion,when we evaluate software performance, we don't focus on the average response time; instead we focus on the slowest 10% of response times. It's unfair on developers, but if their products are really slow only 10% of the time, users will perceive them as constantly slow.This is one thing that Apple gets right. When a user clicks an application icon on the iPhone, the phone's graphics unit performs a short transition animation in which the application icons whoosh out of the way before the chosen application is brought up. This gives the impression of quick performance: because we can see that something is happening, the anxiety is reduced. We feel we know what's going on.Apple may not make perfect systems. It hashardware problems, and distribution problems. But there's a reason that people spend a whole day in the queue to get a new iPhone: Apple understands what makes us happy.
This just in (from an interview on Radio 4's Today program, actually). Bob Lutz, the vice-chair of global product development of the giant American vehicle maker General Motors, was interviewed about how the company is going to restructure. (Graph source: PBS.org)GM is going through tough times: it's made too many models of cars that people don't want (can you spell 8mpg Gas Guzzler?), and is being doubly squeezed in its ability to sell them by the credit crunch - which means banks don't want to underwrite loans to people who want to "buy" (more like take out a mortgage on) cars; and the rising price of oil, which has roughly doubled in the past year, means that people are looking to more fuel-efficient cars, after years in which (to quote Lutz) "they thought they had a God-given right to cheap gas".But here's the interesting stat. The biggest single cost in the manufacture of every GM vehicle is the privatised health care of the workers who put it together, amounting to an average $1,200 (£600 at current exchange rates) per vehicle. That's more than the rubber, more than the steel, more than the electronics. (Which makes one wonder, albeit briefly, quite how much profit there must be on a $20,000 car. But anyway.)It seems this pointhas been made before by GM- back in 2005. Interestingly, then the numbers were $1,500 per car. So at least it's going in the right direction."And our foreign rivals with their imports don't have this extra cost," said Lutz, a tad grumpily. "I think it's an area where American public health policy is not helping us."Fascinating, first of all, that American companies are starting to notice how much of a cost private health care really is. And interesting too that the US's ballooning health care costs - the highest as a proportion of GDP in the developed world, while still not covering millions of low-paid people - might be having an effect on its competitiveness at home.Of course, the cost of health care is built in to the price of a car in the UK or Japan (whichuses"social insurance") too; but it's subsumed into the salaries of the workers, and so is less easy to disentangle. But as a proportion of the car's cost, it's not going to be as high as the US one.Which gets me wondering about other subsumed costs in things we buy. For instance, if it costs a company $150m to provide a Gulfstream jet for an executive, and the company sells 150m of its widgets, does that mean that a dollar of each widget's cost is flying the exec around? And how do you evaluate whether that's good value or not?
Tuesåçday's edition of Chatterbox.
Last week, in response tomy post about Wii's forthcoming MotionPlus peripheral, several readers asked, how many will be bundled with each copy of Wii Sports Resort, and also if the device is backwards compatible. I mailed the chap who PRs for the technology's creator, InvenSense, who in-turn contacted Nintendo's PR people in the States.Cutting to the chase - each copy of Wii Sports Resort will bundle withoneMotionPlus - they'll also be available to buy separately, but Nintendo is yet to announce a retail price. As expected, MotionPlus is not backwards compatible with previous Wii games as it requires specific support to be coded in.So there you have it.
Sometimes a book spine just isn't long enough - especially when its list of authors runs to 90,000. Due to hit the shelves in September, a published encyclopedia of German Wikipedia entries, the first of its kind, will list in a single volume the 50,000 most commonly searched terms on the German Wikipedia website over the past two years.That means France's first lady, Carla Bruni, Playstation3 or trivia about the US television series House, starring British actor Hugh Laurie, have earned their place among more typical encyclopedia fodder such as politics and geography.The Wikipedia Lexikon has turned into something of "a document of the zeitgeist", said Beate Varnhorn, a director at its publisher Bertelsmann Lexicon.All entries, which include high-profile events such as the 2007 G8 summit in Heiligendamm, have been shortened and checked factually. Dotted with images and photographs, its creators aim to reach people who do not use Wikipedia online.Each Wikipedia entry has a number of contributors, who tweak and add to the information left by other site users, which means an unprecedented list of authors, Varnhorn said. The extensive list of contributors, compressed and separated by commas, will stretch over 30 pages of the 1,000-page tome.With a price tag of &euro;19.95 (&pound;16), &euro;1 from every Wikipedia Lexikon sold will be given to the German chapter of Wikimedia, the non-profit group behind Wikipedia, for the use of its name.The publication reverses the industry trend towards the internet and away from traditional print. Earlier this year, Brockhaus Encyclopedia, the German equivalent of the Encyclopedia Britannica, announced plans to make its 30-volume leather-bound set accessible online.Publishers of the Wikipedia Lexikon insist it is too soon to say farewell to the book format."Unlike Brockhaus, we think the market for print reference books remains positive," said Varnhorn. "The book is highly flexible, I can use it on the sofa while watching television, at the desk, in the garden or in bed, without having to turn on the computer."German Wikipedia, Germany's sixth-most-visited website, is the second largest in size after its English-version equivalent. It has been estimated it would take at least 750 thick volumes to print all the articles in the English-language version.The sheer size of the articles on the German Wikipedia site proved too daunting for a publisher who planned to convert it into print a few years ago."It turned out that even on very thin paper, the German Wikipedia would fill an [Ikea] shelving unit," said Arne Klempert, the director of Wikipedia Germany. "In the end it didn't happen."He said the launch of the Lexikon would be closely watched and might inspire similar tomes in other languages - with similarly lengthy lists of authors.
Nervous investors dumped shares in Apple last night on concerns over weakening profit margins and persistent rumours about the health of the technology company's founder, Steve Jobs.Apple's quarterly profits soared 31% to $1.07bn as customers snapped up record numbers of Mac computers, iPods and iPhones. But the California company provided cautious guidance to Wall Street on its prospects for the rest of the year and offered little to quell speculation surrounding Jobs, whose gaunt appearance drew comment at a recent industry conference.When asked about Jobs' health during a call with analysts last night, Apple's chief financial officer, Peter Oppenheimer, said: "Steve loves Apple. He serves as CEO at the pleasure of Apple's board and has no plans to leave Apple. Steve's health is a private matter."In unofficial trading after the close of the stockmarket, Apple's shares slumped 11% to $148.Jobs, 53, is considered the driving force behind the company's consistent innovation. He was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer five years ago but has recovered.When Jobs' apparent weight loss was noted last month, Apple said he was taking antibiotics for a minor "bug". The New York Post revived the issue yesterday by quoting unnamed industry and financial sources expressing concern.Investors have long been worried about the lack of an obvious succession plan at Apple. The issue surfaced last year when Jobs' position was briefly threatened by a scandal over improper pricing of executive share options.Questions about the entrepreneur proved a distraction from second-quarter figures which revealed Mac sales had rocketed 41% year on year to 2.5m computers, and iPod sales were 12% higher to 11m globally.Apple sold 717,000 of its touch-screen iPhones during the three months to June. But the company said margins were likely to weaken because of a series of factors including a "back to school" promotion and an unspecified product launch which is being kept strictly under wraps.The technology company opened 16 Apple stores during the period and this week unveiled its first outlet in Beijing.
The struggling internet company Yahoo has struck a pact with its billionaire critic Carl Icahn by giving the hedge fund activist a minority presence on its board to avoid a potentially tempestuous showdown at a shareholder meeting next month.Facing crumbling support among Yahoo investors, Icahn yesterday abandoned his efforts to overthrow the leadership of the embattled Silicon Valley company and force its sale to Microsoft.Instead, the 72-year-old Icahn &amp; Co hedge fund manager is settling for an offer of three seats on Yahoo's board. One director will stand down and the board will expand from nine to 11 members. Wall Street analysts greeted it as a qualified victory for Yahoo's founder, Jerry Yang, who has pressed hard to maintain its independence and who waged an energetic campaign to discredit Icahn.Roy Bostock, Yahoo chairman, was "gratified" to reach a deal. "We look forward to working productively with Carl and new members of the board on continuing to improve the company's performance and enhancing stockholder value."The pact ends a vitriolic two months in which Yahoo and Icahn have traded stinging accusations. The showdown arose after Yahoo turned down a $47.5bn (&pound;23.8bn) takeover offer from Microsoft, angering investors who have grown impatient with its failure to keep up with Google as a leader in lucrative online searches.Lobbying shareholders for support last week, Yahoo characterised Icahn as a short-term corporate agitator who was merely interested in a quick profit. It dug up remarks from the billionaire last year in which he described technology companies as "hard to understand" and admitted  he had rarely focused on them. In turn, Icahn compared Yahoo directors to Alice in Wonderland. He won over high-profile backers, including the oil tycoon T Boone Pickens and star fund manager John Paulson, renowned for making billions by predicting the sub-prime mortgage crisis.As Yahoo's annual meeting on August 1 approached, the prospect of a hastily compiled slate of Icahn's friends running the company appears to have been too much for institutional shareholders. The balance tipped on Friday when Yahoo's second-biggest investor, the fund management firm Legg Mason, decided to support the existing leadership.Scott Kessler, an equities analyst at Standard &amp; Poor's in New York, said the upshot amounted to a defeat for Icahn. "The writing's not only on the wall but on an agreement for all to see," he said. In spite of the deal, Kessler said, there would be pressure for a shake-up in recognition of discontent among a sizeable minority of investors. "Jerry Yang's been back in place for a year and a lot of people think he is not the right person for the job. It wouldn't surprise me if there were some management changes to come," said Kessler.Icahn will take one of the board seats handed to his group under the deal, which is subject to approval by investors. In a statement, the New York-based financier said a sale of the firm or of its core search business should be given "full consideration". But striking a conciliatory note, he continued: "I believe this is a good outcome and that we will have a strong working relationship going forward."By mid-session on the Nasdaq exchange, Yahoo shares had slid 63 cents to $21.82. Microsoft was willing to pay $33 a share and Yahoo has shunned several attempts by it to reignite talks, opting for a controversial tie-up with Google, in which the two pool resources for some online searches and share the ad revenue. This infuriated the advertising industry, which sees it as anti-competitive.BackstoryThe billionaire hedge fund manager who has been niggling away at Yahoo doesn't own a personal computer.Carl Icahn, 72, whose fortune is estimated at$14bn(&pound;7bn), made his name by seizing control of the airline TWA in 1985. His targets have included Texaco, Time Warner, Nabisco, Motorola and Blockbuster. Brought up in Queens, New York, he runs his Icahn &amp; Co hedge fund from offices overlooking Central Park. He isruthless, once remarking that there was no place for sentiment in business: "If you want a friend, get a dog."
It was a day of forward-looking business statements on Gamesindustry.biz. Videogame execs, like all high-profile businessmen I suppose, are keen on making grandiose predictions, usually involving the projected success of their own company or products. It rarely goes pear-shaped - predictions get lots of press and make the shareholders feel all warm, fuzzy and rich. And if they turn out to be wrong hardly anyone notices, because hype and inflated opinion are the lingering gas cloud on which the industry majestically floats.Hence, two semi-interesting predicto-rants from top-ranking industry lurkers. The question is, do you agree with either of these and if so why? And how much?1."Most PS2 consumers will transition over to the PS3"- Kaz Hirai (sourcehere). That'll be most of 130 million users. In fact, Hirai wasquotedearlier in the day as wanting to sell140million PS3s. So he's backed down quite considerably in the intervening hours. By tomorrow morning it'll be, "well, 20m would be nice..."Anyway, what do you reckon? Can PS3 outsell PS2? Or even get close?2."Every consumer will ultimately go online"- Peter Moore (sourcehere). This is something Peter has been pushing heavily since joining up as president of EA Sports, a future industry where all consumers make their game purchases as digital downloads, bypassing boxed copies and highstreet retail. What do you think? Do game boxes hold the same sentimental value as boxed DVDs and CDs, which lots of users say they'll never abandon in favour of music and movie downloads?Do you feel there's tangible charm in boxed videogames? Would you be happy to go 100% digital?
It's all about Apple lately, isn't it? And now it is again, because the company has announced its latest quarterly results. They're good. (iPod image from Wikipedia; Mac sales from System Shootouts.)Revenue: $7.46bn (same quarter 2007: $5.41bn, up 38%). Profit: $1.07bn ($818m, up 31%). Those are very good numbers - in terms of improvement - by any measure, and the company was also rather proud of having shipped a record number of Macs (2.496m, to be precise). It meanwhile sold 11m iPods, up 12% on the previous year's quarter. And there were 717,000 iPhones sold, compared to 270,000 in the 2007 quarter.In thepress release, Steve Jobs then hints that "we're busy finishing several more wonderful new products to launch in the coming months". Aw, does he have to do that? Now everyone's going to start speculating.IF we unpick those results... the iPod sales aren't much greater than thepreviouspreceding[three months ago, as opposed to year-ago] quarter, but that follows the pattern of previous years. The Mac sales are interesting, since they show a steady upward movement - there's no annual ebb and flow there, only improvement, especially in the last few quarters. (The graph doesn't, at the time of posting, include the latest quarter, which would show a very steady upward growth.)So - that's all good news for Apple. Credit crunch? Never heard of it.Later:Michael Gartenbergnotesthat "AAPL guidance for next quarter was the same for current, which they blew away. Wall St. not happy".Some peopledon't get this: why are Wall Street (and other) analysts so annoyed when a company makes a conservative quote and then beats it by a mile?The table on the linked blog post shows that Apple keeps on beating estimates - both its own and analysts' - which you'd think would be great. Not so for the analysts: they want accurate guidance so they can advise their clients on whether to buy or sell or hold a stock. If Apple gives a low suggestion and that leads them to advise clients to sell (low), and then the real numbers are high, their clients have lost money - they could have sold higher. That annoys analysts, since giving advice is their livelihood.You could argue that they should by now have figured out that Apple consistently offers low estimates, and built in their forecasts based on that. But Wall Street isn't like that. It would rather just have the straight - and realistic - expectation. But that's not Apple's style, it seems.
I was on holiday last week so wasn't around for E3. Judging by the lack of major announcements it doesn't look like I missed much. Keith has covered most of the interesting stuff but judging by thecommentsfrom various execs the future doesn't look too bright for the once essential trade event. It's a shame really. Spoilt journos loved to moan about crowds, noise and how Randy from Arkansas was blocking their view but E3 was a fabulously convenient way to see all the latest stuff as well as interview the people behind them. Guys like veteran coder Peter Molyneux. His latest,typically candid, interviewtouches on perhaps the greatest theme at this year's show - casual gaming."When I first listened to Clive Sinclair, he said that this (gaming) is the big new medium that's going to change the world. That led me to make Populous, which sold four million units. Our market share has not changed an iota since those days: we still make games that sell four million units and we still hail those as universal successes. Very few times a game sells eight million, and we celebrate those as being the biggest thing ever. But the biggest thing ever will entertain hundreds of millions of people."Nintendo's mainstream-friendly press conference may haveupset the hardcorebut with Wii nowoutsellingthe 360 in the US it's easy to see what Molyneux means. And sadly for him Fable 2 - Molyneux's ambitious role playing game due out his October - is probably going to be outsold by the likes of Cooking Mama 2 on the Wii. Casual titles then - obviously the future of the gaming industry? Or will a more traditional "hardcore" gaming title ever "entertain hundreds of millions of people"?
Here's my final selection of trailers from E3 - just for those of you who haven't ventured out there to track down all this stuff yourselves. That's Lego Batman above, in case you hadn't guessed.We Cheer (Namco, Wii)I'm pretty sure this isn't the only cheer-leading game shown at E3, but this one's by Namco so takes precedence. Okay, we're not in the target demographic (I'm making assumptions about the readership here, but I feel I'm on reasonably safe ground), but you can't be too sniffy about a rhythm action game that promises to get you kicking, jumping, flippling, spinning and dancing to the likes of KC &amp; The Sunshine Band.I love the fact that there's a two-player 'campaign' mode, which manages to make cheerleading sound like warfare. Anyway, this looks great and should come with pom-poms.Lego Batman (TT Games, everything)Okay, so Lego Indiana Jones showedsomesigns of genre fatigue, but Batman drew appreciative noises from journos at E3, with its darker tone and wealth of familiar enemies. Personally, I don't think I'll ever get bored of seeing popular cultural icons wobbling around like toddlers.UFC Undisputed 2009 (THQ, PS3, Xbox 360, mob)Japanese developerYuke'sis best known for its WWE titles, but is now taking a foray into the murky world of mixed martial arts. This is really only here because I loved Crave's UFC game on Dreamcast, but it looks suitably brutal.Project Origin (Warner, PC, PS3, X360)I'm not sure about the trailer, but F.E.A.R was a decent game, which combined the military FPS and survival horror genres to interesting effect. The 'sequel' promises more of the same, with psycho ghost baddie, Alma, threatening to subsume the world with her evil spectral energy. Like Ju-on re-imagined by HG Wells.
Yosemite National Park and xRez Studio have 20 photographic teams, each shooting more than 10,000 images, to create a huge panoramic view. With 45 gigapixels to play with, you can just keep clicking the + sign tozoom infor a closer view until you run out of resolution.The display requires Microsoft Silverlight (Microsoft Research is involved in the project, which usesHD View), and even if you already have it, Yosemite probably wants a later version. It's easy to install but it does mean restarting your browser......CEN Photography has aninterview with Eric Hansonfrom xRez, who says:A standard digital camera produces around 10 megapixels, but one of our images typically contains around 100-800 times that amount of resolution. We create these massive images by using a motion controlled camera rig, which can manage the fine precision and tedium required to shoot up to 800 individual, carefully overlapping images. The images are then stitched together using specialized software to consolidate the array of shots into a single image.xRezhas more panoramas, too.
Blogging looked like fulfilling Andy Warhol's prophecy that everyone would get their 15 minutes of fame.Xiaxue, however, has been famous for five years, and has turned into a full-time professional blogger, attracting around 300,000 visitors per month. Singapore's National Library Board has added her to its electronic archives. She may have passed her peak – marked by her Best Asian Weblog award in the 2005 Bloggies – but there's no sign of this lippy former student/waitress going away.Xiaxue ("snowing") has described herself as "just a normal girl who got rather lucky". Her real name is Zheng Yan Yan, aka Wendy Cheng, and she's now 24. She started blogging in April 2003, and could easily have sunk without trace. Instead, she became, briefly, a celebrity blogger for The Straits Times newspaper, a Maxim columnist, and co-starred in a sort of reality TV series, Girls Out Loud. She now does a fortnightly series, Xiaxue's Guide To Life, which runs onMunkysuperstar's web-based TV channel, clicknetwork.tv. There are quite a few on YouTube.If you want to know about blinging your long nails with crystals, getting a tongue piercing, losing weight, cooking live crabs, shopping for slutty clothes orfitting out your totally pink Princess Room on the cheap, Xiaxue is your girl. She'd be an ideal Big Brother contestant.Part of Xiaxue's appeal is that she's offensive, by Singapore standards. "Singaporean (Chinese) guys," she wrote, "like girls who keep quiet and nods in agreement to everything they say, rather than a girl who speaks up for her own opinions. They like girls who are weak, diminutive and vulnerable, not girls who are strong and can protect themselves." They must also dress modestly and be virgins.Xiaxue – perhaps corrupted by reading California-based Sweet Valley High books – is the opposite of this Singaporean ideal. She's bitchy, swears, wears "chio" (pretty but provocative) clothes, writes in intimate detail about things like panty liners, and flaunts her American boyfriend, Mike. It provokes hundreds of comments.She also generates controversy by attacking other bloggers. One famous post dealt with the Top Seven Most Disgusting Bloggers in Singapore, including Xiaxue. She attacked herself for being a fake, short, fat and ugly. "She is so hao lian [arrogant] of her stupid angmoh [caucasian monkey] boyfriend," she wrote."SPG!" Sarong Party Girl: the ultimate insult.Some of Xiaxue's posts are labelled as advertorials: she's paid to write about products, review restaurants etc, and she also got a free "nose job". Since she's always writing about the things she does and the products she buys, these aren't much different from her usual slang-packed, heavily illustrated (and skilfully photoshopped) posts. You can take it or leave it.As you'd expect, most of Xiaxue's readers – around 70% – live in Singapore or Malaysia. For the rest of us, she's a virtual tourist spot, providing an uncensored, unmediated and somewhat voyeuristic peek into a different society. Every nation should have its own Xiaxue, and perhaps they do. We just don't know about them.
The Wall Street Journal is reporting that Carl Icahn, who owns around 5% of Yahoo stock, has agreed a deal which will see Icahn join Yahoo's board, plus two other members who he nominates.Thestoryis (presently) subscribers-only, but suggests that the board will be expanded from 9 to 11 people, and that only 8 of Yahoo's present board will stand for reelection at the annual general meeting on August 1. Icahn will fill one of the three posts, and nominate two others from a list of nine that he had put forward.Which will mean that you'll have Carl Icahn and two others on a board of 11. Icahn, who will want to see a significant improvement in the value of his stock, and won't be impressed by a lot of Handwaving 2.0. Even though Jerry Yang is not being challenged for the job of chief executive, it will be very interesting to see precisely who Icahn puts forward - and whether they might be judged to be potential future CEOs at, say, a very large web company.And that's not to say that some or all of Yahoo's search or other businesses might not still be sold off to Microsoft, which has been rumbling away like a sort of Greek chorus while Yahoo and Yang have been doing a sort of replay of The Odyssey, trying to return to the land where their share price would stop all these people chasing them.Icahn said in a statement that "While I continue to believe that the sale of the whole company or the sale of its Search business in the right transaction must be given full consideration, I share the view that Yahoo's valuable collection of assets positions it well to continue expanding its online leadership and enhancing returns to stockholders."Quite what that means is anyone's guess. Part of the reason for Icahn's apparent capitulation - rather than calling for Yang's head - is that last week Legg Mason, which owns 4.4% of Yahoo, said it would support Yahoo's current directors rather than Icahn's slate.But the reality is still that once you let Carl Icahn in through the boardroom doors, things have only just begun. We've said before that we don't expect Jerry Yang still to be in charge of Yahoo by the end of the year; and there's plenty of time for that still to come true.For Microsoft, meanwhile, it's a win-win: it doesn't have to do all the complicated leveraging and integration of its original plan to buy Yahoo outright, but it still might get some or all of the business. And while Yahoo is distracted internally (and it's been leaking talent for months now) it has a chance to try to overtake its rival. Not that anything is bringing it close to Google in the online business.
Amazon's S3 system, which provides a pay-as-you-use processing service, died briefly at the weekend, and with it went many services that had hung their hat on it - such as the organise-your-business company 37Signals, image cacheing by Twitter, and many iPhone apps.The word from Amazon (asnotedby Silicon Alley Insider) was that S3 was experiencing "elevated error rates". And so companies that relied on it for this and that (or for everything) were, to put it simply, stuffed, unless they had a fallback position. But with S3 being one of those cloud services, shouldn't it always be there? Hell, the clouds don't go away, do they?Except that they do. A couple of weeks ago Google Docs inconvenienced the BBC's industrial correspondent, among others, bystopping working- at the point where he needed it for a blog post. (Luckily, he could turn that fact to good use by.. blogging about it.)There's even the signs of a backlash, no bigger at present than a man's hand, in the distance. Nick Carrpoints to the factthat the database company Oracle is pretty disdainful of cloud computing, at least as a profit-generating method for its purposes; and Microsoft's latest results show that it's investing millions or billions in building up its online services, with no clear expectation of how it will make money from them, only the knowledge that not to do so would be a bad move.What the Amazon outage does show, though, is that cloud computing hasn't quite reached the levels of reliability that most people need. It's still better - just about - to have a host you can reach on a phone to ask why your site isn't working, and when the hell they're going to get it up. The problem with S3 is not that Amazon can't scale the machinery - but that it can't, yet (or ever?) scale the human, service side.What's your preference? If you were running your business, would you go with cloud computing and a nonexistent service desk if it were cheaper? And do you find outages from S3 and the like annoying, or just one of those things?
Our favourite columnist, reeling from an earlier success, is trying toredress the balanceby seeding articles with keywords you wouldn't search for....
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Russell Beattiehas posted a comment on "a bunch of people in the tech community having trouble reconciling their love for the iPhone vs. howclosed and proprietaryit is. It's a real conundrum..." Sure, they love it.However, from a technology perspective, it's about as closed as they come. And this has caused some real consternation in the tech community. They're trying to work through the issue it seems, but haven't really quite gotten it straight in their minds yet.But has Russell Beattie really quite gotten it straight? He doesn't use the H word: hypocrisy.The whole idea of "pure" open source, in theRichard Stallman FSF/GNU/GPLformulation, is that you should use open source products even if they are worse. In fact, them being worse is what motivates people to load up the source code and make them better. Using a proprietary locked-down product just because it's "better" is simply a betrayal of this core open source idea.It's just like a militant vegan wolfing down the foie gras because they "like the taste".We've been through this before, of course, with people likeMark Pilgrimgiving up the proprietary Mac OS X for Ubuntu. But it's not so easy in the mobile phone world because the whole mobile phone business is based on proprietary handsets and lock-down contracts. It's not like a RIM BlackBerry or Danger Sidekick offered a competitive open source alternative.Now, it's a free world. Nobody has to support or use open source, unless they want to. Everybody is welcome to use an iPhone, if that's what they want. Personal choice, baby. You can do whatever works for you, and I fully support your right to choose.But if you claim to support open sourceandyou keep puffing the iPhone, that just makes you a hypocrite, doesn't it?
As part of my research, I use Bluetooth to track people's whereabouts in cities. I'll be the first to admit that, at first, this kind of research sounds intriguingly scary, and even my little brother sometimes refers to me with capital 'B's.But before you reach for your phone desperate to turn off your Bluetooth signal, you may like to hear about how you could be helping scientists develop better defences against avian flu or improve the bus service in your city. How is this possible without invading people's privacy?The key is to understand how we collect and analyse data using Bluetooth. We can usefully draw an analogy between our data collection and car spotting. Imagine you're standing on the side of the road, taking note of cars that pass by. For each car you record the license plate, the manufacturer, the type of car, any special features the car has such as a sunroof, and finally any bumper stickers it might have.Using Bluetooth we collect the exact same information about the electronic items in your pocket: a unique serial number, the manufacturer, the type of device (phone, laptop, camera, etc), any services that the device may offer such as internet access and, finally, a custom-made message from the owner - the equivalent of a digital bumper sticker. We never know, or even care, who is actually carrying the phone.Albert Einstein was quoted as saying: "If we knew what it was we were doing, it would not be called research." When our research at Cityware started, we simply wanted to know how many phones are out there, and how they move around the city.But very soon we realised that the richness of our Bluetooth data goes far beyond that. It offers scientific insight into daily life and human nature. It can help us understand how people exchange information; how a virus might take advantage of human encounters to spread through the population; how our phones might talk to each other; how bus services can be redesigned to anticipate and cope with people's movements; and how cities and their streets "guide" us into meeting each other.Experts from various disciplines such as physics, psychology, architecture, sociology, mathematics, biology, and transport have found common ground in the type of data that Bluetooth lets us collect.People have recently raised concerns about this type of research on the assumption that it violates people's privacy, effectively reducing our work to surveillance. Some readers may already be nodding in agreement.My immediate response to such concerns is to ask in return "exactly how does our research violate privacy?" Let me attempt to answer this question myself.Crudely speaking, imagine your "privacy" as a number. Every time a person collects more information about you, that number is reduced, along with your privacy.For example, if someone knows my first name that puts me in a set with another 100,000 people. If he also knows the year of my birth that limits the set to 5,000. More information, like where I live or my phone number, will reduce that figure - and my privacy - even further.In this crude sense, Bluetooth scanning can be used to erode your privacy, but only in conjunction with further data-collection activities.In itself, Bluetooth is a rather useless way of spying on individuals, but is ideal for observing crowds. To usefully invade people's privacy, someone will have to cross-reference multiple datasets: hence our concern should really be who has enough data about us and how they are using it.So what does the future hold for Bluetooth in the city? Besides helping with scientific advances, your phone can act as beacon or "bubble" announcing your presence. Your house, your car and your office can be programmed to sense and react to your arrival, and serve your preferences.Finally, I am almost certain that marketing and advertising agencies will join the party in an attempt to provide custom-tailored, location-aware services. You will be spotted, and a message will say: "I see you've been standing outside our shop for 20 minutes: here's a voucher", or "Welcome to the Sunrise pub, today's offers are ... "Vassilis Kostakos is an assistant professor at Lab:USE, University of Madeira, and an adjust assistant professor at Carnegie Mellon University in the US. He was previously a member of the Cityware project.
The internet search engine Google has been named as Britain's top "superbrand", after it beat Microsoft for the premier spot, according to a YouGov survey published today.The search engine, which came third in the same consumer poll last year, took pole position in a list of 500 brands available in the UK, beating Mercedes-Benz, the BBC, British Airways and Royal Doulton.Since Google was founded in 1996 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin, then students at Stanford University, it has become one of Britain's most familiar names, launching Google Earth and acquiring YouTube, the popular video sharing site, in 2006.According to Hitwise, which compiles a list of the top four leading UK search engines by volume of searches, Google.co.uk had a 73% share of users in May, significantly ahead of its rival Yahoo! which made it to number 75 in the YouGov poll.Microsoft, despite its fall to second place, still looms over rival Apple, which despite its high-profile launch of the iPod and iPhone, narrowly missed a place in the top 10.In the poll Sony took 10th place, beaten by BMW at seven, Bosch at eight, and Nike at nine.Surprising omissions from the top 100 include Tesco, which only managed 300th position, showing a fall of 230 places from last year, and Sainsbury's, which fell 194 places to 232nd position. Fastfood retailers such as McDonald's and Burger King also showed significant falls on last year.Stephen Cheliotis, chairman of the Superbrands Council, a brand valuation consultancy that commissioned the poll, said: "Lifestyle brands, particularly those in the technology sector, have considerably more sway with the public than everyday staples such as the supermarkets, which now seem further than ever from the affections of the British people."As the spectre of rising food costs continues, they are likely to come under further scrutiny."The results are a further sign that Google is continuing its dominance. It is clear Google is the brand that people value at work and in their personal lives."Marks &amp; Spencer, which has experienced a rollercoaster ride, recently issuing a serious profits warning that sent shares plummeting to their lowest level in seven years, still holds sway with the public and makes the top 20, at number 17.The Royal Albert Hall, at number 26, tops the list of cultural destinations, followed by the Tate galleries at number 46. The Eden Project in Cornwall is at number 50.The Guardian and Observer appear on the list of superbrands at number 229, 184 places ahead of the Independent and 60 ahead of the Daily Telegraph, but behind the Times/Sunday Times titles which are placed at 122nd.An alternative list of "coolest brands", to be published in Dazed &amp; Confused magazine in September, lists five fashion brands in the top eight, including Levi's.
Ze Frank on The Sound of Young AmericafromJesse ThornonVimeo.Ze Frankdid an interview for the NPR radio programme The Sound of Young America last month, and the video is now online atVimeo. There's an audio version atmaximumfun.org.The reason to watch the first bit of the video is that it includes an example of a Ze Frankshow, Fingers and Food.
We don't have room in print for all your letters and blog pingbacks, but we do here. Click through to read thoughts about the G8 intellectual property proposals, the iPhone, and much more..INSIDE YOUR IPODI think the percentage of bands and artists making good money from their musical releases is actually falling, with only big name or 'hot' bands who have a loyal following seeing increases in sales. Over a thousand singles are estimated to hit the internet every week, most with little chance of making more than pennies from royalties. There is a double problem - massive oversupply of music to a saturated market, and the perception of the public that music doesn't have to be paid for. I split everything 50/50 with my record label, who invest time and effort into promoting my work - if they are screwed so am I. The problem affects all media producers now - first it was music, then printed media started to lose circulation as online alternatives grew, and now television channels are struggling to adjust to a world where people expect free content on demand. It won't be long before people expect free film and games too. Someone, somewhere will have to pay... and it isn't going to be the freeloaders. Martin Wheeler, Berlin&gt;&gt; When and if Acta passes, we'll mention it and freak out with the rest of you.crunchgear.com&gt;&gt; Many of these sorts of things seem to be converging this year and it is possible that some kind of treaty or law will attempt to change the landscape when it comes to Internet file sharing or piracy over the next few years.arcanology.com&gt;&gt; [I'm] rather suspicious of anything which is so wholeheartedly in favour of IP, without mentioning the need to balance between the rights of owners, competitors and users, though [I] suspect anything so detailed would be beyond the ambit of a general summit of world leaders. As for individuals being stopped at customs, this would be too costly and time consuming to do on a large scale.ipkitten.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Unmentioned in the Guardian article is the fact that all this action by governments to combat what they see as widespread copyright theft is the apparent lack of any opportunity for the public to comment on the plans.downthetubescomics.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Here's the deal. The chance of actually having a scan of your device is probably fairly unlikely due to the fact that there is no way to actually prove ownership. On top of that, it would increase the times at customs checkpoints by ten-fold. I don't think there are many people that don't bring music players for transpacific or transatlantic trips anymore.life.firelace.com&gt;&gt; Bolting the stable door after the horse has been long, long gone. But if people don't start fighting back against this relentless and constant erosion of their right to privacy...groc.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; The focus of the Guardian article is on music and video content. But the same can be applied to books.bookyards.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Unless congress manages to entirely reapeal the Fourth Amendment (also known as that pesky thing protecting Americans from warrantless seach and seizure), this bill appears to be entirely unconstitutional, although quite likely to be enforced until lawsuits bring it to the Supreme Court where it may or may not be upheld.happilyoblivious.com&gt;&gt; Oh my god - This is bad. Not normal bad, Really bad.secureyourselfonline.com&gt;&gt; Oh boy, that unlucky customs officer trying to work out whether I really have the 'right' to listen to my vinyl-ripped copy of that faceless cover version of the Doctor Who theme from the 1970s..currybet.net&gt;&gt; The solution: encryption, encryption, encryption! Encrypt everything no matter how trivial and leave dummy files all over your device to throw them off and take up as much resources as possible.shoutluton.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; I would have thought that these laws are really to catch the "big boys" who are ripping CDs and DVDs on a large scale rather than the occasional downloader - but you never know!nutritioushotel.blogspot.comIPHONE WOESThought you might be interested in the 700 plus people who ordered the iphone from the Carphonewarehouse last Monday and took delivery friday, activated them on itunes Friday and as of Sunday we are still being told lies and stories from them as to when the phone will start working, We now have a eta of Wednesday for them to start working. So far we have not received any communication from anyone at CPW to inform us what has happened or apologies for the problem. Keith Clifforth, NewburyI received an email from O2 at 7:38 today with a link to order the 16GB iPhone online. Needless to say when I follow the link the ordering system isn't up and running so phone the given number to hear a message saying that O2 doesn't answer phone calls until 8:30am. At just after 8:30 I try the online ordering system again - and it appears to be working but gives up part way through, at step 3 of the 6 step process. Ten minutes later, try again and get all the way to step 6 before it gives up. As I have provided my financial details am concerned so ring O2, speak to Customer Services who apparently cannot help and pass me to Sales who tell me that online orders for the iPhone will not be active until Friday July 11th. They offer to ring back when I query what has happened to my financial details that seem to have been accepted by the order process. Needless to say no one has done so to date. Think about it for a bit and decide that as they only accept orders on a 'one phone per person' basis I'd try again and - success the whole 6 steps complete and I see my order 'in progress' in the order tracking display link that comes with the confirmatory email. So now waiting to see what other agonies they can heap on me. The whole O2 online shopping experience is fraught with problems. It seems clear 5 days before people actually pick up iPhones that O2 have not managed to prepare for the event, even knowing(?) what usually happens when new Apple kit goes on sale. No wonder people think that the iPhone is marvellous - it must be after receiving the O2 treatment, even if it isn't! Tony Crooks, EastbourneI just received the last 16G iPhone in my city of Denham Springs, Louisiana, USA and the AT&amp;T store was unable to activate it due the amount of people on iTunes. Now that I've been home for the last 3 hours, users of iTunes are still unable to activate their new phones. Ken Bohne, Denham Springs, LouisianaI live in New York and I'm not sure about that statement you make about 'gadgets' being cheaper over here. Maybe electronic stuff is usually cheaper but phones aren't - not when you consider like for like: the same price phones here are usually less advanced. That may have changed recently with the i-phones and Blackberries, but only recently. Phone plans have always been much more expensive here, and judging by the price you quote for the i-phone plan in England, it's still the case. 35 quid a month seems really cheap for something like that, and your estimation of the i-phone package per month in the U.S. seems a little off too. I pay about $70 for a regular (few years old) Nokia; I'm planning on trying a Blackberry out and if I get the full internet package it will probably be $90 to $100. Not sure what i-phone monthly plans typically cost but I can't imagine it being much less. I know we all like to complain about prices but I have to remind people at home sometimes that it's not all good prices in the U.S. !!!!!!! Overall you live in a good country - one that compares very favourably with most others, though I have to qualify that by saying I haven't lived there since 1990!!!!! But I do keep abreast and have the guardian on my home page at work - which is what I have to get back to now..........:) Eamonn Coleman, New YorkA BETTER WAY (FREE OUR DATA)&gt;&gt; How about a project which would allow users to virtually create their own alternative blue plaques for events and people which aren't mainstream enough to have their official plaque? How about a service which would let users with a geo-location aware devices surface objects and ideas pertinent to their location? I find that these discussions reflect a desire to make data openly available which I haven't quite encountered in the same manner in a US context.hangingtogether.orgBIZARRE GAMESI enjoyed your article on bizarre games, which focused mainly on odd TV and Film licenses. On this front, how about Home improvement from the world of TV for the SNES (worst license ever!) or the equally baffling cinematic adventure Friday the Thirteenth on the NES (This was in the bad old days when Nintendo wouldn't let even a snippet of sex or violence anywhere near their consoles. God knows how that got through the net.) These must surely rank as the strangest platforms (sorry) for a platform game. These are not my real nominations though. What with Wall-e about to hit cinema screens, I am reminded of another certain cleaning robot, Chibi-Robo. The gamecube game is one of the most charming, funny and downright strange games of all time. How it ever got an (admittedly small) release outside japan is a mystery. It couldn't have more oddball Japanese humour if it came packaged with Taksehi Kitano. What's more, the DS sequel Chibi Robo:Park Patrol is selling on Play-Asia.com for £8! Bargain! (Incidentally it is my birthday soon. Guess what is on the top of the list.) So when you settle down to watch Wall-e, Think about giving Chibi-Robo a try, you won't regret it. Chris Thorpe, DoncasterVIRTUAL WORLDS&gt;&gt; IBM and Second Life have successfully 'teleported' a group of avatars from one virtual world to another. That means that one day we'll be able to create a single digital persona who can move between virtual worlds - or an effective 3D Internet - at will, much as we currently move between websites.thisisherd.comNONLETHAL?&gt;&gt; When the US Senate ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention, it specifically identified incendiaries, herbicides, and riot control agents as exceptions to the CWC. That is to say, US forces can use riot control agents and not be in contempt of the CWC. They do need the President to make an explicit decision to allow such use, however.blog.wired.com&gt;&gt; While reading this I thought of Iran. Only because it appears Iran is the next target as reported in the snooze and here. So the question is, Will Iran be gassed ? You know..to, Minimizes collateral damage, fatalities and permanent injury like in Iraq and Afghanistan. Just think, one day this Non-lethal Gas may be used on you.notanotherconspiracy.com&gt;&gt; This is what they are leaking to the public .... my curious side wonders what are they doing in weapons research that they are not leaking.warnewsupdates.blogspot.comOBEY THE LAW(S)In Technology Guardian, 20 July, p6 Jack Schofield reminds us of his Second Law: "data doesn't really exist unless you have at least two copies of it". Don't overlook Taylor's Rejoinder, which states that two copies of the same data are always slightly different. Andy Taylor, Editor, Austrian Philatelic SocietyI enjoyed this weeks article about the 3 laws of computing very much. You reminded me of the joys and excitement when I first read Asimovs 3 laws of robotics. I run a small company where we use mailing lists for our clients, as data security is very very important to us, I've taken the liberty of quoting you, please see below, if you have any objections or comments to make, please do get in touch. Once again, thanks for all the pleasure I get on a Thursday. BTW, congrats to the team on the Free Our Data campaign. Result! Marc Platteuw, Weybridge, Surrey&gt;&gt; the third one that he's considering leaves a little to be desired: "the easier it is for you to access your data, the easier it is for someone else to access your data." ..This particular law breaks down because encryption software is actually designed to be easy for me to use and hard for someone else to circumvent. Not only is it designed that way, it actually works! If one uses AlertBoot's encryption solutions like hard drive encryption, for example, the only thing he has to remember (and keep safe) is the password for decrypting the contents. Anybody else will have to try to guess the password or crack the encryption key, which is so hard that organizations like the FBI give up on it. Heck, they don't even start. Schofield can easily fix it, though: "the easier it is for you to access your data, the easier it is for someone else to access your data—unless you use encryption."alertboot.com
It seemed an ordinary day at Google's offices in Tel Aviv, Israel. Until an alarming discrepancy glued eyes to computer screens. Google Hot Trends is a feature intended to give 'a snapshot of what's on the public's collective mind', according to the internet giant, by displaying the fastest-rising search terms on the web. Top of the list was not Batman, iPhone or sex. It was not a word at all. It was a swastika.Somehow, the icon appropriated by Nazi Germany, not readily found on computer keyboards, had caught all-powerful Google napping. The company was forced to issue an apology over the failure of its automated system to 'identify and remove inappropriate or offensive material', leaving its engineers to manually take down the symbol after two hours.How did the swastika get there? Why did so many people search for it at the same time? It was a demonstration of how peculiar fads, jokes or videos can come out of nowhere and run riot across the web. Such phenomena are known as 'memes' - cultural fragments that catch someone's eye, get forwarded to friends and spread like a virus.The invisible hand behind many memes, apparently including the googled swastika, is a website called4chan. From semi-literate cats to the 'ironic' comeback of singer Rick Astley, this online community is building a reputation as a nursery of all that is weird and wacky and likely to be landing in your inbox tomorrow.Suddenly, 4chan's elusive creator found himself the subject of articles in two of America's heavyweight publications: Time magazine and the Wall Street Journal, which named him as Christopher Poole, a New Yorker who was only 15 when, with the help of his mother's credit card, he launched 4chan from his bedroom five years ago. Time hailed him as the 'Master Of Memes' and described 4chan as 'the wellspring from which a lot of internet culture, and hence popular culture, bubbles'.But how does it work? 4chan began as a simple message board with pictures and text. Anyone could contribute on any subject, posting a photograph of their pet, sounding off about a politician, debating the merits of a player. Sometimes other users will reply and begin a strand of conversation. The images and comments now appear under 44 topic headings ranging from fashion, sports and video games to weapons, the paranormal and 'sexy beautiful women' - the most popular by a long way is 'Random'. Inspired by a forum in Japan, the site has an unpolished retro look, as rough and ready as a scrapbook. It is an online community at its purest and rawest, the antithesis of polished networks such as Facebook: 4chan is like a brick wall where people can daub graffiti without fear of a comeback.Child pornography is banned, but otherwise there are few rules. Some posts are gloriously childish and nonsensical. Others can be racist, homophobic and misogynistic and peppered with four-letter words. Unlike most social networks, no one has to register a name or sign in. Consequently, the community has been described as a lawless Wild West of the web, a place of uninhibited bawdiness and verbal violence. A teenager in Texas posted a photograph of hoax pipe bombs and a threat to blow up his school on the anniversary of 9/11, but another user contacted police and the teenager was arrested.However, the free-for-all has also been liberating, turning 4chan into an ideas laboratory and unleashing a ferocious creative force. Though most of what appears soon vanishes and is forgotten, the stuff that survives can easily jump to the wider web community and 'go viral', passing from person to person across the world. It is an ability envied by advertising agencies, which have long sought to drum up publicity by word of mouth or now through viral videos of their own, relying on users to do the work for them. But 4chan just does it for fun with the help of a big army of users: 8.5 million page views a day and 3.3 million visitors a month. The swastika was one such stunt. It appears that a post on 4chan instructed people to Google '...#21328;'. When thousands did, they discovered that it was a piece of code which, when processed by a web browser, translates into a swastika. Their collective curiosity unwittingly sent the symbol soaring to the top of Google's Hot Trends.One of 4chan's biggest hits is a prank known as 'bait-and-switch'. You receive a link to an 'amazing website'. But when you click, it is in fact a link to a music video for Rick Astley's 1987 hit single 'Never Gonna Give You Up'. It is estimated that more than 10 million people have been 'rickrolled'. The first such joke on 4chan was 'duckrolling', in which a link to a popular celebrity or news item would instead lead to a photomontage of a duck with wheels.In another parade of silliness, 4chan users began a Saturday ritual of posting pictures of cats, for no particular reason except that they could. This soon became known as 'Caturday', with humorous phrases posted beside the so-called 'LOLcats' - now the subject of LOLcat T-shirts, buttons and fridge magnets. When a plump grey cat appeared with the caption 'I can has cheezburger?', it caught the imagination of a man in Hawaii and became the subject of his blog, icanhascheezburger.com. The blog was sold for about $2m (&pound;1m).Last week 4chan was at it again. The site rallied users to search for 'Scientology is a cult' and, written upside down, the words 'fuck you Google'. Again, both leapt to the top of Google Hot Trends before being removed. 4chan users were also accused of attacking Habbo, a virtual world for children, by flooding it with avatars made to look like black men wearing Armani suits. In a previous raid, they lined up avatars to form the shape of a swastika.Poole had never revealed his identity until Time and the Wall Street Journal came calling. When contacted by The Observer through email, he replied: 'I am extremely busy this week and will not have time to conduct a phone interview.' He suggested questions by email but did not respond to them. His message was signed 'moot', a code name he uses on 4chan for reasons no one has yet fathomed. 'My personal private life is very separate from my internet life,' he told Time. 'There's a firewall in between.'Poole set up 4chan because he wanted to share his passion for Japanese comics and TV rather than as a moneyspinner, which is just as well. Although the site is popular, its scurrilous reputation makes it difficult to sell advertising space. Poole said: 'That's been an uphill battle for me personally. My biggest time spent has been convincing companies in marketing potential in 4chan but no one sees eye to eye.'For now he will have to be content with shaping western culture as the most influential web entrepreneur you've never heard of. 'Coarse as it is, 4chan has no rival as a hothouse for memes; they're bred and refined, and then they can escape and run amuck through the culture at large,' Time enthused. 'For better or for worse, this is what the counterculture looks like today: raw, sarcastic, bare of any social or political agenda but frequently funny as hell.'
Volvo S80&pound;20,304Miles per gallon:49.6Seats:5Good for:born againsBad for:porn baronsThere are many thoughts that could flit across the mind of the owner of a forecourt-fresh motor: the smell of the leather, the glint of the polished bonnet, the lure of the long road ahead, the carpets still free of fromage frais and breadsticks. But few will be thinking of the disposal of their new car at the end of its life. And yet we should. An EC report has stated that by 2015 all cars should be 85 per cent recyclable and reusable. From material selection in the manufacturing and low-emission motoring, to its final journey to the knacker's yard, carmakers are being forced to consider a vehicle's entire life impact.Over at Volvo, they didn't feel the need to wait another seven years to meet these targets. Like the class swot who hands in his homework days before it's due, Volvo made these grades in 2002. It's all part of the marque's 'clean inside and out' programme. This year its factories in Sweden and Belgium switched to green electricity in the form of hydropower; the steel, iron and aluminium used in construction is all from recycled sources, wherever possible - the plastic battery covers of old Volvos become the wheel-arch liners on new models for instance.Now, the brand's top executive saloon is going green from cradle to grave. The comfy and classy S80 was 'refreshed' last year, and has now taken possession of a super-efficient 2-litre diesel engine, enabling it to do almost 50mpg, compared with the piffling 23.7mpg of the top-of-the-range, all-wheel driveV8 version. A pair of constipated Friesians would produce more effluvium than this eco-conscious executive runaround.The focus on cleanliness takes its toll on performance - the S80 is so unengaging it makes eating a bowl of noodles with your dentures out seem like an adrenaline sport. But if arriving safely at your destination - perhaps enjoying a lower-back massage and the benefits of a cool-ventilated seat - take priority, then the S80 can't be beat.Safety is a mantra for Volvo and the cars take a zero-tolerance approach to danger. The Blind Spot Information System uses warning lights in the A-pillars to alert you when an overtaking vehicle is in your blind spot; Adaptive Cruise Control keeps you at a safe distance from the car in front, and a Personal Car Communicator has a transponder with a heartbeat sensor to let you know if someone is still in your Volvo after the alarm has been activated. The alternative being that it is a pulse-less zombie who has stolen it.Volvo has also announced plans to introduce a City Safety system, which at speeds of under 19mph uses laser-sensor technology to detect vehicles up to 10 metres in front. If the gap between you and the car in front closes and you remain inactive, the car applies the brakes automatically. (Surveys show three-quarters of all collisions take place at speeds of under 18mph, and in half of them there is evidence the driver has not braked at all before.) It's all part of Volvo's plan to keep you - and its cars - out of that graveyard, no matter how eco-friendly it may be.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The annualBlogHerconference is on this weekend (July 18-20) in San Francisco, so you might want to check out the site orsearchfor posts orvideos.NORTH x East has produced a list of itsFifty Most Influential 'Female' Bloggers, with comments and pictures. It's a noticeably white American list, and the ranking would be disputable if it was worth the effort. As Rebecca MacKinnon points out in a comment:I agree that the whiteness of this list is a reason for concern. I would also suggest qualifying this list as limited to the most influential female bloggers in the *American* blogosphere. If you did a list of the world's most influential female bloggers it would be quite different. The world's most-read blogger is in China (and writes in Chinese). There are many extremely influential female bloggers in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Asia who have substantial impact on their national conversations. One of many examples of powerful female bloggers outside the U.S. would be Ory Okolloh, aka "Kenyan Pundit" whose blogging has had more impact on Kenyan politics than anybody on this list has impacted American politics.In passing, about half of the female bloggers I actually read are not the list (Mary Jo Foley, Charlene Li, Jemima Kiss etc), though I'll confess to having a somewhat narrow range of interests. But I've already written about a completely different female blogger for myNetbytescolumn on Monday.....Oh yes, why the quote marks around 'female'? NxE already did a similar piece on itsFifty Most Influential Bloggers, of which -- on my quick count -- only eight were women. However, the upper reaches were more a list of people who are important in the blogging world for business reasons, rather than because of their blogs. Nick Denton was number 1, for example, and Rob Malda was higher than Michelle Malkin, which is frankly silly.ReadWriteWeb also has a post,BlogHer: Who Are Your Favorite Women Bloggers?, with suggestions from seven people, and lots more in the comments.Whether it makes any sense to cover "women bloggers" as a different category is another matter. I really don't care whether tech blogs are written by men or women, if the info is good. But if women bloggers are not getting the readership they've earned, then it's certainly worth trying to redress the balance. Is that what we should be doing?
On the Technology site itself (to which the blogs are either the mall or the suburbs - you decide) I've written about Apple and the iPhone and all the things left to do -Apple needs to slay its iPhone dragons- which notes that there's still plenty that hasn't been done in the iPhone 3G.Such as copy-and-paste. Note synchronisation. Multitasking. MMS. And (I was gutted to learn later) to-do list synchronisation between computer and phone.Does it matter? Hell yes. Because as the developer Fraser Speirs noted the other day,demographics is destiny: "[The] iPhone OS is Apple's mainstream platform for 2012 and beyond. It's a bold prediction, but the numbers seem fairly clear.(OK, possibly demographicsaredestiny, but that's quibbling.)Which leads me to wonder: what are the things that you think are missing from the iPhone 3G that would actually clear its "to-do" list?One other thing that has recently cropped up is annoyance on the part of programmers and publishers about the secrecy over the iPhone software development kit. You can't tell anyone else about it. Which means that you can't share best practice online. Brent Simmons of NetNewsWire is annoyed, in aninterview with Wired:The secrecy makes it difficult. For Mac programming, there are all kinds of resources — mailing lists, bits of code posted on the web, wikis, other developers — to help out. It makes a difference. For iPhone programming, no. We're not supposed to discuss actually programming on the iPhone with anybody — even though that would raise the quality of the apps.Andpublishers too:o, to write a book about the iPhone SDK, you have to download it. In order to download it, you have to accept the agreement. And the agreement says that the download will contain confidential information that you can't pass on to third parties. That makes it hard to publish the book. And, if that wasn't enough, it also appears that you can't even use the word "iPhone" (for example, in a book title).(Links via theDaring Fireball linked list.)Hardly a great way to get that to-do list shortened, is it?
Remember Skoda jokes? Why do Skodas have heated rear windows? What do you call a Skoda with twin exhaust pipes? How do you double the value of your Skoda? And so on. They were never funny. And they haven't worked for a long time, not since Skodas effectively became Volkswagens and stopped breaking down. The last one still just about works (answer: fill the tank), albeit as a reflection on the price of oil rather than the crapness of Skodas. Credit crunch humour, ha ha ha. And, actually, this is a frugal Skoda Fabia GreenLine Estate, so I'm assuming it runs on fresh air and the scent of summer flowers.I'm not sure about GreenLine as a name for a car. It's not just that upper-case L in the middle, which is clearly a crime against the English language. More importantly, Green Line is a bus, isn't it? I've seen them on the motorways - Green Line coaches. You can't name a car after a bus. What next? A Skoda National Express? A Bendy Skoda - banned in London because the mayor doesn't like them?Actually, I don't think Boris Johnson would like any Skoda. As someone who lives in the past, he probably thinks the jokes still apply. Skodas are transport for poor people, the next (small) step up from a bus. Let them drive Range Rovers.I like this car, though. It's not beautiful or glamorous. It's workmanlike. If it were a worker, it would be an immigrant worker - from eastern Europe. Which is precisely what it is, so it's not surprising. That's not to say eastern Europeans aren't beautiful or glamorous (careful, Boris). They are, just not this one. This one works well, and it's not too expensive, and you're better off with it than you would be with a British one or a French one.Inside it's functional, rather than plush. You would never say you were cocooned in your Skoda: you're just in it, innit? And with its 1.4-litre diesel engine, don't go looking across at anyone boy-racerishly at the lights, unless you're doing so ironically (a better Skoda joke).They've made this GreenLine (urrggh) model more thrifty by lowering it, and putting a panel underneath, and removing the spare wheel. Lord knows what happens if you get a puncture - I guess you have to push, while the heated rear window keeps your hands warm (the answer to the first "joke"). It has only one exhaust pipe, so you can't do the wheelbarrow thing (the second). But it all means emissions are just 109g/km and you can do 69mpg, which is pretty good for an estate. There's even a meter on the dashboard that tells you how many miles you're getting to the gallon, something I became obsessed with. 60, 65... go on, 70! Maybe mpg could be the new mph. Jeremy? Boris? Or, better still, you should be able to key in the day's price for a litre of diesel and it would display a price per km - that would make people drive more responsibly (ie, less).This car is not a pulling car. It's not a pushing car, either. It's just a car that goes from A to B. But because of the mean and lean way it does so, A can be as far as 689 miles from B, and you still won't have to stop to fill up. Which is lucky really, because if you do double the value of a Skoda by filling up, then a tank of diesel is going to cost you &pound;12,145. Which sounds about right at the moment.Skoda Fabia GreenLine Estate 1.4 TDIPrice:£12,145Top speed105mphAcceleration0-62 in 13.7 secondsAverage consumption68.9mpgCO2 emissions109g/kmEco rating9/10At the wheelKen LivingstoneBound forB, from AIn a wordSteady
For about 20 years I've written up to 200,000 words each year on an Amstrad. I've loved it dearly and won't have a word said against it, though the world mocks and ridicules. I have two, each a PCW 9512, in London and in our Lakeland home. Two Amstrads, that's me. Beat that, Two Jags.It does everything I want. I can delete, move stuff around, as long as it's not too much at one time. There are no fancy extras, no email or internet. With books, I send the manuscript to the publisher and they have to key it into their computer. With journalism, I print out a copy, then fax it.I'd never get away with this if I were starting from scratch, but it's been accepted and worked brilliantly - till now. The problem is faxing. I continually have to ring up to check they've received it. More and more often they can't find it. The fax machine is in a dusty corner, out of paper, broken, no one uses it. I scream and shout, and have to fax it again, sitting on the phone till it starts spewing out at the other end. The death of the fax means, alas, I'll have to dump my Amstrad.For several years now my children have been telling me I'd love Google. It is true that in the last year I've regularly rung my older daughter, Caitlin, and said, er, could you just look up the 1938 Cup Final score? Is Muriel Spark still alive? Was Donald McGill Scottish? I'm astounded that, in seconds, while talking to me, she's found the answer.I took soundings and was advised that the best thing for me, simple and efficient, was an Apple laptop, something called a MacBook. It arrived two weeks ago and I must admit it is beautiful - pure white, so clean, so sleek. How can so many marvels be contained in so small a place? It has a built-in camera, so I can have video chat with anyone in the world, as long as they have a similar Apple. Very handy when I ring the Apple experts for help - which, alas, I do almost every day.I feel so stupid, incompetent, halfwitted. It has made me so depressed, kept me awake at night. It's partly that I've never used a computer before, so I can't direct the cursor, the thing with the arrow. I have to press a pad to operate it, but it rushes off, out of control, hides in the corner, down the back of the sofa.The keyboard is flat, with so many small, confusing keys. My arthritic hands are used to a raised keyboard, with few, but big, simple buttons. I keep touching the wrong thing and the screen goes wild and I froth at the mouth, roar and shout, but can't get out of it or understand the language. On my Amstrad, I have a key marked Exit. Easy, huh? On the MacBook I have to press a key marked CMD, plus Q. It's all gibberish.I hate Word, so complicated, with up to 15 stages before I can send copy. Why can't I just write something, then press send? My Amstrad is so simple: one button and it gets printed. And it has a lovely empty screen to work on.With Word, the screen is so cluttered. At the top and bottom are stupid symbols, like a fruit machine, offering facilities I don't want, which I press by mistake and end up shouting. There's a compass, which when you press says Safari. You what? I pressed an illustration of what looked like a glass of water and the word Trash appeared. I asked for an instruction manual and was told you'll get all that on the screen - but I can't get into the screen. So it's catch-22 as well.What am I going to do? Calm down, says my adviser. I have to be patient. Just play on it, till it feels second nature. On the Amstrad, I didn't have to think. I just wrote. My Apple is a little gem, a miracle. Not its fault. It's now looking at me reproachfully. Because yes, I've done this on my trusty Amstrad. What a coward. But for the last time. I am going to stick in at the Apple. I can't give up, not again. Life has moved on. As I have to...&#183;Stephen Fry returns next week.
I have been looking at ways of cutting my electricity usage. In my garden is a large pond with a waterfall, which has a pump running all the time. Are there any solar-powered pond pumps on the market that might work as well?These gizmos are coming on to the market: the &pound;45 Oxygenator Plus from Smart Solar (smartsolar.com) is suitable for some ponds, but is probably not big enough for yours. Take a look at the Sunjet 900 (about &pound;210, also fromsmartsolar.com), which has a flow rate of 900 litres an hour. Don't forget that your panel will need to be placed in direct sunlight.I'm trying to buy a webcam for my Mac, but they seem to be Windows-only.Apple users remain cut adrift in terms of extras for their computers, and webcams are particularly difficult: not only does every new Mac now come with a built-in webcam, but Apple was forced to stop selling its own iSight camera because it was environmentally unfriendly. Your best bet isn't a special model, but a piece of software that enables you to use these ordinary, inexpensive cameras. Visiticanhaz.com/webcamfor more information.&#183;Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
MondayStar Wars Force Unleashed - new interviewPiracy battle: principle or promotion?Mobile MondayMicrosoft unveils family-friendly Xbox line-upTuesdayLord British in SpacePlaying games with your mindE3, Wii and family gamingTried Go!View yet?The six biggest E3 trailers so farWednesdayAnnouncing the gamesblog's pub quiz and question competitionThe eight most important things Sony showed at E3Six more videos from E3ThursdayAussies say no to Fallout3More on Wii's MotionPlusE3: the three most inetresting games at the showFridayEvents, events, events: Google Calendar link
Following the successful assault on Microsoft's bank account, the European Commission's Neelie Kroes is now having another go at Intel, reportsAFP.The letter contained three specific charges -- that Intel offered discounts to a major European personal computer distributor to favour its products, paid a PC maker to delay marketing a model line using AMD chips, and also paid it to use Intel's own microprocessors in preference.The new filing "reinforces the commission's preliminary view ... that Intel has infringed EU treaty rules on abuse of a dominant position with the aim of excluding its main rival," the commission said in a statement.Intel has been under anti-trust attack since the 1990s, and by the EC for most of this century. The current action is basically a re-run of the one we so much enjoyed onJuly 28, 2007.As is normal with anti-trust regulators, they are acting on behalf of companies that are failing in the marketplace. In this case, it's AMD, which has just reported itsseventh quarterly loss in a row, losing $1.19bn (£596m) between April and June.As is normal, Intel has responded by saying as little as possible. But its statement includes the following:We're naturally disappointed the Commission has decided to issue a new SO. The issuance of a second SO suggests that the Commission supports AMD's position that Intel should be prevented from competing fairly and offering price discounts which have resulted in lower prices for consumers.We will evaluate this newest SO and respond fully, but it's clear that the allegations stem from the same set of complaints that our competitor, AMD, has been making to regulators and courts around the world for more than 10 years.Since (a) AMD isn't likely to be able to outproduce and outprice Intel with a better chip than the Core 2 Duo, and (b) the EC isn't likely to forego the cash or the kudos from sticking one to Intel, and (c) anti-trust regulations are mostly a matter of opinion and, at best, arbitrarily enforced, this one will no doubt run and run.But the odds are very unequal. The EC, unlike Intel, has an infinite supply of (taxpayer-funded) chips to play with. And Intel has to win every time it plays, whereas the EC just needs to get lucky once.
"A team of researchers at theUniversity of Toyamain Japan, led by Masahiko Inouye, claim to have created the world's first stable artificial DNA molecules, made from synthesized nucleosides that resemble their natural counterparts," says Ruchi Mallya, Pharmaceutical Technology Analyst at Datamonitor.DNA computers require minimal or no external power sources as they run on internal energy produced during cellular reactions. There is a huge amount of potential for a computer that does not need to be plugged in; the implications this has for laptops and true mobility are endless.Because of these reasons, scientists all over the world are looking for ways in which DNA may be integrated into a computer chip to create a biochip that will make standard computers faster and more energy efficient. DNA computers could potentially be the future of 'green IT'.An earlier report in Live Science,Breakthrough: Artificial DNA Could Power Future Computers, says: "The breakthrough will be detailed in the July 23 issue of theJournal of the American Chemical Society." However, it seems to beavailable nowfrom the American Chemical Society site if you are a subscriber or have $25 to spare.
I'm remembering the scene in Shrek. Princess Fiona awakes, and expects a delightful Prince Charming scene, all birds and flowers. Instead she is grabbed roughly by Shrek, who heads at top speed for the castle's exit with her under his arm. As things get worse and she realises they're being chased by something large and fire-breathing, the penny drops."Wait," she says, "YOU DIDN'T KILL THE DRAGON?""It's on my to-do list," Shrek growls back.What's got me thinking about that? Principally, the fire-breathing dragons on Apple's to-do list for the iPhone. There's so much that isn't yet done, and which don't show many immediate signs of getting done.Does it matter? Hell yes. Because as the developer Fraser Speirs noted the other day,demographics is destiny: "[The] iPhone OS is Apple's mainstream platform for 2012 and beyond. It's a bold prediction, but the numbers seem fairly clear."There are 28m Mac OS X machines in the field. There are already at least 7m iPhones (25% of the total number of Macs), and Apple continues to hold to its aim of selling 10m iPhones by end 2008."He adds quickly – and it's also a point worth making – that this doesn't mean of necessity that Mac OS X, the one that runs on notebook and desktop computers, is going away, nor that Apple is about to stop making computers. Itsferocious legal assaulton the clone-making company Psystar, which it only accuses of copyright infringement, induced copyright infringement, breach of contract, trademark infringement, trade dress infringement and unfair competition (why not throw in "not looking both ways before crossing the road" too, for what it's worth?) shows that it's still defending its hardware business aggressively.Psystar has been quoted – and is quoted in the court document – saying that it has sold "thousands" of its cloned-up machines, which have a PC chassis but run Mac OS X. Even though Apple is selling millions of machines every quarter (with the latest forecast to be 2.5m for the just-gone quarter), that's still a dangerous infiltration.Because, of course, hardware is still Apple's principal business. Whether it's iPhones or Macs, that's where its money really comes from.Certainly you wouldn't want the iPhone to become the principal platform for Apple's software development just yet. That's because it's got so many bugs and omissions. For instance, apps can't run in the background (very unlike Mac OS X, which liberated Apple users from the days when they could only do one thing, such as burn a CD, at a time). So you can't switch in midstream from doing something like reading a newsfeed item to seeing its associated website and come back. Whichannoys at least one developer, who found his iPhone would freeze "to the point where you can't even scroll for a while, and then [it] stutters along as if in agony".And he knows who's at fault: "Which I blame squarely on Apple's decision to avoid doing proper multitasking and take us all back to the pre-MultiFinder days. App developers have little choice but to take the mini-browser shortcut instead of saving their state, invoking Safari and reverting to the point you were at when returning to the app – because, after all, the user would have to exit Safari, find their app icon again and launch it, which would be a pain."Similarly iPhone 2.0 stillcan't do copy-and-paste. Youcan't synchronise notesyou've made on it to your computer. Youcan't store draft text messages. It still can't do MMS (that's picture messaging). And there have been plenty ofcomplaints about shorter battery life– which may be due to people not knowing how to turn off the battery-chewing GPS, or might just be some more of that, um, to-do list stuff. Then, of course, there's thenot-actually "push"(more like shove) aspect to the (terribly-named) MobileMe service, which Apple has told its sales force not to describe as "Exchange for the rest of us" because it doesn't actuallypushchanges to the data such as emails and calendars out to connected devices; you have to shove it around by choosing to synchronise.That's some to-do list.Possibly the iPhone team do feel that they're now heading for the exit – marked "10 million iPhones sold" – while holding their beautiful, GPS-enabled princess under their arm. But the dragon isn't going away, and the product's success is only making the fire that some are ready to breathe on it hotter. Eventually, Apple, you have to kill the dragon – or at least find some way to bind it up so that it's not going to bother you any more. On your to-do list? Better find a way to get it off it.
The BBC has hired an expert on virtual worlds as part of its efforts to bring its TV and internet output closer together.Roo Reynolds, who is currently a metaverse evangelist at IBM, will join the corporation as portfolio executive for social media, with a role across BBC Vision.His role will include coordinating the BBC's social networking strategy and overseeing cross-platform projects – such asBBC3's much-vaunted revamp.30-year-old Reynolds, who has been working at IBM's research laboratories in Hursley Park, Hampshire, for much of the past 10 years, has been employed in a number of different technical and research roles across the company.Most recently he has specialised in the company's use of virtual worlds, and in particular has championed IBM's use ofSecond Life."I've worked with some great people and on some great projects, and it's good to be leaving on a high," said Reynolds in an announcementon his blog. "I don't regret anything about my time at IBM, and I'm only going because it's time for me to have even more fun elsewhere."The announcement comes on the same day that the corporation confirmed that Erik Huggers, a former Microsoft executive,would be taking over as the head of the BBC's overall digital efforts.Huggers will assume the title of director of future media and technology - one of the top jobs at the BBC – when current incumbent Ashley Highfield leaves on August 1.
There is aridiculous number of gaming eventswhich happen in the UK and Europe every year - not to mention the events that happen around the world - and so we've decided to put them all into a handy Google Calendar for your reference.What's better, we've made it public. If you've got anything you'd like to add - from open game nights, indie game festivals, game raves etc - please do let us know at gamesblog+at+ gmail+dot+com and we'll throw it up there. After all, we may have forgotten to add crucial games events, and we want to come along and crash your party.It's an ongoing, organic project, so keep your eye on the cal for updates and news.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
What's your favourite piece of technology?Well, the first thought I had was maybe, like,the wheel? If you think about it, we use the wheel all the time, so I use that more than any other piece of technology. But probably functionally, I use theWacom Cintiqtablet, which is an input device for Macintosh or PC, for Photoshop. [As an animator] I do a lot of drawings in the computer, and I can input them directly.How has it improved your life?Well, it gets the drawings into the computer faster, and that is huge. As far as how the wheel has improved my life, it gets me to a lot of places a lot faster than the alternative.What additional features would you add if you could?I think, actually, the additional features and the things that it needs [it] already has. I have an older version of the Cintiq, [but] the new one is fabulous. As far as the wheel goes, I would definitely have spikes — just in case you were nearby other cars that were dangerous.When was the last time you used the Cintiq, and what for?Probably about a week ago, and it was to do some storyboards for a future project. The last time I used the wheel? Yesterday — I was in a taxi.Do you think the Cintiq will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Well, the one I have will be obsolete, but no, I think that it's only going to get better. And certainly, the wheel's going to be around for a while.What one tip would you give to non-Cintiq users?I would get one, if you draw at all. It takes a long time to get used to the input device of it, and drawing on the piece of plastic. But once you get over that hump, it's really a terrific piece of work.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?I'm kind of a "nerdite" in the sense that I have cutting-edge technology, but it's always a little bit old. I have the same Nokia phone I've had for years. It doesn't do anything except for make phone calls. So I'll get maybe an iPhone two years from now or something. I'm always right behind the times, but I'm not unwilling to try new technology.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?It would have to be my car — theVolvo 850 T5from 1997, which is the best automobile that Volvo ever made. It has a computer, so I think it still counts as technology — the computer tells you what the temperature is outside and what kind of crappy gas mileage you're getting.Mac or PC?Mac. As an artist, there's really no debate. I think the Mac has always produced a superior-looking product and I'm happy that the operating system now matches.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?ProbablyRoscoebyMidlake. OrNowbyMates of State.Will robots rule the world?I don't know. I think this is a bigger issue in the UK. Apparently, the Dalek Cult of Skaro tried to take over one time by bringing the Genesis Arc and creating a whole host of new Daleks to take over all of London. But then I think that they reversed the Time Lords' Genesis Arc so that it sucked them all back in. And then there was that Cyberman thing. But I think a bigger thing to worry about is dragons.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I think a new CD player for my Volvo. They're kind of expensive, and mine broke, and I feel kind of stupid buying a new CD player on eBay for it. But it says "don't steal me" — it's gigantic, and it fits right in there, and there really is no other use for it.WALL-Eis released in UK cinemas today torave reviews. The Guardian's Xan Brooks likes it too.Sort of.
