Napster, the online song swapping service, yesterday struck a landmark deal which will allow users to access tracks from artists including Moby, Badly Drawn Boy, Tom Jones and Paul Oakenfold.The rogue service, trying to reinvent itself as a legitimate business, has signed an agreement with the UK and European industry associations giving it access to music from 150 record labels.The music will be available on Napster's planned fee-paying service, due to launch next month. Napster is trying to fight off a lawsuit for copyright infringement from the big five recorded music businesses, including EMI and Sony, and hopes the membership service will help to see off any such challenge. After an appeal to the federal court was turned down earlier this week, Napster is facing the likelihood of a full trial.Shawn Fanning, the college drop-out who developed the free song-swapping service, said: "We're moving into a new phase of Napster, and this agreement is an important step along the way".The principal agreements have been signed with the Association of Independent Music in Britain and the Independent Music Companies Association, which represents labels across mainland Europe.It was immediately endorsed by several artists. Ash,    on the Mushroom Records label, said: "Anybody that thinks Napster is taking sales away from artists and record companies is severely out of touch with modern contemporary culture." Independents account for 25% of the UK market. Alison Wenham, chief executive   of AIM, said she had no problem with a company which had its roots in "piracy". She compared Napster to Radio Caroline and Radio Luxembourg, "the advance guard for commercial radio in Britain".Earlier this month, Napster managed to secure a licensing   deal with MusicNet, a joint venture between EMI, BMG and Warner Music, on the basis that it is able to introduce a secure method for charging users. Hank Barry, Napster chief executive, said he believed users would be willing to pay for the service which used to be free.
Mobile phones may cause cancer at lower radiation levels than previously believed, according to research carried out by scientists in Australia.A report in this month's issue of science journal Differentiation claims that exposure to the radio frequency radiation from mobile phones could cause cancer by forcing the body to produce unusual levels of heat shock proteins.The findings could be the missing link in mobile phone cancer research. Several studies have identified a heating of body tissues that occurs while using a mobile phone, but thus far researchers have failed to pinpoint a mechanism by which that heating actually causes cancer.The team of Australian radiation experts has suggested that heat shock proteins are to blame. The body produces these proteins as a natural response to cellular stress, and excessive exposure to heat shock proteins are known to cause cancer and resistance to anti-cancer drugs. They claim the proteins are triggered at radiation levels lower than those now considered safe within the mobile phone industry.The researchers wrote: "This hypothesis provides the possibility of a direct association between mobile phone use and cancer, and thus provides an important focus for future experimentation."Mobile phone companies have denied that any heating that occurs will lead to cancer, and no studies have proven them wrong. However, in response to public pressure, the companies have begun to label their products with warnings to consumers of how much radiation will be absorbed when using a particular phone.Related articles17.03.2001: Schools to have veto over mobile phone masts17.12.2000: US microchip to make mobile phones safer09.12.2000: £7m study to reveal mobile phone risksUseful linksReport: mobile phones, heat shock proteins and cancerFrom Cnet: Do cell phones cause cancer?
For a few brief months the men in suits who run the world's five major music labels were in a panic as control of their rich market was whisked away from them by a pirate website which seemed unstoppable.Last year more than 50 million people downloaded music from Napster. And neither the record industry nor the artists received a penny. Songs from the website were converted into MP3 files; these were accessed on 90 Napster servers and downloaded onto computers within minutes. It seemed that Napster represented the revolution in distribution that the internet promised, making available back-catalogue tracks that firms had deleted or didn't promote.Copyright laws were just a theory. The counterculture was offering access for all, with no middle men. The major labels could not compete. They didn't have the slick technology that catapulted Napster to notoriety in the boardrooms - and fame among music fans.Napster's fans, who include Prince, Madonna and Courtney Love, did not share the industry's outrage at the brainchild of Shawn Fanning, the ultimate techno-nerd. That outrage doubled when venture capitalists Hummer Winblad put $15 million behind him a year ago, believing that those who downloaded tracks were more likely to buy whole albums on CDs. All they were doing was making available music that record shops failed to stock.Whoever was right, the dream is over. This year, Fanning's labours, honed in a college room, have been emasculated and colonised, and are now part of the rock 'n' roll mainstream. Last week, it emerged that the number of Napster users has plummeted from a high of 16.9 million last February to 10.9 million last month, according to research firm Jupiter Media Metrix. These fans have been busy: last February there were 2.79 billion separate downloads from Napster - a figure that has now fallen by more than half, according to US digital entertainment analyst Webnoize.The plunging figures come as no surprise. Napster was sued every which way. From rock acts such as Metallica - Fanning's favourite band - through to the Recording Industry Association of America, the company was forced to delete tracks. Irish group The Corrs were wheeled out by record industry executives to decry the site. And last February, Napster was defeated in the US courts. It slowly began to delete music files from its servers, although Metallica tracks can still be accessed.And the men in suits have been able to rein in the company further. Last November Bertelsmann broke with   the four other majors to drop its action and form a licensing deal with Napster. Three weeks ago, EMI and AOL Time Warner followed suit.The three majors have joined the internet firm RealNetworks to form a new firm, RealNetworks MusicNet, to push forward online distribution. Sony, which has formed a rival alliance with Vivendi Universal called PressPlay, may join them.But desperate industry moves to milk online distribution may fall foul of European competition laws. Two weeks ago, the European Commission threatened to investigate online music agreements, fearing that the world's biggest record companies were abusing their dominant position to carve up the market for internet music sales.Mario Monti, the EU Competition Commissioner, is scrutinising Sony and Vivendi Universal's online music venture, PressPlay, as well as the rival MusicNet, which is run by Warner Music, Bertelsmann and the UK's EMI.A source close to Monti said that if music company lawyers did not show details of the agreements to the commission, it would be forced to launch a formal investigation. So far it has not seen any details.The EU believes the five major firms should be competing against each other, rather than cooperating, and it fears that multilateral industry agreements may harm smaller independent labels.One UK record company executive said: 'We are at the early stages of harnessing digital distribution, but we are braced for an investigation. We just hope the whole process doesn't slow down what we all believe will be a vital revenue earner for the industry.'Some analysts believe 25 per cent of all media will be distributed via the net by 2004. But whether internet music distribution will be the saviour of the music industry or not is by no means certain.There is no question that a saviour is desperately needed. Global music sales are falling. The replacement of music collectors' old vinyl record by CDs, which for the past decade has propped up the industry, is over. Sales fell by 1.3 per cent last year, says the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry IFPA. The industry is now worth &#163;16.5 billion a year worldwide. Growth is expected to shadow global GDP levels, which means firms can't expect a boom.Forecasts for music bought online are higher, but Ernesto Schmitt, who runs internet music label peoplesound.com, is sceptical: 'The rolling out of broadband technology is now between five and 10 years away. I don't think the growth projections are valid.'Schmitt, whose company last month was bought by Vitaminic - a pan-European online music company listed on Milan's Nuovo Mercato stock exchange   - believes that what Bertelsmann and the other major groups which have reached 'strategic' agreements with Napster will gain is specific knowledge of its subscribers' musical preferences.'Marketing to music fans has been terrible. Record shops are lousy at this. They don't recognise their customers. They don't make an effort to know what they want. But the significance of alliances with Napster is that major labels have now got a database with 50 million people's musical preferences.'Back in Silicon Valley, Fanning is designing software for Napster which will allow artists, publishers and record companies to get royalties instantaneously when a track is downloaded. Later this summer, he and his chief executive, Hank Barry, will unveil a subscription-only model.But the renegade excitement that was Napster is gone. It's now about making money. Pure and simple.Yet somewhere in Britain, the counterculture dream still lives. A website called Espra promises to deliver what Napster couldn't: guaranteed anonymity for users. The British-funded site promises 'to propagate itself across the world and ruthlessly devour the hegemony of the music distributors'.Espra believes musicians can survive on what it calls the 'gift economy' - fans voluntarily supporting their favourite bands via a 'tip' facility built into the site. If that sentiment catches fire, music moguls may suddenly find another war on their digital doorstep.Pirates use net to capture the marketThe Napster monster may have been tamed, but music executives still fear pirates. And the internet still represents the industry's biggest threat.This month the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry said in its Piracy Report that illegal bootlegging was 'linked to organised crime and to international criminal activities such as drugs and money laundering'.According to IFPI, the global pirate music market totalled 1.8 billion units last year, represent ing a third of all CDs and cassettes. The rise was caused by pirates downloading tracks. Recordable CDs now make up 35 per cent of all pirate sales - up 10 per cent on the previous year.IFPI is fighting back with software of its own to protect its members' copyright. Songbird software, written by a 20-year-old Travis Hill, was launched this month. It acts as a policeman on Napster servers and can detect whether Napster has paid copyright on that particular song.
Only 3% of UK credit card fraud relates to the internet, according to experts, yet consumers are still concerned about buying online.Last year there were 5.9bn of credit, debit and store card transactions, worth &#163;292.6bn, said the Association for Payment Clearing Services. Fraudulent transactions were worth &#163;293m, up 55% on 1999.Over 90% of internet fraud relates to adult sites. Criminals set up bogus sites knowing that those giving their details were likely to be too embarrassed to report it, said Paula Widdowson of Card Protection Plan, which covers 6m cardholders in the UK.Other cyber crimes involved email, she added. "Anyone giving their credit card details in an email, or to a person who has phoned, is ridiculous."The safest way to buy online is to use a 16-digit   pseudo number issued by your card company, instead of your card number. The pseudo number changes for every transaction.But a secure socket or 128-bit encryption device, familiar by the padlock symbol that appears on-screen, does not guarantee that your card details will not be seen by prying eyes.Non-internet fraud is still the most popular. From stolen till rolls or shop receipts, someone takes a card number and expiry date and uses them to buy goods by phone or internet. The majority of fraud is the result of pickpocketing or people losing cards.In February it was found that waiters in London, employed by Russian gangs, were stealing account information by "skimming". After the bill is paid the card is reswiped through a magnetic strip reader costing &#163;50 and the details transferred to a magnetic strip on a fake card.
One organisation that won't be getting a Which? Best Buy product this year is its own TaxCalc following disclosure of a highly embarrassing defect.Which? admitted last night that the flaw "made it possible for an unauthorised third party to view personal and financial details &#91;and&#93; information submitted by purchasers of TaxCalc 2001".The details included the addresses and credit card details of more than 2,700 people who purchased the software from its website.Wow, that won't do Which? any good. Nor will it do anything for millions of web users around the world who are already extremely worried about security on the net. The standard response to such worries is to say - which was true at least until recently - that security on the web is much more better than most people realise.Credit card fraud on the internet - once porn sites have been removed - is miniscule and the cost of default mostly falls on merchants rather than consumers. But no one is going to believe such figures when respected bodies like Which? fall victim to breaches of security the consequences of which could be quite devastating to the customers whose details have been revealed.Much of the damage has already been done because, rightly or wrongly, a lot of people contemplating online purchases will deduce that if this can happen to a respected body such as Which? - that castigates other sites for their inadequacies - then what can one expect from less well endowed sites? As Chaucer wrote, "if gold rusts, what will iron do?"This raises another important point. Which? as an organisation has a conflict of interest. It is both a watchdog and a content provider. It earned its "brand" by giving independent assessments of consumer products then used the success of that brand to sell products - like TaxCalc and internet access - to its customer base.When it fails in the provision of its own services, it calls into question the authority of the quality of the independent assessments it does on other products. Maybe it should stick to what it knows best.It will take Which? a long time to recover from this fiasco and could deter worried customers from giving their credit card numbers online to other organisations. I bought my first copy of TaxCalc earlier this year to test it out for myself with this year's tax returns but haven't yet got around to using it. Sometimes there are real virtues in leaving things until the last moment.Emailvic.keegan@guardian.co.ukRelated articles22.06.01: New e-minister is no technophobe22.06.01: Web security breach23.08.00: Another blow to confidence in internet banking securityUseful linkWhich?
Every charity marketing manager lives in fear of spending thousands, or even millions, on a donor recruitment campaign that doesn't hit the mark.But increasingly charities are finding that highly targeted campaigns carrying a smaller marketing spend can produce attractive returns on investment.Timing is everything, as relief organisation Muslim Aid found out to its advantage with its 1999 Ramadan campaign, which attracted an award from Royal Mail earlier this year for its effective use of direct marketing. Judges praised the mailing for demonstrating big impact on a small budget.Muslim Aid used the fasting month as an opportunity to send a copy of its annual report, information about new extensions to gift aid and an Islamic calendar to around 39,000 supporters, each of whom had made at least one donation since 1995.Including postage, the mailing cost Muslim Aid £25,000 (equivalent to around 65p per mailing) but over £600,000 was donated, growing to around £1m with gift aid.Spokesperson Zeb Kasmani says the mailing was simple, but had great appeal with supporters at a time of the year associated with making charitable donations.E-marketing - anything from the email blasts to mobile phone text messaging - is becoming an increasingly popular choice for charities.Not only is it cheaper and quicker than sending a piece of direct mail; it also exploits a medium used by millions, particularly younger people.Overseas aid and development charity World Vision is using e-marketing to widen its existing supporter base.In the past, its Orange-a-peel fundraising day each February had attracted most of its support from young girls, while young boys seemed less interested.Given that the event is also an educational one, World Vision was keen to raise its profile among boys.In a bid to raise awareness before the event, the charity teamed up with football website, Giveusthescore.com. The site regularly sends mobile phone text messages containing football results and news to its subscribers, many of whom are teenage boys.Three thousand supporters aged 11-16 years were targeted, with information and contact details for Orange-a-peel tagged on the end of their usual text message.World Vision's youth marketing manager Matt Wenham admits that it's hard to tell whether the messages directly contributed to boys' involvement in this year's event.However, he's convinced that e-marketing holds untapped potential for charities: "Teenagers are by far the greatest users of text messaging so it's an ideal medium to reach them with."Homelessness charity Centrepoint is planning to launch an e-marketing campaign in the autumn to tackle the problem of an ageing donor base.The charity's typical donors are older women but it has made "a conscious decision" to increase support from younger people.Face-to-face donor recruitment resulted in 3,000 new supporters last year, of whom 85% were under 35.Centrepoint is hoping to build on this younger supporter base through a range of initiatives including cold and warm e-mailings.The charity recently appointed direct marketing agency Whitewater to help develop its e-marketing strategy.Centrepoint direct marketing manager Cathy Gale says e-marketing is a cost-effective way of reaching a wider audience and offers a fast way of communicating with potential or existing supporters:"It's cheap, which is the key thing. Our marketing budget isn't huge and we have to maximise return on our investment."
Thousands of people today discovered that their credit cards details and personal information had been made freely available on a Consumers' Association website.The CA - publishers of Which? magazine - is contacting the 2,700 customers who purchased a self-assessment tax software programme from the organisation's website,TaxCalc.com, and urging them to cancel their credit cards.The CA said that the site had been shut down "within seconds" of a call from a Times journalist yesterday, informing them of a serious breach of security on the TaxCalc site. It could not confirm the technical reason for the breach and said an independent security expert has been hired to conduct an immediate audit of the site.The organisation did not know if customers would be offered compensation for possible fraud and the inconvenience of being forced to cancel their credit cards.The CA's other e-commerce ventures were secure, it said.A CA statement said: "We appreciate the concerns that the public has about shopping online, but other forms of using a credit card also carry a risk. We are still saying that you can shop online with confidence at the Which.net site."Ironically, the CA set up the Which? web trader scheme in June 1999 to boost consumers' confidence in online transactions. Billed as "your link to safe online shopping", the scheme established a code of practice for UK-based websites to ensure that customers are treated fairly online.Despite the security breach, the CA argued this morning that consumers should not lose faith in online shopping or the CA. A spokesman explained that the CA aimed to handle the situation in the best possible way for consumers, informing them immediately of the situation and shutting down the site."We have criticised people before when they have not acted swiftly to inform customers. We have gone out and stood as a consumers' champion. When incidents like this do occur, it is important to remove the site immediately," he said.The CA is not the first company to suffer a humiliating breach of online security. Some previous offenders include:&#149; Amazon: hackers gained access to the names, addresses, credit card details and telephone numbers of 98,000 customers at one of Amazon's subsidiaries, Bibliofind.&#149; Barclays: forced to shut down its online banking service in July 2000 after several customers logging on suddenly found themselves staring at other people's confidential account details.&#149; Halifax: online share dealing shut down after a technical fault allowed some customers to buy and  sell shares in random accounts in 1999.&#149; Moneyextra: a security loophole at this online finance site in May exposed a user's log in name and password. It meant that if a moneyextra customer accessed the service on a shared computer anyone who subsequently sat down at that computer would have access to their entire financial portfolio.&#149; Powergen: online payment site shut down after the debit card details and personal information of thousands of customers were left unsecured by the company. Powergen initially failed to inform those affected but later compensated its online customers £50 each.&#149; Woolworths: site was shut down for two months after a customer discovered the credit card details and personal information of other Woolworth's customers on www.woolies.co.uk in August 2000.Related articles04.05.2001: Extra worry for money site08.03.2001: Amazon in card security rowIgnore the scary tales about internet fraud. It's quite safe, honest23.08.2000: Another blow to confidence in internet banking security05.08.2000: Grounded by the fiasco in cyberspace20.07.2000: Powergen leaks cash card data07.04.2000: Net security broken at 60% of UK firmsUseful linksWhich.netWhich? web trader
Why is the only internet bill in the Queen's speech to be one banning  internet adoptions - surely this is knee-jerk legislation and there are more  pressing internet issues?In general the government takes the view that existing legislation applies online as it does offline.Successive governments have sought to safeguard children however, through adoption legislation by permitting only local authorities or accredited adoption agencies to advertise a child for adoption.The government is simply extending this safeguard to include the internet, while providing a defence for internet service providers so that they are not guilty of an offence where they are not aware of the content of the information.How would the government stop pictures of the Bulger killers appearing on the web?We are aware of recent reports in the media, however, it would be  inappropriate to comment in detail on what is speculation.The attorney general has reminded media about their obligations under the high court injunction in January this year aimed at protecting information regarding  the identity and whereabouts of T and V in order to protect them from harm.The government intends to take all necessary measures in this case to fulfil  its obligations.Regarding the regulation of investigatory powers bill - will you be willing to send people to prison for not handing over their encryption keys. How much privacy would you expect in your own emails?There needs to be a sanction for criminals who willfully decide not to  hand over decryption keys.  Otherwise they would be able to conceal their  activities with impunity which, on a fundamental level, cannot be right.Part III of RIPA contains an offence for not complying with a disclosure  requirement (s.53).  The max sentence is 2 years imprisonment.  It targets  the criminal.  Individuals will not go to prison for forgetting or losing  keys.  The Act simply does not work in this way.If Labour is so concerned about voter apathy and disconnection with young people, why won't you look at allowing voting online for the next general election?The Office of the e-Envoy is looking at the issue of policies for e-democracy, of which one track is electronic voting. We've only just introduced major changes to the voting system in relation to the postal voting.Before you could allow electronic voting in a general election, you would have to make sure the required technology was in place to provide a similar level of security in the online system as compared to the current paper one.Already, several pilots of electronic voting and electronic counting have been carried out in local government. The pilots have been evaluated and theresults are published here.What measures will legislate for to kick-start e-commerce?E-commerce is already happening.  The challenges for business are to integrate new ways of working electronically into their business - not just by having a website or trading online but how they work with customers, suppliers and other partners and how they capture all the internal benefits.The government's UK online for business programme, which I am now responsible for, aims to provide advice and help to businesses so that they can meet these challenges.As you will see on our site,www.ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk,  we already have a UK wide network of advisers and a wide range of other support services.The recent "opportunity for all" white paper announced plans for a further £30m over the next three years to expand the programme to help put UK business in the lead in the new, transforming ways of working that information and communication technologies enable.E-commerce is about the market, skills and enterprise. One thing government can do is to get the market framework right, and that's work we'll develop by implementing the communications white paper and creating Office of communications.What damage do you think that dotcom crash has had on the status of  e-commerce within Whitehall?E-commerce remains vital for the government.  Our view of its importance to the UK economy has not been changed by what has happened with dotcoms.  We recognise that the very public failures of dotcoms have had a disproportionate effect on sentiment about technology companies but we continue to believe in e-commerce and still aim to be the best place in the world for e-commerce by 2002.Internet companies have considerable potential and they'll continue to be able to learn from the problems that dotcoms have had in the past.In order to help them, the government has the internet mentoring initiative which includes a portal offering, for example, support, information and diagnosis of the needs of individual internet companies and an internet incubator fund to stimulate the creation of incubators offering internet companies the supportive environment they need.What has been the most significant event in the economy in persuading the government to take e-commerce seriously?There was no single event that put e-commerce at the heart of government's agenda.  It has for years encouraged the use of new technologies by businesses, but this gained further impetus with the advent of the Internet.It is clear to any observer that the internet has the potential to transform the way we buy, sell and do business and we will continue to encourage e-business as part of the UK's competitiveness.What role will the still surviving dotcom entrepreneurs play in creating  government policy?We recognise dotcom entrepreneurs as having a lot to bring to government policy on enterprise and entrepreneurship.We've involved them in a good deal of consultations and, for example, in putting in place things like the internet mentoring initiative.  We will continue to talk to entrepreneurs of all kinds be they from the dotcom community or from other sectors.What interest did you have in the internet before you were appointed?My first summer job as a student, working for a computer manufacturer, gave me a sense of just how central computers would be to commerce in the years to come.Like everyone else I've seen the internet transform the way we stay in touch (I have a sister who lives abroad) and the way we shop. (I actually first viewed my present home online).I've had a constituency website for a couple of years, and in my role as Labour's general election campaign co-ordinator, I worked to ensure our e-campaigning was central to the election campaign.In 12 months time what would you liked to have achieved in policy terms?Our target - set at the end of 1999 - is to make the UK the best place in the world for e-commerce by 2002.  I will be working to achieve it!Can you define 'broadband'?While most people today connect to the internet by "narrowband" over a phone line, broadband services offer significantly faster data rates that can also facilitate  "always on" connection to the Internet and enable services like video-on-demand.In fact the term broadband is often used to describe a very wide set of  technologies, offering data rates that are orders of magnitude apart.Current generation broadband services are provided at speeds of 2mbit/s and over whilst next generation broadband services will be provided at speeds of 10 mbits/s and over.Until this year, the most common way in which higher bandwidth and broadband services have been supplied to consumers is via leased line products.But the market is developing rapidly. ADSL, cable modems and broadband fixed wireless access are likely to be the most prominent technologies in the medium-term.&#149; ADSL - which upgrades BT's narrowband copper loop to deliver higher bandwidth services - is being rolled out rapidly across the UK&#149; Cable modem services - are beginning to be rolled out&#149; Broadband fixed wireless, satellite and 3G mobile - will begin to be extensively rolled within the next two years.What do you think needs to be done to address the issue of digital divide in this country?Tackling social inclusion is central to the government's agenda and so work to close the digital divide will be critical.I've been impressed by the work of a local learning centre in my own constituency, but for those living in disadvantaged areas, social exclusion can range across unemployment, basic skills, poor housing, and high crime rates.The government has established UK online centres which provide internet access within communities. There will be 6000 such centres by the end of 2002 in local venues - community centres, libraries - accessible by the whole community.Improving access to the internet can help tackle social exclusion - by opening up access to information and jobs, but also by raising confidence and skill levels.So we need to provide access, but we also need to ensure people have the skills and confidence to use the new technologies to realise their potential.Do you agree with the whole internet industry that BT has been dragging its heels on the issue of broadband roll out/unbundling and that it's up to the government to whip BT into shape?We are witnessing the start of a new market here, and we should not expect it to be problem free. Oftel is seeking to deliver a competitive broadband market.We do want to see broadband rolled out quickly, but achieving this is not just about working with BT.  It's also about getting other competitors in the market and stimulating a higher demand for broadband.And it's not just about BT's activities whether that's providing ADSL or enabling LLU.  Cable, fibre optics, satellite and wireless all have their parts to play and there are dozens - if not hundreds - of companies deploying one or more of these technologies.LLU is just one way of introducing more competition by making sure that the copper wires that are already linking customers to exchanges can be used by companies other than BT to provide high speed Internet access and other data services.Through OFTEL's initiative we now have unbundled loops available and in use in the UK but there is still much to do to enable other operators to make the most of availability from BT.And the advent of LLU has spurred BT to roll out ADSL so that over 50% of the population live in areas that already have ADSL-enabled exchanges and BT plan to increase this to 60% by September.Which of the previous secretaries of state at the DTI did the most to make the government love the web?Given her previous work as e-commerce minister, I think Patricia Hewitt is now well placed to lead on this.Does Gordon Brown use the internet?Perhaps you should ask him.How do you think the government can ever have a credible internet policy when the provision of government services online is still so woeful?I wouldn't agree.  The most recent survey of departments shows that for the whole of central government there are 521 services provided to the citizen or to business.Of these, 218 services are enabled now,  384 services will be enabled by 2002 and 517 services will be enabled by 2005.Did you use the internet during the election and, if so, how do you think it will influence campaigning at the next one?Yes, I used the internet regularly during the election for both news updates and to carry out research.The internet was actually central to our campaigning. Our site was redesigned shortly before the election campaign started and the policy content, games and localised information on the site proved a real success.So I have little doubt that internet campaigning will grow in significance in the years to come.What was your best memory from the election?Being re-elected to represent the people of Paisley South.When were you most concerned about the outcome of the election?Some of the coverage on the day of our manifesto launch wasn't exactly anticipated, but I knew we still had the approach people wanted on issues like the economy and public services.What was the last thing you bought online?Airline ticketsWhat are your five favourite sites and which one do you dislike the most?I look at the Paisley Daily Express sitewww.inside-scotland.co.ukfor constituency news when in London. For Scottish news I look at the Herald sitewww.theherald.co.ukand for politics it'swww.guardian.co.uk/politics. I also usewww.ukonline.gov.ukgovernment information. Fellow fans of West Wing at Millbank introduced me towww.Jedbartlet.com.I can't say reading the Conservative party site,www.conservatives.comduring the election was a great joy!Ask AristotleAsk Aristotle about Douglas AlexanderSpecial reportsWhitehallNet newsThe new mediaRelated articles22.06.2001: New e-minister is no technophobe12.06.2001: Alexander replaces Hewitt as e-ministerUseful linksThe Office of the e-EnvoyUK online
Siemens' trioAt the ComunicAsia exhibition in Singapore this week, Siemens unveiled a trio of high-end mobile phones, all of which will be on sale in the UK in the autumn.The ME-45, right, is billed by Siemens as a robust mobile aimed at the business user on the move. It is GPRS (general packet radio services) compatible, boasts a range of organiser style facilities compatible with Microsoft Outlook and is the first Siemens phone to feature EMS (Enhanced Messaging System) which enables images to be embedded in the body of an SMS (Short Message Service). Other facilities include a Wap browser, voice dialling and hands-free option.Also new is an enhanced version of the SL-45 - the   MP3 playing phone Siemens launched earlier in the year. The SL-45i is Siemens' first model to integrate a wireless Java platform. Users can download games, location services, directories and other applications which can be stored on the phone's 32MB MMC (Multimedia Card).Completing the line-up is the SL-42, another phone targeted at the business user. Key features include a digital   voice recorder, Wap browser, address book and currency converter. Information is stored on the phone's accompanying 16 megabyte MMC (Multimedia Card).Ericsson penEricsson grabbed the limelight at the exhibition by unveiling a digital pen that can relay handwritten text to mobile phones, PDAs and PCs. The CHA-30 Chatpen reads words that have been written on a special paper embedded with a pattern of dots. The text is then sent to a mobile phone via a Bluetooth link, and can also be passed on via a GPRS network to a PC or a PDA   (personal digital assistant).Ericsson believes the device, which goes on sale early next year, will enable the remote signing of contracts, as well as encouraging the purchasing of goods and services via mobile phones.The Swedish company also announced that it had joined forces with Nokia, Motorola and Siemens to agree a format for an enhanced version of the SMS system. Multimedia Messaging (MMS), which will be available when 3G phone networks are opera tional in 2002/2003, allows users to send images, video and sound files.Ericsson also showed a new mobile for the Asian market. The A3618 is a small dual band model that features a colour display, calendar, T9 predictive text input and a vibration alert. There are no details yet about a possible European launch.Slim SamsungSamsung says that its hottest new product at CommunicAsia is the slimmest ever mobile phone, above. Set to debut in Korea in the next few months, the SPH-N2000 is a flip-type phone that is just 9.8mm thick including bat tery. It sports an eight-line screen and features an internet browser, SMS functionality, and can store up to 1,000 phone numbers. Samsung is promising to deliver even slimmer handsets later in the year. There's no news yet on a possible UK launch. Samsung also displayed a host of 3G concept phone products.Also on display at CommunicAsia were a Secure Digital (SD) card that adds Bluetooth functionality to Palm PDA devices (due in the UK early next year), and a revolutionary system from Cellonics that claims to transfer data wirelessly a thousand times faster than current speeds.
In the mid-90s, techno-gurus claimed that successful websites needed to focus on "the three Cs" - content, community     and commerce. Of these, content - as in stuff to read, watch, listen to or look at, was pronounced the king.Truth be     told, content's hold on power was always shaky and was quickly deposed by community and commerce. But plenty of     people - crucially venture capitalists - still believed that content was important online. As a result, various webzines     appeared, offering the kind of thing normally supplied by the offline media, albeit with a few interactive knobs on.Five     years on, things look very different. According to the American net journalist David Hudson, the three Cs that now     characterise life online are "consolidation, cutbacks and collapse". Content sites have come under particular pressure,     with well-loved names being forced to close.Suck, set up by Carl Steadman and Joey Anuff, andFeed, set up by Steven Johnson and Stefanie Syman, suspended operations earlier this month, provoking     much lamentation.Both titles were internet old-timers (online since 1995), and embraced the creative possibilities of     the net. Suck specialised in sarcastic debunking of net hype and clever hyper-linking. Feed offered cultural commentary     and experimental interfaces. Both were pioneers in their own way and had become part of the online furniture.Perhaps     that was part of their problem, suggests Clay Shirky, a web analyst (and occasional Feed contributor) fromThe     Accelerator Groupin New York. "Suck's initial editorial mission was to be smart and sceptical about     the web. At the time no one else was either of those things. By 1999, everybody had gotten smart about the web. And     by 2000 everyone had gotten sceptical.Feed's editorial mission wasn't clear, because it was always a work in progress.     But it's hard to say what The New Yorker's mission is, aside from showcasing good writing." Actually, both sites did     evolve. Suck kept the sarcasm but moved to cover pop culture. Feed dropped the experimental, academic tone. And, last     year, both sites joined forces to create Automatic Media. The visible result wasPlastic, the     Slashdot-style community weblog devoted to media and politics, which remains online, because the staff, in particular     Joey Anuff, work without pay.Behind the scenes, the aim was to create an advertising network and pool the ad staff of     both sites to cut costs. It was a good idea but never really had a chance of working, thanks to the collapse. That     collapse (and the unwillingness of investors to continue to fund loss-making net operations) is the reason sites like Feed     and Suck are closing. Most content sites support themselves by selling advertising (usually banner ads). According to     Rebecca Ulph, an analyst atForrester Europe, the online ad market is still growing."Even in these     days of doom and gloom, it's up 30-50% a year. But the problem is, it's not growing as fast as the amount of content     it's attempting to support." As a result, says Shirky, the market is massively over-supplied and the rates sites can     charge have fallen to around a thirtieth of three years ago. Both Ulph and Shirky believe advertising revenues will     eventually be big enough to support content sites. Forrester has suggested that by 2005, "ad spending would bring     around $27 billion to US content sites".The sites that get these revenues, says Ulph, will offer detailed marketing     services to their advertisers - services that let them properly target consumers. There'll be fewer sites, they'll be     bigger and they won't be the names we know now. As Shirky says, "the collapse of content sites is just beginning". T o     survive, sites are looking to boost their revenues by resorting to what could be called "the four Ss" - shopping,     syndication, services and subscriptions. None are easy. Back in 1998, many sites hoped to make money from selling     items related to their content.Unfortunately, it has become clear that consumers prefer to buy from dedicated retail     sites. Syndication (or licensing) works for some. For example, Zach Leonard, the chief executive ofFT Marketwatchsays his site initially thought revenues would be "80% advertising, 20% licensing. But the     split's worked out to be 60/40."Still, FT Marketwatch is well placed. It has the FT brand, and can license every thing     from tools and real time financial data, to more standard content to businesses keen to be associated with that brand.     Similarly, using services associated with content either to generate money or shore up ad revenues is an option for only     a few businesses. Rebecca Ulph mentions the free wedding planning service offered byConfettiwhich locks consumers into the site largely because of the trouble it would take to switch to a rival.In America,Edietshas built a profitable business out of charging consumers $10-$15 a month for content and     personalised diet-planning tools. Shirky remains sceptical. "Ediets is almost like a micro-application service provider. But     it's not clear it is a general solution for the problems faced by what we generally mean by content sites."The general     solution many seem to favour is subscription. After all, it works offline. However, no one has really been able to make it     work online. There are exceptions, the most notable being the online edition of the Wall Street Journal, which claims to     have 574,000 paying subscribers. However, this hasn't madeWSJ.comprofitable.In March the site confirmed it was     cutting jobs as a result of the ad revenue squeeze. Ulph says the high subscription figures aren't what they seem. Most     subscribers are businesses, who take up the general subscription offer for the print and online edition combined. Shirky     adds that WSJ.com offers its opinion pieces free, because it wants them to circulate widely.It is a sign that if     subscription charges do come in for content sites, they won't be crude flat fees. Most will continue to offer some free     content (aimed at general consumers) and content you pay for (aimed mainly at niche markets, in particular business     users). For example, many US newspapers offer their content free for seven days, but charge for their archives.Yahoonow charges for some premium services, including auction listings and the ability to make phone calls via its instant     messenger client.Salon, the cultural/political webzine tipped to be the next content casualty, charges users $30 a year     for extra content and the chance to read the main site ad-free.As far as the UK/European market is concerned, Shirky     says it will be a "big indicator" if FT.com decides to try subscriptions. FT Marketwatch's Zach Leonard says that the FT     group is "actively looking" at online subscriptions. "The questions are what and how much would remain free." Indeed, at     the moment, as he points out,FT.comcharges for some services/content - for example, its AskFT archive search.     FT.com is one of the few sites that might be able to charge, says Ulph. "Sites have to produce the best of breed content     you can't get anywhere else reliably, otherwise people won't pay for it."There needs to be a fundamental change in the     consumer mindset, she suggests. People expect to get content free. When faced with a charge, they assume they'll be     able to find something similar elsewhere free. They also feel they have already paid once - in their ISP subscription     charges. That indicates, suggests Leonard, that companies such as AOL-TimeWarner and TerraLycos will be best placed     to make money from content. They might adapt a cable TV pricing model, and add levels of content according to how     much the user paid."That way, the user experience is not hindered. They just pay upfront and everything is all in." AOL,     in particular, seems to be moving this way. While the high-profile content casualties are American, the pressures are     being felt here. Ulph says several sports sites will close over the next year.The women's sites will also struggle. Drew     Cullen, editor of the cheeky British IT news siteThe Registersuggests Dotmusic may have     problems."It has a massive readership, but it doesn't generate much income." What about The Register? Cullen seems     confident. The Register knows its niche. It has a large readership and a small staff (14 in total). It is managing to     support itself via advertising. "But if we wanted to do more than wash our face, we'd have to look for money, which     would be difficult now." Perhaps that's a blessing in disguise.According to Clay Shirky, "venture capital damaged online     media." Most such companies put money into net companies expecting to lose it or make back 30 times their investment     in two years, he explains. Content sites were never going to offer those kinds of returns. "Media outlets chug along     either just below the waterline, as with the New Yorker, or just above, as with most magazines. The media business is     just not a wealth creation business."Unfortunately, people believed that everything connected with the net would make     them billions. No one thought content sites needed to be shielded like a new magazine for five years while they found     their feet. So content sites now need to look for a different kind of money, says Shirky. "They need patrons, rich media     companies that don't mind running them as a loss leader. After all, The New Yorker has never turned a profit."Then     again, there's only one New Yorker. You could argue Microsoft is running Slate, its cultural webzine as a New Yorker-style     loss leader. This particular solution might work for Salon, possibly even Feed and Suck, but not many more.&#149;  Send     coments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The suspected author of the Anna Kournikova email virus faces up to six months in prison after being charged yesterday by Dutch police.Jan de Wit, 20, is alleged to be OnTheFly, the name of the hacker who unleashed the Kournikova worm on unsuspecting email users all over the world in February.Mr de Wit is scheduled to appear in court on September 12 on charges of spreading information over a computer network with the intention of causing damage. Under Dutch law he could receive a maximum of six months' imprisonment or a fine of 100,000 guilders (£29,000).The email claimed to be a photograph of the tennis star and came with the message "Hi: Check This!", together with what appeared to be a picture file labelled "AnnaKournikova.jpg.vbs". Everyone who double clicked on the attachment triggered a worm virus that spread by sending itself to everyone in a Microsoft Outlook address book.When the extent of the damage became clear, OnTheFly handed himself over to police in Sneek, northern Holland.The Kournikova virus spread quickly, but it did not affect as many users as the "I love you" virus that paralysed the email servers of more than 100m users last year.Soon after the attack, OnTheFly posted a justification of his actions on a Dutch website, saying he had sent the Kournikova email "just because I am a big fan of hers. She deserves some attention, doesn't she?"He added: "I never wanted to harm the people who opened the attachment. But after all, it's their own fault they got infected."Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant for Sophos Anti-Virus, said: "Virus writers should take this as a warning - the authorities are taking their activities more seriously and are prepared to take decisive action. If you don't want to end up in court, don't write and distribute viruses."Related articles15.02.2001: Hacker launched Anna bug 'as a warning'14.02.2001: 'Anna' email virus wreaks havoc26.02.2001: Kournikova came to stay - and bugged us all day longUseful linksMessageLabs list of top 10 virusesSophos Anti-virusAnna Kournikova fan site
Twelve years after the arrival of the original Game Boy, Nintendo is launching the first true successor to the gaming handheld. The Game Boy Advance (GBA) is out in the UK from tomorrow, having already sold 2m units since its March release in Japan. Its mix of smart graphics, multiplayer link options and backcatalogue play compatibility looks set to catch on here.First impressions of the GBA , right, are positive. The 32-bit newcomer weighs just 150g and is easier to hold. However, the new shoulder buttons, on top of the unit, can be hard to reach. The GBA comes in four colours with a maturer look to the design, although the screen is a problem because without being backlit, it can be difficult to follow the action when out of direct light.And   the games themselves are worth seeing, with the majority of the 13 launch titles offering impressive graphics, including pseudo 3D visuals that only a few years ago were the preserve of home gaming consoles.David Gosen of Nintendo Europe is bullish: "Game Boy Advance is a revolution in handheld gaming. It takes mobile gaming to another level, delivering home console   quality gaming right into the palm of your hand."Nintendo's three releases - Super Mario Advance, F-Zero and Kuru Kuru Kururin - all look the part even if it is only Kuru that offers something original.Elsewhere the Konami duo of Castlevania and Krazy Racers impress, while THQ's GT Advance is the choice for the serious handheld driver. The prettiest looking title so far is Ubisoft's Rayman Advance.Developers and publishers have embraced the format as over 100 games are expected by Christmas. Cameron Sheppard, of developers Crawfish Interactive is typical: "One of the advantages of developing for the GBA is that programmers and artists love working on the system, which helps in making great games."The big publishers are also keen. Konami UK's Jon Murphy, says: "We're wholeheartedly supporting the GBA's launch and expect it to be a major success."Joe Booth, European Development Director, of Bam! Entertainment is   similarly enthusiastic: "It's a very exciting system. It has the power of a Super Nintendo, a bigger screen and allows four people to play simultaneously using the same cartridge."But there are some drawbacks. Nintendo has a poor reputation with third-party publishers, who failed to support the company's last home console, the N64. Luckily for Nintendo there is little competition in the handheld sector.Nintendo has big plans for the little machine. The GBA has been designed to double up as a controller for its next home console - the Gamecube - which is out in the UK early next year.Plans for wireless gaming are under way. The screen may be too dark but Game Boy Advance has the games, processing power and developer support that should ensure a bright future.
There's that eerie moment in The Matrix where Keanu Reeves achieves a Zen-like state of techno-enlightenment and
   realises that everything around him is flowing data in a nice shade of green. The rest of the film is a little off-beat, but
   Reeves' vision may not be that futuristic.Our everyday lives could be controlled and coordinated, not just by raw data, but by computers that evolve like living
   entities. These computer "genes" are already advanced enough to test-fly fighter planes, schedule nurses' shifts,
   predict our spending and manage the stock market. 
   Dr Robert Smith is the director of The Intelligent Computer Systems Centre at the University of the West of England.In
   collaboration with Boeing, the air force and the Scientific Systems Corporation, he has been test-flying planes.
   Unfortunately, he tests them virtually from the safety of his office. When a brand new fighter plane has been built, the
   engineers can point to figures and diagrams and swear blind that the plane is going to be better than any other.In reality, planes often work differently than predicted, so companies normally build a prototype and test-fly it. It is
   very expensive and can, of course, crash. This is where Dr Smith comes in. He simulates the plane in flight and uses
   programs composed of computer "genes" to fly it as a test pilot would. 
   These virtual planes are thus driven by a collection of evolving organisms inside the computer. This evolution is driven by
   a program called a genetic algorithm, which operates in a similar way to natural evolution.In the real world, animals live, attempt to reproduce and die; those whose offspring are hardy and who survive will
   reproduce and pass their genes on to the next generation. Over time the animals that are the fittest - or contain the
   best genes - will have more descendants.In a PC, the "animals" are random collections of computer code - the genetic algorithms. They are set a problem to
   solve, such as flying a plane. Mostly they will be hopeless but some programs may be marginally better. The best of them
   breed and pass on their code.Over thousands of generations, a program evolves that will be able to solve the problem it was set. Since the program
   has not been written, it may come up with a genuinely creative solution. 
   For instance, a technique incorporated into the next generation of planes is the post-stall technique. This is where a
   machine flies at a 90-degree angle to the ground without stalling. Closely pursued by the enemy, a pilot can theoretically
   fly vertically into the air, spin on the plane's axis and come back behind the enemy plane. It is called the Herbst
   movement.The genetic algorithms can work out if this is useful and possible. The last experimental plane the computer flew was the
   X31, two of which were built, one of which crashed. So far, the computer genes can create programs that do what pilots
   do. The one complaint from pilots is that the enemy never gets smarter: he does not adapt to the genetic algorithms as
   a real enemy pilot would.E ventually, Smith will incorporate evolving enemies into the program. 
   He and other researchers at UWE have been applying the same kind of techniques to the workforce. Computer programs
   have evolved to build a system that economically works out what a group of people in a company needs to do each day. It
   is basically a flexible management system, though it could have a Big Brother feel to it - your boss would know if you did
   not work hard on a particular day."We'd need to build in human factors," says Smith, "such as wanting to be nice to your workers and responding to the
   needs of management. It is easier with robots," he adds, "because they don't have unions."Dr Uwe Aicklin has applied similar rules to help Swansea hospital regulate their staff. They wanted to know how to
   schedule 400 of their nurses, all of whom have different qualifications, experiences, salaries and working preferences.
   Combining the data and working out the best pattern could take days, since the computer would have to work out every
   combination, of which there are billions.And once the schedule was in place, the management might find one or more nurses were sick the next day and have to
   start again. 
   However, there are many constraints in this kind of problem and evolution, and thus genetic algorithms, work best when
   there are no constraints. After all, evolution operates at its own pace without restrictions; there is no one pulling
   strings saying: "Produce a five foot ten human being in a week."Under the hospital guidelines, for example, one constraint was that eight nurses need to be on duty. To get around this
   dilemma, Aicklin looked at how the staff did the scheduling themselves. He found they used rules of thumb, but how the
   rules worked depended on how they ordered the nurses - for instance, did they schedule all the nurse aides first, then
   the registered nurses and so on. Aicklin used genetic algorithms to evolve the order, and then used more traditional
   programming to create a rule of thumb.Did it work? Aicklin thought so; the hospital staff were less pleased. They pointed out that two nurses couldn't work
   together because they did not like each other, another two could not work a Saturday because it would be too expensive
   and so on. These were rules the hospital hadn't told the computer engineers. 
   "Genetic algorithms can find a couple of good solutions and the staff can choose the one that is best and alter it," says
   Aicklin. "That's acceptable because it gives them some power and they can add their own rules."He and Dr Alistair Clark have applied the same criteria to work out when a cider canning factory should can cider (and
   schedule the production and canning of all 50 of its other products) as well as determining the optimal number and size
   of shops a shopping mall should contain.Corporations have become interested in these programss as they can solve complex problems and keep solving them as
   the situation changes. Dr Larry Bull is creating programs for a bank that will predict how good a potential client will be,
   as well as looking for patterns in the data - such as what kind of person would want a certain sort of savings account. 
   He has worked with Hewlett-Packard, which is interested in creating electronic traders who could operate the stock
   market like human beings.Ultimately, the research could lead to us all owning a trader who would buy and sell things for us and get the best deal,
   be it cars or houses. Having just bought a house himself, Bull seems rather pleased at the prospect of getting rid of
   estate agents.
BroadbandIn Second Sight, (Online, June 14) Azeem Azhar says "we have such low broadband penetration because there isn't a compelling reason to pay for a connection."There are many reasons  and they will vary from user to user. Azeem lists some of them, but I would like to say what they are.1)Freedom from problems connecting when checking email and web browsing.2)No meter running in the background -"free" dial-up connections are mainly a thing of the past.3)The ability to download large updates to your operating system quickly, and download game demos, which would have been almost impossible before.4)The relative ease with which a broadband connection can be shared between a couple of PCs.5)Access to foreign radio as streaming media.6) Streaming video becomes watchable: Big Brother; one-off events such as the Madonna concert; Nasa TV which has a 300kbps feed.7)The constant connection means that email is delivered with less delay, and it is fast to open a web page to look for simple things, eg phone numbers via &lt;A HREF="http://www.yell.com"I" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.yell.comI  think if you spoke to users of broadband they would consider the advantages to be more than marginal over 56kbps dial-up modems.One of the major reasons that broadband doesn't have a high penetration is the lack of information published in the media that is accurate and the lack of advertising from the service providers.The usual criticism thrown back is that the ADSL/cable rollouts are in disarray. I will not deny that there are problems, but most basic installation problems are sorted now. The whole broadband arena is not as dark as lots of people would like it to be portrayed.Andrew Fergusonwww.adslguide.org.ukandrew@adslguide.org.ukIn Second Sight, Azeem Azhar says: "Five years on, and - with the exception of South Korea - residential broadband access has failed to even start taking off."Don't forget Sweden. While writing this in Stockholm, I'm listening to BBC Radio 4's Today and downloading from Napster (non-copyright, of course) and viewing the Guardian, all at the same time via my housing cooperative's DSL connection at 10MHhz per apartment.Sweden is connecting to broadband at a rate of knots which you would not believe. Housing co-ops and public housing all offer connection to broadband and already about 30% have it. The cost per household? I pay 200 SEK per month (about &#163; 27).Jim Hecklejim.heckle@runo.seI'm sorry Azeem Azhar takes such a jaundiced view of broadband access. It has transformed the way our household uses the internet and I can almost believe the internet hype now. All that audio and video streaming we read about does actually work, most of the time.We have a Mac and a PC connected to NTL's 512kbps service via a router and I would not return to a 56k dial-up. The cost? &#163;24.99 per month including the modem. A bonus? My telephone line is free for making telephone calls! Unless you have two phone lines, a "free" or "unlimited" dial-up service is not much use.Roger Shufflebottomrogershuff@ntlworld.comThere may still be some ideas about ADSL that crave comment. Yes, you can connect a PC or two, plus a phone to one telephone line with ADSL (Feedback, June 14). But why wait for ADSL? I have two Linux boxes and a Mac happy talking down the line via a 56k modem (with a five-port Ethernet hub - room for two more!) What about the calls? Well, we have two lines you see_Another thing. Azeem Azhar's ADSL crystal ball seems to omit the biggest "killer" (not "killer app"), which is the projected growth in viruses in the next few years. If you are "always on", then you are always at risk.Do you really need 512k all day and all night, and does the extra cost really make sense for the domestic user?Gordon Jolygordon.joly@pobox.comAzeem Azhar claims that "56kbps is pretty good for most needs", and that there's no need for faster access. So why do I know so many people who gave up on the internet after the 56K experience?I pay &#163;25 a month for 512/128K broadband, &#163;7 a month more than the Guardian tells me is standard for unmetered 56K access, and those friends using it who'd previously given up on the internet have had their interest reinvigorated. The difference even reading the Guardian online is huge, let alone for mailing large attachments to and fro. I couldn't disagree more!James Mackenziejames@mackenzie.nuE -lectedPaul Smee (E-vote of no confidence, June 14) questions the ability to hold a secure electronic election in which no one can vote more than once, but the authorities don't know how each person voted. In fact, there are many election protocols that fulfil these criteria. The simplest (conceptually) involves anonymously assigning eligible voters a unique voter ID (there are suitable algorithms for this, eg ANDOS).Each vote consists of the voter's ID and their choice. The authorities can't correlate a voter ID with a person, and a duplicate voter will necessarily use the same ID. The election results are published along with all corresponding voter IDs for each choice. This allows the final count to be independently verified, and individual voters can check that their vote was correctly categorised. Bruce Schneier gives a good overview of this, and other secure election protocols in Applied Cryptography.Steven Martinstevepmartin@ntlworld.comEasy tigerThanks a lot for two paragraphs in Webwatch (June 14) about Tigerchild, a website offering "high-level material" (on particle physics? naval architecture? sonata form?) and is slow to load. Far too slow, clearly, for Online to hang around long enough to describe its contents adequately. Or were we supposed to deduce from the disclosure that "two mums" produced it that only women will be interested, anyway?Michael McCarthymichaelmccar75@hotmail.com
Low-rise PCI am hoping to replace our PC this year. Due to lack of space I am looking for a non-tower system with the traditional processor unit below the monitor. I cannot find a suitable one in our local shops. Do you know of any new PCs that still use a non-tower system?Phil StevensPhilG3SES@aol.comJack Schofield replies:You should buy the largest system   that will fit. A big box allows more room for expansion cards such as graphics accelerators, extra hard drives and other add-ons. It should also run cooler, so it should be more reliable and last longer. Is there room for a tower if you stand it on the floor?If that does not persuade you, then some "direct suppliers" sell traditional systems. Dan (www.dan.co.uk) is one.If you don't play games, and don't need an expandable system, you could consider Hewlett-Packard's small e-PC, which hs sold by Jungle. However, it is really aimed at business users.There is also the Paysan M Series PC, right, which claims to be the smallest PC in the world: it fits in the palm of your hand. Seewww.paysan.co.uk. The Capital Sound and Vision group, which includesUnbeatable, Harrods and others, sells the machine.For maximum space saving, buy a full-spec notebook PC and keep it in a drawer when not in use. The drawbacks are that notebooks are usually slower than their   desktop equivalents but can be twice the price.Mac protectZone Alarm may well be a good free firewall for PCs (June 7), but what about Macs? I duly logged on to Zonelabs.com only to find, once again, that Mac users have been forgotten.Jill Websterjillweb_uk@yahoo.co.ukJS:I don't know of a Mac equivalent to Zone Alarm, but you can read about Mac offerings atwww.firewallguide.com/macintosh.htmCable guyI am about to receive a cable modem from NTL. What precautions should I take now that I am about to enter into the realm of always-on internet connection? Also, the cable modem being supplied has a USB connection. Would a dedicated network card connection offer any speed advantages?Faiz Rehmanfaiz79@hotmail.comJS:I would certainly install a firewall such asZone Alarmor theTiny Personal Firewall, and test the security of my PC at one of the "probe sites" such as theShields Up. Seewww.doshelp.com/dostest.htmfor plenty of alternatives.Although an Ethernet network card is technically faster than USB, tests show that USB can work fast enough to handle your cable network's bandwidth. Seewww.cabledatacomnews.comoct00/oct00-6.htmlThere is a good web site to help people new to broadband in the UK. Go to:www.broadband-help.comPrint screenOn many occasions I would like to print exactly what appears on my screen, or a highlighted portion of it. I have not been able to do this with my PrintScrn/SysRq button. How do I do it in Windows 98?H S Grunewaldthehawthorns@onetel.net.ukJS:To capture a screen, first open the Microsoft Paint program (if you have installed it) or any paint program, such as Paint Shop Pro. Press the Print Screen key to capture the screen image to the clipboard. Now switch to Paint   and press Ctrl-V - or right-click with the mouse and select Paste - and paste in the image. Finally, press Alt-F then A (or File|Save As) to save the image. As a Windows bitmap (bmp) file, it will be rather large, but if you save it as a JPEG (jpg) file, it will take up much less room for a slight loss in quality.If you want to capture an active window - for example, a browser - rather than the whole screen, press Alt-Print Screen.Programs such as Paint Shop Pro offer more choices and will also let you draw a box on the screen and capture what is inside it.On the Apple Macintosh, you can capture a screen image by holding down the Command and Shift keys then pressing the number 3. The Mac will make a camera sound and save a screen image to the hard drive as Picture 1.Browser tipWhen opening a new browsing window in Internet Explorer, how can I make it open at home page (ie like it does in Netscape)? Also, how can I make it open full screen (maximised), as opposed to being a small window?Edward Websteredwardwebster@interbeat.freeserve.co.ukJS:This is a workaround. You have an icon for Internet Explorer in the quick launch tray on the left hand side of the Task Bar. Right-click that and select Properties. Go to the Run box and click the down-arrow on the far right: select Maximised. Now a single click on the icon in the quick  launch tray will open a full-screen IE window at your home page.CorrectionLast week I gave an MS-DOS disk formatting command as Format C: \s \v when it should have been Format C: /s /v (the slashes were the wrong way round). I picked up the mistake from the website I quoted as a reference (seewww.ehow.com/eHow/eHow/0,1053,6026,00.html), which is not an excuse, but a warning. If in doubt about any DOS command, add /? to it to get the syntax (eg format/?).
As befits a journalist who has spent most of his career in printed publications, Danny Kelly cares passionately about the English he uses. He worries about how the language of Shakespeare and Keats will fare when it is bequeathed to a generation of txt-msg mad, vowel-dropping teenagers. So it is odd that the corporation of which he is publishing director should launch a product with the non-Oxford Dictionary-approved name of Eckoh.Fortunately, poor use of language is a charge rarely levelled against the 365 Corporation. Since its inception in 1998 the company's websites (Football365,Music365and many others) have become a by-word for editorial excellence.Part of their appeal is down to Kelly, a man who revels in the medium. "The electronic transfer of communication is the most important breakthrough since the printing press," he enthuses, citing the immediacy of the internet. "I remember working on Football365 the day Ruud Gullit resigned as manager of Chelsea. He left the club at 11am and within two hours we had about 20 angles on his departure posted on the site. The newspapers can't compete with that speed."Once the model had been perfected, Kelly's team quickly created a host of sites from dating to trivia."We set out to be as big as we could, by offering sites that appealed to a large number of people." The theory was that the more hits the sites gained, the greater the advertising revenues.And 365 certainly now has the hits, with more than 2m users in one month alone (December 2000). It is on the way to becoming one of the UK's key content providers.  However the trouble with flagships is that when they are attacked they tend to attract the heavy artillery.Earlier this year, 365 Corporation's share price nose-dived. In March 2000 it had commanded &#163;3.02 per share: the same share now sells for 17p (at time of going to press).The City had begun to feel nervous about how much advertising it could continue to attract. But Kelly appears confident that "people's desire for quality content" will see the company through.It is a view shared by Johan Unnerus, a financial analyst for Hoodless, Brennan and Partners who compiled a report on 365 Corporation earlier in the year. While acknowledging that its share price "has taken a serious hit", he points out that this is true for almost all content providers. However, Unnerus believes the mobile world, in particular GPRS mobile phones and 3G devices, could be the key to 365's revival.Unnerus adds: "The main dilemma is working out how to move their existing customer base into new territories."He is especially interested in the corporation's new voice portal, Eckoh, scheduled to go live soon. Eckoh is being billed as Europe's first comprehensive voice portal. Voice portals aren't new - Orange has had a system running for years. But 365 hopes Eckoh will signal a big leap forward for the technology.Customers will use a voice recognition system developed by Philips to navigate their way round and gain access to its range of services. They will pay standard phone rates (between 2p and 8p per minute for a BT landline) for the call.The service, which can be activated via any phone, will enable users to send and receive emails via their existing accounts. Eckoh can also be synced with Microsoft Outlook via a website.365's audio text director Nik Philippot has no doubts as to which elements of the service excites him most: "Listening to emails no matter where you are, and then being able to instantly respond to them via your voice, will be hugely popular."Philpot also predicts that the way in which Eckoh's various strands merge together will tempt 365's customers to use the service. "For example, a person can bet on a horse race using William Hill, and then listen to the race relayed to them via the phone."Other possible commercial applications include voice banking and cinema and travel information.For voice portals like Eckoh to be successful, they will have to overcome two obstacles. First, good old British reserve. Are we really going to bark out instructions to a voice portal via a handset? There are also question marks about the effectiveness of voice-activated technology.If Eckoh earns a reputation as a system prone to the vagaries that have dogged similar products, it could be another Wap debacle.But if 365 can create something that works, benefits to the user coupled with 365's customer base should mean there are plenty of punters willing to share a word or two with Eckoh.
Last week I overheard my beloved talking on the phone. The conversation went like this: "Well, it's bigger than it was last week...""No, no, quite squishy really...""So I shouldn't flick it. Doctors. OK."Bless the NHS helpline. It is there in your hour of need. You can ask them anything. But maybe you do not want to. A fuzzy lump on your knee is one thing, but if you have wind that would knock the socks off Bill Giles, well, that is something you would rather keep quiet. And here is where the net can help. Your computer will remain unflinchingly inscrutable as you search for words that you could not possibly say out loud. But you don't even need to search. Go straight to www. embarrassingproblems.co.uk for well-explained information and advice on all those niggles that dare not speak their name.It's no sniggering matter. Experts say that we are all in a pre-illness state, living our lives in a way that is storing up health problems that will blitz us just when we have struggled free of work and kids and gained the confidence to finally be ourselves. Strike first! There are tons of sites out there that have good advice on how to give yourself the chance of a healthy dotage. My favourite iswww.thriveonline.com. It is very USA, but in a good way, and an ideal place to start if you really want to do something about your health this time. Its broad range of practical advice and interactive tools is ideal for a beginner to plan a campaign for a bouncy, ripe old age.For the plan to work you need to find out what state you are in now, and work from there. First, check how tubby you are with the body mass index calculator. If you are so shocked by the result that your kneejerk reaction is to dive into the Doritos, then try the healthy recipe ideas. Once you have got your American/English food dictionary to hand, you can rustle up some tasty treats that don't involve lard and golden syrup. The site takes the dreariness out of choosing the healthy option, and makes changing your lifestyle manageable.Nip over toOprah's websiteand choose the life stages button of the mind and body section to calculate your real age. You may be 40 with a physique that Denise Lewis/Colin Jackson would kill for, but your life habits may persuade your body that you are a gnarled old duffer about to indulge in some serious clog-popping. This tool shows you where your danger zones lie. Skip the life expectancy    calculator atwww.bbc.co.uk/healthas facing your own mortality so bluntly is too freaky for words.Many illnesses are diet related and thus utterly preventable. You probably don't put away a truckload of chips every night, but make sure your diet is sensible by visiting the preventative section atwww.achaheart.org. This site has good links to food information and a nutritional analysis tool. Bung in your boiled egg and soldiers and it will tell you what you've just eaten in scientific terms. You can analyse everything you ever eat. It's handy but could be hard work if you take it to extremes.Of course, the single thing that would give you a chance of holding your first grandchild or seeing Lincoln City lead the Premiership is to stop smoking. But it's so hard! Make it less so by visitingwww.quit.org.ukwhich is stuffed with practical tools to help you prepare to stop and find the quitting method that will suit you best.OK, you have packed in the evil weed and your diet is impeccable. Next, you should plan to be able to run more than a few yards to keep up with your little nephews. You need an exercise that will get you enjoyably sweaty, and there are heaps of fitness sites out there.www.runnersworld.comhas good advice for the trainee runner, but if like me you are too ashamed to display your flabby acres to the world thenwww.ivillage.co.ukhas a beguiling sofa workout andwww.exercisevideosreviews.comwill help you through the exercise video minefield.All this talk of exercise is probably making you dizzy. And nauseous. And is that a rash just starting? Could it be something more sinister than an allergy to Lycra? Check out your symptoms atwww.nhsdirect.nhs.ukwhich has a broad range of common illnesses to choose from. So too doeswww.medicdirect.co.ukwhich also encourages self-examination, with videos to help you prod yourself correctly.It is probably nothing, but it might be something. Ditch the guilt and take your problem to your overworked GP. Don't be embarrassed. She is likely to have seen one far more bulgy/crusty/hairy than yours. In fact, you could probably help her by showing her the relaxation exercises atwww.ohwell.cc. Even in her frazzled state she probably won't prescribe you horse liniment instead of dermatitis cream, but don't take chances. Visitwww.rxlist.com, a US drug index that gives you information on more than 4,500 popular drugs with the corresponding UK brand names. If you like a challenge, you can read it in Spanish too.Of course you should always visit your doctor if you have any symptom that is worrying you, rather than rely on information from the web. But if you use the web as a resource for getting fitter and healthier, there is a chance you will never have to go to the doctor again.
Back to schoolThe idea of being reunited with school friends is meant to fill most British people with dread. But a new website is overturning this assumption.FriendsReunitedbrings the culture of school reunions across the Atlantic, and signs are that we reserved Brits are taking to it with zeal.Visitors find their school or college from a list of more than 28,000, and add their names and email addresses to the list of former pupils already registered. The list is set out chronologically, so it is easy to trace friends from your year, and you can choose to be emailed when new ones register.Despite being live for only a few weeks, the site has 150,000 registrations and many reunions are already taking place around the country.FriendsReunited works because building communities is what the web is best at, and people seem willing to pay. Although you can register and browse free, contacting other members costs a fiver a year.Who's who?After five years in the wilderness, Doctor Who returns to the BBC in an audio drama, Death Comes To Time. It was made as a pilot for Radio 4 by the producer Dan Freedman but was never broadcast, and will be released on the web on Friday July 13. The show will be the BBC's first drama broadcast exclusively online, and also the first new Doctor Who broadcast since the TV movie in 1996. Sylvester McCoy plays The Doctor, Sophie Aldred his companion, Ace, in a continuation of the roles last played on TV in 1989. Seewww.bbc.co.uk/doctorwhoTele-historyDid you know the ancient Greeks invented the telegraph, or that the first online marriage took place in 1848? Or even that the first internet crash took place in 1969?These and many more fascinating facts are part of the excellent Open Source Telematics Timeline hosted by the Walker Art Centre in Minneapolis. The timeline is part of the centre's exhibition, Telematic Connections: The Virtual Embrace, which celebrates the relationship between artists and communications technology. Go to http://telematic.walkerart.org/ and prepare for a long download of the not-open source Shockwave Flash timeline.Kid brotherTheBig Brother websiteis proving just as popular this year as last. According toNet Value, the site attracted 600,000 visitors in May. Survivor, its ITV rival, did not make the rankings. Big Brother's latest entrant, Josh, has his own site atwww.joshandpecs.comNew MiniAnother sixties icon staging a comeback is the Mini. The new, BMW-designed Mini and Mini Cooper go on sale in the UK next week, and there is a flashy site to advertise the launch atwww.mini.com.More interesting is the site atwww.minicooper.co.ukby John Cooper Garages in West Sussex, though fans of the original model may want to steer towards the comprehensivewww.minimayhem.com.On the boxIchooseTV.com, a new TV channel for the internet, puts such things as new movie trailers, music videos, sport and short films under one roof. The service is free, but you have to register. Content comes from a number of partners, including ChannelFly, National Geographic and Planet Rapido. Seehttp://ichoosetv.com.Silent runningSilent Motion is an online exhibition that mixes the pioneering "figures in motion" photographs of Eadweard Muybridge, who operated in the 1880s, with works by contemporary digital artists. Works on show include digital paintings, photos, murals and web sites. Seewww.flatearth.co.uk/clients/silentmotionNet and matchWimbledon fortnight is nearly upon us and the official site atwww.wimbledon.comincludes an impressive volley of live audio coverage, SMS results and archive video of classic matches. If fantasy tennis is more your game, head towardswww.hi-techsports.comand you could win tickets to the ATP Senior Tour of Champions later this year.New &amp; noted&#149;  A new wine site for connoisseurs has been launched atwww.bringmywine.com&#149;  A one-stop shop for house and garden fans is atwww.smarte.com&#149;  The charity-friendly internet service providerItsgoodtogive.co.ukhas entered the unmetered access market: &#163;9.95 a month, two quid to charity.&#149;  You can now book cinema tickets online atwww.odeon.co.uk&#149;  There is a new gift site for men who want to pamper their girlfriends atwww.surpriseyourwoman.com&#149;  Say it with pictures atwww.pictalk.comSix of the bestPhone utilitiesThe big numberwww.numberchange.orgDirectory enquirieswww.bt.com/directory-enquiries/dq_home.jspSTD codeswww.brainstorm.co.ukYellow pageswww.yell.comPerson to personwww.foundeasily.comOftelwww.oftel.gov.uk
Many European mobile businesses point to the incredible runaway success of Japan's mobile internet sector and conclude
   that m-commerce will be just as successful in Europe. But why have the Japanese been so successful? What lessons can
   we learn? First, take a look at the figures.By the end of April, there were nearly 37m mobile internet subscribers in
   Japan. i-mode leads the market with 23m subscribers, followed by KDDI's AU/EZWeb with 7.2m and J-Phone with 6.7m.
   (Note that following its recent purchase of BT's stake, Vodafone now owns 47% of J-Phone, and observers expect
   J-Phone to become DoCoMo's main challenger.)I-mode is certainly a phenomenon: 40,000 subscribers join each day. And
   it is not hard to see why. I-mode subscribers tap into a huge range of services including games, news, banking and
   shopping. At the push of a button, every i-mode phone allows access to 1,600 DoCoMo-endorsed sites, some free, others
   charging up to $2.50 a month.DoCoMo handles the billing and keeps 9% of the revenue. The handsets, which use Compact
   HTML (cHTML) rather than Wap's WML, are available in a wide range of styles,some with colour screens. Japanese
   consumers report their top three reasons for wanting an i-mode phone are to communicate with friends, to obtain
   urgent news and to kill time.Nearly half use their handsets while commuting and more than a quarter while watching TV.
   The most valued service, by far, is email. Two-thirds of users send email via their handsets every day, with novelty
   ringing tones coming a distant second. When asked what they would like in the future, Japanese users ask for more
   financial services, transit schedules and ticketing, and location-based services such as maps.And that is only the
   beginning. Matsushita Refrigeration has developed a vending machine that sells alcoholic beverages and cigarettes to
   adults - but only after confirmation of the would-be purchaser's age from mobile phone registration data sent by DoCoMo
   servers. This could be eclipsed by a new service offering cashless purchases of drinks from vending machines.Coca-Cola
   Japan, DoCoMo and the trading company Itochu have teamed up to link Coke's 1m vending machines throughout Japan with
   i-mode phones. A loyalty scheme will reward consumers with points that can be exchanged for soft drinks or branded
   merchandise.Finland's Sonera started similar services some time ago and Virgin Mobile is experimenting with similar
   technology in the UK. In Europe, Wap's poor reception has been blamed on a number of problems: over-hype from
   suppliers, poor handset design, the use of circuit-switched GSM (thus taking a long time to connect and limiting the data
   rate to 9600 bits per second), small monochrome screens among others.To tackle some of these, the Wap Forum has
   been defining Wap 2.0 to be XHTML compatible, with security features that provide better support for transactions. But
   the promise of XHTML compatibility, colour graphics, animation, large file downloading capabilities, location-based
   services and streaming media may not be sufficient to win customers. That is because it isn't handset design, colour or
   cHTML creating the robust i-mode market in Japan.It is simply a better business model. I-mode, uses a packet-switched
   network, like GPRS, which means it is always on and inexpensive. Consumers pay only for the data they send and receive,
   not for the time they are connected. (Each email costs consumers only about a penny. Nevertheless, since people use it
   so much, the revenues are piling up.)As for third-party content, DoCoMo provides interfaces to its billing system, giving
   both content providers and consumers a straightforward and easily understood business model. The main difference
   between the European wireless world and the Japanese i-mode world is that in the latter, content providers can get paid.
   Here in the UK, mobile operators have no way to collect money for access to Wap sites , nor could they pass a portion of
   it on to content providers because their billing systems weren't built to do this. Even if I created the best Wap site in
   London, I would still starve.
Pensioners were never expected to be at the forefront of the new technology boom, but try telling that to Rosa
   Thomas. Not content with learning how to operate the internet and send emails abroad, the retired shorthand-typist has
   her eyes fixed on a computer-aided design course where she can make gifts such as flowery scarves for all her family.Rosa, who admits to being well above retirement age, is a regular at Age Concern's IT training workshop in Slough. She is
   the kind of feisty fun-loving person who would want to try anything new but she's not alone in her internet interest. The
   charity's workshops for older people have proved a big success. In less than two years they have trained 500 in Slough
   alone, and thousands more across the country.Now there are plans for four permanent IT training centres in Slough, due
   to open in September, which could herald a national network. Slough, where Age Concern piloted its courses, will also
   have a new mobile unit to tour pensioners' lunch clubs. The over-50s are the fastest-growing group of computer users
   and 2.2m regularly surf the net.This new wave of silver surfers are not just passive net browsers either. A new survey
   by Microsoft and Age Concern shows they are slowly losing their suspicion of online banking and shopping. Andy Allsopp,
   media manager ofAge Concern, says: "The growth in internet-ordered, home delivered
   groceries could prove a lifeline for more frail pensioners. And the internet as a whole can help people feel less isolated."There is a role for IT in improving quality of life. The people we see on our courses are bright and intelligent and keen to
   keep on learning."At the Age Concern workshop in Slough on a Saturday morning, Rosa Thomas's husband Peter is
   checking his share prices. The retired Heathrow engineer said computers were just being introduced at work when he
   retired so he never really learned to use them."We wanted to buy one at home but started coming here last autumn to
   find out how to use them first," he says. Rosa's eyes twinkle and she giggles at the idea that anyone could find
   computers stressful. They've opened up a whole new world for her and Peter, offering a chance to indulge their love of
   travel by planning holidays online, check shares or even play a game of fantasy casino. "I know some people are sick of
   computers at work but I love them," she says."We never had any when I was working but we've learned how to use the
   internet in a few months and now we look for holidays online. I'm an Old Age Traveller. "We use them mostly to keep in
   touch with our daughter Karen who's in Paris and we have grandchildren at university and my son is up north and my
   sister lives in Naples, and all these people have email. We come here to check our mail. "It's a social thing too," she adds.
   "We came on the course to meet other people and have a chat."Next to Rosa that morning, Eton college waitress Ada
   Stec, 65, was struggling to learn the basics of creating files and sending emails. It was her second visit and she said,
   slightly bashfully, she was finding it hard going but was determined to persevere. "I haven't told my family I'm coming
   here. I want to learn something first and then surprise them," she says. "My granddaughter Lydia is only three but she
   plays games on computer and I want to be able to play with her."Meanwhile Violet Wright was tackling spreadsheets,
   picking up tips to use for her job at a care home for the elderly. Violet, has a computer at home which her son gave her
   and likes the fact that she can learn at her own pace at the workshop. "I hadn't used a computer before I started coming
   here in September," she says."But I like keeping up with the modern world and doing things youngsters can do instead of
   being pushed aside to the rubbish tip. "When I come home my grandchildren say: 'You haven't been learning computers
   have you? What can you do?' Then they realise I'm not senile after all. I've never been near a typewriter before but now
   I'm proud I can master something new."I love the internet. It's like a dictionary and you can see what's in the shops.
   Before I didn't like computers, I thought they made you lazy, but now I can see you still use your brain. Now I think it's
   brilliant."Age Resource (the younger arm of Age Concern) runs courses across the country, offering small scale
   workshops with a handful of donated computers, usually in classes run two or three days a week. Community involvement
   officer Naomi Ridley says it's hard to keep up with demand. They have had to retrain their volunteer tutors and now also
   run trouble-shooting workshops for those with their own computers. Art workshops, started in March, have proved an
   instant hit.People can design things on computer and print onto textiles. "Once people get over their fear of computers
   they tend to want to learn more," says Ridley. "We have one woman who always wanted to be a fashion designer but
   never got the chance. Now she is doing our arts course and loving it."&#149; For IT training course details, contact Age Concern
   on 020 8765 7200
Is net addiction a real and growing problem?The issue is whether the net is actually replacing or enhancing relationships. A recent study of families with and without internet access found that those with the net became more depressed and interacted with each other less because they had developed "virtual" friends who won't be much help when your car breaks down!Any tell-tale signs that you're becoming addicted?Certainly if it's affecting work or your relationship with your partner. Theoretically what should then happen is the control of your access to the net be imposed from outside. That should also involve increasing your awareness of how much you actually use the net as the more aware you are of any addiction the more able you are to stop it.Any favourite gadgets?I recently acquired aPackard BellChrom@laptop, which is great because it's got a built-in DVD and you can appear as if you're working hard while you're watching Apocalypse Now. I have aPsion 5mxorganiser and a tri-bandEricsson T28 mobilewith an infrared modem so I can send emails on the go. Emailing a photo of my wife from India via the Psion and the mobile took ages and cost a fortune but being a real anorak I loved the idea of doing it!Are you excited by any of the emerging 3G technologies?I thinkBluetoothis going to be exciting although I haven't seen anything using it yet. At home we've had ADSL put in but installing it was a nightmare and it was very unreliable for the first few weeks. There is something wrong with the way that telecoms companies handle their customer care. These new technologies require you to be incredibly educated whereas you would have thought they would be making them user-friendlier.Have we become too reliant on technology?You only realise how reliant you've become when you don't have it. It's interesting that the more complex a society becomes, the easier it is to destabilise it. When you have ADSL, you as the customer are the only person aware of all the different systems interacting. Talking with the people who provide ADSL you find out that they have limited knowledge of the technology they're dealing with.Any favourite websites?I tend to use specialised sites through the University of London and the Institute of Psychiatry. A lot of journals seem to publish online before the print edition is available and a lot of academics seem unaware of this. Unfortunately, high-quality information on the web is expensive. I do visitwww.guardian.co.uk,www.ft.com,www.bmj.comand theMaudsley sitea lot.Visit:www.btinternet.com/~rajendra
Xbox namedMicrosoft has finally secured the rights to the Xbox name, having signed a deal with Xbox Technologies, a small software company based in Florida. The settlement was a "very, very satisfying arrangement", according to Robert Koolen, Xbox Technologies' spokesman, though he refused to provide details.Xbox was intended to be a codename, not the product's final name, and was based on the games console's use of Windows's DirectX graphics system. Microsoft has been a prolific X user since the early 80s, with things like Xenix (Microsoft Unix), MSX (Microsoft's failed home system), and ActiveX (a software architecture). Also, Microsoft has revealed that the Xbox's add-on remote controller, which enables the machine to play DVDs, will cost $29.Behind B&amp;WPeter Molyneux, creator of the hit PC game, Black &amp; White, has written a post mortem about it for Gama sutra, the website for game designers. He explains what went wrong, what went right, and provides other inside info about the game's &#163;4m  three-year development. Go towww.gamasutra.com/features/20010613/molyneux_01.htmJolie goodTomb Raider the movie hit US screens last Friday, to a mixed but generally negative reception. Most critics found it lacking compared with the Indiana Jones series that established the genre, but fans thought Angelina Jolie's Lara Croft was "dead on perfect" (seewww.cnn.com/CNN/Programs/showbiz.today/featured.story/0106/18.html. For a round-up of views, see theRotten Tomatoes site, which describes Jolie as "the titular Tomb Raider".On the wayThe good news: Capcom is porting Resident Evil Code: Veronica from the Sega Dreamcast to the Sony PlayStation 2, where the enhanced version will be released as Resident Evil Code: Veronica X (that should confuse Xbox fans). The bad news, Parappa the Rapper 2 should soon be out in Japan. If you missed the original, check out the site atwww.parappa-the-rapper.com.
Super Mario AdvanceGame Boy Advance 	&#163;29.99 Nintendo 	***Castlevania: Circle of the MoonGame Boy Advance	 &#163;29.99 Konami 	****A new Nintendo console normally means only one thing - a new Mario game.The Game Boy Advance (GBA) is no different with the unoriginally named Super Mario Advance launching with the system. But while the portly plumber is back to his platforming roots (after successful excursions into golf, tennis and karting) this latest adventure is all a bit underwhelming. Sure the graphics are good - easily Super Nintendo standard - but it's the gameplay that lets this down.In a break from tradition Mario, rather than jumping on his assailants, now has to pick up and use them as weapons against other baddies. This seems to interrupt the flow and makes for a less satisfying experience. Luckily there are loads of extras, with   bonus games and different characters to use, and there is undoubted fun to be had here, but this is no classic. Still, it will at least keep things going until Super Mario World arrives next year.Another classic platform game available on GBA launch day is the latest version of Castlevania. Konami's whip-cracking vampire hunter has been around for years and this latest instalment is little changed; there are numerous ghouls and ghosts to defeat. However, what makes the game special is its atmosphere. From the spooky music to the well-drawn backgrounds Castle vania makes use of the GBA's power. This version also uses a quasi-role-playing game system: you gain development points in combat, which is handy for the tough boss characters.Average visuals and an overly dark environment (made worse by the GBA screen) detract, but this is gripping fare. Early days, but on launch day, Mario has been soundly whipped by Castlevania.  (GH)Original WarPC	 &#163;29.99  Atlas Interactive/ Virgin Interactive 	***Well, here is a turn-up: an iddy-diddy manual that's so small and cute you could just pick it up and hug it forever.The story, accordingly, is simple: you're in charge of a team sent back millions of years in time to secure a new, mysterious power source. But two other factions from the future have also staked their claim on the mineral.Units come in four types: soldier, engineer, mechanic and scientist. Each has different skills which develop with time and, once the appropriate buildings are in place, you can "retrain" individual units and turn a mechanic into a soldier, for example. The main difference between this and other real-time strategy games is that you cannot create new human units; instead you must make do with the ones you are given.While the principles take minutes to learn, surviving the game's many surprises is a rather more drawn-out affair.It all feels oddly linear for a strategy game: many of the developments are scripted - the enemy will tend to materialise at prearranged times and places rather than build up his own forces, which creates the impression that you're playing against the   game's designers. With its simple graphics and occasional multiple-choice plot decisions, Original War feels at times like one of the old-style text adventures. But not in an entirely bad way.And yet you control so much: not just combat tactics, but how your characters develop. Characters' experience grows in-game, where skills improve with practice and between levels, where you can assign the experience points earned previously.The trouble with making things so personal is that losing troops is hard to stomach; not knowing how many troops will eventually become available to you, and having become familiar with all the characters' quirks, you'll find yourself reloading in an effort to complete missions without a single casualty.Since gung-ho warfare isn't terribly practical, back-door tactics tend to be the order of   the day. And this is where Original War can become a bit of a drag, since proper reconnaissance can only be done by crawling soldiers, who take something approaching a geological era to scout out the map. The other option, of course - and the one you'll find yourself resorting to - is to steam in blindly, die, and reload. Which rather takes the shine off your inevitable victory.In spite of the fact that almost all its elements are borrowed - fog of war, technology trees, experience levels - Original War manages to blend them together in, well, an original way. And while play can be on the slow side, not to mention linear, and the skimpy intro and basic graphics make it feel cheap, the novelty value and unfolding plot make it worth playing through. Just the once, mind. (AB)Evil Dead: Hail to the KingPlayStation/ Dreamcast/PC 	&#163;29.99  THQ/Heavy Iron Studios 	*Thanks to Britain's ridiculous censorship laws, Sam Raimi's The Evil Dead became one of the more infamous video nasties of the early 80s. It wasn't until March of this year that the British Board of   Film Classification finally approved an uncut version. A remarkable feat considering its main special effects relied on plasticine and porridge. But being banned never did anyone's credibility harm and the film, along with its two sequels, has gathered a massive cult following. It was only a matter of time before someone decided to make it into a game. This awful Resident Evil clone is the result.Even in an industry where turning great films into criminally mediocre products is common practice, Hail to The King stands out as a misguided cash-in.Raimi's trademark acrobatic camerawork has been replaced with a series of static frames so lacking in detail you'd think the designers had been forced to work with crayons. This is bad enough on the ageing PlayStation, but on the powerful Dreamcast or a modern PC it is simply unforgivable. As is the combat, which consists of waving your axe or chainsaw in the general direction of ghouls that keep appearing out of nowhere.You could point an accusing finger at its graphics, its infuriating and repetitive gameplay or its failure to be even vaguely frightening or funny. But it's the way the developers have managed to turn such fantastic source material into an awful, unplayable mess that really grates. Imagine Hamlet performed by the Tweenies or a Smurf cover of Paranoid Android and you'll get the idea.Bruce Campbell's vocal contributions are easily the best thing about the game, but only fans will be able to appreciate his particular brand of loveable ham-fisted acting.Raimi has already said games like these are the closest to another sequel we'll ever see. We can only hope future instalments will be banned in this country. (MH)
The institute of trading standards admitted today it lacks the knowledge and resources to protect consumers who shop online.With one-third of British households now connected to the internet, the institute has released a study into its handling of e-commerce that found the organisation has not kept up with the pace of change.At the institute's annual conference in Cardiff, trading standards officers were told that they have not enforced the same standards online as they do on the high street.The report found that most trading standards officers do not understand how keep evidence they find online and do not know how to trace the owner of a website. The institute also found that very few trading standards services have budgeted to train officers in enforcing legal standards online.The institute says that as consumer complaints about security and convenience have held back the expansion of e-commerce, trading standards officers need to be able to react to problems such as overseas purchases that go wrong, allegations of unsafe goods and online scams. The government and private industry have been called upon by the institute to provide the resources necessary for trading standards to cope with e-commerce.According to the report, "No new funding has been allocated to trading standards in order to coordinate the changes that are required. But this is in contrast to the government's and businesses' aim to ensure consumer confidence and provide a safe environment."The institute's e-commerce spokesman, Richard Webb, called for the institute to appoint a new coordinator whose remit would be solely to look at online trading standards.Mr Webb said that at the moment, complaints about online shopping only account for between 1% and 3% of the total submitted to trading standards services.He said: "E-commerce is not coming out as a strong priority among the trading standards services around the country. But each authority receives a higher proportion of complaints about the internet every month. We're conscious of how we will cope when the wave hits us."Related articles08.06.2001: Travel purchases still cheaper offline30.05.2001: Purveyor of the JFK rocking chair unseats Amazon13.03.2001: Internet traders 'breaching regulations'Useful linksInstitute of trading standardsTrading standards advice on internet shoppingOffice of fair trading
Women are increasingly logging on to the internet as more than one in three of the population regularly goes online, according to an annual survey released today by Which? Online.The number of female users has risen by 6% in the past year to 45%, the survey shows, and women are just as likely as men to shop online.But the net has begun to lose its magic for many surfers, and emails are fast losing their popularity.The number naming emails as their favourite method of communication has crashed from 14% to 5%. In contrast, the number of people who prefer direct meetings with others has risen from 39% to 67%.A Which? Online spokesman said yesterday: "Emailing has become a chore rather than a pleasure. People feel they are being bombarded with a huge volume of material."The survey shows that 36% of British people use the internet, an increase of 9% from the previous year, and shopping is increasingly popular.As many as 8m adults have shopped online - 47% of all users have shopped on the net at least once, with books continuing to be the most popular purchase. Flights and holidays are the second favourite items, having overtaken CDs and videos - last year's second-  most-bought items. "The range of goods people are buying is beginning to spread. Cars are now a relatively common purchase on the internet, and so are holidays," Paul Kitchen, the head of Which? Online, said.The organisation, which surveyed 2,000 people, says that a third of users are new to the internet, having become familiar with the web in the past year. "Education and research" is given as the main reason for regular internet use."Fears that the UK could be turning into a land of internet junkies seem unfounded," Which? Online says. "Average time online has not increased in the last year. Most users spend less than five hours a week online. The average number of web sites visited a week has dropped to 12."Accessing the web by mobile phones, mobile devices or through digital television is not yet proving popular.As many as 94% of internet users log on through their PCs, and the use of digital television to access the net has not significantly increased from last year. Only 20% of adults are looking forward to going online through TVs, and figures for mobile phones and Wap devices are similarly low.High speed broadband internet access is much more popular, according to the survey, with more than 40% of internet users keen to start accessing the net this way.Useful linkWhich? Online annual internet survey
A team of private investors look set to throw troubled online services group Scoot.com a lifeline with an estimated &#163;25m cash boost. It is unclear who the backers are but the move is just one of a number of options being considered as part of a strategic review to pull the company out of the financial mire.Scoot.com, which has lost 99% of its value from last year's &#163;2.5bn peak, is understood to have secured the money against Loot, the profitable classified advertising business acquired for &#163;177m but now valued at just &#163;70m.The cash injection would help tide the company over until the UK business becomes cash positive at the end of 2001 and the European arm by the end of 2002. Analysts reckon the online firm has less than seven months worth of cash left.Scoot would only say yesterday that it is "examining a number of initiatives aimed at enhancing the company's financial position and its path to profitability". The sale of Loot is one option, although a round of cost cutting and redundancies is seen as most likely. Departure from new offices in Uxbridge is also being investigated.Scoot added that it expected to announce the results of its strategic review, which is being carried out by Merrill Lynch, at the end of June together with first quarter figures. The company reported a &#163;72m loss for the year to December 31, mainly due to technology problems.Long-suffering shareholders were dealt a blow this month when French media giant Vivendi Universal, which owns 22% of Scoot, backed out of takeover talks. Vivendi had offered 15p a share, valuing the group at &#163;100m, but this was rejected as "wholly inadequate". So far, Vivendi's decision to walk away has failed to bring any other bidders out of the woodwork, although France's Wanadoo and Italy's Thomson Directories are possible contenders.Analysts had expected Vivendi to offload its shareholding last week but it has so far hung on to the stake. Scoot shares were up 1p to 9p.
E-district.net, the entertainment website that dismissed its founder and chief executive after discovering overstated revenue and user numbers, yesterday admitted sales were exaggerated by nearly &#163;2m.The disclosure came after an investigation by PricewaterhouseCoopers and Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young. The Metropolitan police fraud squad is also looking into the affair.The Aim-listed company, whose shares were suspended in February after the departure of chief executive Steven Laitman, yesterday lost 90% of its value when its stock was relisted. The shares closed 97p lower at 10.5p, a far cry from the 195p flotation price last spring which valued the company at more than &#163;100m.E-district admitted alterations were made to internal monthly reports. For the 17 months to the end of December 1999 revenues of &#163;781,571 were posted, but the correct figure was &#163;96,938. For the six months to end of June 2000 the revenues were stated to be &#163;1m, but were actually &#163;32,872.E-district has a &#163;10m asset-freezing order against Mr Laitman - who was the biggest shareholder with a 44% stake - but he is contesting a writ for damages for "fraudulent misrepresentation".Investigators from PricewaterhouseCoopers and Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young believe that up to &#163;1m was paid from bank accounts linked to Mr Laitman into e-district, giving the impression that sales were higher than they really were.The extent of the problem was disclosed when the chairman and acting chief executive, Frank Lewis, posted a pretax loss of &#163;2.2m for the year to December 2000, compared with a loss of &#163;383,597 for the 17 months to December 1999.Mr Lewis unveiled a new business plan, which will concentrate on developing interactive games on digital TV on a pay-per-view basis.
Internet and email users have rediscovered an older human pleasure - face to face conversation - according to a new survey published today.The Which? Online study indicates that the net has begun to lose its magic for many surfers, and that emails are fast losing their popularity.The number naming emails as their favourite method of communication has crashed from 14% to 5%. In contrast, the number of people who prefer direct meetings with others has risen from 39% to 67% in the last year.A Which? Online spokesman said yesterday: "Emailing has become a chore rather than a pleasure. People feel they are being bombarded with a huge volume of material".It has done the survey for four years. Last year, email was given as the main reason for regular internet use. This year it is "education and research"."The rapid increase in text messaging, coupled with the fact that two-thirds of users prefer face-to-face, means that what has been touted as the 'killer application' of the net is undergoing a change," Which? Online said.But online shopping, use of digital television as a gateway and overall time spent online have not significantly increased, the survey of 2,000 people found."Fears that the UK could be turning into a land of internet junkies seem unfounded. Average time online has not increased in the last year. Most users spend less than five hours a week online. The average number of web sites visited a week has dropped to 12."Only 2% say online shopping is their favourite use of the internet. A message there, perhaps, for anyone with an interest in e-commerce."The study adds that, with 36% of Britons online - 16m people - the UK internet population will continue to rise. But it forecasts a slowdown in the number of new users, although the number of women has risen by 6% to 45%.Enthusiasm for the prospect of faster broadband internet access was much higher this year. Some 40% of surfers were keen to use it, but only 7% had the service.But what the survey calls "the real digital divide" remains. About a third of British adults say they will never connect to the internet - "generally for reasons of cost or relevance", Which? Online said.This resistance increases with age - more than two-thirds of people over 55 say they will never use the net.
The government's auction of 3G mobile licences was before a court again today as BT and One2One launched an appeal claiming the government's handling of the payment schedule was unfair and amounted to "state aid" for their competitors.Last year, BT and One2One began legal action over the way that 3G auction winners paid the government for their licences. The companies claimed that they lost around £80m each because the government allowed rival licence holders Vodafone and Orange three extra months to pay.The department of trade and industry allowed Vodafone and Orange to pay in September, rather than May, because Vodafone had to split from Orange in order to comply with the government's rule that no operator could own more than one licence. Vodafone paid nearly £6bn for its licence while Orange paid £4bn.BT subsidiary BT3G and One2One argued that because they were forced to pay the £4bn cost of their licences at an earlier date, their rivals benefited by earning millions of pounds in interest on the money.BT3G and One2One lost their bid in December, but today began a high court appeal of the decision.The 3G auction netted the government £22.5bn, which Gordon Brown immediately said he would spend to pay off part of the national debt. However, the auction has been criticised by analysts who claim the high cost of licences will be passed on to consumers when 3G phones finally hit the streets.The companies themselves have also struggled to convince the stock market that the heavy debt will be justified by widespread uptake of the technology. They were not cheered by a recent study that predicted it could be more than 10 years before telecoms companies begin turning a profit on 3G.The government has ruled out any change in the terms and conditions of the licences, quashing rumours that ministers were considering refunding part of the licence fees.Related articles12.06.2001: BT joins rival in 3G deal22.12.00: BT loses auction payments action17.11.2000: Consumers pay the price in 3G auctionUseful links3G portalBT mobileOne2One
In a world full of uncertainties, there are just two sure things left on the internet these days - sex and gambling. Sex has been done to death with recent stories of out of work dot.commers turning to porn websites to bring home the bacon, and Yahoo's big porn dilemma. But gambling, in particular the entertainment side of gambling - casinos - is just starting to emerge as a mainstream internet pastime. It has been held back, however, by the struggle for respectability.Casino behemoth Aspinalls, which launches Aspinalls.com today, has put all its chips on its family name making it stand head and shoulders above the thousands of cowboy casino websites out there.Its emphasis is on trust, says Russell Foreman, chief executive of Aspinalls Online. "It's all about making people feel comfortable. There's no way we'd do anything to jeopardise our reputation," he explains. The fact thatAspinalls.comis also the first publicly traded online gambling organisation in the UK, and thus has City shareholders to answer to, means that it is not going to do anything that might turn the public against it.Foreman expects rapid growth for the business and says it's the perfect time to launch a big online casino, because internet consumers want entertainment, and websites want to start making money. With the web evolving to become an entertainment medium, the challenging gaming factor of casinos is guaranteed to pull in punters - even if they haven't got the nerve to play for money.The games on offer are carbon copies of those found in ordinary casinos, such as blackjack, poker, roulette and craps. Croupiers are replaced by clever software that generates the numbers randomly. The more accountable online casinos make a big effort to ensure that these systems are subject to stringent control systems. Aspinalls.com, for instance, is to be audited regularly by PriceWaterhouseCoopers.Many casinos ask players to download software onto their computers for faster and better play and set up accounts with credit cards, although most allow punters to play for free first to get the hang of the games.But with so many casinos on the web, it's difficult to determine which ones are honest and which are out to rip off consumers. Gaming bodies suggest punters stick with well-known names, such as Ladbrokes (ladbrokescasino.com) and Victor Chandler (thespinroom.com), rather than the lesser known ones that don't offer guarantees of audits.Now that more and more transparent casinos are launching online, it is forecast that this market segment will represent a major area of growth, particularly when the inevitable happens and they are granted UK licences.New research bears this out. Peter Tyson, an analyst at Datamonitor, expects online casinos to grow at a much faster pace than any other subset of the online gambling market. "We're projecting a 40% growth rate for online casinos over the next five years, compared to just 20% for online sports betting," says Tyson.Datamonitor says the UK online casino market accounts for around 40%, or almost &#163;300m, of the online gambling market. By 2004, this is expected to have grown to 50% of the market, or &#163;760m.So it is no wonder that suddenly a whole batch of online casinos is cropping up. No sooner had Aspinalls starting publicising Aspinalls.com than MSN sent out a press release about its very own casino, provided by Harrods. The combination of Bill Gates and Mohamed Al Fayed cosying up together may be too much for most people to stomach, but nonetheless it's another key deal that will do wonders for the widespread acceptance of online casinos.MSN, the world's most popular portal, is hoping to ease some of its revenue problems by offering a link to the Harrods Casino. It will pick up 10% of all gambling revenues referred to Harrods by MSN links and marketing. Sources within the online casino industry also suggest that Freeserve has for some time been looking at putting together a similar deal with a reputable casino operator.In little more than six months, Harrods has established itself as one of the best-known online casino businesses, and the strategic two-year marketing deal with MSN, which kicks in later this month, can only serve to bring in more punters.The Harrods Casino, a joint venture between the department store and Gaming Internet, is already proving to be Gaming Internet's principal revenue generator, according to a spokesman. Figures should be out soon, but early end-of-year analyst projections suggest that the casino should have generated &#163;7.5m by this September.Gaming Internet is one of a handful of technology companies that supply ready-made online casino systems to famous brands. Other big suppliers include Microgaming, Cryptologic and Boss Media, which are starting to make headway in the UK now that more and more traditional brands want to get involved. Gaming Internet already runs an online casino for FHM.com and is developing a casino for the Paris Ritz Hotel called ParisRitzCasino.com.Given the ease with which companies can launch an online casino, it's no wonder that there is a glut of casino websites. But as more and more reputable companies get involved and take the lion's share of punters, the number of fraudulent   websites should, in theory, dwindle."People are very concerned by how easy it is for companies they have never heard of to set up an online casino, and then rip them off," says Mark Brechin, author of a soon-to-be-released Mintel report on online gambling. "That's why the brand is absolutely vital and why reputable brands have to operate transparent and audited casino websites."Aspinalls' launch should do well thanks to the respect its brand has established over the past 40 years. However, there are still loads of shady sites out there ready to relieve the unwitting punters of their folding money," adds Brechin.The reason "brand" is so important is that there is no real protection for consumers. The legalities of online casinos are sketchy, with most companies locating their servers and businesses overseas to circumvent antiquated gambling laws. Laws are gradually changing, however. The casino operators want the UK gam ing laws to be extended to protect consumers, and the government is thought likely to publish recommendations that should regulate online casinos and make them legal. Pundits are expecting the government, which loosened up the online gambling tax laws in the March 2001 budget, to clarify the antiquated online casino rules that are so prohibitive.The most radical reform should be a single regulatory body set up to oversee the whole industry, effectively pooling the powers of the Gaming Board, the national lottery commission, the Jockey Club, the British Horseracing Board and the financial services authority.The Gaming Board, the current regulatory body responsible for online casinos, is calling for a change in the regulations permitting online casinos in the UK. The reason companies go to the Caribbean, Central America and Gibraltar is that the governments of these territories are   only too happy to grant licences in exchange for &#163;100,000 for the licence and then tax on the turnover of the company.Another key reform is expected to be the change in licensing laws, so that operators can be granted licences by a UK authority and don't have to purchase an offshore licence, or locate their servers abroad.It's not difficult to work out how online casinos make money. Once people are hooked on the games, and they realise how easy it is to play, they become regular players. Loyalty systems are a big feature of online gambling and the theory is that regular gamblers can be easily be persuaded to use their accounts to have a punt on sporting events.The next step, casino games on interactive television and on mobile phones tied into betting, is the final piece of the jigsaw for big casino players such as Aspinalls, turning us all into armchair roulette wheel addicts.
Amid the wreckage of the dotcom bubble, lawyers representing disgruntled investors and advertisers are poised for a dramatic upsurge in fees.A High Court writ issued last Monday in London indicates the shape of things to come. Globalnet Financial, an online personal finance site, issued a &#163;10 million claim against World Online, the Dutch internet service provider that Tiscali bought for &#163;3.6 billion nine months ago.Globalnet says that World OnLine, which is already facing potential law suits from investors whose shares lost more than 50 per cent of their value by the time it was sold to Tiscali, overstated subscriber figures and page views for a deal signed in September 1999.Hits on websites are vital for negotiating advertising rates with media buyers. They also help gauge the overall value of internet companies. It now looks as though, prior to the dotcom crash of March last year, many internet businesses got caught up in a hyperbolic frenzy to keep ad revenue rolling and to entice shareholders.The industry grew so quickly that there was no time or inclination to agree an industry standard traffic audit. It is now emerging that claims by internet executives of millions of page impressions on their sites were at best innocent exaggeration, at worst fraudulent.Last February, Steven Laitman, chief executive of E-district, the former Aim-listed games and chat portal, was alleged to have ramped up the number of site visitors to 367 million. The real figure was just 57 million. Laitman was fired by the company and Scotland Yard's fraud squad is investigating the case.'It's no surprise we're seeing lawsuits,' said Marcus Leaver, chief executive of Chrysalis New Media. 'The industry has got to behave responsibly. We've got to   act or the situation will get worse and worse.'Many in the new media now fear that unless they clean up their act, major brand advertisers will shun the internet.One leading media buyer said: 'Most top brands are reducing their marketing spend by as much as 25 per cent. These blue chip companies are only going to advertise in areas where they're confident they're going to get a response.'You can't blame them. The bad publicity associated with the internet, the crashes and cash burns don't help. If we can't even be confident how many visitors a site gets, it doesn't bode well.'It is claimed that more than 70 per cent of visitors to many sites are spurious. According to John Woods, chief executive of Site Intelligence, a company which helps firms get an accurate picture of visitors, search engine 'robots' are the main culprit. The robots constantly scan websites to keep their information up to date. In the process, they can register thousands of 'hits' on a site's web pages without there being any real users visiting the site.In addition, when an internet site's employees log on each morning, they are often taken automatically to their company's home page. These hits are included in the figures. The totals are further inflated by the activity of many online price comparator businesses that seek out the cheapest deals for clients by trawling the web for information. Woods believes that 5 per cent of web firms deliberately ramp up their traffic figures, while most others are unaware that most visitors aren't genuine.The main way of ascertaining site traffic is through an internet service provider (ISP), or with specialist software packages which give crude, sometimes vastly inaccurate, figures. Now some internet companies are recognising the need for more rigorous checks, and Woods' company has benefited. It has doubled its turnover in the past three months.'We believe 70 per cent of management figures are exaggerated by a sig nificant margin,' said Woods. 'This &#91;Globalnet&#93; case will be the tip of the iceberg, especially if management decisions have been based on page impression statistics.'Woods believes less than 10 per cent of websites take traffic issues seriously. But within 18 months they will have to, or face loss of credibility. 'There has to be pressure from the advertisers to force the industry to react,' Woods said.There are now calls from new media firms for official auditing of customer figures to offset growing scepticism. Chrysalis's Leaver is backing calls for advertising agencies to boycott websites which do not publish a recognised   industry audit. 'The problem is there is no audit that has the confidence of the whole industry,' said one leading internet website executive. 'Until we get that, any talk of mandatory audits published quarterly is just hot air.'At present 200 websites have registered with ABC Electronic, the non-profit internet arm of the Audit Bureau of Circulations, which provides figures for newspapers and magazines.And there are other signs that the industry is taking the issue more seriously. Last April the Joint Industry Committee for Web Standards was set up. The body, which is developing transparent standards for auditing with the   ABC's support, last month published robust definitions of page impressions, users and visits.Richard Foan, managing director of ABC, said: 'This industry has undoubtedly come of age. It is demonstrably effective as a marketing tool. But with that goes the responsibility to provide reliable information.'The trouble is that the dotcom frenzy, during which the firms suggested the whole world was surf crazy, has left a legacy. Exaggerated visitor claims may return to haunt not only bankrupts and strugglers tangled in litigation, but also the survivors. Their investors will be keeping an eye on the Globalnet case.
According to John Naughton, my colleagues and I are mere puppets in a Microsoft circus. I am grateful for the opportunity to set the record straight.One thing is true: the Gateway is indeed the cornerstone of the Government's internet infrastructure and key to meeting the Prime Minister's   target of making all services available electronically by 2005. This infrastructure provides the single route for secure, authenticated transactions directly between government and citizen or business. The Gateway is far more than a website - and significantly more than a standard e-commerce solution.What is not true, however, is that it is in any way exclusively tied in to Microsoft products. The registration and enrolment website (www.gateway.gov.uk) is limited to Netscape or Internet   Explorer running on a Macintosh or Windows PC - you will note already that these are not exclusively Microsoft. This range will be extended throughout the year.Our priority is to make the Gateway available to as many people as possible as quickly as possible. Statistics from StatMarket.com show that 86 per cent use MS Internet Explorer and 9 per cent use Netscape. Like it or not, most of us use Microsoft systems.What is also being lost in coverage is that the Gateway website is only a small part of   its role, which allows citizens and businesses to enrol for services. Once enrolled, they can submit transactions from any operating system, since XML - the language used - is totally platform independent.XML itself is based on the open standards set by GovTalk, a Cabinet Office initiative which specifies how departments should transact electronically, ensuring total inter-operability across government and out to users.Second, Microsoft was in no way given carte blanche to do as it pleased. A tough decision was taken when it became clear that the partnership with Compaq was not going to work. It was quite the contrary of panicking: we chose to internally manage a host of suppliers in order to provide the best solution.The Gateway is in its earliest form. It will mean that online services can be packaged in a truly citizen-focused fashion. Gone will be the days of multiple forms to multiple departments and agencies. Citizens and businesses won't even need to know which department deals with any   one transaction - the Gateway automatically and securely routes the information. Fill in one form, and the Gateway will notify Inland Revenue, Customs &amp; Excise and Companies House.I take my impartiality very seriously and refute any allegation that what we are biased towards one vendor. The Gateway is a world leader - hardly the work of the technologically ignorant. To understand it, you need to understand the vision. It is a shame that John Naughton refuses to do so.
On 25 October, Microsoft plans to unleash Windows XP, its next desktop operating system, upon an unsuspecting world. XP, since you ask, apparently stands for 'experience'.The company's publicists have been softening up Wall Street and the media with soothing noises about the wonderful benefits the new operating system will confer upon humanity.Among these benefits are richer communications facilities, better facilities for mobile users, creating, organ ising and sharing digital photos and video, integrating the handling of downloaded music into the operating system, and making it easier for home users to share one internet link between different computers.There are, however, two 'features' in Windows XP about which Mr Gates and his colleagues are less forthcoming. The first is something with the innocuous title of 'Internet Explorer Smart Tags'. This was not a feature of the widely-distributed second Beta (test) version of XP;   it has surfaced in later test versions. What Smart Tags does is to allow Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser - which of course is included in Windows XP - to turn any word on any web page into a link to a website approved by Microsoft.Or, to put it simply, Smart Tags enables Microsoft - through the browser running on your PC - to re-edit anybody's site, without the owner's knowledge or permission, in a way that tempts users to leave and go to a site chosen by Microsoft.It works like this. You click on a link to something I've written - let's say last week's column about how the Blair government handed over the design of its key website to Microsoft engineers, who then arranged that only users running Microsoft software    can enter its authentication area. But under some words and phrases there appears a curious, purple squiggly line - analogous to the one by which Microsoft Word indicates a suspected spelling mistake. Each underlined word has suddenly become a link determined by Microsoft. None of the links were intended by me, and there is nothing that either I or  The Observer  can do about them.The other under-discussed feature of XP is the way in which its architecture opens up a terrifying security hole which could make it much easier for malicious programmers to launch the Distributed Denial of Service (DDOS) attacks which brought down many large e-commerce sites recently.The anatomy of a DDOS attack is simple and relies on   the fact that the designers of the internet built into it a facility for sending test signals ('Pings') from one machine to another. First, the perpetrator finds a number of unprotected machines with persistent connections to the internet and secretly installs on them a small Trojan-horse programme which can be remotely activated.At a prearranged moment, these Trojans are triggered to launch millions of Ping requests at the target site, which is duly overwhelmed by trying to respond to them. Up to now, DDOS attacks launched from Windows 95 and 98 machines have been relatively easy to detect and block because their operating systems do not allow application programs 'raw' access to the internet - they communicate only with the network   control layer. (See my 'footnotes' page for the grisly details.)But according to Steve Gibson, a security expert who has done some research into DDOS attacks, Windows XP changes all that, because its architecture gives the operating system raw access to the net. The huge number of unsecured, permanently-connected Windows XP machines will, he says, 'become the most sought-after target for penetration'.Gibson sees XP as 'the enabling factor for the creation of a series of "Ultimate Weapons" against which the fundamentally trusting architecture of the global internet currently has no effective defence. Windows XP is the malicious hacker's dream come true'.Some feature, huh?
Of course, dust doesn't really settle in cyberspace, but as the dust settled on the general election, around 120 of the UK's leading evangelists for putting politics on the web met at a Westminster watering hole to analyse what went right, wrong or simply nowhere with the online election.At a forum hosted jointly by the Social Market Foundation and VoxPolitics.com, the heroes, villains and innocent bystanders of what nobody was dubbing "the e-election" gathered to shoot the breeze - or, in some cases, to clear the air.Both strategists from the Labour and Conservative websites had the opportunity to blow their own horns on their achievements and justify their online editorial decisions.Conservative webmaster Justin Jackson described the philosophy behind conservatives.com as "editorially driven, not IT-led".He said that the content had to reflect the party's two key campaigning messages: listening to Britain and the common sense revolution: "Everything we did was geared around that listening message, so every page had space for feedback, joining, registering or donating."During the election campaign, Conservatives.com did not put up party press releases, preferring to give journalists a separate facility within the site, accessible by registration and password, where two full time journalists posted up to 10 stories a day.Among the successes of the Tory website, Mr Jackson highlighted the My Manifesto subsite, which delivered personalised manifestos to users according to their circumstances and criteria, and webcasts of interviews with leading shadow cabinet figures.Next up was Anthony Painter, the Labour party "e-campaign adviser", whose comments were in the humbled rather than triumphal mode which matched the tone of the victorious prime minister and his party."First of all I would categorise this e-election as an exciting experiment that didn't move the world. I would also congratulate the Tories on My Manifesto, which I thought was a good innovation," he said.Mr Painter said that Labour could claim credit for innovating election games, targeted emails and text messaging - he revealed that on the last day of the campaign Labour emailed and text messaged voters in 617 constituencies - and noted that call centres would play an even bigger part in future politics.Although all parties were united in blaming the media for focussing on personalities rather than policies and the electorate for being contented rather than apathetic, the meeting ended on an upbeat note.Labour's Mr Painter noted: "Around 15% of online users accessed political sites. The number of people anticipated to be online will double within four years: that gives us 4m people, almost the entire number who voted Liberal Democrat."Before we get too depressed about whether the net made any difference to this election, we should look at it from a cost and effectiveness perspective, and on that rationale, it certainly worked," he said, concluding, "The medium has successfully come through its baptism."Needless to say, no representative from the three main parties was willing to reveal traffic figures on their sites, all uniting behind a common line of "not having up to date figures" at the meeting. Curiously, none of them had out of date figures on them either.Stephen Coleman of the Hansard society was rather more phlegmatic. He said: "Whatever we say tonight, it will not be the last word. Online campaigning certainly had a negligible effect on voting, but if one had modest expectations there were modest results."He likened this election to the first television election in 1959: "It was a new medium and no one knew how to use it. Politicians gave speeches on TV as if they were addressing a town hall, they gave interviews on it as if to a print journalist." He said that for many, the internet just replicated traditional media methods.One surprise was the success of the websites offered by the traditional media: "The BBC's was very good, but Guardian Unlimited's was absolutely remarkable. Probably even better than anything done last year in the US," said Mr Coleman.So what's new? "The big questions remain - how to get commerce from the web, and what is your unique selling point?" he asked.Mr Coleman also pointed to the popularity of online irreverence, highlighting games such as the Widdecombe and Prescott games, the tactical voting sites and informal discussions and talkthreads.However, he was decidedly downbeat on the key election fact. "Before we come down too hard on the net, let's remember this election was a disaster for turnout. Why didn't the parties make any mention of civic engagement between government and the electorate on the internet between elections?" he asked.The man most people would have seen on the telly during the campaign was the final speaker, tacticalvoter.net's Jason Buckley. His prognosis was much gloomier."I'm very depressed. I think everyone has been over-optimistic. Tacticalvoter.net got a lot of TV exposure yet less than 1.1% of the electorate visited our site," said Mr Buckley, adding, "Our traffic always came from off-line media, not from viral marketing, and we felt like we were only preaching to the converted.""My main worry is that the offline media will not find the net sexy for a novelty story in four years time and we'll get even less interest," he said.There was general consensus that local candidate sites could be a winner, but only if they were established prior to the run-up to general election campaign, and were focussed on local issues.The webmaster from the widely-praised Liberal Democrat campaign in Kingston &amp; Surbiton - where the candidate increased his majority from 56 to 15,676 - attributed its success to the fact that the site had been up and running for two years and that its web address was plastered over every piece of campaign literature.This was confirmed by Bill Thomson, the election agent for Labour's Anne Campbell in Cambridge, who was convinced that the 8% swing against Campbell was due to using a Millbank-inspired "web in a box" package, which was not as good as the £50 effort knocked up in 1997 - especially for the highly IT-literate audience of central Cambridge.A survey of all candidates' individual websites is being carried out by researchers at Salford University, and the results will be known soon.As for the future, there was widespread dismay that none of the computer-savvy intake from 1997 had been given jobs in Tony Blair's reshuffle, and general anticipation that the coming euro referendum would see the side with the most internet resources (the Yes camp) fighting the less popular campaign - a reversal of Election 2001.Tacticalvoter.net vowed to return at byelections during this parliament, pledging that votes would be "banked" until the following general election, unless two MPs in marginal constituencies popped their clogs within a few weeks of each other.The Tories' Justin Jackson pondered the use of the Conservatives.com intranet for informing party members during the coming leadership battle, and there was general consensus that the growth of political campaigning on the web prior to the next election would come from charities, the unions and professional lobbyists, rather than the political parties.In conclusion, Mr Coleman had this to offer: "This was a dull election for TV as well, but the next election will not be the second internet election, but the first internet election after the death of analogue TV."On that note, everyone retired to the cybercafe known as the Westminster Arms for pies and pints.&#149; The role of the broadcast media during the 2001 general election will be discussed in a debate chaired by Janine Gibson, editor of MediaGuardian. More detailshere.Related articles12.06.01: An election that many watched but few enjoyed07.06.01: Click here for your candidate06.06.01: Switching sides04.06.01: Government's internet project 'doomed to fail'Useful linksVoxPolitics.comSocial Market Foundationopen.gov.uk
A computer game based on the recent fatal stabbing of eight children in a Japanese school has been removed from a web site, a spokesman for Yahoo said today.An unidentified person had put the game, titled Killing Children at Ikeda Elementary School, on the Yahoo portal site following the June 11 school attack, said officials from Yahoo Japan Corp.Tokyo police asked Yahoo to remove the game, which they deemed offensive to parents of the eight victims as well as others at the school, the officials said.Seven girls and one boy, aged from six to eight, were killed, and 13 children and two teachers injured, in the attack by a knife-wielding man last week at the Ikeda Elementary School in the suburbs of Osaka, 250 miles west of Tokyo. The 37-year-old suspect, Mamoru Takuma, is a former school janitor with a history of mental illness.The goal of the game was to "kill as many children as possible", said a police spokesman. The creator of the game "voluntarily" removed it, he added.It had appeared on a portal site where users can post their own games or home pages for free. The spokesman stressed that Yahoo had not been directly involved.The attack on the school was the worst mass-killing in Japan since 1995, when a doomsday cult released sarin gas on Tokyo subways, killing 12 people and leaving thousands more ill.Useful linksYahoo! JapanRelated stories09.06.2001: Eight children die in Japan school stabbing13.06.2001: Yahoo! goes to battle over content freedomRelated special reportsFree speech on the net
Digital music company MP3.com has launched a subscription service that will allow users to download as much music as they like for a flat monthly or yearly fee.Under the premium listener service, dubbed PLuS Express, music fans will pay either $2.99 per month or $29.99 per year to access MP3.com's library of more than 1m songs. Subscribers will be able to create online music collections and move tracks around by, for example, downloading a song onto a portable MP3 player or burning the tracks onto a CD."Digital music isn't just about online music, but also about a wealth of new devices that give consumers new ways to listen to their music when they're not connected to the net," said Stacy Clark, senior director of marketing at MP3.com. "PLuS Express integrates support for both portable MP3 players and CD burning. It's designed to give consumers the best possible music experience online and offline."The company has been looking for a way to distribute digital music that will both turn a profit and respect the music's copyright owners. MP3.com was forced to pay $150m (£108m) after major record labels sued the company for copyright infringement last year.In September a federal judge ruled that MP3.com had violated copyright on between 5,000 and 10,000 CDs by allowing visitors to download music from the site in MP3 format. MP3.com is still facing copyright lawsuits from individual artists.Last month the company was acquired by music publisher Vivendi Universal. MP3.com is Vivendi's third foray into digital music distribution, following deals with Sony and Yahoo! to create online music subscription services.The digital music distribution industry is undergoing rapid change. Former song swap service Napster recently agreed to partner with EMI, AOL Time Warner and Bertelsmann to distribute music on RealNetworks' MusicNet platform. Napster is still facing a copyright lawsuit from the world's five most powerful record labels, including the three that inked the MusicNet partnership with it.Related articles21.05.2001: Vivendi Universal buys MP3.com10.05.2001: Performers sue MP3.com for £27m19.10.2000: Agreement to save My.MP3.comUseful linksMP3.com subscription serviceMusicNet
The parent company of struggling web portal AltaVista has vowed to slash costs after revealing that its losses had more than doubled to $1bn in the last quarter.CMGI, which holds a range of internet investments, saw its shares fall 59 cents to $3.55 yesterday, down from a year high of $61 last June. The once high-flying company has lost more than 90% of its stock market value since last year's dot.com crash.The company lost $996m in the three months to the end of April, compared with $428m a year ago, as the value of its dot. com stakes slumped.Investments in AdForce, which is to be wound down, Tallan, and Activate were all written down in the last quarter.CMGI also owns significant stakes in Engage, the online marketer, and @ventures, the online incubator. CMGI's stake in the latter, which was once envied by executives around the world, is now valued at just $2.9m.David Wetherell, CMGI chairman, said that the company had enough cash to last for three more years, as long as it continued to cut costs. "We continue to take actions to reduce our operating cash usage and we are vigilant about the preservation of our capital re sources," he said in a statement.The company reduced its cash burn rate, the amount of money it uses to continue operations, by 31% in the third quarter to about $165m. Revenues rose 29%.However, it offered a gloomy outlook for the rest of this year. In its conference call with analysts the company lowered forecasts for the current quarter, saying that business would be flat. Analysts had expected revenues to increase by 3% to 5% in the period.Last week, AltaVista restructured its internal European sales force in response to market conditions.The web portal slashed 25% of its workforce in January, after the company pulled plans for an initial public offering. More layoffs in Europe are expected.Shares in Loudcloud, set up by Netscape founder Marc Andreesen, fell 19% yesterday after the internet infrastructure services provider announced that losses had deepened to $60.3m in the first quarter.&#149; Lucent Technologies was under pressure again yesterday as Standard &amp; Poor's cut the struggling telecoms equipment firm's debt ratings to junk status.The downgrade came almost two weeks after the collapse of merger talks between Lucent and French rival Alcatel.
Five years ago, when a journalist at this paper, we became enchanted by the internet. Netscape, now part of AOL, had     gone public, and venture capitalists were pouring cash into companies with brilliant technologies or superb vision, such     as Inktomi or Yahoo!A few million people in Britain were connected to the net, mostly at shared PCs in offices. We     marvelled at those with their own web site. Then, I felt bullish that we'd tackle the "world wide wait".Several     technologies would compete to provide high-speed network access, which would become widespread within five years. Five     years on, and - with the exception of South Korea - residential broadband access has failed to even start taking off.Even bullish tech analysts, such as Forrester Research, predict that fewer than one in five British homes will have     broadband internet access by 2005. What went wrong? Many, including The Guardian, have catalogued the frustrations     and errors on the supply side. Demand-side weakness is as much a contributory factor. Simply put, we have such low     broadband penetration because there isn't a compelling reason to pay for a connection.Broadband offers three     advantages over vanilla modem connections:1) it is faster, typically 512kbps shared across a bunch of other users;2)     it is always on, meaning there is no dialling-up;3) it is unmetered, meaning most tariffs don't charge for being     online.But for the overwhelming majority, it doesn't allow them to do much they could not do before. Perhaps fraudband     would be a better term.For most of us, 56kbps is pretty good for most needs. Those higher bandwidths are useful for     file-sharing, such as Napster, or long downloads. Always-on connectivity is great for running your own web server and     online gaming. But these are things that few people bother with. And if they are popular, we haven't yet worked out an     economic model for them. Take instant messaging.It becomes much more valuable with an always-on connection, because     you are more likely to use it. Napster is perhaps the best example of a popular broadband application with no economic     model. Napster is bandwidth hungry and thrives on persistent connections. But internet service providers (ISPs) worry     about its effects, perhaps as much as the music companies do.Comcast's US cable modem service shut off access to     Napster because its network was straining under the load. A large European broadband ISP found that 5% of users were     responsible for 85% of the network usage, predominantly exchanging movies, software and music. That will mean another     big infrastructure investment that cash-strapped ISPs need to make, if broadband connections are to explode.Most of     what we want to do (email, instant message, shop, browse websites) happens well enough at modem speeds or a little     faster. The marginal value of taking a 56k connection to a shared 512kbps connection is small. If all this sounds     familiar, it is because we can apply the same lessons to 3G mobile. Most of the benefits of 3G services will be delivered     to consumers over the next couple of years with 2.5G upgrades (higher bandwidth than today, always-on connections).This incremental investment will deliver huge value. By contrast, subsequent 3G upgrades will deliver marginal benefits     for a much larger investment. Having been off the mark with my predictions five years ago, I would like a second chance:1. Analysts will revise forecasts for broadband internet access downwards again, and telcos will talk less and less about     their consumer broadband offerings.2. TV companies, BSkyB in particular, will drive broadband DSL connections with     new generations of their set-top boxes to enhance personalised programming and TV shopping. These won't, primarily, be     for fast web access.3. Community-based internet services will spring up using a single DSL or cable modem connection     shared with their neighbours on a free-access wireless network. 3Com is already making a low-cost wireless Ethernet     device to do this. This will grow the number of always-on, better-than-modem bandwidth homes in the UK. See you in five     years to wipe the egg off my face.&#149; Send comments toOnline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Hard to clearI have just left my previous employer, and have to return a Windows PC I used at home. I am sure there     must be many people in the same situation who need to expurgate all personal material. Can it ever be completely wiped?Name and address suppliedMarwest14@yahoo.comJack Schofield replies:The answer depends to some extent on how     much time and money someone is willing to put into recovering it. Even data that has been overwritten several times is     recoverable in forensics laboratories. That is why some organisations demand the physical destruction of the drive.Deleting files does not erase them, it only removes the information the operating system uses to find and load them.     The files are still there and it may be relatively simple to undelete them. To delete them more securely, you need to     overwrite the disk sectors where the data are stored. There are lots of programs that will overwrite files a selected     number of times: see the section on Disk Cleaners atDave Central. BCWipe,     East-Tec Eraser and Terminus should suit most people, but all require a later version of Windows than your 3.1.     However, you could useWipeDisk. I think the best approach, when     returning a PC, is to delete all known files, reformat the hard drive and reinstall the operating system.To reformat the     hard drive, boot the PC into DOS from a start-up floppy containing the format.exe file and type Format C: or, better,     Format C: \s\v (seewww.ehow.com/eHow/eHow/0,1053,6026,00.html).Josh Goldfoot's FlameFile is a free utility that     will destroy files on a Mac. It can be downloaded fromhttp://download.cnet.com/downloads/0-10248-100-879663.html.    If you want to take this further, read Peter Guttman's paper on the Secure Deletion of Data from Magnetic and     Solid-State Memory athttp://wipe.sourceforge.net/secure_del.html, or visit his excellent website atwww.cs.auckland.ac.nz/~pgut001.Free idiskYour article on online storage (May 31) obviously proved too popular. I registered for Idrive     and awaited my confirming email. It arrived to tell me the service is no longer available!Gaye Barrettbarrettg169@thegrid.org.ukJS:It was bad timing, but online storage places come and go. Idrive, MySpace and Juston are     just a few examples. Idrive's "sideload" and "save to Idrive" features made it special, when they worked, but recently,     that wasn't often. Online drives tend to be useless, because they rely on flaky "applets".If not, they may soon become     useless because of overuse (eg for distributing pirate software, music files and pornography). One of the few free ones     that keeps working reasonably well, in spite of various ups and downs, is one I have recommended before:Yahoo briefcase. But it does have a 5MB maximum file size, which may be a problem for some     people. Yahoo has just started to beta test software that maps your briefcase to your Windows desktop.Alternatives     includeCC Drivein the UK  andOO Drivein France.De-cappedHow can I disable     - and preferably destroy permanently - my caps lock key? tHANKS!Alasdair Mackenzieinfo@asylumaid.org.ukJS:There is     a free program, AntiCapsLock Lite v1.0, which disables Caps Lock. You can download it fromwww.zdnet.com/downloads/stories/info/0,,000W1U,.html. Also, if you have a Microsoft Natural Keyboard, I am told that pressing the Windows logo     key with S toggles the caps lock key on and off. Finally, you could buy a Happy Hacking keyboard. No hacker would ever     hit the caps lock key except by mistake, so it makes more sense just to leave it off the keyboard. There is a good     selection for both PCs and Macs atwww.pfuca.com/products/hhkb/hhkbindex.html.Web storeOver the years I have     saved more than 600 web pages using Save As in Internet Explorer, and keep them in a folder on my desktop. I now wish     to browse through them without having to load each one individually into Internet Explorer. Is there a program like     ACDSee that recognises the number of items in a folder and lets you quickly scan through web pages using forward and     backward arrows?Paul Offenbachpaulofnorfolk@hotmail.comJS:Asksam distributes Surf Saver, which creates a     database of web pages you can flick through. It is a development of the Asksam program, which I use, and which is loved     by many American journalists. You can download a free copy for the PC fromwww.surfsaver.com.If saving pages     separately, you can now Save As using Internet Explorer's Web Archive (*.mht) format, which saves each page as a single file. It avoids a lot of confusing mess.Write backSteve Doughty, commenting on     the SULFNBK.EXE virus hoax, points out that instead of deleting the file, you could simply have renamed it to stop it     working. I tend to do that by adding .old to the end of the name. Since Windows uses the three letters after the dot to     decide how to run or load a file, this disables it (unless, as Steve says, some clever virus writer decides to search the     drive for .old files and change them to .exe). Either way, if you decide to delete a file that may be essential, you should     back it up (eg copy it to a floppy) first.
Even people with no interest in technology became familiar with the idea of talking computers through Stanley Kubrick's     1968 film, 2001 A Space Odyssey, and the original Star Trek television series.The idea of a computer having a     personality was also popularised by 2001, where Hal 9000 was one of the better-developed characters. But here we are     in 2001, still using screens and keyboards. What went wrong?The surprising answer is: nothing. Talking computers look     like becoming a big thing this year. Within the next six months, most people in the US and the UK will start talking to     them on a daily basis. Some of these machines even have multiple "personalities": I've already met a cabbie, a young,     black hip-hop fan (male), and a dancer (female).Talking computers have escaped notice because they are invisible: you     talk to them over the phone. But they are starting to power a new generation of voice response systems that buy and     sell shares for Charles Schwab, look up flight times for air travellers and, in the US, read messages from your mailbox     on America Online.In Australia, they take bets. In fact, "a lot of average consumers don't know it's a machine," says     Steve Ehrlich, Nuance's marketing vice president, "especially in things like directory enquiries. Whether it's a machine or     a person, they're both human voices." And Nuance, a Californian company spun out of SRI (formerly the Stanford     Research Institute), will soon make its systems even more realistic. It is testing a new program called Say Anything,     which gives the impression of understanding natural language, though it only operates within limited domains.Englishman     Wally Brill, Nuance's director of persona design and production, is leading a team developing a range of personalities,     including the black cab driver mentioned earlier. "We create a back-story," says Brill, "so really we are inventing a being.     That really makes a difference to the way these systems work." For users, voice response systems are a welcome     relief. You no longer have to press innumerable keys to get through "voice menu hell" to the department or person you     want on the phone: just say the name and the system takes you there. Nor should you have to type in security numbers:     your voice can be recognised and checked against a voice print, much like a fingerprint.So far, automated voice     response systems have been used mainly for what would have been call centre applications. However, 365 Corporation     plans to launch Eckoh, the UK's first publicly-available voice portal, within the next two weeks, using Philips software.     Nik Philpot, 365's marketing director, says the system, code-named Guardian Angel, will provide a gateway to a range of     services, from getting sports and traffic information to placing a bet or ordering a pizza. Much of the content is drawn     from 365's sports- oriented websites."We also have a bunch of office tools, and the key to that is the email client that     will read out your email. It works even for people who have Hotmail accounts, which we think is a first," Philpot says.     Users will also be able to upload contact books and calendar information from Microsoft Outlook. Eckoh is available on a     national rate number, 08701-101010, and has a companion website atwww.08701101010.com.It costs 2p a minute to     use at weekends and the "worst case" is 8p a minute, says Philpot. 365 takes its cut from the telephone company that     carries your call. Some services, such as conference calls, will have to cost extra, because 365 has to make the     outgoing calls. Pay-as-you-go vouchers will be used to pay for such services. Quiet Storm, in London, is helping develop a     range of persona for Eckoh. Philpot says they will include "a gangster character, a butler and a middle-aged couple. I     don't think that is the type of thing you would get a company like Vodaphone doing."Philpot's enthusiasm for speech     recognition is understandable: although 365 is seen as a dot.com company, it has about 4,000 incoming phone lines, and     automated call handling accounts for about 90% of its £50 million annual revenues. Eckoh could be a very profitable     business. But why are the major retailers, courier services, airlines and telephone companies starting to make a big     thing about voice response systems?Steve Chambers, director of marketing for Speechworks, which came out of     research at the MIT Media Lab in Boston, says: "there are four main reasons people buy. The first is to reduce costs."It     is expensive to have people taking phone calls and computers can do it cheaper. The company's selling proposition is ROI     (return on investment) and Chambers says some Speechworks applications have paid for themselves in two weeks. The     second is differentiation. Companies want to be the first to offer voice response systems and get the jump on     competition."The third reason is CRM (customer relationship management): to satisfy my customers, I want a system     that is available all day, all night in multiple languages. Speech recognition is a no-hold experience that services     everybody all the time." The fourth is to attract new customers. "AOL is the clearest example," says Chambers."It     wants to capture its users when they are off-line, but it also wants to capture all the non-web people out there." Speech     recognition also works with rotary phones, and there are still a lot around in places like China, he adds. What none of     these companies wants to do is what we all thought of as the main application for speech recognition: making the     computer keyboard redundant."I'm highly unenthusiastic about the dictation application," says Ron Croen, Nuance's     president and chief executive officer. "It hasn't been successful for anybody." Croen says that people find dictation     hard, and once you have converted speech to text, it is hard to edit just using your voice. "But the main thing is that,     thanks to email, everybody has learned to type! And email etiquette says: 'I don't mind if you make a few typos, I get the     point'."Nuance's speech processing software still has to recognise phonemes and convert them into text, but it only     needs to understand what someone wants. This is possible even if it only gets the gist of it. Transcribing every word     with the correct spelling isharder. As the Guardian's "homophone corner" shows, this is something even intelligent people     get wrong.In the early 1980s, Donald Davies, inventor of the internet's packet-switching technology, remarked that     converting text into speech was like squeezing toothpaste out of a tube, whereas converting speech into text was like     squeezing it back. At the time, it took a £2 million mainframe computer to do a reasonable job.Technological progress     has reduced that to the point where the software will run on almost any standard desktop computer, and there are     several popular programs, such as Dragon Dictate and IBM's ViaVoice. But these systems still have to be "trained" by     their users, and the user's input is often more significant than the choice of software. There is no doubt that dictation     software can work superbly if users are highly motivated, can speak well, have a very restricted working vocabulary, and     either can't type or need their hands for something else.Pathologists and dentists are ideal. As a result, suppliers have     targeted "vertical markets", such as the legal and healthcare industries. For example, Lernout &amp; Hauspie, a Belgian     company that took over both Dragon and Dictaphone before running into financial problems, has produced versions of its     Voice Xpress software with specialised dictionaries of legal and medical terminology. But L&amp;H still sees huge potential in     markets where keyboards are harder to use, including China, Korea and Japan: "Our Asia Pacific region has more than     half the population of the world."However, text-to-speech technology has made less impressive progress over the past     two decades. Then, Texas Instruments was widely known for a talking toy called Speak and Spell, and computer hobbyists     could buy plug-in peripherals such as Votrax's Type 'N Talk. Although this voiced text like a Dalek, there seemed no     reason why technological progress should not lead to naturalistic speech. But today, speech synthesizers still sound a     lot like Daleks, and voice response systems such as Nuance's Say Anything still use recorded human speech.Pre-recorded speech sounds good, but it limits the number of things the system can say. And although elements can be     stitched together - for example, pre-recorded numbers can be inserted in a clip that says "today's temperature is     (space) degrees" - it does spoil the illusion you are talking to a person. And that will be important in the future.Speech-to-text and text-to-speech systems are only part of the equation. There is another important element: language     translation software. The ultimate goal is a system that will transcribe what you say (speech-to-text), translate it into     a different language, then read it to someone else (text-to-speech). Kevin Lim, a vice president from L&amp;H's Singapore     office, says: "We can do that in the lab, using servers, but not in a usable way. It's maybe a decade away."In fact, we     can add a neat twist by assuming the continued development of video conferencing and animated "avatars" such as     Ananova, the first "virtual newsreader", and Channel 5's Vandrea, which use L&amp;H's RealSpeak software. The idea is not     just to have a talking head, but one with lips that move in a convincing fashion for the language being spoken. While this     may seem an obscure thing to worry about, it is important to the animated cartoon industry, which sells Power Rangers,     Pokemon and similar TV programmes to a global market. So this is the scenario. You pick up your third-generation (3G)     mobile phone, with its built-in camera and 50mm colour screen, and voice-dial someone in China. You speak in English but     the person taking the call hears perfect Cantonese, with your digitally manipulated lips making all the right shapes. Jo     Lernout, co-founder of L&amp;H, says: "It will be a little weird to see yourself speaking Chinese, but it will happen."&#149; Send     comments toOnline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
It has the highest concentration of high-tech industries in Europe. It manufactures nearly a third of Europe's PCs and     more than half its computer notebooks. Silicon Glen - Scotland's high-tech belt between Glasgow and Edinburgh - employs     more people and has a bigger turnover than the whiskey industry. But this once booming region is taking a battering.Last month, Motorola shed 3,100 jobs from its mobile phone plant at Bathgate. This followed an announcement that     Nortel plans to cut a further 700 jobs from its base in Maidenhead. Other job losses have been announced at Panasonic,     Compaq and Foxteq plants, and analysts expect more.The root of the problem is not just the high-tech     slowdown, although Scotland is more vulnerable to a downturn in US high-tech stocks than the rest of the UK (more than     half of the electronic companies are US owned). But, crucially, the manufacture of electronic components that has been     the staple of Silicon Glen is labour intensive, and can now be produced cheaper in areas such as eastern Europe.But amid     the gloom are a few rays of hope. The dot.com bubble grew at a smaller rate in Scotland than in London. If Scotland     never experienced a dot.com boom, can it suffer a dot.com bust? Scotland has a burgeoning games industry, world-class     universities and a number of government-funded schemes, such as the media centre under development at Pacific Quay     on the south bank of the River Clyde in Govan. The future of Silicon Glen, say its supporters, lies in a combination of     software and services.The call-centre industry is booming in Scotland and there are hopes that this industry will replace     many of the jobs lost in electronics. Only last week, IF - the online bank owned by the Halifax - announced it was     recruiting 1,500 people for a new call centre in Edinburgh. And a combination of Scotland's depressed labour costs and a     highly skilled labour force is still attracting foreign investment.Monster.com- the online recruiter - came to Glasgow in     January last year and, nearly 18 months later, employs more than 100 people in a showpiece office in the city centre."The sex appeal of Glasgow cannot be overstated," says Nicolette Pollack of Monster.com. The company moved its     European sales team to Glasgow, and that team now serves eight European countries. Nearly 70% of employees in the     Glasgow office are foreign-born. Monster considered London, Berlin and Barcelona, but each lost out on cost."A single     location was cheaper than eight separate locations," says Pollack. "Even if the phone bill goes through the roof."The     roots of Silicon Glen can be traced back to the 1960s when companies such as IBM and HP came over from the US. Then,     they employed relatively few people. Today, they employ tens of thousands. Before the latest round of redundancies,     Silicon Glen employed 56,000 workers in electronics and computing.One way Scotland can transform its high-tech     economy from manufacturing is education. Of all computer-related degrees in the UK, 21% are obtained in Scotland,     which has 9% of the population. It also has a number of universities specialising in computer research, and a number of     companies have successfully spun off from research departments.One such company is Quadstone, set up in the early     90s by four graduates of Edinburgh University's EPPC - a world renowned high-performance computing centre specialising     in weather forecasting and structural engineering. Quadstone diversified into "predictive marketing" software, used by     banks and supermarkets to make sense of the masses of data gathered from customers. Quadstone's software, which     costs around £500,000, was researched at Edinburgh University in the early 90s. By 1995 the group realised there was     an opportunity to do this commercially rather than in the semi-commercial environment of a university.It says that     locating in Scotland is today much easier than five years ago. "The climate isn't bad for raising venture capital in     Scotland," says Nicholas Radcliffe, chief technology officer of Quadstone. "Five years ago, when we started, it was     relatively difficult. The climate has changed a lot."Quadstone produces very sophisticated software, requiring highly     trained staff. But at the other end of the scale, a former Phillips factory in Airdrie offers a very different view of     Silicon Glen.Airdrie is in the heart of Lanarkshire, once an important centre for iron and steel production. Like other     such centres, Airdrie became an area of high unemployment, but today much of the local workforce is employed in the     high-tech sector.Since opening in January last year, beCogent has taken on 850 people - 200 of whom joined last week.     In a large, near windowless office, with a struggling air-conditioning system, workers deal with customer enquires for     clients such as Virgin Wine and AOL. Unlike many of its competitors, beCogent has integrated email into its call centre     and a number of its clients are dot.coms."Companies are realising that they have to have dedicated staff to deal with     customers who contact them electronically," says Ron Peerenboom, the managing director of beCogent. "Similarly,     dot.coms are realising they will lose customers if they force them to just use email." BeCogent is only 22km from     Bathgate and has already soaked up many from the Motorola plant. Staff earn a £10,000 basic wage, topped up by     commissions.So can Scotland develop a high-tech economy no longer dependent on electronics? "There are a lot of     advantages for technology companies in Scotland," says Radcliffe. "You can get access to less expensive, top-quality     people. Salaries are significantly higher in London. In many respects there is a better quality of life here. The big     disadvantage is that I spend too much time on the 6.40 shuttle to Heathrow."
Lights outThere is plenty of chortling when dreadful sites such as Boo.com fail, and no shortage of sites that deserve to follow - the sort of rubbish put online by most British commercial TV companies,    for example. But in the past week, the web has lost some award-winning sites that were treasured for what they contributed when they were younger and fresher.FEED magazine, co-founded by former Online contributor Steven Johnson, is the saddest loss because it was one of the few to tackle serious issues with serious thinking.Suckwill also be missed, if only by those who remember the antidote it provided to the garish over-enthusiasm of Wired. For the background, see More lights go out on the Web (seewww.salon.com/tech/col/rose/2001/06/09/suck_feed).But the site that may be irreplaceable, at least in the trade, is a humble weblog,Tomolak's Realm. Lawrence Lee announced he was going to stop producing the site because it was taking up too much time. We are waiting to see if he goes through with it.TNBTBut if you have not made your fortune on the net by this time, don't worry. All you need to know is what the next big thing is going to be, and then avoid it, oh sorry, jump on the bandwagon. Whatever TNBT turns out to be, it will inevitably have been featured onTNBT, the website devoted to the new new economy. The interviews are interesting, which is what people used to say about Playboy a couple of decades ago.Musical bentTurn up your speakers, rush toPiano Graphique, and start pounding those keys now! This Macromedia Shockwave site downloads samples and assigns them to the keys on your keyboard, so just pressing X in Rude Boy will start a funky backing track. Want someone to say "Break it down"? Just press K. And so it goes, until you press the space bar, for erase. There are five styles - angular entropy, compulsion, rude boy, luv' techno, and cargo - and they are all worth a go. (Don't worry if you get lots of script errors: keep pressing Y.)Yes, it is a very old idea, but this French version is brilliantly done and also adds animated graphics. It is fun for children of all ages, and no musical talent is required.The authors have also produced a Piano Graphique for the Beatles site atwww.thebeatles.com/lovemedo/treatmentiMoviesApple is giving digital video cameras and iBook notebook computers to a bunch of creative types, with the idea that they will produce short films on the theme of 24 hours, and finish them within 48 hours. The result should be an interesting series of iMovies. MTV promo directory Elliott Chaffer has produced the first, about yawning. You can follow the series on the organiser's site atwww.creativebase.com/imovieor on Apple's site atwww.apple.com/quicktime/hotpicksFresh startThe first issue of an intelligent new British webzine, OpenDemocracy, has been launched atwww.openDemocracy.net, and part of the strategy is to stimulate social and political debate. You have to register to read articles, many of which are, unusually, available as Adobe Acrobat (PDF) files for printing out.Note: don't try to read PDF files on screen; they are too cumbersome. I have whinged about this before, and only mention it this time because usability guru Jakob Nielsen has come out against them in his latest Alertbox column atwww.useit.com/alertbox/20010610.html. He reckons "PDF documents can reduce your website's usability by about 300%."SafetySafeweb- which lets users visit websites without their employers, teachers, internet service provider's or local dictator's knowledge - is planning to target the corporate market as well. This is being kept separate from the Safeweb and Triangle Boy consumer sites atwww.safewebinc.com.Bring the babyTigerchild is an interesting site, put together by two mothers. But it is not what you might expect from the name, nor from two ordinary mums. It offers high-level material produced by specialist researchers, with a design by Bluewave, a prominent London studio.Unfortunately the pages are slow to load, hard to read, and have the sort of muted colour scheme you would use for a faceless Swiss corporation. The result is a site with a curious fascination, rather like watching a large balloon deflating. See:www.tigerchild.comNew &amp; noted&#149;  Amnesty International has published its 2001 report: athttp://web.amnesty.org/web/ar2001.nsf&#149; Patchwork quilts may not sound interesting but the site athttp://womensearlyart.net/quiltsis well worth the visit.&#149;  The stars of country music are honoured online atwww.halloffame.org&#149;  It's not the biggest marketing event on the web, but at least theBeebhas made an effort.Six of the bestUsability sitesJakob's wisdomwww.useit.comW3C guidelineswww.w3.org/WAIThe basicswww.usability.govThe user interfacewww.uiweb.comThe horrors!www.webpagesthatsuck.com/suckframe.htmHot linkswww.usableweb.com
Shops and stations could soon be "blipified" if a new device from the mobile-phone maker Ericsson catches on. Those with personal organisers or mobiles will be able to get local information on the move without incurring mobile charges.Blips could also connect them to the internet at high speeds (460kbps) from cafes, airports or other public places.Inger Marie Smestad, blip marketing manager at Ericsson, says: "Suppose you are walking past a shop that is closed and see a pair of jeans you like in the window. If the store is blipified, just turn on your personal organiser and you will be able to find out what sizes are in stock and when the store opens. You might even be able to order the jeans online."Blips, which use the Bluetooth short-range radio standard to communicate with mobile devices up to 10m away, effectively create a wireless local network. They cost $499 and either plug into a web server or can store a lot of web pages themselves.The main drawback is that they must be used with Bluetooth-enabled mobiles or personal organisers.Ericsson already sells an R520 Bluetooth mobile and Nokia offers a Bluetooth connectivity kit for its 6210 phone which includes a card for a laptop computer and a replacement mobile battery with built-in Bluetooth.The blips (or Bluetooth Local Infotainment Points) went on sale earlier this month to coincide with the najor Bluetooth Congress for developers in Monaco.Not far from the Ericsson stand, Bluetooth was being used to operate a wine- drinking robot by remote control. Magnus Unemyr, of IAR Systems, which sells development kits, believes Bluetooth could become an international standard for remote-control toys.Bluetooth also has potential as a payment method. Tadlys, an Israeli Bluetooth network developer, showed software from RegiSoft, another Israeli company, that enables discount coupons to   be beamed to a personal organiser as a shopper wanders round a shopping mall or supermarket.At the till the shopper hands over, say, a designer suit, and displays the barcoded-coupon for it on the personal organiser's screen. The shop assistant simply swipes the barcode reader over the organiser and, hey presto, the suit costs less.In Norway, some Shell customers are using Ericsson Bluetooth mobiles to pay for petrol. Their credit card details are stored in the phone, which saves them having to trek over the forecourt. Some Swedish Railways customers are also trying out Bluetooth to pay for tickets. And a UK train operator is to install Bluetooth access points at a London railway station and on one of its trains.Access points such as blips can provide free information because they are paid for by the blip owner and could be supported by local advertising or used to speed up payment for purchases.Professor Nicholas Negroponte, of the Massachusett Institute of Technology, who gave the keynote speech at the Congress, says: "People go to extraordinary lengths to pay for items ordered online, or make micropayments: payment   systems have become critical."However, Scott Linke, wireless marketing manager at Palm, the US personal organiser company, believes "the simplest applications will prove most popular". The company, which is expected to launch a Palm with integrated Bluetooth before the end of the year, believes these will include being able to handwrite longer "chained" SMS text messages on the Palm's screen.Palm also demonstrated a meeting application, which enables up to seven people to send secret handwritten messages or pictures. So, for example, one colleague could write: "How much longer is this meeting going to go on?" and draw a picture of himself snoozing. Or warn his sales manager not to offer too many concessions.For personal organisers that don't have built-in Bluetooth, $200 plug-in Bluetooth cards are starting to appear from companies such as Tactel of Sweden.Bluetooth promises a world without wires. But it is facing competition from 802.11, a rival high-speed local wireless network standard popular in the US. Jeremy Green, principal consultant at research firm Ovum, predicts that: "Bluetooth will develop on a slow burn rather than the big bang the current hype suggests." However, he adds that 2,500 companies are backing the technology which is "too affordable and too useful not to succeed".Linke believes that many access devices will soon also incorporate 802.11. However, he says that: "For small mobile devices, Bluetooth has the edge because it drains batteries far more slowly.""You also don't need to be near a Bluetooth access point to use it to communicate peer-to-peer with other Bluetooth devices - to transmit business cards, exchange music files or play multi-user games." Nor do devices need to be in line of sight as they do with infrared.For the terminally disorganised, this means you can dial numbers on your mobile from a personal organiser without having to find where you put your mobile in your bag.Seewww.ericsson.com/blipandwww.tactel.se
StartopiaPC CD-Rom 	&#163;29.99 Mucky Foot/ Eidos	****As gaming enters the 21st century, and graphics get increasingly photo-realistic, it's a shame that the vast majority of titles still adhere to one of the core genres (strategy, sport, shooting etc). The search for originality seems to be focused on finding different ways to use existing genres rather than looking ahead to the development of new ones.A good example is Startopia, a seemingly straightforward strategy game, but one set on a doughnut shaped space station and infused with a British sense of humour.More Whitehall than worshipful, your aim is to control the entire station - segment by segment - as a civil servant rather than a deity. To succeed you will need to hire workers, build facilities and change the internal environment, while moving between the three decks; industrial, pleasure and bio.The latter two are the most interesting: designing alien discos and playing with an entire eco-system is thor oughly entertaining. And, considering the lack of it outside the space station, there is a strong atmosphere to the action. Creatures growl, grunt or emit funny wibbly noises and there is a real menagerie feel.Tending to your aliens' needs is a crucial and, at times, frustrating part of proceedings. It takes a while to suss out what will please who, with little help from a confusing interface that requires too many mouse clicks to utilise objects.There is also a lack of focus to some of the levels although the sandbox section, which lets you play without parameters, is surprisingly satisfying. So are the visuals, which let you zoom in and out easily, and show off the garish extraterrestrial environment.It takes too long to become proficient, but Startopia is an original and satisfying take on the strategy genre with only a few quirks preventing it becoming a pan-galactic classic.Z: Steel SoldiersPC 	&#163;29.99 Bitmap Brothers/ Eon Digital	****The Bitmap Brothers were heroes of Amiga scene, with products such as Xenon and Speedball 2 still high on many a dinosaur's list of classic games. Sadly, they never quite got the hang of the PC, with only one quality title in the   past five years. Z was a very enjoyable realtime strategy (RTS) game featuring two foul-mouthed robots. The sequel is more of the same, albeit with up-to-date graphics, an overhaul of the engine and a little less swearing. So does it still work?First signs are not promising: Steel Soldiers recognised neither my graphics card nor my mouse (both common-enough models), although the website was helpful in identifying the problem. Such oversights may have been commonplace when the original game came out, but these days few consumers are going to put up with it. However,   once the bugs were sorted (and it did take several hours) everything clicked into place.The graphics have obviously benefited most, with large 3D landscapes that can be fully rotated and zoomed, to reveal every gorgeous curve. The basic gameplay, however, remains unchanged: this is an RTS for adults, where the process of conquest is about fast thinking and counter-striking. Territory is gained by occupying key resource areas (simply find the outpost and capture the flag), which in turn allows you to build units faster. Expand too quickly, however, and you will be unable to   defend these resources. Unlike Red Alert and its clones, there is not one strategy that will always win and in this respect it contains some of the best artificial intelligence of any game. Neglect to wipe out fleeing enemies, and they will regroup and attack somewhere more vulnerable. Every level becomes a scramble for survival, and as better weaponry becomes available, it feels like the best bits from Starship Troopers. Nice.Steel Soliders is certainly original and worth checking out - if you can get the thing to work, that is.  (MA)Emperor: Battle for DunePC 	&#163;34.99 Westwood Studios/ EA'	***The shine is starting to wear off the Westwood legend. After inventing real time strategy with Dune 2, revolutionising it with Command &amp; Conquer and turning Red Alert into a major blockbuster, its recent efforts have sagged under the weight of expectation and a lack of new ideas.While the rest of the world has moved on from the tired routine of mining resources, processing them and building factories to turn them into vehicles and weapons, Westwood still seems obsessed with this production-line mentality. At least in this case the resource has a reason for being here, since the struggle over the Melange spice is at the heart of Frank Herbert's Dune books.You begin by choosing from three factions or Houses, although the differences between each are mostly aesthetic. Each side gets its own set of video cut scenes, another typical Westwood feature. These come with a host of vaguely familiar second-rate actors plucked from TV obscurity. Thank fully, Sting was too busy saving rainforests to put in an appearance.Perhaps the most important gameplay innovation is the option to form alliances with sub-houses, opening new tactical possibilities. The multiplayer options have also been spruced up to ensure its popularity with the online masses.But the main difference with past efforts is the rather poor 3D engine. The boxy look of the units and the jarring colours don't help. At times   the move to 3D seems just an excuse to unleash the highly impressive sandworms, those enormous creatures that burrow their way beneath the sand only to explode to the surface taking any units that happen to be in their way.Emperor: Battle for Dune is yet another soulless product from Westwood's efficient assembly line that will sell in its thousands. When you're this successful, why bother innovating?  (MH)
When it comes to redecorating your PC desktop, there are two big options: the screensaver and the wallpaper. Changing the latter is easy. Find an image you like on the web, move the cursor over it, then click the right-hand button on your mouse. The resulting menu includes Set as Wallpaper: select that, and it becomes the background to your desktop.If you change your mind, click on the Start button in the bottom-left corner of the screen; click Settings from the menu, then Control Panels; then double-click on Display.In the resulting Display Properties box, you alter the wallpaper (called Back ground here) by choosing a different option from the list, by finding an image stored on your computer - click on the Browse button, then find the image file - or by taking the first option on the list, None, for a plain desktop.Display Properties can also alter your screensaver, the second method of machine makeover. Click on the second file-tab at the top of this box, marked Screen Saver. The pull-down menu half-way down on the left contains screensavers already on your machine. Choose one, and a miniature version appears in the monitor in the top half of this box. The control on the right alters how long it will take for the screensaver to   appear. This list is dominated by Microsoft ads and strange patterns, so you might want to find something better on the internet.Step-by-step1.Find a site offering screensavers, such as the BBC Nature pages:www.bbc.co.uk/nature/animals/quiz_win/ screensaver.shtml. Only download screensavers from sites you trust. You are allowing a new piece of software into your computer, and it could contain a virus.2.Say you decide on the winsome seals, the last option on this page. Place your cursor over the icon marked windows 1.5MB, and click the mouse's left-hand button. (The version   for Mac users is marked mac os 650k.)3.The web-site produces a new page with advice about potential problems. Scroll to the bottom of this and click on Download screensaver. (Most sites offering screensavers miss out this stage.)4.A dialogue box appears, marked File Download, checking that you want to download seal_screensaver. exe fromwww.bbc.co.uk. (If you change your mind, click Cancel now.) You want to Save this program to disk of the two options given, so make sure this one is selected, then click OK.5.A box marked Save As appears. Click OK, and downloading begins.6.A box shows you the progress of the download, and how much longer it will take. On a standard 56k modem, four minutes is typical.7.When it's finished, the box reads Download completed. Click on Open.8.A new box asks about something called WinZip. Don't worry: it is just a way of compressing software when it's sent across the internet. Click on Setup for the screensaver to be installed in the right place. (For some screensavers, you may have to click on I Agree in a box asking that you use WinZip just for evaluation. Double-click on the name of the screensaver in the box that appears. Click OK and go to step 13.)9.The screen turns blue, with the words Seal Saver in the top left, and a box telling you that the images come from Bristol Zoo. Click Setup!10.A box briefly appears showing the software being installed. A few seconds later, a small box reads Setup has successfully completed. Click OK.11.You can choose how the screensaver works by clicking on Settings (for example, how long you wait before the screensaver activates). You can also control any screensaver through the Display Properties control panel mentioned earlier. When you've finished,   close this box by clicking on the X in its top right-hand corner.12.Leave your computer alone (four minutes is the pre-set delay)_ and Oh! Aren't they adorable!13.If you move your mouse or touch the keyboard, the seals vanish and you are back to whatever you were doing.14.Problems? The web page from step 4 may have the answers.15.If all is well, on your desktop you will find a file marked seal_screensaver. You can delete it: - it's just the compressed version. The screensaver file is stored elsewhere.
Artists have colonised the internet with some success, bar the odd unfortunate collision with Flash graphics. Now it is the mobile's turn. Granted, there is not much you can do with a low-res, 4 x 4, murky monochrome screen but this has only proved a challenge to some new-media artists. For the cutting-edge work, as you might expect from the nation at the vanguard of the mobile revolution, you must go to Japan. But even the rather sad world of Wap has its moments.What do exist in their plenty are icons designed for mobiles - simple images meant primarily as logo-like graphics to display when the phone is idle: surf dudes, the Simpsons and the like. More serious-minded artists are keen to explore this mobile-as-self-expression avenue.Giselle Beiguelman's collection of Optical Wap Art http: //tagtag.com/wopart  miniatures are extremely apt visual haiku designed to exploit the limitations of space and resolution of the mobile. Her two-tone style lends itself well to the tiny screen and, as the Brazilian web-artist explains, this is partly why she is attracted to the medium."It has the same mood the web had some years ago. It's very promising but nothing really works that well. This mix of low and high-tech really excites me." Beiguelman hasn't entirely moved to the mobile web but incorporates aspects of mobile technology in her web art."It is a kind of art to experience in between, while doing other things. It destroys this old atmosphere of art as contemplation. The limits are technological. But they will be overcome soon."Her words are not idle speculation. Wap's suitability as a digital canvas may become more apparent with the introduction of a general packet radio service (GPRS) network, or 2.5 generation as some call it. Promising faster download rates and an always-on connection, it could be the gateway some artists have been waiting for.Unfortunately, only Vodafone and BT are up and running with 2.5G and the handsets are still handicapped by small, monochrome screens.The Japanese have no such problems. Years ahead of the rest of the world, our eastern friends have already moved on from 2.5 G to Java-enabled   phones giving full colour with animation, and are now trailing full-colour movie streaming phones in the streets of Tokyo. Personalising phones is big business in Japan, with millions being earned supplying music and images to i-mode users and their ilk.A natural spinoff from this is the "world's first" fully fledged art gallery on the mobile net. The Tokyo-based graphic designer and musician Hajime Tachibana is behind an i-mode project site   The End. Like any bricks and mortar gallery, it has a regular turnover of showcased artists. Any of the 23 million i-mode users can subscribe to his pages for just &#163;1.50 a month and download images as mini screensavers, logos or graphics on DoCoMo's, lighter, sexier mobiles with their well-endowed colour screens.Tachibana claims his site receives 10,000 hits a day, which even compared to Tate Modern is difficult to beat. The End's mini masterpieces include works by established artists such as Tadanori Yokoo as well as more edgy punk pieces in the Fucked Up and Photocopied section. Non i-moders can go to http://tachibanahajimedesign.com and http://tachibanahajimedesign.com/theend2001/ for a peek at what is to come.With the mania in Britain for personalising mobile handsets, there is no doubt mobile art will catch on here, too. Vodafone is about to start an experimental Wap art gallery to launch well-known British artists on to the mobile web for the first time.And who knows: before long, our mobiles could replace our wallets in displaying pictures of loved ones. The more cultured will be able to carry their art collection in their pocket without, for the time being at least, having to worry about such images crashing their devices or their finances.
E-vote of no confidenceYour discussion of e-voting (Click here for your candidate, Online, June 7) concentrates primarily on technical issues of security and the obvious issues of the digital divide. You ignore a critical aspect of manual counting, namely its openness and observability.In the current system, candidates and agents can make spot visits to the polling stations, inspect the ballot boxes for tampering, watch the counting agents sort and count the papers and check whether a voting slip is in the right pile or should be counted as spoilt. They can demand a recount if they are not satisfied.Who is going to check that the software really is doing what it says it is doing? Just because the box says "approved by KPMG" (or Microsoft, or The Ministry of Truth) will this be good enough to command the trust of all candidates and electors?We might trust organisations of which we are voluntary members to handle e-voting fairly. We should be far more careful before allowing the state to use e-voting technologies that could so easily be centrally manipulated.Andy Dearden,School of Computing and Management Sciences, Sheffield Hallam UniversityThe three main technical problems you mention (security, scaleability and synergy) could be overcome and you include Tony Benn's comments on the desirability of deliberation in politics, but there is a further difficulty to e-voting.While comments about the digital divide are well known, this is likely to become less of a problem with the introduction of digital television, assuming access to the world wide web and not simply an intranet such as Open.One major issue remains. Any vote would offer a massive revenue boost to private   companies. These companies will either be the ISPs, such as Sky/AOL, or to those who own the pipes, for example BT/NTL. That the exercise of one's democratic right should deliver profits into the hands of shareholders is fundamentally wrong.Online voting offers the potential to reduce the friction in the voting process and thereby increase turnout. But this must be organised within the public sphere and not that of private profit. Perhaps a public service ISP could overcome these problems.Jamie CowlingMedia &amp; Communications Department, London School of EconomicsThings that jumped off the page, in your articles about electronic elections...Dr Griffiths (LibDem) says, of electronic campaigning, "You could send out a thousand emails as easily as a single letter". Oh joy. Party political spam. Just what the net needs.Meanwhile, in the article about the email Labour NEC elections, we see that the "who voted" and "how" databases are separate, so that "names and votes cannot be linked". But, "if you have voted more than once, all your votes will be spoilt". How do they do that, then?Paul Smeewww.cse.bris.ac.uk/~ccpesApplying ADSLRichard Cutting's letter (Online, June 7) regarding a lack of "killer applications" is symptomatic of the ignorance regarding the possibilities of broadband ADSL.ADSL itself  is the killer application. The point is that modern PCs can multi-task. ADSL does not have a one stop shop killer app designed for it (thank god), but it is capable of handling the requests of several bandwidth hungry apps in a way that puts ISDN, let alone 56k, to shame.For example, if a father wants to download an update for his Office software, while his wife chats on the phone, without disrupting his son's burning desire to wage war with his clan in the game Tribes 2, he can do so without booting the other two family members off the line.People's technophobia, techno-ignorance and scepticism regarding new high bandwidth necessity in the communication age comes down to one thing - a lack of imagination. Instead of   information being spoonfed to the public at large through a limited number of one way publications, the internet provides users with the opportunity to interact and become involved in the information that burns through the superhighway. Or at least it could burn through the superhighway if the UK had a good enough techno infrastructure, which it does not.Does Richard Cutting work for BT perhaps?Christopher Ashleysirch@zensearch.netSmarter AppleJack Schofield makes a big deal of "smart tags" in Microsoft's recently launched Office XP (Online, June 7), rightly, as it is neat technology.I therefore salute Apple for introducing it asApple Data Detectors (ADD)in 1997. Typical of Apple, ADD runs with or complements almost any software that runs on a Mac, not restricting its use to Apple's (or Claris's) own software. Can the same be said of "smart tags"? The simple SDK/syntax for ADD puts the technology within reach of anyone who can put together a basic AppleScript, no need for developers and downloads here, just roll your own.However, also typical of Apple, it never really told anyone about it!Clive Brutonclive.bruton@creativesconnect.comGreen debateOne small but important addition to Ruth Rosselson's welcome piece on ethical shopping (Online, June 7): a place where people can share views and information on what works and what doesn't in the world of alternative consumerism. Each section of theGreenChoices websitehas a space for people to share their experiences and to suggest links to other green products - or just warn others against fake green claims.Recent debates range from shaving oil to menstrual caps, the relative impact of diesel and petrol, or how to avoid drowning the worms in your compost bin. And if anyone out there can meet an annual order of 500 recycled A4 picture frames for an environmental law firm, just look in the Office section.John Hilary,Director, GreenChoices
What computer technology do you have aboard Kingfisher?A five port Ethernet network, with two customised computers for performance and navigation software, a Sony laptop for video compression and transmission, a webcam and a router that connects viaBT's ISDN Satcom B system, which is the big dome on the back of the boat. In addition we have aBT Mobiq Mini M satphone, which can also be used to send email, plus a Satcom C text messaging system that links to one of the computers.Were you surprised how popular your site was during the Vendee Globe?The websitewww.kingfisherchallenges.comhas been running for four years. We send out daily updates to people when we're racing - two years ago it was to 1,000 people and now about 100,000 people receive them. It's amazing to find that so many people want to follow the race.Did you encounter any problems with the technology?I had a satellite phone that didn't work in the Southern Ocean but there wasn't a day when no one could get hold of me. However, we did have a lot of backup systems! On the computer front we had a few power issues, and a dodgy connection for the infrared keyboard... but it all still worked.What technological advances would help you?Connection speed to the internet is obviously an issue, but with BT we are lucky to be supported with the Satcom B system, which gives us 64k ISDN connection via satellite.There could be a lot of development in wireless technology for these racing machines, including being able to control more from up the mast, on the bow, or the bunk!Have you any favourite gadgets?My Leatherman tool, which isn't really very technical! Apart from that, there's myPalm V. Away from Kingfisher I also have anApple G4 Powerbook laptop.Any favourite websites?I don't have time to look at any...beyond the weather sites we use to work out what direction to point!www.goldcoastwx.comis one of the best met sites. I also check my own web site to see what I'm meant to be up to!Could you envisage going around the world without all the computers?I would certainly have no problem in sailing around the world without the technology. I go out there to race on my own, and the technology is a tool, not the real challenge.But you wouldn't have seen it on TV or heard it on the radio without the communications and computers. When Robin Knox Johnson sailed around the world, people only knew that he had started and finished.Visit:www.ellenmacarthur.com
Within hours of Timothy McVeigh's death by lethal injection in Terre Haute, Indiana, on Monday some web surfers in a US internet chat room followed a web link to watch a bootleg video clip of the execution, and put their computers in danger of invasion by hackers.What they downloaded was not a video clip at all but a malicious program that allows hackers to control other people's computers.Brad Chapman, a computer science student at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, stumbled  upon the scam when he went to the website and found that his computer had downloaded a program  known as SubSeven.Rather than running it, he decided to analyse it to find out what it exactly did.April Goostree, anti-virus manager at the computer security firm McAfee.com, said SubSeven was an  old program disguised as many different things."It was just a matter of time before somebody would attach McVeigh's name to it," she said, adding that almost any anti-virus facility could detect the program.Nevertheless, McAfee's research shows that SubSeven and its variants are the most common  threat to home computers.McVeigh was executed for planting the bomb that killed 168 people in Oklahoma City in 1995.His death was relayed live on close-circuit television to relatives of the victims in a federal government  building in Oklahoma City.The FBI said that there was no indication that the signal, sent by satellite to Oklahoma City, had been intercepted.
Oxford University is set to steal a march on Cambridge and international rivals such as MIT, Stamford and Harvard with the opening of the world's first academic institution dedicated to studying the impact of the internet on society.The Oxford Internet Institute will open in October as a department of the social sciences division attached to Balliol College. It aims to put Britain at the centre of debate about how the internet could and should develop. Its ambition is to become the world leader in the formulation of government policy on all issues related to the internet.It was established with a £10m donation from the Shirley Institute, a charitable trust established by Dame Stephanie Shirley, one of the UK's richest women, topped up with £5m from the Higher Education Funding Council for England.The institute is currently recruiting a director, who will also hold a chair at the university, and 15 research fellows. Although it will not immediately offer a first degree in internet studies, it will offer internet modules on other degrees with the long-term intention of developing its own BA.
