Profits fallNintendo's profits slumped by 70% for the six months ending September 30 - before Sega's new Dreamcast games console started eating into Nintendo 64 sales in the US and Europe. The company blamed currency fluctuations for the fall in profits from Yen 63bn to Yen 20bn.SeasonEidos published Championship Manager 99/00 last week but a million football management fans were not delighted. It has improvements: for example, virtual players can say why they will accept or reject transfers. It also updates   league stats so your team won't have so many players who have been transferred in real life. But Championship Manager 3 hasn't been out long, and even gamers ready to ditch their current teams - in which they may have invested hundreds of hours - may not want to buy the full &#163;30 game yet. They would have settled for a "season disk" that updated the player stats for about half the price.Sony side upSony Computer Entertainment says sales of its five year old PlayStation games console have passed the 70 million mark. About 17 million have been sold in Japan, 26 million in North America and 27 million in Europe.Ask SidGame developer Sid Meier is expected to announce his next project on December 17, and his company, Firaxis, has put an egg-shaped teaser on its website atwww.firaxis.com/sidsnextgame/Top 10 Sega Dreamcast1	Soul CaliburSega2	Uefa StrikerInfogrames3	Sonic AdventureSega4	WWF: AttitudeAcclaim5	Ready 2 Rumble BoxingSega6	House Of The Dead 2Sega7	Sega Rally 2Sega8	Worldwide Soccer 2000Sega9	Tokyo Highway ChallengeCrave10	AerowingsCraveSource: compiled by ChartTrack Elspa
Don't be surprised if your local mobile phone dealer hasn't got much time for a chat at the moment. With more than four million people expected to get connected over the Christmas quarter, this is certain to be the busiest period ever for mobile retailers. As the new millennium rings in, more than 23 million people in the UK are expected to be mobile owners. Ten million more people will be carrying phones this New Year than last.Despite the huge demand, buying a mobile phone can still be one of the most complicated, confusing consumer purchases around. Choosing the handset is the relatively easy part - the buyer also has to decide on the right network, tariff and type of deal. Where do you start?Before looking at the handset, make sure you've selected the right deal. First, check that the network you sign up to has coverage in the places where the phone is intended   to be used. This is particularly important if you're buying a phone for emergencies or as a present for someone else.Following the launch of Virgin Mobile last month, there are now five networks operating in the UK. BT Cellnet and Vodafone claim coverage of 99% of the UK population, with Orange at 98%. One 2 One and Virgin Mobile (which uses One 2 One's network) cover 97% of Great Britain (Northern Ireland coverage is being rolled out next year). These figures cover population,   though, not geographical area - some remote areas are still no-go for mobiles.One way to check local coverage is by studying the networks' coverage maps (available on their websites and on promotional material), but these are not infallible. There are blackspots on every network where signals are poor. It's worth talking to a good local dealer (making sure they sell all the options) and friends to gauge which network gives the best signal.Now you can start thinking about what sort of deal you   want. There are numerous tariffs and price plans so it is fundamental to get this right or you could end up spending much more than you need to.The choice should be based on how you intend to use your phone (for business or social use or both), what type of calls you'll be making (local, national, international) and when you'll be making them. A reputable dealer should be able to help you work this out.Next you must decide whether to sign up to a traditional airtime contract or choose a no-contract   pre-pay all-in-a-box package. Contract deals demand a monthly rental fee and connection charge and usually offer a certain amount of free bundled airtime. Generally, the more you pay per month, the more free airtime you get and the cheaper additional calls become. Low user contract tariffs start at around &#163;15 per month.One 2 One currently offers the cheapest contract call rates at 10p peak rate or 2p   off-peak for low-medium users and 5p/min at all times on heavier usage business tariffs; it also includes free voicemail retrieval - handy if you're likely to have your phone switched off and don't want to pay for picking up messages.Orange on the other hand offers subscribers a Value Promise to match any popular competitor's tariff on its network if customers think it would offer better value. As well as inclusive monthly air  time and cheaper calls costs than on pre-pay, contract customers have access to additional services. Orange Talk Plan customers, for instance, get free insurance, BT Cellnet offers a Friends and Family-style discount scheme and some networks offer local and international call discount options. Contract customers can also use their phones abroad; international roaming is possible in over 100 countries   on BT Cellnet and Vodafone and 90 and 72, respectively, on Orange and One 2 One (BT Cellnet alone offers pre-pay roaming).A wider choice of handsets are available, too, on contracts. Handsets are subsidised by the four established networks to encourage people to sign up (some are given away cheap or even free), but can cost hundreds of pounds to replace if lost or stolen. The networks make back the subsidy over   the contract period, usually a one year minimum. BT Cellnet is an exception - users can give a month's notice at any time, provided they return the phone.As a money-saving alternative to the monthly bills, pay in advance contract packs are available where you pay up front for a year's rental, with the phone included with the pack, from around &#163;100. You still need to sign up to the network and pass a credit   check, but these can offer great value for money for potential contract customers and are definitely worth considering.Pre-pay, though, has fuelled the recent boom (around 75-80% of Christmas connections will be pre-pay). Here, you don't have to sign a contract or be credit-checked. For less than &#163;70 you can get a package with a phone, connection to the network and start-up call credits.You simply pay as you go   along either with airtime vouchers or via a credit card hotline.Each network has its own deals; Orange's is called Just Talk, One 2 One has Up 2 You and More 2 Say packs, Vodafone has Pay as you Talk and BT Cellnet has Easylife, U and Pay &amp; Go deals.This can be economic for occasional users, and a good way of controlling phone use, but can prove costly if you make lots of calls.Although widely available in supermarkets, buying a pre-pay mobile isn't like buying baked beans; it's important that you know what you're letting yourself in for. Running and call charges can vary considerably between pre-pay offerings; most pre-pay tariffs include time limits for credit vouchers, so you may need to keep buying vouchers to stay connected, bumping up the yearly running cost (Orange, though, has recently scrapped the time limit on its credits). Vodafone pre-pay customers also have to pay for service credits alongside call credits. Call rates are often relatively   high too on pre-pay (see table). If you can, seek expert advice.Virgin Mobile, the Virgin Group/One 2 One joint venture, has introduced a twist with a simple one-tariff deal that involves no contract or line rental; the user buys a connection pack (with &#163;10 airtime credit included) for &#163;12.50 and pays just for calls - the first 10 mins per day at 15p per minute, the next 10 at 10p/min and thereafter for 5p/min, with free voicemail included.Users can choose to pay in advance (like pre-pay) or by direct debit. Virgin customers can choose a handset (without subsidy) separately from a selection starting at &#163;69.99, and use it to access a range of extra services. This can work out cheaper than many contract tariffs and pre-pay offerings.After you have decided your tariff option, you can then select a handset available for that network or package. There are quality handsets to suit most tastes and pockets.Look out for . .*The cost of mobile to mobile calls.If you're phoning a friend on a different network, calls could cost much more than same-network calls.*International call costs.Regular travellers or those making overseas calls should consider international call costs which can vary considerably between networks; when abroad, you will pay for the international leg of incoming calls, not the person calling you.*Additional services.An increasing number of valuable services are being introduced by networks including net based information services; check out the brochures or network websites.*Inclusive calls.Free inclusive calls don't necessarily include all calls you might make. They are usually restricted to landlines and mobiles on the same network; on some tariffs you may be able to roll-over unused free airtime from one month into the next month.*Peak-rate charges.Make sure you know at what time peak rates are charged (they can be from 7am-7pm) particularly if you're intending to make mainly off-peak calls.
Roaming businessmanMotorola Timeport L7089 (&#163;100-&#163;130 with airtime contract, &#163;279.99 on Virgin Mobile)For any businessman travelling abroad, having a mobile that works when you get there is more than a luxury. The GSM standard adopted by much of the world has made life easier, with international roaming agreements between networks allowing mobile users with suitable phones to use them widely abroad. As Orange, One 2 One and Virgin operate on the less-globally used GSM1800 frequency rather than the much more widely adopted GSM900 frequency used by Vodafone and BT Cellnet, dual-band phones - which can switch seamlessly between 900 and 1800 standards and thus greatly increase international coverage - are recommended for regular travellers. Dual-band is becoming standard for almost all new phones in the UK. However, regular transatlantic travellers will still find problems, as North America uses a variety of mobile standards. Even the growing number of GSM networks in the USA and Canada use the rare GSM1900 standard which very few dual-band phones are equipped for. Motorola's solution is the Timeport L7089, the world's first tri-band phone. As well as straddling GSM900, 1800 and 1900 networks, it's a lightweight, well-designed and well-equipped business tool. A built in modem and IrDA infrared port make it ideal for mobile data communication with a laptop, and the handset boasts voice-operated dialling and voice-activated commands, a built-in memo recorder, vibrating alert and excellent battery endurance - up to 120 hours in standby.ProfessionalNokia 8210 (&#163;200- &#163;250 with airtime contract)Ever since the first mobile phones emerged in the eighties they've been lifestyle accessories. Nowadays, the smaller, sleeker and classier a phone looks, the more desirable it is - but at a price. Miniature handsets command hefty prices in a market where basic phones can be picked up for less than a tenner. Size and style are increasingly important. Motorola's V Series clamshell phone wowed buyers earlier this year with its diminutive dinky fold-away model. The lightest, tiniest handset yet, though, is Nokia's 8210, weighing in at just 79g and measuring a Lilliputian 101.5(h) x 44.5(w) x 17.4(d) mm. Though not cheap it's affordable for the professional who wants to make a style statement. Packed with high-end features, such as voice dialling, infra-red port for data communication and predictive text input, the 8210 can also change colour thanks to easily swappable covers (available as extras from Nokia). Some 250 names and numbers can be stored in the phone, too, as well as up to 50 calendar notes. Real high-powered execs could also check out the top-end aluminium-cased 8850 at an expected price of &#163;350 with airtime contract.Gadget loverNokia 7110e Media phone (&#163;130 with airtime contract) WAP (Wireless Application Protocol)The most exciting development yet for mobile communications, is the standard being rolled out which will enable mobile phones to browse the web and download text information directly to the phone's screen, cutting out extraneous graphics. Phones with WAP will effectively become pocket web browsers. The first mobile to go live with WAP services in the UK (on Orange) is the Nokia 7110, a compact handset with a slightly larger than average LCD screen. It comes with a raft of tailored Orange services including ITN News, travel and traffic information, entertainment listings, business directories and last minute offers through lastminute.com - and that's just for starters. WAP is expected to take off in a massive way over the coming year or so, with many more e-commerce applications available and websites becoming WAP-enabled; handsets from all major mobile manufacturers will soon have WAP microbrowsers built in. Techno-friendly mobile users will also appreciate the 7110's built-in modem and infrared link for traditional data communications via a laptop, predictive text input to cut down on key presses when composing a text message (it effectively guesses from its memory what's being written by the pattern of key presses). A nimble NaviRoller key helps function-selection (which include appointments calendar and even three games), while a spring-loaded flap (straight from The Matrix) will make sure it gets noticed.Social userNokia 3210 (&#163;30-&#163;50 with airtime contract, &#163;149.99 on Virgin Mobile)Inexpensive mobile phones no longer have to be bulky,   basic bricks. Increasingly the trend has been to pack more features into smaller handsets and stick them out at very affordable prices.There are numerous impressively featured handsets kicking around for under &#163;50 (with airtime contract).Even budget offerings such as the Siemens C25 and Philips Savvy DB are easy on the pocket but fat on functionality.One of this year's strongest handsets in the value for money stakes, though, is Nokia's 3210 9  which is very popular with contract customers.Relatively compact, with an internal aerial (no protruding stub) and neat styling, it has everything most regular mobile users could ask for.With an intuitive menu system and large screen, it's very easy to use, has outstanding battery life (up to 260 hours in standby, Nokia claims) and is an excellent all-round performer.It has plenty under the bonnet, too, with extras such as a very handy predictive text input facility for making text messaging less of a chore, picture messaging via SMS, 40 ringer tones, calculator, alarm clock and even games.Swappable coloured covers allow for easy customisation, adding a bit of personality to the package.SchoolkidPhilips Savvy/C12/Savvy DB (&#163;69.99 in BT Cellnet pre-pay packs and on Virgin Mobile)The explosion of inexpensive pre-pay, no-contract box deals has helped bring phones into the playground, and parents have increasingly been buying them for safety reasons, despite the obvious classroom cachet of packing a mobile. Choosing a handset for a child can be tricky, but a no-contract option where you pay as you go along (with vouchers) really is essential unless you want to subsidise your child's mobile-based social life - choose either a pre-pay pack or Virgin Mobile's new no-rental deal. Philips Savvy/C12 is a simple to use comfortably pocketable handset with decent spec that's available in several BT Cellnet pre-pay packs, with an upgraded dual-band version (with added voice-activated dialling functions) now in the Virgin handset range. The Savvy offers a solid performance with added youth-friendly features such as built in biorhythm game, emotion icons - mini-graphics that can be sent to compatible phones - built in alarm, stopwatch, calculator and pre-written text messages. Great value for money and with classroom credibility, too.
Net shoppingNeil McIntosh's timely article concerning safe shopping on the internet (December 2) omits one important fact, namely that interference by various governments ensures it is not as secure as it could be.The paranoia of the US government, and its bizarre obsession that encryption is a munitions product, results in the export versions of Netscape's and Microsoft's products being effectively crippled with only 40 bit encryption, not 128 bit as in the US. Thus SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) is not anywhere near as secure as we would like to believe. This is not helped by our own government's failure to introduce effective e-commerce legislation due to its continual desire to read our emails.These concerns are given added impetus by the policy of many e-traders in keeping credit card details on-line and hence, potentially, available to all.Unless these issues are fully addressed, and resolved in our favour, then secure shopping is still a dream not a reality.Chris Birdchris.bird@england.comI have been the victim of a credit card fraud - which might or might not have been internet related - yet I found that the attitude of my credit card provider was quite astounding.Initially, the fraud was regarded as something I had to sort out myself by telephoning the company which debited my account.When this failed to produce any useful information, the Bank of Scotland agreed to investigate via its fraud department. Several letters from me asking for information and also whether I should inform the police went unanswered.After more than six months, I contacted the bank again to say that I assumed that I was no longer liable for the fraudulent amounts; this time, a letter came back almost by return of post to tell me that I could still be liable until the investigation was complete. I was not informed of how long this could take.My credit card provider seems to have an ambivalent attitude to fraud: we will make a fuss if we think the card holder will pay, if not we'll hush it up.Martyn Pendergastanne.martyn@virgin.netI enjoyed the recent Neil McIntosh article on internet credit card fraud, particularly that it highlighted the more significant issue of merchant fraud.I was a bit surprised to find no mention of internet payment schemes designed to address this risk via methods such as withholding the consumer's card account number from the merchant. Examples of such schemes include the Visa/Mastercard SET standard, and the Verified Payment System from Protx Ltd, a London-based firm.Gregory Boudreauxgreg@hexadecimal.comMortar clicksI found Jim McClellan's article on the "clicks and mortar" approach of online bookstores very interesting. Having real stores should help the online proposition - but does it?Ottakar's stores help because I can collect something ordered online and avoid any postage charge. I can return goods either directly or to the stores (Ottakar's provides a full refund on returned goods and will refund postage if returned within seven days).The stores reduce customer concerns about returns, potentially reducing delivery costs and by doing the gift wrapping.Waterstone's returns policy is that you must go to a store, no postage is refunded and they "refund" book tokens not cash. You cannot spend the tokens online.Altavista might consider a store in Euston concourse a viable alternative to its TV adverts. A High Street presence adds credibility; when things go wrong people want   to be able to talk to a real person, face to face.If you think of Tie Rack type stores with Yahoo! signs over the doors for customer service or Argos type stores for collecting goods from Amazon.com then you have a picture of "clicks and mortar" as it is likely to develop.Mike WinneySwindon, Wilts.Spiced upCongratulations on a positive piece about Apple Macs (December 2). One further point worth making is that the Mac can quite easily emu  late a PC via Connectix's Virtual PC (www.connectix.com). The software has either Windows 95 or 98 (supplied) loaded on top and, for all intents and purposes, you get a PC for around &#163;100. On my 400MHz PowerBook, PC applications run as fast as a medium range Pentium - but with rather more stability.Dave Reederdreeder@rewrite.demon.co.ukPhone painI'm sure I can't be the first newbie to be staggered by his online phone bill. Such was   my disbelief that I returned the thing to BT - all 26 pages - with a letter of protest at what I took to be their gross error.The error, it seems, was mine in not realising how all those minimum charges could pile up. The worst insult was to be told that this charge also applied to failures to connect (of which there were plenty) because this was outside BT's control.This may be true, but it does show up the minimum charge fraud.Most ordinary phone calls run well over the minimum charge time anyway, leaving   no cause for complaint on this score. One of email's many advantages is the fact that it so fast - taking only seconds - but much of this benefit is lost to email users in costs that are often five times greater than a pro-rata rate would be - and this applies even to fail-mail.BT may not be able to detect these failures, but if its bill can show call times to the nearest tenth of a second why the hell can't they do the same with their pennies?Is there any way to beat these people?Alan Robertsalan.roberts@ouvip.com
News Corporation took its biggest step into the internet yesterday when the media group announced details of a $1bn (&#163;625m) programming and marketing deal with Healtheon/WebMD, an online health-care company.News Corp will pay $100m for a 10.8% stake in the company which connects doctors and consumers with the health-care industry. The me dia group will spend $700m on advertising and marketing to promote Healtheon over the next 10 years.The alliance with a company formed earlier this year from a merger of two online health groups offers further evidence of Rupert Murdoch's determination to expand the media group's online presence.It also points to a trend for traditional offline groups to advance internet strategies by using their strengths to barter   for stakes in fast-growing companies.Several offline players in the US have decided to use their marketing and buying power to purchase a stake in internet companies rather than accepting fees or other alliances.Automotive companies such as General Motors have taken the lead but media companies have become more aggressive. News Corp, which owns the Times and the Sun as well as cable channels in the US, re lied on its worldwide marketing power to negotiate terms with Healtheon/WebMD. In the race for brand awareness, online companies are spending huge sums on advertising and marketing campaigns.One investment banker who was not involved in the News Corp deal described it as a win-win situation. "This gives Healtheon huge distribution. But 10% is not an immaterial amount to give away."Peter Chernin, News Corp's president and chief operating officer, said the deal "reversed the established model" for media companies and the internet.Instead of simply sending existing content over the net, "we're using the web as a source for original, unique programming which will be leveraged across all media owned by News Corp".Analysts expect health care to be one of the internet's largest markets. It is also one   of several News Corp online priority sectors.More than 100 full-time medical experts at Healtheon/ WebMD will provide health-related news and programmes across the News Corp network.News Corp will be able to syndicate WebMD's daily broadcast as part of a $62.5m, five-year licensing agreement. Healtheon/WebMD will also take a 50% stake in The Health Network, a cable network owned by News Corp.
European Union e-commerce customers will enjoy unified legal safeguards after a decision yesterday to harmonise e-commerce rules.Helen Liddell, the UK's European competitiveness minister, said: "Today's agreement goes a long way to pushing the EU to the forefront of the e-commerce revolution. The   knowledge-driven economy needs a modern legal framework that allows e-commerce to thrive."The directive, agreed in Brussels by EU trade ministers, lays down minimum rules for consumer protection and ensures that firms do not have to deal with 15 different national legal systems."Now we have a more clear legal framework for the shopping mall of the future," said Kimmo Fasi, Finnish minister for foreign trade and European affairs.Internet service providers will not be liable for transmissions over their networks as long as they meet certain conditions but Mr Fasi denied that the EU was going soft on cyber-crime.The decision to opt for minimum standards rather   than more detailed, prescriptive legislation is a victory for the UK, Ireland and France, which have been pressing for a light regulatory touch on e-commerce.Germany wanted to extend domestic commercial legislation to cyberspace, but industry leaders warned that if the EU adopted a heavy-handed approach they would relocate outside Europe.Countries will still be able to deal with the sensitive area of online financial services on a case by case basis and to introduce additional safeguards.The British Bankers Association said that allowing countries to set their own rules in the financial services industry would stifle competition."The good news is that the directive does not add an-other layer of EU bureaucracy, but allows member states to make their own domestic rules to meet the e-commerce age," said Tim Sweeney, the BBA's director general."The bad news is that 15 separate national rules and all sorts of exceptions may result in stifling competition rather than encouraging it."
&#149; SavingsIn a belated challenge to the internet-only banks, Abbey National yesterday launched the first of a series of products available only to online customers, a savings bond. Until now Abbey's website has allowed customers only to view products and request literature.&#149;New brokerSir John Quinton, the former chairman of Barclays Bank and the Premier League, is to be chairman of a new internet financial services company.    Askzebra.com is said to be the first UK online execution-only broker to offer with profits bonds free of commission for the first year of investment. It will provide connections to the product ranges of firms such as Legal &amp; General, Norwich Union and Prudential.&#149;SellingBritain's largest independent PC manufacturer, Tiny Computers , has begun selling its products on the internet. Tiny Online offers &#163;230 of free gifts to customers who buy a PC through its website.
&#149;AdviceAn easy-to-follow guide to the best deals on telephone bills is being set up by the industry regulator, Oftel. The service is available on the internet, over a telephone helpline and in leaflet form, and is supported by the five main providers of conventional fixed-line phones to residential customers British Telecom, Cable &amp; Wireless, Eurobell, NTL and Telewest.The model used to advise the public was developed by independent pricing consultant Analysis. Oftel said that, for competition in telecoms to work consumers needed clear information about the available deals.&#149;FlamedOne of the largest financial websites was reeling yesterday after angry subscribers complained when unsolicited rogue messages jammed their e-mail systems.Messages sent to Interactive Investor International , which operates thewww.iii.co.uksite, had been re-directed to the entire subscription list.The company, with 322,000 users worldwide apologised. A "permissioning" error had allowed messages destined for its mail administrator to be sent to other subscribers instead, revealing the names and e-mail addresses of other investors.&#149;Link-upBritain's Petspark online service for animal lovers is teaming up with its US counterpart, Pets.com, under the terms of which the US company will take a stake. Petspark, which was launched in the summer, aims to cut a big slice of the &#163;2bn a year pet-care market in Britain.
Problem one: It's 7.30 in the evening and I'm knackered. Problem two is that I've got straight in the car without checking for punctures and have no intention of getting out again to make sure the headlights, rear lights and brake lights are all working. All things considered, I'm a liability to myself and other road users and I haven't even put the car in gear yet.Does this sound familiar? Driving is all about habits or, in my case, bad habits. And things we may get away with during daylight are potentially lethal at night. Those greasy smears from the dodgy wiper become opaque in the dark and our peripheral vision is restricted to what we can pick up in our headlights - assuming, of course, we're not being dazzled by some moron who can't be bothered to dip his lights. Then we'll be driving by guesswork.Small wonder, then, that a new  survey of driver attitudes has found that seven out of 10 motorists are afraid of driving in the dark. And with the nights drawing in that amounts to one hell of a lot of scared drivers out and about in the evening rush hour. Motorists aren't the only ones who ought to be frightened. Accidents involving pedestrians increase during the winter months, with children walking home from school particularly at risk. Road accidents are the biggest single killer of children in the UK; last year, 115 child pedestrians were killed in the UK, with a further 18,426 injured.Most of us are aware that night driving is a different ball game to cruising around in the day, but beyond a general feeling that we probably ought to pay a bit more attention very few of us have any real idea of what practical adjustments we ought to make to our technique. Which is precisely why Terry Bolton, a former police driver and advanced   motorist examiner, is sitting in my front passenger seat."Er, I'd be feeling a lot safer if you kept both hands on the steering-wheel, rather than resting one on the arm rest," he ventures a tad diffidently after a few minutes. So would I, Terry, now you come to mention it. I carry on with both hands glued to the wheel, never venturing above the speed limit, determined to attract no further flak."Now that was an extremely dangerous situation," he says, as we navigate the Mitcham one-way system, "I would never have taken it at that speed." Worryingly, everything felt just fine to me and I've no idea what he's on about. "You passed those two parked buses without slowing down," Bolton continues. "Anyone could have stepped or run out from between the buses. In the dark, you would have seen them far later and been pushed to miss them."Bolton is big on what he terms "defensive" driving. In other words,  you're only as safe as the most dangerous, myopic driver in the vicinity. So pubs - especially at night - are potential minefields, and every side-road a potential ambush. Pedestrians are reduced to mere hazards. "See that bloke who just crossed the road," Bolton says. "He was dressed in a black hat and a black coat. Without the pale paper bag he was carrying he would have been almost invisible."   (This must be one of the only recorded incidents of a person owing their life to a McDonalds takeaway.)The military metaphors are both contagious and insidiously effective. Up until now, night driving has never really bothered me; if anything, I'd rather be driving at midnight than crawling through London on a grey November morning, fighting to get the kids to school on   time. Bolton agrees that night driving can be a pleasure and is sometimes safer: "Headlights can give you far more warning of oncoming traffic than you get in daylight." But as he continues to deliver a running risk assessment on a one mile stretch of road, I realise how much I take for granted and just how dozy I often am. I tend to get in the car and engage autopilot. End of story.As we pull up outside my house, Bolton gives his verdict. "You're quite good actually," he offers, before rather spoiling it by adding, "It's surprising really. Four or five hours tuition and you could be an OK driver."Vauxhall Glow Power is offering all motorists with a full driving licence a free night driving session with the Institute of Advanced Motorists. Anyone interested should call 0171 973 5975.
We're now only days away from the Competition Commission's report on new car pricing being passed to Trade Secretary Stephen Byers, but already one manufacturer has jumped - and cut their cars' list prices by as much as 15%.Mitsubishi may not be a dominant force in Britain, but their cars are especially popular with private buyers. And of course it's all those sensible private motorists who have been putting off their buying decisions until after the Competition Commission makes public its findings, which it now appears may not be until next January or February.All the anticipation and uncertainty is really hurting companies like Mitsubishi. Last week Denis Murphy, MD of Mitsubishi Motors in the UK, admitted that "customers have stayed away from the showrooms since the beginning of September, and we believe that this will continue unless we move on price". Mitsubishi's prices fell by an average of 10% on Saturday morning, so should we now be forming orderly queues down at our nearest Mitsubishi garage, and will other manufacturers quickly follow suit and cut their prices too? In short should we keep waiting, or should we go mad and order that new car today?The Consumers' Association has been one of the most vociferous opponents of what they call the "Great British rip-off", and their spokesperson tried hard not to sound smug when she responded to Mitsubishi's announcement. "One of the main car companies has broken rank, and it's now up to the rest to follow. This is a clear sign that our campaign is working, and now we will also be pressurising the Government to shake up the car industry." But now that Mitsubishi have done what was asked of them would the Consumers' Association advise us to   order one of their cars? "It's a step in the right direction, but we want more - because British car prices can be 30-40% above those in the rest of Europe.'We'll take that as a no, and in fact there's evidence in Mitsubishi's own announcement to suggest that those 10-15% list price cuts might not save you quite as much as you expect. MD Denis Murphy says that his company has also "limited the tactical support available to our dealers and limited the amount of consumer offers available". In other words you can now expect your friendly Mitsubishi dealer to be a bit less cheery when you ask him for a juicy discount off those new, lower list prices.So much for Mitsubishi, but what about the other car makers? Unsurprisingly the Consumers' Association suggests that buyers continue to boycott all new cars until European price harmonisation occurs. And they also want to see the end of   the motor industry's "block exemption', which allows car makers to only sell new cars through their own franchised dealers.Mitsubishi's announcement clearly does nothing to address such fundamental structural issues, and they're simply not a big enough player to make a really big difference. But Ford are, and significantly their much-vaunted "price promise" - in which they said they wouldn't reduce list prices - runs out at the end of the year. So do Ford intend to respond to Mitsubishi's initiative early in the new year? "We always watch the market closely" says a Ford spokesperson carefully, "but we have no plans to reduce our recommended retails prices at the moment."Mitsubishi's announcement will undoubtedly unsettle the rest of the industry, but in the short term it will probably do no more than that. So if you've been part of the new car buyers' strike then you might as well continue with it,   because it still seems highly likely that many new car prices will fall over the coming months.However that doesn't mean that this isn't a good time to buy a car per se. As Mitsubishi's Denis Murphy points out - perhaps with a hint of schadenfreude - the big mass-market car makers are hurting too. "This year I anticipate there will be around 500,000 new cars registered - but homeless and just left sitting and depreciating on garage forecourts," he said.That simply has to add up to a buying opportunity for the put-upon private motorist, and experts predict that prices can't go much lower. So if you're after a pre-registered family car then I'd say that this is a great time to buy, but with so much over-supply it's essential that you shop around widely and haggle really hard.The car trade has simply never needed your business more badly than it does now - and don't you forget it.
Quote of the Week"Car enthusiasts are being squeezed out as this insane government indulges in its right to roam right through the motorist's wallet, down the back of our sofas and through the pockets of our old trousers; anywhere it damn well wants in its relentless quest to steal our money."     Jeremy Clarkson, The SunGold platesThe DVLA has been selling personalised number plates for 10 years now and these are the ones they've got the most money for:1. K1 NGS - &#163;231,0002. A1 - &#163;200,0003. S1 NGH - &#163;108,0004. 1RR - &#163;106,0005. 1S - &#163;100,0006. G1LLY - &#163;87,0008. P1LOT - &#163;82,0009. 1DM - &#163;75,00010. ELV1S - &#163;75,000A right royal rideThe most comfortable car on the road? A Jaguar? The Mercedes S Class? Wrong - it's the humble Ford Focus, as modelled by Prince William. In a survey for What Car? magazine, automotive ergonomist Dean Southall tested cars for their ease of access, driving position, seat comfort, control layout and visibility. A &#163;14,000 Ford Focus 1.8 Ghia came out ahead of a &#163;60,000 Mercedes. Worst was the Land-rover Discovery.
Few people now are likely to want to pay for an internet account. Such is the income from advertising and a share of the call costs that numerous companies are offering free internet access.Freeserve is the highest profile, but its 50p-a-minute technical support lines can make it expensive. Smaller operators such as Public Online, which do not charge for these calls, may be better value. Despite this, America Online, the largest internet service provider, which charges up to &#163;2.35 per hour, attracts many customers with its free introductory offers. This company has its own chat forums and information services.Accessing some of these has in the past been hampered by the company's - now abandoned - attempts to prevent customers using improper language on the site. Anyone with a Scunthorpe address was at one time summarily ejected. A less amusing effect of this was that it prevented access to sites offering support to women suffering from breast and gynaecological cancers.Signing up for a month's trial does involve handing over credit card details, which will be activated if not cancelled within the month. My free month confirmed suspicions that AOL offered nothing I wanted to pay for. "I'll simply cancel," I thought. There is a members' section on-line that appears to point you towards a site where you can do that.However, the cancellation   request is met by an instruction to phone AOL. That call is answered by an electronic voice giving a complicated series of commands. I gave up after nine minutes. Of course, cancellation calls aren't valued: they take away the one thing the business actually values, credit card authorisations.I wrote a note to America Online saying it shouldn't use my credit card and asking - slightly tongue in cheek - why they shouldn't pay me for the time I had wasted listening to their infuriating messages. My attempts to fax it failed as the fax number in the telephone directory was disconnected. I posted the note to the address in the phone book. I received no response, and could still access my account. I was not surprised when the company helped itself to money from my credit card some weeks afterwards.I sent a note to the card company saying AOL's authority had been cancelled and they were not to take any more money. As I had continued using the account, and allowed others to, I did not refuse to pay the sum charged that month. To its credit, the card company wrote back saying it would deduct that sum and reclaim it from AOL. Shortly afterwards my AOL account ceased to function, though there was still no acknowledgement of my letter.A spokeswoman for the company claimed a fax number was given in the recorded message that would-be cancellers hear as they wait, but when I tested it this week, the information wasn't on the message. AOL also claimed it needed a personal call for "security reasons" when closing an account, though curiously, this is not a consideration when people open accounts and there is a much greater risk of fraud. She also said that the company had recently moved, which may explain why my letter was not received.The risk of this sort of offer, like any internet credit card transaction, is not of losing money but of unwanted hassle. Either one waits ages for the company to answer its phone or one risks getting into an argument with the company by cancelling in a way the company may not record. Some credit card companies will maintain that the card holder is liable to pay anything taken under a continuous authority, even after it has been told of a cancellation. This is legally nonsense, but it may be the card company will back down only after a time-consuming debate&#149;  Richard Colbey is a barrister
Helen McEvoy says she has had no end of problems with her Egg card. She has spent the last few weeks trying, as her husband Brian put it, "to get rid of the damn thing".Mrs McEvoy, a library assistant, applied for her card on September 25, and received it a short time afterward.On October 16 she requested a balance transfer of &#163;538 from a First Direct card to her Egg card and her troubles began. "I had great difficulty even logging on to the account to check if the transfer had been processed. All I got were error codes which Egg eventually confirmed meant that their computer resources could not handle the volume of applications and enquiries."By October 26 she had still heard nothing and her account remained unchanged.She sent an urgent email to the company, which responded two days later, apologising for the delay and confirming the balance transfer request had been received on October 16 and would be appearing on her balance "shortly".By November 3 the transfer still had not   been activated. Mrs McEvoy, who lives in Stockport, was so angry that she sent an email to Egg asking for the balance transfer to be stopped and the account to be cancelled.Again she heard nothing so she rang up a member of staff who sent her an email dated November 4 which states: "To confirm that your Egg card A/c has now been closed and that your requested transfer of &#163;538 will not take place."However, she checked the site last Saturday and found that on November 18 the balance transfer had taken place, even though the account was supposed to have been closed.After yet more phone calls and exchanges of emails this week, it appears that the matter is close to being sorted out.An Egg spokeswoman said the company wished to apologise to Mrs McEvoy. "She has been the victim of the delays in balance transfers and ... experienced a couple of administrative problems in getting her account closed".
A teenager surfs the internet in search of the latest cyber-warrior game and finds it on a site that charges a one-off fee for downloading the games software. But the price is a hefty $39.95 and presents the problem of paying in dollars.Adults can pay for products in different currencies using credit cards, but children and adults below the age of 25, who are usually refused a credit card, need another way. Step forward the e-commerce smart card - the microchip on a card that can store units of digital currency.It can be slotted into a PC or other device such as a television set-top box or telephone. Payments can be made just like a credit card, except the sum is deducted from the units on the chip, not added to the customer's credit line. Young people are in the frame because the smartcard can be loaded up with the same amount you might find in a piggy bank.The idea comes from Mondex, one of the many commercial groups hoping its system for processing digital money will become the standard.Michael Keegan, head of Mondex International, says young people are poorly   catered for by financial services, and a smartcard that acts like an electronic purse could help them make payments electronically, especially over the internet.But the decision to target young people is an admission by the group that smartcards stuffed with money have failed to catch the imagination of adults. Trials in Swindon, Leeds and New York have shown that smartcards work, but found an indifferent public and retailers that baulk at the cost of adding to the card readers that already take hundreds of different credit and debit cards.Up to now the banks have made most noise about digital money. NatWest and HSBC are the main backers of Mondex in the UK. Visa, which is owned by a large consortium of banks, has its own electronic purse called VisaCash. Like Mondex, VisaCash is a smartcard that holds digital money.Part of the reason for this indifference, experts say, is that so far smartcards have been only slightly smart and performed only one function: to hold digital money. They can't act as identity card, loyalty card, bus and train pass, driver's licence and phone card for digital mobile devices. The problem centres on the resistance of commerce   and governments to agree on common standards that for a multi-function card.Public concerns about the lack of security on a card that might contain hundreds of pounds and valuable personal information are also a barrier - never mind the potential use of information by a "big brother".Richard Poynder of Smartex, an association representing companies interested in using smartcards, says banks have been going down a blind alley for most of the decade. "All the single-function bank cards have been a commercial disaster because they haven't done anything for the consumer or the retailer."Sandra Alzetta, European head of electronic commerce for Visa, says the group has joined several industry groups to work out ways of integrating Visa technology with other services.UK banks have been issuing their first mass-market smart cards in the last few months. Their only function, however, is to contain extra security information to combat the rise of fraudulent cards inserted into cash machines.So the already dumb smart card is getting dumber before it gets smarter.Useful sites:www.mondex.comwww.smartex.com
This week, British windfall investors crowned Richard Yendall as successor to Michael Harden as king of the carpetbaggers.Mr Yendall is a 29-year-old level-headed, internet entrepreneur and the mastermind behind the current carpetbagger.com campaign to convert Chelsea, Portman and Skipton societies.His career as a carpetbagger started in 1997 when he realised that as a Halifax account holder he stood to benefit "by accident" from a windfall. His interest aroused, he turned to his natural milieu, the internet, and came across carpetbagger.com. "I caught wind of Michael Harden's antics in the press and found a website that he'd done, but it wasn't a very good one," says Mr Yendall.So he decided to put his   cyber skills to work and offered to sharpen up the organisation's website. In the meantime he developed his consultancy business into a fully-fledged net company designing sites for other business and trading under the name of Webcentre. But his big opportunity came when the government stepped in with new rules which upped the number of members needed to put forward a conversion resolution to 50 to 500 starting from December 1.Mr Yendall offered to take charge of an attack by carpetbagger.com on three building societies before the new rules came into effect and beat the deadline by a matter of hours.First, he emailed his website subscribers to ask them to send him their signatures. He posted a form on   the site which could be printed off and sent to his home address from where he sent them to the three societies in question. The signatures rolled in and by November 30 Mr Yendall had sent three sets of signatures off - about 1,000 in total - and lodged three identical conversion resolutions.In true internet style, Mr Yendall says that he has only ever met one of the site users face-to-face. There are no meetings or "carpetbagger conventions" as there were under Mr Harden. "That's not quite my style," says Mr Yendall. "I'm interested in the issue but not so much that I want to organise my social life around it."Mr Yendall has also drawn a clear line between himself and the former carpetbagging king, the highly eccentric and unorthodox Michael Hardern. Mr Hardern was the initial force behind carpetbaggers.com, which started life as the website for his carpetbagging group, Members for Conversion. But in the summer, when Mr Harden failed in his bid to force Britannia Building Society to convert and triggered the expulsion of 230 fellow members in the process, the organisation turned against him. The man who has been pictured in the press clad in a sarong had become a liability to the very people he had inspired into action.Mr Hardern says: "I was heaved off unceremoniously in July, but it's lovely to see that my baby is thriving." He    doesn't give Mr Yendall much of a chance of succeeding in the conversion of the three societies, after his resolutions were thrown out on technical grounds. "I wish them the best of luck but I think the deck is stacked   against them." Mr Hardern is now busy setting up a free internet service provider called doddle.net. "Lets hope it's very successful and keeps him fully occupied," says Mr Yendall.Quite why Mr Yendall has taken on Mr Hardern's mantle is not clear. He says his motives are different. "Since Michael Harden left the scene there's a different emphasis. I'm   not all about an all-out attack on all mutual societies - regardless of the economic arguments about my own financial gain," he says. The key issue is democracy: not whether societies should convert but whether the members should be asked if they want them to convert. His own windfalls will go to charity, he says.Mr Yendall's criticism of mutuals for not helping their members in the democratic process suggests that he is unaware that his own actions may have reinforced such behaviour. But he admits that at heart he is a carpetbagger: "Oh yeah, I don't think I can sit there and deny that I had speculative intentions," he says. "But that's no longer what's driving this."
The carpetbaggers harnessed the power of the internet to mount a hi-tech assault on three of the UK's biggest building societies this week.Hungry for windfalls, their aim is to force the Portman, Skipton and Chelsea to demutualise and make payments to members which could amount to &#163;1,000 or more in some cases. They struck on Tuesday morning - just hours before tough new anti-carpetbagging rules came into effect.They have submitted identical conversion resolutions to the three societies, calling on them to "consider taking steps to change the independent mutual status of the society" by either converting to a bank or agreeing to be taken over. They have also urged them to donate 10% of any windfall payments to charity, an amount they claim could add up to &#163;100m.The three societies, which have more than two million members, are now checking the validity of the resolutions and it could be days or even weeks before they announce what is going to happen. In the meantime the Portman has closed its doors to new savers to prevent more speculators flocking to open accounts. The trio say the interests of all their members are best served by them staying building societies, and they will vigorously defend their mutual status. But there is no doubt that this week's events dramatically raise the stakes in the "mutuals versus carpetbaggers" war.The apparent ease with which the campaign leaders were able to mobilise their supporters within the space of just a few days suggests the "cyber-bagger" could pose the biggest threat yet to the 224-year-old building society movement.In the past, trying to organise a conversion challenge has been a pretty thankless, arduous task, often involving standing outside a building society branch in the cold, badgering those going in and out. However, the current campaign is being co-ordinated by the websitecarpetbagger.com, which has been preaching the pro-conversion gospel for more than 18 months. The site was originally set up by Michael Hardern, the now-retired carpetbagger-in-chief, but is now overseen by Richard Yendall, an internet entrepreneur.On November 22 it published a form which society members supporting conversion could print off and sign and within a week more than   500 had been returned.If the conversion resolutions are deemed valid, they could be put to the vote of members at the societies' AGMs in the spring. However, the society bosses will be going through them with a fine-tooth comb, and will undoubtedly have no hesitation in throwing them out if they fail to meet the various legal requirements.Just under a year ago, Mr Hardern submitted conversion resolutions to the Portman, Skipton, Chelsea and four other societies, all of which were rejected. The societies said they were entitled to reject the resolutions because they failed the test set by a 1974 legal decision. This confirmed the principle that a board of directors is entitled to reject a resolution "which interferes with the exercise of the managerial powers given to them". The three societies may well take the same view   of these proposals.What added to the drama of this week's events was that the carpetbaggers slipped their resolutions under the door just hours before new building society rules votes came into force. Up until midnight on Tuesday, the number of members needed   to back a conversion proposal at a larger society was 50, all of whom must have been with the society for at least two years and had minimum savings or mortgages during that time. That number increased to 500 with effect from Wednesday morning.The aim of the changes is to raise dramatically the hurdles that carpetbaggers must jump in order to force a vote on conversion. However, Mr Yendall is confident that even if the current resolutions are rejected by the society, the new rules should not pose a problem when it comes to future challenges. He says carpetbagger.com had shown that "getting 500 &#91;signatures&#93; for a large society using the internet isn't that difficult".Adrian Coles, director-general of the Building Societies Association, says he was "not really surprised" at the attempt to take advantage of the old rules. "Some people are desperate to get something for nothing. We thought they'd probably have a go at trying to get their hands on something they don't really deserve."Around 200 forms were delivered to the Skipton head office eight days ago, while on Tuesday morning more than 500 forms were received by the Portman and a further 300 arrived at the Chelsea HQ.A carpetbagger.com spokesman says it decided to target these three because, unlike the Nationwide, Britannia and others, they had not brought in rules forcing new members to sign away any future windfalls to charity, and had continued to accept speculators' money.
British Telecom revealed its charges for high speed data telephone lines yesterday, clearing the way for internet service providers to offer homes and small businesses faster and better quality multi-media services.BT will charge the ISPs a wholesale price of &#163;35 a month plus a one-off connection charge of &#163;150 per customer for the service, which uses ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) technology.BT said the charges amounted to &#163;47.50 a month if spread over 12 months for the first year, falling to &#163;35 there after. The company expects ISPs to offer the service to home users as part of their plans to develop their portals. Some ISPs may even subsidise the service. BT expects the cost to the consumer to range from &#163;30 to &#163;50 a month.Consumers could use the ADSL link to make voice calls, via a PC. Users wanting to keep their conventional voice phone line will also pay the normal metered charge and monthly rental.BT is installing ADSL in 400 exchanges for next spring, by when 6m homes will have access to the technology.
Buying a PC is easy, unless you don't know what you're buying. There are so many Windows machines available from so many manufacturers that it is easy to get confused. If in doubt, just remember that bigger is better. The more power you buy, the longer it will take to become obsolete.Unfortunately, this approach has two drawbacks. First, bigger usually means more expensive. A lot more. Unless you have a special need - video editing, for example, or playing the latest 3-D games - it's rarely worth paying for the latest technology. Better go for something older. Not only will it be cheaper, more bugs will have been ironed out.Second, the specification doesn't tell you anything about the quality of the parts. The cost of a keyboard, for example, can range from &#163;10 to &#163;100 or more, while a traditional monitor or screen can go from under &#163;100 to about &#163;1,000. Insist on the lowest possible price and you will end up with a system made of cheap, no-name parts. And if the spec looks too good to be true, someone has probably cut corners somewhere.In the long term, it's better to pay a bit more for branded parts of known quality. The system will be nicer to use, it should be more reliable, and will need fewer upgrades.You can compromise on the microprocessor, the PC's engine. Some PCs have processors that run at 700MHz or more and 1GHz machines will appear next year. But for home use, anything beyond 450-550MHz costs more than it's worth.The best value is Intel's 450MHz Pentium III: the 550MHz version is only 22% faster, and the difference is too small to be noticeable. If you want something cheaper, 400MHz Intel Celeron (Pentium II) chips deliver practically the same performance in machines costing less than &#163;500. PCs with AMD K6-III chips are also well worth considering, and outperform Celerons. However, anything slower than 400MHz is not a good investment.Even if you can afford a faster processor, it's better to spend the extra cash on more memory, a faster graphics card, or both. Today's PCs have three types of memory: cache, main and graphics. The Level 2 cache memory is used by the processor. You don't need to worry about it, just make sure you never buy a PC that doesn't have any.The main memory is used to load programs (software). Most PCs now have 64 or 128 megabytes as standard: 64 is the minimum, and 128 is to be preferred. Either way, buy a PC with a spare memory socket, so you can add more later.Graphics memory (also called Video RAM or VRAM) is used by the graphics card to display images on the screen. More graphics memory means better graphics: more pixels on the screen (higher resolution) and more colours. PCs typically have from 4MB to 32MB. For a home machine, 16MB is usually enough, but it doesn't hurt to have more. Again, don't buy a machine without separate graphics memory.Cheap PCs often have the graphics circuitry built into the main circuit board or motherboard. However, plug-in cards have 2D and/or 3D accelerator chips that provide faster graphics, and sometimes extra features such as video capture or DVD support. Accelerator cards are particularly important for games players. Popular 3D cards   often have Nvidia Riva TNT2, 3dfx Voodoo 3 or Matrox G400 chips. PC motherboards can have up to three kinds of slots for expansion cards, and graphics cards can be found in all three types.The oldest kind of expansion system is the ISA (Industry Standard Architecture) bus, dating back to the IBM PC/AT launched in 1983. It's obsolete, but most PCs still have ISA bus slots. If you buy one that   does, make sure they are empty and not used for anything.The standard expansion system today is called PCI (Peripheral Component Interconnect). Choose a PC with at least four PCI slots - some have five or six. Most graphics and sound cards are available in PCI format.For even better graphics performance, Intel has introduced a third expansion slot: AGP (Accelerated Graphics Port). This is the best choice for a graphics card.Sound facilities may also be built onto the PC motherboard or provided on a plug-in card. For home users, the PCI version of Creative Labs' SoundBlaster 16 is cheap, trouble-free and an adequate performer. The SoundBlaster Live! 1024 offers more features at about twice the price. There are far more sophisticated (and more expensive) sound cards available, but make sure they are "SoundBlaster-compatible".PCs usually come with floppy disk, CD-rom and hard drives as standard. However, variations are possible...When it comes to the hard disk, bigger is better. A 10GB drive may sound huge, but a   single game can eat up half a gigabyte. Today, 6.4GB is the minimum acceptable and 14-20GB is common. Good brands include IBM, Quantum and Maxtor.The 1.4MB 3.5in floppy drive is largely taken for granted. Some PC suppliers offer the option of a "superfloppy" such as the Imation LS-120/ SuperDisk or the Iomega Zip drive. SuperDisks can store up to 120MB on a floppy, and can also read and write standard 3.5in disks. But they haven't really caught on. Zip drives are more common and available in 100MB and 250MB formats. But neither can handle 1.4MB disks. With both Zip and SuperDisk drives, the price of disks is a major drawback.CD-rom drives tend to be sold on speed, but anything over 12x offers no real benefits. Rather than buying a PC with a standard CD player, you should consider a CD writer or DVD drive.A CD writer or CD-R drive can read CD-rom discs and also create CDs, which is useful for taking back-ups or storing collections of MP3 music or image files. A CD   rewriteable or CD-RW drive lets you re-use discs but you have to reformat the whole disc at once, which deletes all the files. The appearance of CD-RW drives from companies such as Iomega and Philips shows the idea is reaching the mass market.Another alternative is to upgrade the CD-rom to a DVD (digital video disc) drive. These will read CD-roms for loading software, and also play DVD movies. (You also need a decoder, but a Pentium III is fast enough to do the decoding in software.)Most PCs will support only four internal drives via their Enhanced IDE (E-IDE) interfaces so it's important to plan ahead. For example, you can have one hard drive, one CD-rom and one Zip drive with one spare E-IDE interface for a second hard drive. (The floppy uses a different controller.)It's also important to buy a PC in a case that's big enough to hold all the expansion cards and drives you may want fitted. Small cases and all-in-one systems don't have enough room for expansion, and the internal wiring   becomes impossible to manage. I always buy the biggest tower case I can get, and stand it on the floor. Big cases also tend to run cooler, and PCs that run cooler tend to be more reliable and last longer.It's also an advantage to have a big screen, because you can use higher resolutions and thus use more applications on screen at the same time. Many PCs still come with 15in screens because they're cheap, but it's worth upgrading to 17in. However, 21in screens tend to be too large and too expensive for home use, and 19in screens are rarely a cost-effective compromise.The quality of the screens supplied with PCs tends to be poor. There's not much you can do about it, except make sure whatever you buy has a dot pitch of 0.28 or, better, 0.26. Also, make sure the screen's refresh rate is at least 75 or 85Hz, at the resolution   you expect to use. This will probably be 800 x 600 on a 15in screen, or 1,024 x 768 on a 17in model.A decent 17in screen costs around &#163;300, and some PC suppliers will provide one for an extra charge. I prefer the Sony Trinitron-style screens from companies such as iiyama, Mitsubishi and LG Electronics - the Mitsubishi Diamond Pro 710 is a good example. You can be less fussy if you don't have to look at it all day.Keyboards also vary in quality, and those supplied as standard tend to be poor. Not many PC suppliers offer alternatives, but you can always buy a new one and keep the original as a spare. The latest keyboards, including Microsoft's Internet Keyboard and IBM's Rapid Access II keyboard, have   special keys for Windows and internet-related functions. Sadly, most modern keyboards are cheaply made and feel mushy, but you can still find IBM PS/2 "clicky" keyboards if you shop around.Some PC suppliers keep prices down by shipping cheap and nasty loudspeakers with their systems. Again, there are lots of good alternatives from companies such as Yamaha, Altec Lansing and Labtec. But since Yamaha's YSTM S28 active speaker system - with a subwoofer that provides lots of bass - discounts to around &#163;50, cheap speakers are a false economy.To get onto the net you will need a modem. Versions are available that fit inside the PC, on an expansion card, or plug into an external port. The cheapest, Winmodems, make the PC's processor do most of the work. No doubt they work well for some people, but I think they're more trouble than they're worth. External 3Com US Robotics 56K modems are widely supported and make for an easier life.How many other things you need is a matter of taste.   Do you need, for example, a printer, a scanner, a TV tuner, a camera (for videoconferencing), a joystick or steering wheel (for games), a graphics tablet, a music keyboard, or a telephone headset? Part of the appeal of the PC is the vast number peripherals that can be added. Whether you want any of these bundled with a PC is another matter. The ones supplied might not be what you'd choose if you bought them separately.Much the same caveat applies to software. Don't get too excited by big bundles of programs that you'd never buy separately and will probably never use.Also, try not to be seduced by appearances, and avoid fancy or misshapen PCs that may be hard to upgrade. The versatility and expandability of the PC platform depends on its ability to use cheap, off-the-shelf parts, and anything that threatens that is a bad idea. Shapelier and more stylish PCs are on the way, but most depend on upgrades being added externally via USB (Universal Serial Bus) ports. Short term gain: long term pain.Spice up your lifeTempted to buy blueberry? Or perhaps a terminal in tangerine is your bag? Apple computer's unveiling of the colourful iMac in autumn 1998 set off a revolution in an industry more used to working hard on how their machines worked - rather than how they looked.For consumers fed a diet of beige boxes from every vendor including, until this year, Apple, it was a breath of fresh air.But, given the fact that Apple's MacOS runs on less than 10% of PCs worldwide, why buy into this niche? You might be in publishing, design or education where Apple is a market leader in which case there is a fair chance you already rely on the platform at work. And Mac aficionados insist their OS is better looking and easier to use than Windows.But for those making their first PC purchase, buying Apple still might not come so easily. You could be forgiven for looking at the more limited range of software, especially games, and thinking that a PC would give you more flexibility.But Apple says 50% of iMacs are being sold to first time computer users, and that's mainly down to one thing: the internet. Apple has made it incredibly easy to get your Mac onto the internet quickly - from simplified cabling to easy setting up (just follow the step-by-step instructions in the Internet Setup Assistant program). If you have your internet service providers details to hand, it takes around 10 minutes to get your Mac online.And once on the net, for all but a handful of websites, it makes no difference that you're using a Mac. The big two browsers from Netscape and Microsoft, supplied with the computer, are very similar to those on a PC. Everything appears just as fast on your screen (and Apple always likes to boast that its newer PowerPC processors run faster than Intel Pentium III chips).Add to that, Apple's drive to bring plug-in-and-play desktop video editing to consumers - in the same way it helped create desktop publishing in the 80s - and you begin to see the reasons for buying one of those colourful boxes.Apple is also making headway on the software front. In particular, it is wooing games manufacturers. The charm offensive - and huge iMac sales - have had some effect. Games   previously spotted only on Windows, like the best-selling Championship Manager, are about to appear on the Mac OS.Finally, Apple has also lowered its prices, especially on iMacs, and shopping via the Apple websitewww.apple.com/ukadds an alternative to high street stores, mail order companies and specialist resellers.Finding good dealsWhere's the best place to buy a PC? From a shop, a specialised computer dealer, or direct from the manufacturer?A surprising number of shops and supermarkets, including Tesco, sell PCs and some are good value. The advantage is that you can see what you're getting, but specifications tend to be low, and there's little if any chance of variation. Also, if you need something out of the ordinary, you're unlikely to get expert advice.Specialised dealers should be able to offer advice and customise a PC to meet your needs. Martin Prescott, managing director of Big Red, in London, says: "Find a dealer you can trust and follow their suggestions, because if they're any good, they'll change or modify the system   to do what you need." Where a shop sees a PC as a one-off sale, a good dealer sees it as the start of a profitable long-term relationship.With direct suppliers, you specify your system and they build it to order, so you can't see it beforehand.They tend to offer the best prices, especially for PCs at the higher end of the scale. Most sell through computer magazines but you can experiment with different specs on the website and complete the order by phone.Although the leading direct suppliers are American - Dell and Gateway - there are many respected British companies such as Dan, Panrix and Evesham. Gateway also operates a number of shops, and some direct suppliers have showrooms at their factories - a good solution if you're within driving distance.
Last week, a hedgehog fell into my life. Actually it fell into the damp, leaf-strewn recess in front of my basement window. I phoned a friend, who is a vet. He could have helped me, he said, if a cow had fallen into my basement.Hedgehogs, however, weren't really his thing. I watched my new-found burden trying to climb the four foot walls, and felt rising panic. Despite a TV education from Rolf Harris, I am little more than a dumb beast when faced with living things.Lucky for me - and the hedgehog, I do know how to get on the web. It's not hard to find online advice: theWelsh Hedgehog Hospitalis possibly the best UK site.This is a crucial time of year for hedgehogs. If you come across one, it's almost definitely in trouble and could do with your care. If they weigh less than 600g, they will die in the winter: there's not enough body fat to get them through hibernation. The WHH site is full of detailed care information, as well as cautionary tales about human habits that endanger hedgehog lives. The garden strimmer, it seems, is a hedgehog's worst enemy, and the site has grisly photographs to prove it.Advice on making your garden hedgehog-friendly can also be found atPrickly Farm Hedgehog Hospital, which is populated by cutesy anthropomorphic hedgehog cartoons. Both hedgehog sites have a nationwide directory of animal shelters that will help out the animally challenged. Thankfully, there is a shelter not five miles from my house, although the car journey seemed to be more than my passenger could stomach. Nothing on the hedgehog sites mentioned car sickness.Every year theRSPCArears   hundreds of tiny hedgehogs, releasing them as soon as they put on enough weight to survive. This winter, the charity is urging people to befriend their local hedgehogs. That would free up the RSPCA to help this winter's abandoned pets, which face starvation and hypothermia in the streets of "animal-loving" Britain.If you're thinking of giving your children a pet for Christmas, try a cyberpet from the RSPCA's site. They can play with it, feed it, and watch it grow. It will even send emails complaining of hunger or loneliness. If they fail to make a good owner, the RSPCA will take it away. Then you, the charity hopes, will think twice about that cute Shih Tzu puppy with the Christmas ribbon.Southern Shih Tzu Rescuehas taken in more than a hundred of these dogs so far this year. One pair was found in a sixth floor flat from which their owners were absent all day. Neither dog was housetrained, and one was going blind. Run entirely by volunteers, the Shih Tzuh charity is desperate for two things: good foster homes and money - vet's bills run into thousands of pounds a year.The Blue Crosshas moved into cyberspace to raise funds, even running its own free ISP. Its site doesn't advise on specific animal cases, but offers a list of adoption centres across the country. These centres house the thousands of animals it rescues every year; on the site are its   criteria and protocols for adoption. It also encourages animal lovers over 14 to contact their local centre for opportunities in voluntary animal care.The Royal Society for the Protection of Birdsalso has some volunteer opportunities on its site, as well as seasonal advice on the cleanliness of bird tables. Did you know that wild birds contract tuberculosis and salmonella from unhygienic tables? Visit the site for details of how to avoid making your garden a hazard.On the subject of things that should fly, but can't, theBat Conservation Trustdetails what should be done if you find an injured or dead bat. Freshly dead bats (it doesn't say how you tell) should go to the Central Veterinary Laboratory for rabies testing. The site tells you how to package them for posting .Many of the animal help sites are dedicated to lost and found ads for pets: the internet has become the new alternative to posters on lampposts and trees. Sites such aswww.animalrescuers.co.uk,www.animalshelter.org.ukandwww.ukpetsearch.freeuk.commaintain databases of lost and found pets, complete with photos.My hedgehog now has a new home: after a day of getting little work done, I handed him or her (I didn't check, but the required anatomical information is available online) to a hedgehog-literate friend for safekeeping through the winter. I plan to visit at weekends.
Jeffrey Archer's is now a blank screen, Steve Norris's could be due a revamp and Frank Dobson's goes from strength to strength; as the London mayoral contest lurches from crisis to crisis, the candidates' websites reflect the action. All the mayoral candidates have made use of the web in campaigning (see panel right).However, as the contest develops, the signs are that the main party machines have yet to adapt fully to the online era. One source close to Tory central office said officials were underestimating the internet's potential."It is of absolutely immense importance. We have seen how it is affecting the business world and the same will happen in the public sphere. Most people in London use email, but its importance to campaigning is deeply underestimated by many in the party's hierarchy."The party had been more effective at using the internet internally, he said, setting up a virtual work-group with 250 people helping develop policy on London."Traditionally party volunteers have been seen as an army whose purpose is shoving leaflets through   doors, but actually they represent many thousands of people with professional skills, and email can tap into that skills base."The Labour Party is also having a mixed time of it. Adrian McMenamin of Frank Dobson's campaign office says attempts to use email as an internal campaigning device backfired."We asked Labour Party members for their email addresses but when we started sending them campaign information we had complaints," he said. "It is just not the way they expect to be communicated with, which is a problem for the Labour Party if it is to fulfil its vision of modernisation."However, should Dobson win the candidature and begin a public campaign it will be "a different kettle of fish", McMenamin says. "London has the highest level of internet penetration in Britain - I've seen figures that say 20%," he said.As with most aspects of internet use, the US has the lead on Europe in the use of the internet for political campaigning. Steven Clift, teledemocracy guru and chair of the pioneering online forum Minnesota E-Democracywww.e-democracy.org, says the key lesson learned by the current crop of presidential candidates is that it is not the web but email which can be used as a powerful method of communicating with supporters and the media."Just as we say that early money is better than late money in campaigns, now you could say that early email is better than late email."The London mayoral race is an important one to watch for the development of online politics in Europe, he says. "There are no incumbents, so everything is up for grabs - the internet could just give one candidate the edge."The internet is set to play a part in all stages of the UK   democratic process, from public debate to digital voting and interaction between MPs and constituents.Last week's Queen's Speech contained a representation of the people bill which would allow councils to pilot electronic voting schemes including internet and telephone voting.To enable internet voting the electoral registers held by all local authorities would first have to be digitised, a possibility being examined by theLocal Government Improvement and Development Agency.There would also be security problems, according to Alex Bax of the London Research Centre, a publicly-funded research body due to be integrated into the new Greater London Authority. "How would you tell who was voting? Smart cards could be used for identification, but if they were commercially-issued, there would be ethical problems and not everyone might have one."So the government would have to issue smart cards to everyone - a proposal forcefully opposed by privacy groups.The independent Electoral Reform Societyis planning research into the   legal issues surrounding electronic voting.Peter Facey, the society's parliamentary officer, says: "Nobody has done the work on what changes you would need to electoral law and what legal safeguards you would need to put in place. How would we safeguard the security of the ballot, and would it be very difficult to introduce without a major change in the way we run our elections?"Closer on the horizon is the incorporation of electronic interaction between citizens and MPs. This week sees the start of the first online inquiry by a commons select committee, as invited individuals join MPs on the public administration select committee in an email debate on e-democracy run by theHansard Society.Dr Stephen Coleman, director of the society's parliament and electronic media programme, says: "I would hope that within the foreseeable future, every major select committee inquiry, and each examination of significant draft legislation, will have its own online discussion involving   members of the public."The society is building a virtual MP's office to demonstrate how politicians are likely to work in the future. It is also talking to digital TV companies about creating local constituency channels linking MPs and constituents, and with BBC Online about an online Hansard Feedback site inviting public debate linked to the daily record of parliamentary proceedings.Coleman says that, to be effective, online democracy must emphasise debate rather than technopopulism. "Politics has tended to be too much about how people vote and too little about how they think, learn and arrive at decisions."The danger of online plebiscites would be that instant reactions and public whims could be given an undue importance. If electronic democracy has a future, it must be rooted in a culture of informed discussion."&#149;  The National Grid for Democracy mentioned in last week's Web watch which hopes to "change the face of British cyber politics for ever" is having teething problems. The site, unveiled on Monday atwww.margaretmoran.orgstill had large lumps under construction at the time of going to press this week.How they shape upFrank Dobson, Labourwww.frank-dobson.org.ukDobson's rather overcrowded site makes great play of his stellar endorsements, from the prime minister Tony Blair downwards, and his trademark no-nonsense style. You can email a question for Frank to answer, although those posted look suspiciously planted.Glenda Jackson, Labourwww.glendajackson.co.ukA friendly feel, and the best slogans: For a greater London, and There IS such a thing as society. Jackson is the only candidate whose internet domain name has the corporate suffix .co.uk rather than the non-profit org.uk - a New Labour signal?Darren Johnson, Greenwww.greenparty.org.uk/gla2000Johnson doesn't have his own site, just a corner of his party's, which may reflect the Greens' co-operative outlook or his campaign budget. A dull site with technical glitches.Susan Kramer, Lib Demwww.susankramer.orgA clean design, orange and yellow (which looks better than it sounds). Kramer plans to walk every high street in the capital - Londoners can find out when she will be down their way.Ken Livingstone, Labourwww.livingstoneforlondon.org.ukLivingstone's site glimmers with pale green and blue - no red in sight, an ironic adoption of New Labour's colour-sensitivity. Visitors can print off a six-point campaign card, or buy badges and stickers. Highlight is a cheeky open letter to Tony Blair, reprinted from The Guardian, promising to toe the line.The ex-candidates...Poor oldJeffrey Archer'swww.jeffreyarcher.co.uk, which just last week carried photos of the great man in statesmanlike poses, has been replaced by a blank yellow page.Could this mean thatSteve Norris' trendy .com domainwww.norrisforlondon.comis due for a comeback?MeanwhileKen Baldrywww.art-science.com/London/maintains his garish site as a memento to his short-lived Labour candidature.How it should be done...Mayor Rudolph W Giulianiwww.ci.nyc.ny.us/html/omThe web site of the world's most famous city mayor shows how it should be done, with online recordings of his own radio show and video clips of his daily press briefings.
Amazon.com yesterday announced an alliance with Ashford.com, the only publicly listed online luxury goods company in the US, in a deal which underlines the online retailer's aggressive expansion plans.Warren Jenson, the recently appointed chief financial officer of the company, said 13 of Amazon's 15 business divisions had started in the past 12 months, a phenomenal rate of growth for a company which started as an online bookseller.It is to invest $10m (&#163;6.25m) in Ashford, which is facing increasing competition from fledgling luxury goods sellers from Tiffany to Luxuryfinder.com. As part of the deal, Amazon will own 16% of Ashford.The two groups will also launch a series of joint marketing and strategic initiatives following the alliance. Amazon is expected to receive a percentage of any sale carried out on its site, although details of the finances were not available yesterday.Amazon, headed by Jeff Bezos, above, who owns 42% of the company, had gained 8 million customers in the past 12 months, Mr Jenson said.It has bought stakes in pet supply companies, drugs and groceries businesses in the past year as it has expanded into Europe and started a new distribution facility.The group has pioneered growth through market share rather than profits and has paid for several acquisitions with its highly valued paper.Mr Jenson yesterday said its operating loss as a percentage of net sales was lower than those for other online groups such as eToys. However, he admitted that gross margins needed to be improved and said the group planned several improvements to its inventory, supplies and shipping procedures.   Shares in the group yesterday fell almost $1 to $84 in a relatively weak day for internet stocks.Henry Blodget, the highly rated internet analyst at Merrill Lynch, issued a note to investors which said online companies that sell to consumers were likely to suffer a "pullback" after Christmas, but reiterated the view that online companies which target the business market would grow much faster.
Europe's internet sector is poised to break through the $50bn (&#163;31bn) barrier, making it more valuable than the region's steel and packaging industries combined in terms of market capitalisation.Dot.com fever has almost tripled the value of European net stocks over the past two months, according to figures from Merrill Lynch.Peter Bradshaw, an analyst with Merrill Lynch, said the top 40 European internet stocks are now worth $46bn, compared with $17bn two   months ago. He expects the sector's value to exceed $50bn before Christmas. In September Mr Bradshaw predicted a $50bn valuation by mid-2000.Steel and packaging are worth about $20bn each, Merrill Lynch said. "The internet is an enormous sector in its own right now," Mr Bradshaw said. "Many people will be surprised by just how much the landscape has shifted over the past year."Half the growth was due to stock price increases, with the rest down to new issues, he said. The fact that internet companies often only float off   a limited volume of their shares also increases demand for the stocks.Terra Networks, the recently floated Spanish internet service provider, is Europe's largest internet stock, with a valuation of $9.4bn; Britain's Freeserve, commanding a valuation of $4.7bn, takes second place.New British net issues continue to fuel the fire.365 Corporation, which provides websites for popular pastimes such as rock music and football, floats on the London stock exchange this morning. The company announced yes terday that its issue price would be 160p a share - the top of the expected range. The company will be valued at &#163;285m.Financial Spreads, the financial bookmaker, believes the shares could surge as high as 224-230p when they begin trading. The issue was more than 10 times oversubscribed and chief executive Dan Thompson said there had been strong demand from institutional investors.Freecom.net, which made its debut on Aim yesterday, was 20 times oversubscribed. The shares more than doubled on   their first day of trading, valuing the e-commerce provider at about &#163;110m and it shares at 293p. The issue was priced at 130p.The couple behind the company, Michael and Caroline Williams of Oxford, boosted their paper fortune by &#163;6.1m and raised &#163;20m from the part flotation of Freecom.The Williamses started the business in 1990 to produce corporate videos with the late Brian Redhead, the radio presenter, but in 1996 they turned their attention to the internet after realising its growth potential.Staff with share options - from top-level managers to cleaners - all benefited as a frenzied rush for the shares among investors drove their price up more than 120%. The 23-year-old who runs the telesales operation is now worth about &#163;500 000.Mr Williams, 56, said: "What can I say? This is just brilliant news for us and our staff."Freecom is aiming to use the money raised to pay for new servers, launch an aggressive marketing campaign and open extra offices.Europe's next big internet float will be Netherlands-  based World Online, which is expected to be valued at about &#163;4-5bn.However, there are unlikely to be any more major flotations before the end of the year as corporate financiers wind down before Christmas and flotations are held off to avoid any possible Y2K problems. A rush is expected in the first quarter of next year."If you thought the autumn was busy, just wait until the new year," said one banker at a leading investment house. "It's going to be one of the most hectic periods for a very long time."
It is every bank customer's worst nightmare. After tapping your pin number into a cashpoint machine and glancing at the balance on the screen, you do a quick double-take and stare at the screen in disbelief: more than &#163;4,000 has been removed from your account in less than 48 hours.Passers-by cast concerned looks as you squeal in horror. You know the card hasn't been lost or stolen, as it has been with you all the time. So how have the fraudsters got their hands on your cash?When this happened to me in the summer I was baffled. My bank balance was unusually healthy as I was virtually confined to home after recovering from the birth of my daughter by caesarean section. I could safely assume that the debit card had not been compromised due to my own negligence.But as I rested at home, my card had been cloned and my account was quietly being drained of thousands of pounds. The money disappeared in dozens of BT payphones, at Texaco petrol stations hundreds of miles away (I didn't even have a car at the time) and at companies I had never heard of in mainland Europe, plus a Tesco supermarket in Essex. One card payment was for more than &#163;1,500 to a telecommunications com pany in France and another for a similar amount went to the same company on the same day. Yet the first I knew about the fraud was when I checked my current account balance at the cashpoint.The first question the staff at the Co-operative Bank's fraud department directed at me was: "Have you used the internet to purchase anything with your card over the last few months?" I remembered giving my card details over the net on one occasion, four months earlier, to buy a baby shawl, which had arrived safely at my home and had cost about &#163;20. I liked the shawl, but at that moment I didn't think it was worth more than &#163;4,000.But the bank's fraud department seemed confident that the internet was to blame. Nobody actually knows how the card was cloned, but bank staff told me that since the boom in e-commerce, credit card fraud was endemic and they were extremely busy.The website where I bought the shawl is secure. And the site's general manager is horrified that the bank pinned the fraud on the internet. "I am absolutely staggered. We have not had a single complaint about fraud," he says. "My view of this is that it is very convenient for the bank to say that, but there could be a number of different reasons for the card being cloned. It could have been at a travel agents, if it was used to buy something over the phone or at a restaurant."Fair point, but I hardly used my debit card at all in the preceding months and certainly not in restaurants and travel agents.The Co-operative, is more cautious. "You can compro mise your card on the internet because you are giving out information to another person and you don't know what they are going to do with that information," says a spokesman. "Some 99.99% of people are genuine, but there are people who use the information fraudulently. That is the danger."Steven Philippsohn, head of commercial fraud at Philippsohn Crawfords Berwald solicitors in London says it is possible to obtain credit card numbers and programs that generate card numbers from the web. "As e-commerce proliferates and while credit cards remain a major means of payment, so the opportunities to commit credit   card frauds will grow. If it were not at least a perceived problem, we would not have seen the development of more secure cards designed to be used over the internet."He says victims should be encouraged to report the incidents to help encourage law enforcement. "While credit card companies may be sensitive about publicity in respect of security of using their cards, the public know that credit card fraud is prevalent," he adds.I told the police, but no arrests have been made.
This Christmas will mark the climax of a big year for e-commerce in the United Kingdom. Shoppers in this country have spent &#163;2bn online in the last 12 months, and web retailers have high hopes for the festive season.With all this money being spent online, should we really still be hung up on credit card security? Publicly, credit card companies, banks and electronic retailers pooh-pooh "scare stories", and insist e-commerce is safe provided shoppers exercise common sense. Fraud on the internet is a minor problem, they say.But research, and the card companies' actions, suggest otherwise. PricewaterhouseCoopers says fraudulent e-commerce transactions make up half the annual fraud total in the US. In the UK, the National Criminal Intelligence Service says that internet fraud is "an emerging threat" that will increase significantly.British banks, said to be concerned by online fraud, are working on improving security for credit card transactions - in particular to stop programs, easily downloaded from the net, which can make "valid" credit card numbers from an algorithm. Fraudsters can then use those numbers for small "virtual" purchases, like access to porn sites, in the hope that the small transactions will not be checked by retailers or the real card holders.When shoppers like Helen Carter (see panel) do realise they are the victims of fraud, their problem is almost instantly blamed on the net.So where does the truth lie?Anthony Abraham, of Canadian-based watchdog Fraud Watch, says it's somewhere in the middle. Credit cards were not designed for the uses they are put to today. Safeguards such as signatures, magnetic strips and holograms were all designed for face to face transactions.But credit cards are still the best bet for buying goods over the internet simply because even if you are caught up in a scam, the worst you face is a   maximum bill of &#163;50 - after a nasty fright when you get your statement."Most consumers don't know where to shop on the net," says Abraham. "Using a credit card, at least you know you're not going to be liable for more than &#163;50. And in many cases the credit card company will simply write it off, if they find the credit card has not been authorised."As far as we go today, that's probably the best thing you've got going for you. Cheques are no good because you may send it and the vendor simply runs off with your money - that's a big problem with auction sites. And you can't send money orders because you can't get them back."So for e-commerce credit cards are just the best payment method of a mediocre bunch."To my mind," says Abraham, "the credit card has always been meant to be used in person, where a person can actually go to a store, which can ensure that his signature is the one on the back of the card. Now, people use the credit card over the phone, and over the internet. The problem isn't just over the internet - it lies in how merchants have over the years accepted their use."Even sites using Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) are not automatically safe to shop at, he points out. The technology ensures information is secure while in transit over the internet, but if that sensitive information is on its way to a fraudulent merchant, it will make no difference."The number one complaint at our site is credit card fraud. If someone gives their credit card to a so-called fraud merchant, first you're billed for services that were probably never rendered. Second, the site disappears with your number. Third, a lot of these merchants sell the numbers on, so who knows who could be using your card number in the future? What you end up having to do is cancel your card once you hear about it."But Sandra Alzetta, senior vice president of e-commerce in the European Union for   Visa, insists fraud is not a big problem. "I'm a bit alarmed to see all this stuff on television and in newspapers," she says. "It is quite right to highlight the issues of fraud, but what we don't want is scaremongering and mass panic." Visa does not keep statistics on internet-specific fraud, but says that fraud in total makes up "less than 0.1%" of its total transactions."Fraud will always happen where you have money involved," she says. "You have a thief who wants to steal money or an academic who   wants to show off his prowess by showing he can break security features. While it would be lovely to say 'one day there will be no fraud', that's not the case. What we need to do is manage it so it's a very small problem."She also tries to explain recent figures from industry body the Credit Card Research Group which, despite aiming to promote the use of credit and debt cards, showed that although the internet only made up 2% of transactions, it generated 50% of complaints. She says the large   numbers of people going online and shopping for the first time means a large number of queries about problems which may be the fault of the shoppers themselves."We are seeing a disproportionate number of disputes raised from internet based transactions as opposed to face to face transactions. But that's completely as you would expect when you have something that is new. Disputes are when a customer is picking up a phone and calling the issuing bank to say 'I've got a question for you'."Alzetta says "complaints" divide into three piles: queries where cardholders have ordered something by accident, cases where merchants worry cardholders through "sloppy practices" like not putting their publicly recognised name on the statements, and more rarely, genuine cases of fraud."One of the things we are working on is customer regulation, to say that in the future, the actual name of the website has to appear on your statement," she adds. "There are a whole bunch of things like that where there is no fraud involved, but there are queries. We have to educate cardholders, educate merchants and bring in best practices."Alan Stevens of Which? Online, the Consumers' Association's online arm, also says educating consumers is the key issue. Using credit cards over the net is safe - but only when following strict guidelines, he says. "We would say yes, you are safe to use credit cards over the net, given two provisos: the first being that you're connected to a secure site, with the closed padlock or https showing and, secondly, if you're using a site based in the UK so that, for example, the Sale of Goods Act and the Consumer Credit Act come into play."Fail to follow that advice, says Stevens, and the risks shoot up. "If you're buying from outside the European Union, you have to be aware that there are potentially no guarantees of redress. If you're buying low budget items like a ticket, or a CD,   and you're prepared to take the risk that's fine, but you have to be prepared to take that risk."If you follow the advice, the lawmakers are looking after you. If your credit card was misused in any way without your knowledge, then you would not be liable and, therefore, it is fair to say that if it's a secure site in the UK, you are safe shopping over the net. It's right to say credit cards weren't designed for use over the net, but they work perfectly well, given the right circumstances."More than anything, says Richard Tyson-Davies of the Association for Payment Clearing Services, we've become dependant on our flexible friends for so many of our routine transactions that we are willing to face a degree of risk in using them."I think that in this country, payments where the card are not present have grown enormously, and are a way of life. Initially they were for buying flowers or cinema tickets, but we couldn't man  age without them now and I don't think that any bank would dream of removing the facility for its customers. The numbers of problems which emerge are still minuscule. Most customers can use the   web &#91;to shop&#93; if they apply normal sense to it. It would be ludicrous for the banks to stop people when they themselves are trying to promote web banking in all its forms."He adds that technology    may also go some way to solving the problem that it has created. "Smart" cards with microchips embedded in them are expected to arrive in two years' time and wipe out duplication or "skimming" of   credit cards. They will also help authenticate cards in online transactions."Having a chip on the card means you can employ a whole new raft of security. You could have a reader on   your PC or even your phone, and that would provide an additional reassurance to the retailer that you actually have the card when making the transaction."In the meantime, online   shoppers will just have to make up for the credit card's lack of high-tech credentials, by parting with their details with great care - and making sure they scan their bills carefully every month.Staying safe on the netTen tips to help you avoid being the the victim of online fraud1Look for security. When you order goods, the website should switch to a secure section - look for an unbroken key or lock in the bottom left hand corner of your screen, and the internet address changing from "http:" to "https:". Never shop without this basic security.2Deal only with businesses you trust. Make sure you know where it is physically located, so that you have an idea of what laws it will be governed by.3Shop only with UK-based websites. Then at least you know you have British consumer protection laws on your side.4Look out for schemes like the Consumers' Association's Which? Online webtrader scheme. That means the site has been inspected and approved, and the association will guarantee the security of your transaction.5Keep records. Print out or save order verification screens and order confirmation numbers so that - just like a till receipt - you have some proof of your order.6Take your time. High pressure sales tactics online, just like the real world, often indicate possible frauds.7Check return policies, delivery details and privacy statements, which should all be available on any reputable retailer's website. They should tell you what happens if your goods are damaged or faulty, how soon they should arrive, and what happens to your personal information.8Beware of buying from unsolicited emails, newsgroup postings, chat rooms or online auctions. If anything goes wrong redress could be difficult. And, whatever you do, don't give away your credit card details.9Don't judge reliability by a flashy website. Increasing numbers of con-merchants are taking the simple steps of buying internet addresses and slick websites to help their scams.10If in doubt about an offer, ask. A legitimate company will be happy to help, while frauds might be more reluctant.
E-commerce is very focused on the new. People get excited about companies that claim to have discovered new markets that aren't yet being properly addressed online. Established sectors are generally dismissed as less interesting. The assumption seems to be that successful first movers have probably got things right so all competitors can do is copy their approach, perhaps tweaking it slightly.Take selling books online.   Amazon showed how to do it and all subsequent sites, from net-only concerns likeBOLandAlphabet Streetto real world chains likeWH SmithandWaterstones, have imitated their basic model. So much the net as a hotbed of innovation and experiment.But the newest entrant to this increasingly crowded sector is trying something different. Ottakar's, a rather traditional, vaguely quirky chain of 71 real world book shops, recently opened online atwww.ottakars.co.uk.The shopping basket/checkout metaphors and search boxes are still there. But the site does offer a rather different net shopping experience, primarily because it tries to link its online presence with its real world local branches, in what e-commerce gurus refer to as a "clicks and mortar" strategy.Clicks and mortar has often been dismissed by analysts who suggest that real world outfits that move online will end up cannibalising their existing business. They argue that where clicks and mortar has worked, it's been more the result of the amount of mortar involved.For example, the giant US book retailer Barnes and Noble has used its considerable real world heft to get better discounts out of US publishers so it can undercut Amazon online.For Ottakar's MD and founder James Heneage, clicks and mortar is more about taking your real world selling points online. "The main idea behind the site is to bring the enthusiasm and knowledge in our real world shops on to the net. Our staff know a great deal about books. That's why people come back to us. Also, our shops are locally oriented and highly individual. We wanted to portray that online."Reviews posted on the site come from Ottakar's staff around the country. And each individual branch has its own site. These have deliberately been given a sort of low-tech   "homepage" look, with pictures of the staff, home made maps and details of in-store events. Now you have to access the branch sites via the main site, but in future, you will be able to go them directly and buy through them.The staff's expertise will be available via a feature called "Ask the expert". Here punters can post queries about particular books and they will be answered by a staff member. Heneage says that all these attempts to reach out to the local branches will help to get the Ottakar's staff behind the website. It should also bring home to people the things lacking from net-only bookstores and make Ottakar's stand out a little in an increasingly crowded market.The site does have a few of the standard promotions and discounts. But there are other content innovations, including a daily quiz and a book gossip column. The main site will also feature micro sites devoted to specific genres or areas. Heneage says he hopes to open one every couple of months. The first, called Outland, is devoted to science fiction. Run by an Ottakar's branch manager, it's an SF webzine, with author interviews, reviews and features. Heneage says the idea was to tap into the online community idea. For example, readers will be able to post reviews here .Though Heneage says his company can't throw money at promotion the way the likes of Amazon and BOL do, Ottakar's did make a bit of a splash at its launch: journalists attending were offered &#163;50 worth of free books each month for the next year (an offer this newspaper won't be taking up). Perhaps it's an indication of the amount of money in the e-commerce   world at the moment, or the lengths people have to go to for attention.At the moment, ever lower prices on the big new books seem to be the way that the big sites are aiming to build traffic and revenues. Heneage says Ottakar's will match the 50% discounts now common on lead titles and new books and that these cuts will also apply in the real world stores.But they won't be discounting lots of backlist titles the way Amazon and others do. As for delivery, Heneage says he aims to be competitive in terms of time and price with Amazon, whom he describes as currently the best book site in terms of fulfilment. However, online customers worried that they won't be in to get their books can arrange to get them delivered for free to their local branch.You could argue that if you're going to go the local bookshop anyway (and prices are roughly compatible), there's little point in going online in the first place (unless you're after a more out-of-the-way title). And the system of one central site and lots of small local satellite sites could be confusing.Heneage says the company has deliberately given itself plenty of time to see how things work. "Our objectives online are to begin with pretty modest. We hope to persuade our existing customer base to shop with us when they come online. Because we are very trusted brand, we think people will naturally come to us." Their long-term strategy is, he continues, "to persuade a provincial audience to buy some of their books online with us. At the moment most of them aren't doing it,   because they aren't online. They may be online next year. So we're trying to frame a web site that keys in to what it will be like then".Of course, it could be that, once they get online, those provincial customers won't really care about local identity. They might turn out to be just like existing consumers, interested mainly in getting the books they want, as quickly and as cheaply as possible. In which case, Ottakar's site will be judged less on the local content and more on performance - ease of shopping, hassle-free delivery, customer service - all the things Amazon majors in.However, if the first couple of weeks of business are anything to go on, Ottakar's clicks and mortar strategy seems to be working. Heneage comments that early takings have been encouraging, "though it's still a fraction of what the chain as a whole takes. It's still very small beer."Interestingly, the chance to pick up your books at a real world shop is proving popular; around 50% of customers have opted to do that. "That does seem to undermine some of the virtual, internet- only companies," Heneage observes.He goes on to point out that customers especially like the daily quiz and the general cosiness of the site (a deliberate attempt to counter the "white space" retail aesthetic pioneered by Amazon).Within a week, according to Heneage, Waterstones had introduced a daily quiz and an "Ask the feature on its own site atwww.waterstones.co.uk. It's a sign that Ottakar's is doing something right, though it's also frustrating that innovations can be matched in under seven days."What we're learning," Heneage concludes, "is that you have to be in a state of constant revolutions. You need to be thinking about constant updates, about changing things all the time."
If the digital video disc, DVD, is the medium of the future, then The Matrix is the future of the medium. So, at least, the hype would have us believe. And it is relying heavily on big box office hits like The Matrix, which took almost $400m worldwide, to boost its profile.This sci-fi thriller, starring Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne, is the perfect candidate for home-cinema treatment. With its big sci-fi concept, eye-popping special effects and panoramic settings, it's just the sort of film that inspires format snobbery ("What? You bought The Matrix on  video?!").One question this release may settle is: how much added value should the added-value package offer? Until now, most DVD releases have been simple conversions, with quality the main attraction: Dolby 5.1 stereo, widescreen format. But the format allows extra space; depending on the type of DVD, anything from 5GB to 10GB of data can be   included. This works out as well over two hours of high-quality video, allowing for some enticing extras. On certain titles, bonus carrots have been thrown in: missing scenes, documentary footage, interviews, etc.The Matrix offers a whole field of carrots. As well as a 26-minute "making of" film, production notes and the theatrical trailer, two interactive features provide further behind-the-scenes info that you can access directly from within the film. (Commentaries by members of the film's crew and co-star Carrie Ann-Moss, were inexplicably dropped from the UK version.)But the real sign that production companies are finally wising up to the versatility of the format is the way that this particular title also offers enhancements for DVD-rom. Those with PCs, therefore, can also enjoy a trivia game based on the movie, original essays on topics relating to the film (comic books, sci-fi and martial arts), a full   screenplay and storyboard, a reproduction of the film's website, and even even a dissertation on popular metaphysics.Much of this material is available elsewhere. The Making Of was made by HBO, the US TV channel, and has probably been shown a thousand times on the Sci-Fi channel. But the convenient grouping of all these extras, and the effort that has been made to integrate them into the film, makes an attractive package. There's more detail here than any socially acceptable person could want (although the socially acceptable person isn't necessarily top of Warner's hit list).But chances are that you won't be able to access half the features anyway. Compatibility problems have already been reported with certain models of Goldstar, Grundig and Samsung DVD players. Consensus seems to be that it is not the disk that is at fault; rather, that its sophistication has taken hardware manufac turers by surprise. In most cases, the companies concerned will be happy to suggest work arounds or, if necessary, offer firmware upgrades.The problems may prove a bit of a knock to Warner's hopes that The Matrix would become the first million-selling DVD. But if you are confident about your DVD system the title is retailing on the internet for as little as &#163;14.99 including postage - &#163;5 less than RRP at, for example,www.play247.com.The Matrix may be state of the art now, but DVD won't come into its own until films start being made with the format specifically in mind - shot from several angles, for instance, so viewers can choose how to watch the film, or with alternative scenes. But until the first interactive movie comes along, The Matrix will be the yardstick by which all DVD releases are measured.&#149; The Matrix, Warner Home Entertainment, &#163;19.99
How important is the computer to your work?I couldn't function without it. As I'm talking to you now I'm sitting in front of a VHS of a documentary I'm working on and I have the computer open. I started off on a battered old Remington typewriter and I couldn't count the number of pieces of paper that got torn up and thrown in the waste basket.What are you using?A Toshiba 490 laptop with a Pentium II processor travels around the world with me. I'm running Windows on it but, alas, only Windows 95. I've had it for about a year but I've also got a CTX system at home.How long have you been using computers?I bought my first computer in South Africa in 1992 - a big, ancient IBM. I hated it at the start because I lost three chapters of a book through simple ignorance of how to use it. After that I bought my first Toshiba laptop which was very robust and bounced around the townships with me for a couple of years.How reliable is information on the net?It very much depends on the kind of sites involved. If you go to a newspaper archive then it's, generally speaking, pretty reliable. I was working on a piece about war crimes tribunals and the sites the UN keeps are very dependable. But I'm very wary of opinion sites that masquerade as fact.Any favourite places on the net?I like theBBC Online site. All bullshit aside I like Guardian Unlimited. I also like to keep in touch with the South African papers like theCape Timesand theCape Argus.  I have this dream of someday buying a holiday cottage in Cape Town so I'm always looking up estate agents there -on my home computer I hasten to add, not the BBC's.Where do you see the net going?I was in a big argument with a friend a few years ago who said that newspapers were dead and that the net would take over. I think newspapers and the printed word will survive. I do think, however, that we will see a lot more books as software and packages that have seven or eight novels on them. Ten years ago if you'd asked me, I would have predicted something completely inaccurate. That's the thing, none of us knows where it's going.Is there anything you particularly like about technology?The very first book I wrote was on a typewriter - then I would have to get it professionally typed up. I can now sit down and write a book on my home computer and email it. I also think it improves the fluency of one's writing - some people say that it means you don't redraft enough but I now edit as I go along.What are you working on?A series for BBC 1 about a foreign correspondent travelling through the margins of Britain. It should be out sometime in late spring.
Mechanical writingCan a computer write fiction as good as that written by a human? Judge for yourself by going toInstantNovelist.com/human.html. Posted on the site    are five 500-word stories, four written by humans, but a fifth by Brutus.1, a fiction-writing program developed by theMinds and Machines Laboratory. Visitors to the site voted both for their favourite story and the one they thought was written by the machine. The results were reassuring for human writers, but only just. Brutas.1 did come bottom of the favourite list, but three-quarters of the voters failed to identify the machine's prose. What's more, the humans had a month to write their stories, whereas Brutas.1 took a few seconds.Trace UrbanYesterday was World Aids Day and an online auction is being held at a new "e-commerce portal dedicated to global urban culture",Traceurban.com. The site, backed by hip hop magazineTracemag.com, is raising money for projects in Africa, where in some countries Aids has blighted as many as a third of the population.Birdseye viewCaptainbirdseye.comis one of the sassiest pieces of Flash animation to appear on the web. Aimed at children, its interactive adventures are updated regularly. Kids must register with the site before selecting the avatar or character they will use in the adventures. A shameless piece of advertising, but it is very slick.Board gamesClaiming to offer all you ever wanted to know about snowboarding but were afraid to ask,www.board-it.comis a must for newcomers. It is full of details about where to find the best white powder (that's snow, dude), as well as deals on flights and reviews.Bond is backThe world might not be enough for Bond's enemies but the web offers enough for even the most devoted 007 fan. The official site atwww.jamesbond.comhas some smart QuickTime movies from the new film, plus clips from the past. Product placement is now a key feature of Bond movies, so Omega, maker of Bond's watch, has its own site atwww.omega.ch.It's worth a look for a nifty online adventure and lots of information on Bond's numerous gadgets. There is also a good unofficial Bond site atwww.mcs.net/~klast/www/bond.htmlSurely some mistakeError pages, don't you just love them? Apparently some do, and a catalogue of the best "404 not found" errors has been put together atwww.plinko.net/404Six of the bestNet radioYahoo! radiohttp://radio.yahoo.comAudio-on-demandwww.orang.orgTune into some San Francisco funkwww.betalounge.comDope on the netwww.boombox.netStations and styles from around the worldwww.realguide.comElectronic edgehttp://contour.net
For only $10,000 a day, usability expert Jakob Nielsen will tell you why your website is rubbish. Surprisingly, what you get for the money isn't a high-powered marketing executive, or even an expert in web programming. He's just a deliberately ordinary user with a dial-up modem.What's unusual about Nielsen is his understanding of the way websites work - and the growth of e-commerce has suddenly made that valuable to lots of big companies. As Nielsen says: "For anybody who is selling online, even the smallest usability improvement has an incredibly positive pay-off ratio. The cost of getting my feedback is much lower than the benefit from taking my advice."This idea has already been accepted in the design world, partly through the work of Donald Norman, the former Apple usability expert who wrote The Design Of Everyday Things and a partner in the Nielsen Norman Group, a consultancy.Nielsen, settling into a sofa in a central London hotel, explains that usability is even more important on the web than businesses have realised, because e-commerce has changed the way it works."The web is no longer   about brand image, the web is about customer experience," Nielsen says. "The web reverses the relationship between the two different types of communication."In the industrial age, you got a huge number of marketing impressions compared with the number of experiences. How often do you rent a car compared with how often you see television advertising or logos for car rental companies? The web is the opposite: the web is nothing but customer experience." If the experience isn't good, users will go to a different site to rent that car, or whatever.Nielsen cites American bookseller Barnes and Noble as an example of a company making this industrial age marketing mistake on its website. "They weren't focusing on how to buy a book, they were focusing on building their brand, which is so arrogant. They were saying: 'Because we are a famous bookstore, you should buy from us and not &#91;Amazon&#93;.' Everybody who tried the two sites decided it was enormously easier to buy the book from Amazon, so that's what they did."Focus on the customer experience - how easy is it to find and buy a book? - makes it hard to justify the   "bouncing heads, spinning logos," and other graphics added to make websites look cool."It's sad because animation is almost a negative design element," Nielsen says. "On the web today, animated graphics equals useless in many people's minds, so they ignore things even if they could in fact be quite good. They skip the slogans, they skip the branding messages, and they skip the advertisements, so the amount that goes into the user experience is very very small."Since users mentally strip out the rubbish there's not much point in putting it in, and I suggest Google, the search engine atwww.google.com, as a wonderful example of minimalist design."That's truly one of my favourites," says Nielsen, "but I didn't want to mention it because I've been involved with them. But the real message of Google is that the other search engines have abandoned their responsibilities. It's a disgrace, really. They got so caught up in chasing the   latest fad they forgot why people go there. Every time they do a redesign their search boxes get smaller and smaller and harder to find. They're spiting their customers, really. In the long term, that's not a viable strategy."Google has focused on taking one thing that we know is really important - searching - and doing it much better than the others. The others are just second rate now, so that's where they should focus."Another advantage of minimalist designs is that they can be fast. "Response times rule the web: if it's faster, it's better," Nielsen exclaims. "We say this because when we do studies, all users say the same thing: they don't want to wait for slow download times."Other people did research on &#91;computer&#93; response times back in the 1960s, and we know they have to be less than one second. Subsecond response times dramatically enhance the user's feeling of confidence and control and of under standing what they're doing. Productivity goes way up as well, because now you dare to move where you want to move. When the user worries - 'should I click or should I not click? It's going to hurt me if I do' - you get a suboptimal use of the system."We've known this for 30 years, so why don't people follow it? The fact that it's based on a different technology doesn't matter, because we're talking about humans here and they're the same... unless you give everyone a lobotomy or something to slow them down."Nielsen's own website, Alertbox, is not just minimalist, it looks almost undesigned. I ask Nielsen if it puts people off because it's so clearly intended to be not flash?"That's true: it's almost like a provocation that I do it the way I do," he says. "I would not necessarily recommend that, say, an e-commerce site be done in that style. But I do want to emphasise that you can do websites based on text. There's so much under-emphasis on content on the web today, but it's why people are online to begin with."There are cases where it's appropriate to do a video   or an animation, and as we get more bandwidth, more places will emerge where it's appropriate to use multimedia. However, it's almost unheard of to see good uses of multimedia on the web today. It's almost always used for effect, not for something users benefit from."I'm the tireless defender of users' rights, and in the modern world, there's a very great degree of correspondence between what's right for users and what companies need to do to survive. You can't just design what you like, you've got to design what users like."And if you don't do it, someone else will. There are millions of websites out there and people will go where they're well treated. You've got to tell people that ultimate truth, even if it's very difficult to do."&#149;   Jakob Nielsen publishes his articles about website design free atwww.alertbox.comNielsen Norman Group is atwww.nngroup.com
Sega suffersSega lost Y19.12bn in the last six months after splashing out to promote the Dreamcast games console in the US and Europe. This compares with a profit of Y1.21bn for the same period last year.Dreamcast sales were below expectations in Japan, but it has been a hit in the US, where sales have passed the million mark since the September 9 launch. The company now expects to sell almost 5 million consoles worldwide in the year to March, and 10 million in 2000-01. Sega also plans to spin off 10 new self-support ing subsidiaries next year, and the internet-based units will aim for their own stock-market listings.Killing time'Tis the season to choose your weapon and massacre as many people as you can - only in the virtual world, of course. After many delays, it looks as though there will be two FPS (first person shooters) to choose from. GTI's Unreal Tournament Edition may hit the shelves tomorrow, while id Software's Quake III Arena has been completed in the US, and should appear before Christmas. Think of Quake III as a multi-player-only version of Quake II with better graphics (only one of the multi-players need be human). Dealer paper Computer Trade Weekly thinks "consumer demand &#91;for Quake III&#93; is likely to reach unprecedented levels, and could beat current PC record holder Championship Manager 3's 55,000 first week sales".Get a lifeComputer gaming isn't all death and destruction. Two British "artificial life" programs, Creatures Adventures  andCreatures 3, are also due to reach UK shops tomorrow. Creatures 3 is an upgraded version of the first two in the series. Creatures Adventures is designed "for kids of all ages" but mainly ages four to 10.In this version, your virtual life forms, Norns, can explore 15 themed areas including a garden, a playroom, and a magic castle. The games are for Windows 95/98 and are published by Mindscape.Trivial ideasGameplay.com, the UK-based online gaming network, is branching out into trivia quiz games after taking over Internet Digital Media's doUno (pronounced "do you know") online games system. The multiple-choice games are free to enter but there are    monthly prizes for the players with the highest scores each month.Gameplayis best known for the Wireplay online games network, which it acquired from British Telecom. Internet portal Lycos is also offering quizzes and card games online, having just taken over a US supplier,Gamesville.com.Web to paperGames Domain, founded in 1994, claims to be the UK's leading online games magazinewww.gamesdomain.co.uk. Yesterday it launched a new version, Games Domain Offline, based on an earlier technology that involves printing words on paper. GDO will not, however, involve anything really shocking, like asking readers for money. The 50,000 copies of the first issue will be given away to shoppers at Somerfield, Morrisons and Co-Op supermarkets.
Skating over the futureTrickstyleSega Dreamcast  Acclaim &#163;39.99With its techno tunes and stylised appearance, Wipeout brought designer credibility to the PlayStation. This helped transfer the console from bedroom to living room and mainstream gaming was born.Undoubtedly influenced by this, Trickstyle uses a similar futuristic aesthetic to flesh out its hover-board action. In a thousand years these souped-up skateboards will be the transport of choice for the discerning hipster and it's up to you to race through London, Tokyo and New York.Actually "race" is a slightly misleading term, as the main route to victory is not pure velocity but rather excessive stunt pulling. This will   frustrate the speed freaks but please 1080 fans as, like Nintendo's classic, there is a real sense of proper physics.In fact things get a bit too realistic at times. With little margin for error any split second mistake causes your board to lose speed dramatically. Still at least when you slow down you can admire the scenery that, once again, makes you glad you splashed out on the Dreamcast.Skyscrapers, Big Ben and wonderful lighting effects accompany you during the action, although the futuristic urban look is a clich&eacute;.Good looking or not, Trickstyle offers a frustratingly tough challenge which may or may not appeal to the mass market. Those with limited attention spans will switch off long before mastering the subtle controls. Those who stick with it will have enjoyed and endured in equal measure which says something about a pleasingly original title.All the fun of the fairTheme Park WorldWindows 95/98, &#163;39.99 Bullfrog/Electronic ArtsSometimes a game will have a feature that's so cool it overrides everything else. In Theme Park World - known in the US as SimTheme Park - that feature is the ability to cruise around your park and enjoy the rides. Instead of viewing your construction from aloft, as is common in "god games", you can get down to ground level and see what the punters see.Or would see, if they were people rather than graphical constructs.In most respects, Theme Park World is just the old Theme Park in better 3D graphics. The main difference is that Theme Park had only one world, whereas TPW has four. To begin with, you can start in a Wild Jungle or Halloween land. If you earn enough golden keys, you can access the Surreal Fantasy and Outer Space lands. It's a bit limited compared with the number of scenarios provided with Hasbro's Roller Coaster Tycoon, but more may follow.Most obviously, TPW   features a pop-up adviser who provides a running commentary on how to play the game. It's useful and done in a pleasant Scottish voice, but after a couple of hours you feel like terminating the damn thing with extreme prejudice.The on-off switch isn't good enough: there should be options, such as Terse and Verbose, so you can cut out   the constant repetitions without losing useful messages.Another significant difference, according to publisher Electronic Arts, is that you will be able to publish your theme parks online ( www. themeparkworld.com ). You can also explore other people's parks - including some created by the programmers at Bullfrog in Guildford -   and nick their ideas.Unfortunately, my installation of TPW crashed repeatedly without warning and didn't save games, even though it claimed to.Since there hasn't been a national outcry, the version that's just reached the shops presumably doesn't suffer from similar problems.The spy who vexed meTomorrow Never DiesPlayStation/PC CD-rom Black OpsBond fans rejoice: you no longer have to own an N64 to play 007. And this is no Goldeneye clone; for a start, it's third person rather than first. And while you can, if you choose, sneak around and pick people off in sniper mode, Black Ops has ensured that a rather more appropriate guns-blazing approach is just as viable.TND is also more than just a shoot-'em-up. As well as some basic puzzling, usually involving gadgets like mines, magnetic cufflinks and spy cameras, skiing and driving sequences keep the gameplay nicely varied. The missions are all based on scenes from the film, and in the   neatest touch of all, on completing the first level you're treated to the movie's title sequence, complete with caterwauling Sheryl Crow and gyrating girlies.Sadly, the execution doesn't quite match the developers' intentions. An erratic interface means even walking straight can be problematic, it's often difficult to see where the baddies are coming from, and the endless variations on the Bond theme soon become a drag.And with 10 missions, no multiplayer option and only two difficulty settings, your tux could be back at the dry-cleaner's before the day is out.
I took care of all - I repeat, all - my Christmas shopping and wrapping this year in just one and half hours. Yes, of course, I did it all from my laptop, at 56K, through Amazon.com's newly expanded toy and electronics department. The experience had the surgical precision of a Gulf War air strike, and left me about as emotionally numb. So does technology threaten to kill the real spirit of Christmas?Don't get me wrong. I was happy back in 1972 when dad brought home our first video game console instead of the usual sweaters and bedroom slippers.Christmas may be a time to celebrate old traditions, but that's no reason why our gift-giving can't reflect our fetish for every new piece of technology that comes down the pike.And if I choose to order all my friends' presents in one efficient sweep through the credit-card-secure pages of the web, Chris Cringle shouldn't mind. He probably has equally mechanical methods of keeping his own list straight.Then why does it feel so devoid of spirit? It is not the internet's fault. The mechanisation with which we can carry out our Yuletide tasks online simply forces us to accept just how commercialised Christmas already is. It was the market that co-opted Christmas. The internet simply co-opted that market.And if a Version 4.0 or better-browser-only Christmas makes this all the more painfully clear, it might really be a blessing in disguise. The internet may be breaking a few traditions, but maybe these are traditions that need some changing. That's what technology is supposed to be about, isn't it?I was on one of those   future of technology panels last month, where we were asked to evaluate the progress of the internet as an agent of change, and how we would measure such a thing. People estimated the number of computer users worldwide, the price and accessibility of internet time, and how much people bought through e-commerce rather than in stores.None of these made sense to me. Those are really just measures of how well computers keep things essentially the way they are. The only way to judge the success of an agent of change would be to ask: is it affecting the human condition? Does the internet move food and supplies around to the people who need them? Does it relieve human suffering, make us more aware of political prisoners, change the plight of refugees? The role of computers as agents of change is to administer the planet properly, and help us figure out, for example, why farmers in some countries are paid to burn food while people in others starve to death. Or to co-ordinate human effort around the globe in a way that hasn't been achieved before.If computers and the internet don't eventually help us in these ways, then they are simply serving to isolate us from those who need our attention. Those of us lucky enough to have access are taken off the streets and most certainly out of Africa. Sure, the internet is fun and exciting as a pure activity. It's like a civilian space program, with real potential for research, social experimentation, and global consciousness. But we are fooling ourselves if we think these applications will yield a speedy reduction in human suffering.Likewise, the measure of how the internet changed Christmas has little to do   with the fact that we buy our presents online instead of from department stores and mail order catalogues as we did in years past. In fact, maybe we shouldn't be so worried about preserving Christmas as we we've traditionally celebrated it, but ending it. Jesus himself was killed for breaking with tradition - not for upholding it. He fought for radical and fundamental change.In a couple of weeks, in spite of the money you've spent, you're going to find   out that the version of the latest videogame extension module you bought for your kids doesn't have the turbo-accelerated hyperspace option they were counting on. And there will be hell to pay.Maybe that will be a good    time to think back on the old German woodsmen, who would drag a tree into their homes on the darkest night of year, long before the ritual was co-opted by a holiday called Christmas. It was to remind them that   things would soon change - that a brighter day was on its way. If the internet has any purpose at all, it is to remind us of the same thing.Christmas might better be a time to celebrate innovation than tradition. A holiday to prove to ourselves that we have the ability - whether thanks to our technology or in spite of it - to experience community on a global scale. For the more things change, the more things change.Happy holidays.
Go anywhereRegarding Jack Schofield's wall to wall web for your home, it is really wonderful to know I can now browse the net while rolling pastry in the kitchen or washing my hair in the bathroom. I'm glad that eventually these gizmos will be "cheap enough to have one in every room".But why stop at one? Surely it would be best to have at least four, one for each wall. They would also be suitable for the potting-shed or the cupboard under the stairs.Could Jack let us know about any appliance that might allow access to the net   while snorkeling or running a 100m race? Or milking a cow?Peter BendallCambridgeNot newThe NetCube at Comdex may have been interesting but it isn't that innovative. Linux has been available on ARM and StrongARM processors for some years. ARM Linux atwww.arm.linux.org.ukstarted as a port for Acorn's ARM based machines and is available for various platforms.The Empeg in-car MP3 player mentioned in Feedback (November 25) uses a StrongARM together with ARM Linux and so is a British designed player, with a British designed processor.Melanie R Lewismelanie@defaid.demon.co.ukHypertextYour interesting piece on XML (Online, November 25) did not quite get HTML's history right. It's not really true   to say HTML was intended as a way of presenting information. It was originally designed to structure data, with very little control over presentation. Instead, successive developments pushed it towards it being just a method of laying out web pages.The irony is that XML has been designed to do what HTML could have become and many people now singing the praises of XML are the very same people who championed the twisting away of HTML from this purpose, deriding it as unnecessary and trivial.Mark Packmarkpack@cix.co.ukSoft optionsThe answer to Victor Keegan's lament (November 25) over the lack of cheap, easily useable software is to be found on the internet where many sites offer shareware or freeware. (Trywww.completelyfreesoftware.comfor a start.)Anyone wanting a simple word processor, with a dictionary (English English rather than American English),    thesaurus etc. should look at CWordPad athttp://cetusoft.comHow about a column each week listing these free/cheap programs?D R Hugheshttp:\\cetusoft.comOne answer to the ever-expanding software problem is to take a step backwards.The most useful piece of hardware I have added to my system recently was a second-hand black and white screen Apple Powerbook, c 1992, bought for &#163;50 at a fair. The advantage of portability well outweighs the limitations of the 40MB hard drive, which is ample for running the excellent general purpose software suite ClarisWorks.This takes up 3MB, and is extensively customisable, and has more than enough facilities for the small business user.There are dealers specialising in second-hand Apple equipment, who offer machines for around &#163;100. They are still more fun than a Wintel box, and not a penny goes to Bill.Steve HarrisSteve@ontheair.free-online.co.ukMac and AOLFollowing J Ashworth's letter in last week's issue on AOL and Apple Macs, (November 18), I have looked into the issue.The following statement from Karen Thomson, managing director, AOL UK is being sent to the member concerned, as well as to all our Mac Beta testers."AOL would like to reassure all its Mac customers that they have certainly not   been forgotten -they are in fact very important to us. We have been working on AOL v.4 for Mac for some time."The software took slightly longer to beta test than we anticipated - but the good news is that AOL v.4 for Mac will launch in December. The v.4 software for Mac promises to make the whole AOL online experience even easier than before."Jocelyn ColeAOL UK, LondonScreen nameWe've been asked to point out that the Global Multimedia Interface in Leicester Square, London, pictured in Online 18/11, was showing art fromDigital Art, not Tomato as we were led to believe.
The consoles are comingToday, online gaming is mainly the province of PC owners - and it's only a small proportion of those - but games consoles will become dominant by 2004, according to the UK-based Datamonitor research company. Although the Sega Dreamcast has already started to bring online games to console users, Datamonitor expects the arrival of the Sony PlayStation 2 and Nintendo Dolphin to power the changeover. It thinks that, by 2004, there will be 28 million online PC games and almost 45 million players with consoles.Quick bytesAdvanced Micro Devices (AMD) is now making the fastest Windows-compatible processor on the planet. The   American company has just started shipping a 750MHz version of its Athlon chip, which compares with 733MHz for Intel's fastest Pentium III. The $799 Athlon, which requires a different type of main board from Intel's chips, is being used in some high-end PCs manufactured by IBM and Compaq. Although the Athlon's higher clock speed does not make a significant difference to performance, it does give AMD bragging rights.Easy, maybePop into a PC World superstore and you should now be able to find an AST Century City computer: the first example of an Easy PC to reach the shelves. The Easy PC initiative, led by Intel and Microsoft, is intended to make Wintel computers easier to use and more reliable by stripping out "legacy features" such as expansion slots and old-style sockets. Century City packs a 500MHz Intel Celeron (Pentium II) processor and 64 megabytes of memory in a slimline case only 30cm tall. (The US version atwww.ast.comhas a Pentium III.) It comes with a 17in screen for &#163;899 inc VAT. Many other PC manufacturers are working on Easy PC-type designs with some   "legacy removal", such as Compaq's iPaq and Hewlett-Packard's e-PC.Kids' stuffThere must now be enough eight-12 year olds using PCs for them to constitute a worthwhile market. At least, that's the idea behind Planet PC, a monthly magazine launched by Bath-based Future Publishing yesterday. The company quotes TGI research which says there are now 6.2 million households with PCs and children aged between five to 15. It remains to be seen how many parents will stump up the requisite &#163;2.95 a month.Showing TV on your wallWe've all been brought up to think of the TV of the future as a flat    screen that hangs on the wall, and that's just what companies are launching every few months. Philips is the latest example with a massive 42in (106cm) widescreen Flat TV screen, the 42PF9952, which works with a receiver housed in a separate box. The real question is whether anyone has managed to get wall-hangers down to an affordable price - but it's not always easy to say because the Office of Fair Trading no longer allows manufacturers like Philips to quote a "recommended retail price". So the good news is that a home cinema buff can now buy a 42in plasma screen to hang on the wall. The bad news is that it will cost about &#163;8,000, which is 10 times too much for the mass market.Only projectThe other good thing about wall-hanging TVs is that they give hope to video projector salespersons. For example, Sony's Broadcast &amp; Professonal division claims it has "massively reduced the cost of portable projectors" with its compact new VPL-CS1 (left), which weighs less than 3kg. The price - around &#163;1,700 - almost sounds reasonable, if the alternative is a flat screen TV.RocketA small Scottish company had a year 2000 problem and, after two years' research, came up with a solution that disappears in a puff of smoke. But Fireworks 2000's problem had nothing to do with computers, and its solution is a firework that writes 2000 in the sky. The Millennium 2000 Skywriter - a four-rocket pack with a single fuse - costs &#163;99 and comes complete with portfires and goggles. The    company is also producing a giant 2000 sparkler for the big event. Seewww.fireworks-2000.com.EventsThe Internet Business 2000 conference and exhibition will be held at The Metropole, Brighton, on December 7-8. The ticket hotline is 01203-426450 or emailenquiries@ibshow.comor seewww.ibshow.com. The Online Information 99 conference and exhibition will be held at Olympia, London, on December 7-9. The ticket hotline is on 01923 690647 or seewww.online-information.co.uk.
&#149; Display: The flat display systems unit of Philips Electronics has acquired a minority stake in Snippets.com, a US developer of Java-encoded software allowing users to parse and snip portions of web pages directly on to their desktops.&#149; Buyer: Net venture Property Internet has agreed to buy "one-stop" website Home2Home.co.uk for &#163;10.4m. The chairman, Neil McClure, said the site lists more than 50,000 properties for sale and in October generated 400,000 page impressions.&#149; Travel: Online travel website Ebookers reported third-quarter sales of $8.1m (&#163;5m), a rise of 217% on a year earlier, with the net pre-tax loss up from $100,000 to $2.4m&#149; Style: The world's No 2 PC maker, Dell, has unveiled its Webpc, a desktop that replaces traditional bulky grey boxes with a choice of at least five designer colours and a footprint about a third the area of average PCs. Prices start at $1,000.
Are The Money Men Killing the Net? was the provocative, if slightly preposterous, title of the Guardian debate pitting web purists against internet capitalists.Preposterous, because it is unlikely anyone can kill the internet. Nevertheless, Philip Greenspun, a web publisher from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Danny O'Brien, editor of the irreverentNeed to Knowwebsite, found plenty of complaints to hurl, albeit good-naturedly, at the money men.Mr Greenspun had a bee in his bonnet about corporate types who pinched good ideas from the university geeks and then patented them into closed systems that were incompatible with each other. He cited an ordering system that he had developed in an afternoon that was subsequently patented by Amazon.com, for its one-click order system for books.He proposed a copycat tax, although when pressed as to how it would work, he said he had only thought it up for the debate. Mr Greenspun's fellow purist, Danny O'Brien, opened with a pungent contribution, asserting that the money men were "buggering" the internet beyond belief.That assessment was entirely in character with Need to Know, Mr O'Brien's weekly hi-tech sarcastic update for the UK that has been a favourite outlet for bitter and twisted geek sweatshop workers since 1996. His main gripe was that venture capitalists were not interested in innovation, nor the long-term future of net. All they cared about was an exit strategy and an IPO (initial public offering), he said."They're not killing the net, they're killing themselves and the rest of the economy," said Mr O'Brien, who compared the current internet boom to the Dutch tulip craze in the 17th century. In his view, the deluge of money into internet start-ups was distorting the economy, starving sectors such as transport of much-needed cash.It was left to Christopher Spray, a venture capitalist with Atlas Ventures, and Brian Levine, financial director forThe Street.co.uk, the financial news website, to defend the honour of the capitalist railroaders.Mr Spray, who works in Atlas Ventures' UK office, said that like it or not, internet entrepreneurs needed the money men to develop their products. "The days are gone when you could borrow, beg or steal $100,000" to start a company, he said. "Now it takes $1m for an industrial strength website and you have to spend a lot of money" to make people aware of it. And conquering Europe could cost as much as $75m in marketing.Brian Levine, the only one on the platform wearing a tie, said he saw himself somewhere in the middle. The money men, he said, were there to facilitate ideas coming to fruition.But Mr O'Brien, who became increasingly animated as the debate wore on, would have none of it. The magnitude of investments, he said, was distorting something that was good. Venture capitalists were pressuring the geeks, he said, to rush out products that should take five years to develop to get them out in two, because all they were interested in was the IPO.For entertainment value and sheer energy, the geeks easily won the debate. But the audience vote was close, with Guardian Unlimited head Simon Waldman, who chaired the proceedings at the National Film Theatre, giving the nod to the money men.
Geoffrey Chamberlain, slight, silver haired and smartly suited, does not look your average internet tycoon. A 57-year-old former futures and options trader, he has a curriculum vitae that is the model of City sobriety. Listed is a raft of senior positions at noted stockbrokers and directorships of eminent stock market bodies, including the international stock exchange council.Despite his outward appearance, however, Mr Chamberlain is as enthusiastic about the potential power of the net and emerging technologies as the twentysomething web-heads who litter the lofts of nearby Clerkenwell.Once he opens his mouth the talk is very much the jargon of the internet. He speaks of online passion centres, dot-coms and digital-convergence, and this is no financier who has belatedly spotted a new pot of gold and mugged up on the digital buzz. Over the past six years Mr Chamberlain has transformed Durlacher from a musty, loss-making private client   stockbroker into one of Britain's most respected and successful e-finance houses. In that time the firm has turned picking tomorrow's winners today into an art form.Thursday's planned &#163;275m flotation of 365 Corporation, the two-year-old provider of online sports and entertainment content, will be Mr Chamberlain and Durlacher's latest success. The company will join the $1bn duo of Autonomy and Demon Internet on the list of high-profile businesses that Durlacher has helped grow from start-up status.Mr Chamberlain decided to give up broking for technology after visits to the US in the late 80s and early 90s. "From what I saw there it seemed inevitable new technology would grow and become more a part of our lives," he said.It was the same feeling he had had when drawing heavily on the US experience to help establish a derivatives market in London in the late 70s.Durlacher's secret has been to reverse the conventional corporate finance model. A growing company usually approaches an investment bank for help if it is planning a flotation. The investment bank, after researching the company and the market it operates in, then decides what the company is worth.Mr Chamberlain decided to research all aspects of the industry before targeting companies he thought had good growth   prospects. If the companies Durlacher thought would succeed did not exist Durlacher would set them up, or encourage rivals with complementary divisions to merge."We have greedily, unashamedly brought in knowledge. We take time to research the future. We might spend 12 months researching the area before we know what we are going to do with it. We assimilate information and try to spot big picture developments. We would also offer strategic consultancy services, specialist corporate financing, anything that adds value to the knowledge pool."365 is the result of a market for online communities focused on "passion centres" such as football and rock music that the Durlacher research team believed the internet would generate. A management team was recruited to turn concept into reality. It was the same team that in 1994 advised a small Manchester computer games firm that it had a far stronger future if it merged with a Liverpool rival to create a joint games development house.The resultant company - Rage - is now capitalised at &#163;125m. The first piece of research Durlacher published was on the computer games sector in 1994. "The response was startling. We had these multinationals like Nintendo, Time Warner and Sega calling us up, asking who we are and why we were thinking in the way we were."Instead of taking a cash fee for its work, Durlacher has traditionally sought a tiny stake in the companies it helps. "Most institutions are very uncomfortable with early stage investment where the risk-reward balance is never easy, but these were intelligent, calculated exercises in gearing."The effect on Durlacher's share price has been staggering. Since Mr Chamberlain took over in 1993, the shares have risen in value by 280 times to 717p, valuing Durlacher at more than &#163;300m. Trying to establish their true worth is almost impossible. Some believe the shares are absurdly overvalued, others have faith they can rise even further.Now access to capital has improved, Mr Chamberlain would like the firm to make more significant investments in its companies. He has won agreement from shareholders to raise substantial amounts of investment capital if and when he needs it. He has also been approached by US and European institutions about a Durlacher-managed fund which would allow the firm to hold investments in companies right up to flotation or trade sale and greatly increase its returns.There are plans to take the research model into Europe. An office has been opened in Germany and Durlacher is examining opportunities in Scandinavia.For now, Durlacher will continue to gamble on the future with a number of stakes in growing technology companies.
Freeserve appears to be poised for a first foray into an overseas market. John Clare, chief executive of Britain's biggest electrical chain Dixons - which owns the majority of Freeserve - said the UK's leading internet service provider will hold talks this week with Sense, a Scandinavian internet service provider.He also confirmed that Freeserve was in talks with WH Smith and a host of others who operate ISPs to see whether Freeserve could help take over their interests.Freeserve has previously indicated that it had no plans to expand overseas, preferring instead to concentrate on building its market-leading position in Britain.But the talks with Sense follow a &#163;444m deal between Dixons and Elkjop, a Norwegian electrical retailer which has a financial stake in Sense.Mr Clare said: "We will be putting the two sides in touch this week to see what opportunities there might be."We don't know whether it will come to anything. But it could offer Freeserve a toehold in Scandinavia."Another British ISP, the X-Tream Network, recently expanded into Sweden and Norway by striking partnerships with local retailers. Mr Clare said partnership deals could be on the cards.Separately, shares in WH Smith rose sharply yesterday, closing up 10% at 423p amid speculation of an alliance with Freeserve which could lead to a combination of their web sites and a merger of electronic commerce activities.WH Smith refused to comment on what it called "market speculation".Freeserve has made no secret of its desire to mop up some of its smaller rivals.Analysts say that an alliance between WH Smith and Freeserve would give the latter access to the strong educational content provided by Helicon and Hodder Headline, the WH Smith-owned publishers, as well as a chunk of the fast-growing online book buying market. WH Smith would allowed access to Freeserve's 1.2m customers.It is unclear exactly how the deal might be financed, but most analysts believe that Freeserve would offer shares for WH Smith's estimated 200,000 subscribers.Peter Bradshaw, internet analyst at Merrill Lynch, said that while there were around 250 ISPs at present operating in the UK he believed this figure would eventually dwindle to fewer than five."This could be the first stage in considerable consolidation," he said.Mr Clare said it made sense for retailers such as WH Smith to concentrate on their main business, which was to sell books over the internet, rather than to operate ISPs. "You need to be an expert in ISPs, and we are in that game," said Mr Clare.It was not only the cost which would drive many ISPs out of the business. The development of broadband technology would hasten their departure, he said. Freeserve shares closed up 3% at 304p.
Most people who buy an old car know that it is going to bring its own problems. It is only a matter of time before Damp Start fails to do the trick, before a healthy chunk of a weekend break is spent on the hard shoulder of the M4 waiting for the AA to turn up, and before the only mechanic in Britain who could supply the one flasher unit that corresponds with your vintage Scimitar goes and dies on you. But this is all part of the price for the joy of driving a vehicle that you can fall in love with, and it's to be expected. Constant police intervention, however, is another matter altogether, and for some reason a young man in an old car is ripe for the picking as far as the cops are concerned.At first I thought it was just me. After years of driving my father's unremarkable Ford Sierra and never being stopped once, I finally bought my own car six months ago, a 1975 lime green, two-door BMW 1602. It certainly attracted attention: com plimentary remarks from old men who used to drive one themselves, hoots of derision from schoolchildren, and flashes from police cars who demanded that I pull over. A reason was never given: I am simply a young (ish) man in an old motor and therefore suspicious. I asked the lady I had bought it off if the same thing happened to her: she had not been stopped once in the nine years she owned it. It turns out that I am not alone. A twentysomething friend, George Parfitt, drives a 1970 black Ford Capri, the classic dodgy geezers' car. "Being breathalized is the usual one, but the other day I got waved down by a policewoman on Blackfriars Bridge. I got out and she said, "Why didn't you pull over?" And I replied, "I did - here I am." Apparently, an arm raised means just pull over; stop and get out is an arm flapping up and down. I apologized for not understanding police sign language, and explained that I couldn't have just pulled over to talk to her because my window is broken. Then she gave me the third degree."Of course, it isn't just young white men in old bangers - the clich&eacute; about a black man in a flash car being a prime target for a random stop and search still stays true. The athlete Kriss Akabusi MBE has been regularly pulled over when driving his Mercedes. And last year's Turner Prize winner, Chris Ofili, who drives a 1970 green Capri Mark I, recently suffered a fate similar to that of 80s reggae singer Smiley Culture, who sang in the track Police Officer about "the police officer they give me producer" for not having documentation for his car. Ofili was stopped and searched shortly before winning the Turner Prize, and despite having his documents, which meant that he was not given a producer - an order to present yourself at a police station and prove that the car is yours - he was thoroughly searched and questioned as if the car was not his own.Michael Salac, who is half Angolan and half Portugese, used to drive a 1972 BMW 2002 before trading it in for a Toyota Jeep. "I've never been given a reason, I've always been given a producer, and it's always been    worse when I have black people in the car," explains Salac. "One time I was with a friend who is a fashion stylist and hardly the most threatening of people. We got stopped for four hours - from 11.30pm until 3.30am - and they took my friend into another car and went through his portfolio. Three police vans pulled up in that time. It happened more with the BMW than with the jeep - I suppose because the police are curious about a car like that - and it's worse if   I have a hat on, because I look more black."Scotland Yard, aware of the ethnic tension that stop and search can cause, published the findings of an extensive intelligence-led survey on the problem this autumn. Produced independently of the Metropolitan Police but with their cooperation, the Searches In London survey was carried out in seven areas, and reports that the largest percentage of cars are stopped on suspicion of   drugs, the second largest for stolen property. Brixton had the highest arrest rates of all the sites, although there has been a significant drop in the number of searches and arrests on black people since the McPherson inquiry into the Stephen Lawrence case. Arrest rates for Asians are lower than for any other ethnic group, and less than a quarter of searches end in an arrest.So what is the criteria for suspecting someone of holding drugs or dri  ving a stolen car in the first place? According to the Scotland Yard spokeswoman I talked to, searches are never done at random. "They are carried out with a reason - if your car fits the description of one reported as lost or stolen, then it's reasonable that you will be searched." I explained that you don't see that many lime-green 25-year-old BMWs around, and that, with a current value of around &#163;500 if I'm lucky, it would require a very dim car thief to   steal it in the first place. "In that case you're probably being stopped on the suspicion that there might be something wrong with your car," she told me. This is the same line that the policemen who stop me always use. They usually end up saying that one of the tyres is looking a bit flat - even when they have just been checked. But age certainly pays a factor: a 70-year-old lady tootling along in a 30-year-old Morris Minor just isn't as likely to be subjected to a stop and search as a young lad in the same car.33-year-old Andrew Price has seen the effects that the passing of the years and a modern, inconspicuous car can have. "These days I never get stopped, but when I was a student it happened all the time. I had dyed black hair, drove a mid-70s Vauxhall Viva, and in my infinite wisdom I let a friend paint a psychedelic mural all over it, which meant that when I drove from England to my university in Edinburgh I got stopped without fail at the Borders and was always given a producer. I imagine they were hoping to find drugs on this dopey-looking student, but I never went near them." Vans are also easy prey, and woe betide the struggling long-haired rock group travelling from gig to gig in the battered transit.So what's the answer? Firstly, have documentation with you to avoid the hassle of being given a producer, especially if you're black. Secondly, make sure those brake lights are working. And thirdly, if it all gets too much, trade your car in for a Ford Fiesta.
Caravan of loveFormer EastEnder Patsy Palmer says she's fed up with being labelled a gypsy because of her passion for caravanning. "People think I've got a glam lifestyle and say 'Why don't you go to St Tropez?' I say 'I can't afford it.' They say: 'Are you a gypsy then?'" Palmer, who was speaking at the Earl's Court Caravan &amp; Outdoor Leisure Show pointed out that Helen Mirren holidays at the same caravan park in Kent, where she   goes with her son, and no one calls her a gypsy. You can't argue with that. So here are some interesting facts about caravans:&#149; There are more than 500,000 touring caravans and 4,225 caravan parks in the UK&#149; Celebrity 'vanners include: Margaret Beckett, Jim Bowen and Charlie Dimmock&#149; The Caravan &amp; Outdoor Leisure Show is at Earl's Court until Dec 1Quote of the week"In motoring magazines every car is photographed going sideways, its driver dialling in lots of opposite lock to counter the problem. This is deemed to be fun. When you apply for a job on a car magazine it doesn't matter if you can't spell, or even if you have personal hygiene problems, just as long as you can take a ton of metal and noise and make it dance. If you can, you're man. If you can't, you're gay."Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday Times
With 32 million angry motorists in his rear-view mirror, Tony Blair is expected to jettison plans for a blanket cut in the 60mph national speed limit. In place of a new 50mph limit on single carriageway roads, it looks increasingly likely that the government's review of speeding, now delayed until January, will recommend handing greater power to local authorities to impose their own restrictions.The Liberal Democrats claim this is a buck-passing exercise that   imposes extra cash burdens on councils, but the Institute of Advanced Motorists backs the idea. Assistant chief examiner Trevor Poxon says: "Speed is not so much the problem as inappropriate speed, so the solution is a selective approach. Local authorities know best where the worst problem areas are."The Pedestrians' Association isn't happy. "It will be a tragedy if the government fails to act. Its own research shows a thousand deaths and several thousand injuries on the roads next year will be directly   due to any failure to impose a cut," says director Ben Plowden. "Mr Blair seems to have forgotten motorists are not the only voters. Parents, cyclists and pensioners count, too."But is speed really the big, bad demon of the road? For those who despise regulation, there are some handy statistics. For a start, Britain's latest fatal injury count - 3,421 people - is the lowest ever, showing our roads are not only safer than when records began in 1926 but are the safest of any industrialised country. And in Germany, where selected stretches of autobahn permit performance cars to explore their limits, there is no research to show a correlation between speeding and death. Meanwhile, in some US states where the 55mph limit has recently been raised to 65mph, statistics show a drop in injury rates.The RAC believes this may be because where traffic is allowed to flow    faster, the gaps between vehicles are greater, so they are less likely to collide. Its view is reinforced by the Association of British Insurers which believes that some slower roads can be more accident prone than faster ones. "If people are driving more slowly and are in heavy traffic, there tend to be more accidents than on an open road," says spokeswoman Suzanne Moore. The RAC has been frequently clocked for fighting speed limits. In 1935, it    helped gain a (short-lived) night-time loop-hole against the new 30mph urban limit and in 1965, it resisted the 70mph limit, calling it "a move of panic-stricken desperation".Edmund King, the RAC Foundation's executive director, says the government is now in a corner for two reasons: "It's realised that the issue isn't simply, 'lower limits good, higher bad', because it's more complex than that. There's also the fear the government is perceived as anti-car - and Britain's motorists add up to a lot of voters." The solution, says King, is appropriate, intelligent speed limits. "A 20mph limit outside a school is wise during school hours, just as an 80mph limit makes sense on the motorway when traffic and weather permit."Before any new laws are imposed, the Department of Transport will be chewing over its own research, which shows that two thirds of all fatal accidents occur where the speed limit is 30mph or less. And on the same roads, no l ess than 70% of motorists break the speed limit, though usually by no more than six or seven miles per hour.History has a warning for ministers, too. In the 1973-4 oil crisis, the speed limit was dropped to 50mph as a fuel-saving measure. But as a spokesman for the department admitted: "The limit was so dreadfully boring that everyone was falling asleep at the wheel."
There are few sadder sights than a company car "user-chooser" at the moment he realises that he can't quite afford a BMW 3-Series. Stand well back and watch as disbelief, panic, rage and self-pity flash across his usually placid countenance. In our car culture what you drive isn't a matter of life and death - it's far more important than that.But ironically it's BMW's British outpost Rover who may be able to help our status-obsessed friend. Because their new 45 model, which replaces the old 400, will compete against run-of-the-mill cars like the Focus and Astra, with prices ranging from &#163;11,995 to &#163;18,995. But it also offers a hint of something a little more stylish and exclusive than the price might suggest. Not quite a BMW perhaps, but still a cut above the herd.For a start the 45 looks best in saloon form, and if you're a student of company car psychology you'll know that having a car with a boot rather than a hatchback suggests that you're more of a sales manager than a sales rep. It also boasts the larger Rover 75's hooded headlamps and grille, which looks sharp and should help clear the base-model Astras out of the outside lane.Indeed from any angle the 45 saloon looks classier than the nasty Ford Focus saloon, and it even stands up well against the most obvious small saloon competitor, VW's Bora.This new Rover isn't all fake wood and kick-plates either. All 45 drivers get the Rover 75's wonderfully soft and supportive front seats, and the option of sitting behind Rover's smooth and refined 2.0 litre V6 engine.Of course if our poor old "user-chooser" could afford a V6 and all the trimmings he'd have bought a basic 3-Series instead, so the chances are he's actually going to be driving the 2 litre turbo diesel version of the 45. This is a coarse and clattery unit at start-up, but it becomes reasonably refined at cruising speeds and will delight any fleet manager with its 55mpg economy. All the 45 saloons also come with air-conditioning and the latest ABS system fitted as standard.However it isn't all good news, because many of the old 400's fundamental weaknesses have been carried over to the Rover 45. Taller drivers will still find the driving position cramped, not least because the steering wheel has a very limited range of adjustment. And there's not much rear leg or head room either, especially when you compare the 45 to a taller car like the Ford Focus.However, now that Rover have bowed to the inevitable and priced the 45 against Astra rather than Vectra-sized competition they have a model that makes solid sense in pricing and specification terms. The 45 wouldn't be my first choice because I'd prefer to drive a Golf, but if you like conservatively styled family cars then the 45 saloon will certainly have much to recommend it.
The Post Office is approaching online retailers with proposals to cash in on the growing internet shopping market. It aims to become the delivery service of choice for internet companies and is experimenting with an operation that allows householders to choose any time from early morning to mid-evening for delivery.Nick Streeter, head of home shopping for the Post Office's Parcelforce operation, said that exploiting the opportunities provided by growth of internet and TV shopping was one of the organisation's "top strategies".Research and trials had   shown that customers wanted to choose the time and day of deliveries and that strong demand for Saturday deliveries had fallen away when an evening service was offered.The move is aimed at generating revenue after the Post Office letter monopoly is scaled back over the next few years.The Royal Mail last year accounted for &#163;5.6bn of the Post Office's &#163;7bn turnover. But its market is under threat. The government has already indicated it would like to see the threshold for the letter monopoly reduced from &#163;1 to 50p.The Post Office plans to offer internet retailers a complete logistics package, from storing   goods in warehouses to delivering them. Its warehouse in Swindon already has 750 clients and sends out 6,000 shipments a day. It is approaching online retailers in the UK and overseas and has signed up Amazon.com, the online book and music store.Mr Streeter said: "We have 370m parcels for home delivery in the UK and only a small proportion of that is generated by the internet. But the internet side is forecast to grow by between 24% and 75% in the next five years."The Post Office's recent expansion into Europe, especially the acquisition of German Parcel, has given it a base to handle e-commerce goods sold over the internet but   made by mainland European companies.Mr Streeter said that getting early information about parcel destinations was essential for organising delivery routes on a day-to-day basis. "We are in the middle of a &#163;30m-plus investment that provides our drivers with handheld devices to enter destinations into the system at the time they pick up goods from the manufacturer."He said all the Post Office operations were working together closely to promote the internet. The organisation could help firms get on the internet, its call centres could handle orders and billing, its warehouses could arrange the dispatch of goods, and the Royal Mail and Parcelforce   could handle the delivery. Post Office Counters provided opportunities for customer advertising.The organisation, which is due to get more commercial freedom under the Post Office bill announced in the Queen's Speech earlier this month, is facing increasing competition. About 4,000 delivery companies compete with Parcelforce, and most counter services can be obtained elsewhere.The industry is still unsure about the extent to which email will undermine the basic letters business. So far, letters are holding up well. The Post Office, for example, is expecting to handle a record 2.5bn letters and cards this Christmas.
NewMedia Spark, the incubator fund set up to invest in early-stage technology and internet companies, is to use some of the proceeds of a &#163;35m fundraising to buy stakes in six start-ups and attract new staff.Michael Whitaker, chief executive, said yesterday that the company was conducting due diligence on six potential start-up investments and had a further dozen companies on a funding "hot-list".Most of the investments are likely to be around the &#163;300,000-&#163;400,000 level."There is a tremendous number of high-quality investment opportunities open to us at the moment," Mr Whitaker said."We're receiving on average 15 business plans a day from start-ups looking for investment."Mr Whitaker was speaking   as NewMedia announced it had raised &#163;35.4m through the placement of 60m shares at 60p each.About &#163;30m of the total amount is institutional money, with the remainder coming from business angels, including one high-profile but as yet unnamed investor from the United States.Shares in NewMedia, whose backers include PizzaExpress founder Luke Johnson and the Rothschild family, jumped more than 30% to 113p in trading yesterday. The shares made their debut on AIM on October 28 at 10p.Mr Whitaker said a large tranche of the new funds would be used to recruit staff who were able to help early-stage companies develop."There is a wall of new-media money hitting London and we need to build our infrastructure, but there is horrible shortage of people who combine the finance and technology skills we are looking for," he said.NewMedia will look to attract executives from traditional media companies by offering lucrative share-option packages.The company is chaired by Thomas Teichman, the chairman of boutique venture capitalist NewMedia Investors, and Mr Whitaker believes the former corporate financier is one of key reasons behind the surge in the company's share price."Tom has real street credibility in the internet space and is very well respected," Mr Whitaker said. "The flow of deals across his desk is incredible and he knows how to pick winners."NewMedia Spark's competitors include Durlacher, the investment house behind 365 Corp, and an increasing number of incubators being set up by traditional management consultancies.
&#149; Twain line Special mobile phones allowing people to shop on the internet will go on sale early next year, BT Cellnet and Barclaycard announced yesterday. The two companies had carried out what was said to be Britain's first live internet purchase using a mobile. The transaction involved a Barclaycard payment via a mobile handset for a Shania Twain CD from an internet shopping site.&#149; Cashback Starting with a cashback offer on personal computers in Britain, America Online and Intel yesterday joined forces to promote personal computer sales and internet access in Europe. In a move aimed at bringing more customers for AOL's CompuServe internet brand, the companies will initially offer a rebate of up to 25% on Fujitsu-Siemens computers to buyers of a PC-online access package in Britain. Similar promotional deals will be extended to include other computer manufacturers in markets where AOL is already present - France, Germany, Benelux and Switzerland.
"I don't think the money men will kill the net, but I think they'll have a darned good try. Five years ago the internet (and its idiot younger brother, the world wide web) was going to be a Gutenberg-scale info-democracy free-for-all where everyone could make their voice heard.Today, it's the family-friendly place to find convenient home banking and great deals on last-minute holidays.Off the top of my head, I can't think of a single worthwhile contribution that big business has made to the net - which couldn't have been given away, in the traditional manner, by two guys in a garage.But I can name at least three commerce-crazed innovations that have choked back genuine progress.* Number one: the banner ad. Recently, web designers have started to show some   sort of mysterious self-restraint, creating pages of only 30KB or 40KB in size. Which means that, more often than not, you're spending more time downloading the advertisement than the page you wanted to read in the first place. Yes, many people are tempted by the lure of a clumsy animated sales pitch to click on banner ads - maybe once or twice - in their entire lives.Of course, these ads are even more useless unless you know who's reading them, which leads to webcrime number two. . . .* The user registration system. Please type in name, email, phone number, and home address (sorry, the field for state is compulsory, even if you live outside the USA). We promise not to use this data for any real purpose - the annoyance of just making you type it in is satisfaction enough.* And number three: Spam. The young 'uns don't believe you, of course, when you tell them that Usenet was once a vital forum for the thoughtful exchange of ideas and widespread insulting of AOLers.Now, it largely consists of invitations to "Make $$$ Fast" and elaborate instructions by legitimate users on   how to decode their heavily encrypted email address. Spam hasn't completely killed off the newsgroups, not yet. It's just made them - and email in general - far more irritating to use.Now, let's not forget how the triumph of e-commerce will cause much greater investment in internet infrastructure, bringing higher bandwidth to everyone's homes, and meaning much of this will be less of a problem.Well, pardon me for sounding ungrateful, but maybe we wouldn't need all that bandwidth if we didn't spend half our time downloading misjudged promotional garbage from credulous dimwits who've seen one too many TV adverts saying "if your business isn't on the internet yet, you might as well shoot yourself in the face".Why don't they just sod off to digital television, the whole bloody lot of them?I'm sure they'll make a pig's ear out of that as well, it's just less likely that anyone will notice.&#149;  Dave Green is the co-founder ofNeed To Know, Britain's most sarcastic weekly technology newsletter&#149; Christopher Spray and Danny O'Brien (the other half of the webzine,Need to Know) will be taking part in the Guardian Unlimited Event, Are the Money Men Killing the Net?, alongside Claudia Jay, managing director ofThe Street.co.ukand Philip Greenspun of MIT. The debate takes place on Monday, November 29 at the NFT, London. For tickets, priced &#163;5.20 (&#163;3.70 concessions), call the NFT box office on 0171 928 3232.
Are the money men killing the net? Or is the net killing the money men? In the pre-net era, we venture capitalists (VCs) always thought we worked hard, but still found time for our golf game, making one to two investments a year, and taking a leisurely month or two to go about it.Now we each make four or five investments a year, and the time between first meeting and commitment is often under two weeks. This year at Atlas Venture we all cancelled our vacations and started working 80-hour weeks, just like the entrepreneurs we back. We're exhausted. Why?The answer is speed. Building an internet company is like F1 racing. You, the entrepreneur, you're Eddie Irvine: you need an intense will to win, lightning fast reflexes, unbelievable dedication, and nerves of steel. But that's not enough: you can't just jump in car and go racing anymore.The money men lurk in the   pit lane. We help figure out the pit-stop strategy, bring you in, pour in the fuel, change the tyres, and get you back out in under seven seconds. I know this analogy seems rather infantile. But whenever I see a well executed pit-stop, I am struck by its similarity to the VC process done right.All teams use the same fuel (the money's a commodity), but good strategy and smart teamwork gets you out ahead. And behind every team there's a complex web (excuse the expression) of partnerships with sponsors, suppliers etc.So I'm afraid the net needs us money men. The days when you could beg or borrow (but not the "s" word) a million bucks or so and string together an OK website are disappearing. Think $3m to $5m to build something industrial strength, pull together a world class management team, and put the logistics in place.Then think $20m to $50m to roll out across Europe and promote the heck out of it.   I exaggerate? Carsdirect in the US just raised $280m in a mezzanine round. I bet we'll see a $100m mezzanine round in Europe within a year.Good money men help make those mid-race adjustments to strategy, speeding up the team-hiring process (those high speed tyre changes) and exert leverage in building partner relationships.Has all this emphasis on money and speed killed innovation and creativity? I don't think so. At the end of the day the big winners are the freshest ideas with the highest technical barriers to entry attached. Plus great execution.Half the entrepreneurs we've backed this year are under 30, some of the most exciting under 25. With small amounts to start with, we've helped them sort out their ideas and test their concepts. Then it's pedal to   the metal.&#149; Christopher Spray works for Atlas Venture Capital&#149; Christopher Spray and Danny O'Brien (the other half of the webzine,Need to Know) will be taking part in the Guardian Unlimited Event, Are the Money Men Killing the Net?, alongside Claudia Jay, managing director ofThe Street.co.ukand Philip Greenspun of MIT. The debate takes place on Monday, November 29 at the NFT, London. For tickets, priced &#163;5.20 (&#163;3.70 concessions), call the NFT box office on 0171 928 3232.
You might just have noticed that, across the country, enthusiastic youngsters everywhere are getting rather excited about the coming festive season. But this year, when it comes to feverish festive anticipation, they probably can't match the UK's online retailers.They are hoping that the coming festive season will turn out to be the UK's first eChristmas. That translates as a Christmas in which a sizeable proportion of punters buy some of their presents online: a Christmas in which net shopping begins to seem like part of regular mainstream life.America's online retailers had an eChristmas last year. Now ours want one too. Still, as parents often have to tell their kids, you can't always get what you want. Some observers have suggested that the online retailers may be setting themselves up for disappointment, that there still aren't enough net shoppers in the UK to make their seasonal dreams come true.But the numbers churned out in recent surveys of UK net users seem pretty impressive. A survey published this week by Continental Research suggests that around 11.1 million Britons are now online and that, collectively, they have spent around &#163;2bn over the last 12 months.Even more optimistic figures were circulated recently by NOP. These suggest that by December, those of us who are connected will be spending &#163;15m per day online. According to their estimates, by the end of the year, the UK's net population could have spent around &#163;3bn on the net. According toFletcher Research, many of the big online retailers are backing up the eChristmas hype with significant   spending on advertising.Certainly, Christmas is a much bigger thing online this year than it was 12 months ago. Visit your favourite net shop and you'll probably find it decked out with kitschy decorations (for example, search buttons converted to Christmas pudding icons). Many online retailers have set up special gift centres. They're offering gift advice, bigger discounts than usual and free gift-wrapping. They're also doing seasonal mail-outs.For example, Michael Ross, chief executive ofEasy Shop, which sells underwear and perfume, says that in the weeks before Christmas, his site will probably send customers an email with gift ideas and links back to the site where they can buy them. "The idea is to make it a simple as possible."Clearly delivery will be a key area of competition. Many sites now offer it free, and you should expect more to offer next day services and guarantees as the big day gets closer. No-quibble returns (for presents that didn't quite hit the mark) are also on offer.Indeed, one of the biggest problems for online retailers over Christmas will be keeping these promises. There is no worse time to disappoint someone. And if you do it to first time shoppers, they may never come back to you.Customer service is crucial, but a co-ordinated market  ing/media campaign is also important if you want to have a good eChristmas. The UK toy siteToyzonehas cleverly associated itself with this Christmas' big toy, the multimedia monster entity that is Pokemon. The site apparently has plentiful stocks of the toys themselves and also sponsors the Pokemon ITV show."It's all about brand association," says Toyzone managing director Jo Hall. "We're backing Pokemon in a very visible way this year."Though it may draw in the punters, Pokemon has created a few problems for Toyzone and other online toy retailers. As even high court judges probably know by now, it's built around collecting 150 or so different monsters. Kids know exactly which characters they need for their collections (and tell their parents as much).But at the time of writing, mums and dads attempting to buy a Pokemon beanie baby at Toyzone, for example, weren't able to specify which character they wanted. Manufacturers aren't used to working with new online retailers, says Hall. "Lots of toys are supplied to us as assortments. We are working   with manufacturers to break out these assortments so that people can choose. That's an ongoing effort behind the scenes in our warehouse."A couple of weeks ago, if you wanted to buy dolls based on the popular BBC series, The Tweenies from Toyzone, you couldn't choose the character you wanted. But earlier this week, that was changed. Hall says that the site is also making an effort to respond to individual email queries from parents who want help, especially with finding the right Pokemon character for their kids.Shop online and you can avoid the high street crowds, the seasonal traffic jams and the stressed-out shop assistants in Santa hats. However, don't assume there won't be crowds on the net. During the evening peak time some popular net shops can run rather slowly, thanks to excess traffic.Expect things to get worse closer to Christmas. Most retailers expect mid-day to become a new peak time, as office workers spend their lunch break trawling the net for presents. That said, a traffic jam in cyberspace is easier to bear than delays in the real world. You just log off, get a cup of tea and try again later. Things generally get better on UK sites after 10.30 in the evening.If you're really allergic to real world Christmas shopping, you could pretty much buy everything you need for the festive season online - the tree, decorations, your organic pudding    even. However, even the most gung-ho online retailers aren't expecting that to happen. "I'm not convinced that people will do all their Christmas shopping online," says Judith Catton, marketing manager atAmazon UK."The net is good for out of the ordinary gifts, things you can't easily find in the real world, like a first edition of a book. It's also good for things like books and music, where you know what you're getting." Once you get beyond the core online retail categories (books, CDs, videos or computer games), what you're prepared to buy online is down to personal taste. Some people are happy to buy food online. Others don't like that idea, but are fine with clothes.Buying lingerie is one of those things men are supposed to struggle with dutifully at Christmas. In theory, the net can ease their pain. Online, there are no shop assistants to embarrass them and they can get detailed advice on what to buy.However, it may be that lingerie is more an impulse purchase, something attempted by squiffy office workers on the way home from the office party. "It's a good question," says Easy Shop's Ross. "However, Victoria's Secret in the States   say that 5% of their sales in the real world store are to men. But on the web site, 40% of purchases are made by men. We'll see. Overall, not just this Christmas, we do want to educate men about buying underwear for women."One of Easy Shop's competitors,Bras Directalso offers an alternative approach. Women can use the site to find the kind of lingerie/underwear they like. They can then email a picture of the relevant item to their partner, so that, for once, they buy the right thing (in the right size).In a similar vein, both Toyzone andeToyslet kids put together Christmas wish lists of toys they want.   Toyzone users can then send the list to parents, aunts and uncles. This attempt to rationalise Christmas may seem a little lacking in romance and spontaneity. However, grown-ups who get married seem to have no problem with circulating present lists to their friends.Indeed, many online retailers will now let you completely automate and outsource Christmas. You can buy your presents online then   get them gift-wrapped and sent on. This is particularly useful if you have friends who live abroad, especially in the US.If you buy from a big American site and get them to wrap and send the gifts, you can avoid the whole palaver of buying early and queuing up at the Post Office.Again, this can all end up rather lacking in Christmas spirit. When we tested the gift-wrap services on some   sites recently, though all were wrapped well and arrived within a week, some arrived containing promotional material for the site that had supplied them.The present purchased from Amazon even came with   a delivery note that gave the game away about what was inside the tasteful paper. "A lot of people like to know that the gift has been bought via Amazon," observes Judith Catton. "It's still quite a novelty to receive a gift that has been bought online."If that's the case, it won't work as well next year.Indeed, despite all the hype, it seems clear that   this eChristmas will be important mainly as a testing period for the online retail sector, a time for them to trial ideas and sort out their businesses in preparation for the year 2000 when the masses really will start shopping online.Toyzone's Jo Hall says that though she expects to do well, the UK is still 18 months or so behind America and that, as a result, this Christmas won't really be comparable to last   year over there. "My guess is that in a number of key categories this will be a very important testing period - definitely for books, music and toys," comments Easy Shop's Michael Ross. "People will be looking at the overall level of sales and at who does well."By the end of eChristmas, we'll be able to tell which companies are the clear market leaders in the key sectors."Who's best?First-time shoppers thinking of taking the plunge online this Christmas should do a number of checks before they hand over their credit card details.&#149; Look for sites that encrypt your personal data (most use something called Secure Sockets Layer encryption). When you move on to the secure part of a site, a little padlock should appear at the bottom right of your browser and the web address in the location bar at the top of the browser should start with https and not http as usual.&#149; Before you shop at a site, make sure it has given details of its real world address and telephone number. An email contact address on its own is not enough.&#149; Look around a site and check out its security/ privacy guarantees. If you're worried about anything, call the site up.&#149; Check out delivery times and costs before you buy. If you're cutting things fine before Christmas, remember to also take into account the product's availability - ie whether the site has it in stock or needs to order it.&#149; During the order process, remember to save and print the order summary. If there are problems it will come in handy.&#149; Look out for gift-wrap services - usually these cost around &#163;2 per item, though freebies are becoming more common. You can usually sort this out while entering your personal details at a site's checkout.You can now buy almost everything you might need for Christmas on the net, from a designer Christmas tree atClickDecoto a luxury Christmas pudding fromFortnum and Mason. But if you're just starting out, you'd be best advised to stick to the most popular online retail items - books, CDs, videos and DVDs, computer games and software.You know roughly what you're likely to get here and you can also find some seriously good prices. TryAmazonfor books and music,BOLfor books,Yalplayfor music, videos, DVDs and games, orAudiostreetfor music - look for links here to the Streets network of sites, which also covers DVDs, books and computer games.Then there'sCD Paradisefor music - look for links to WH Smith's other online shops selling books, games and videos. If you just want games, tryGameplay,UR Wired, or Simply Games atwww.simplygames.co.uk.Junglehas good prices on music, videos, games and software. For just videos, tryBlackstar, orFilm Worldif you're looking for something more specialised.If you're after more offbeat presents - everything from first editions to collectible toys, try the auction sites. BotheBayandQXLare worth a look - the latter has some fantastic prices on hi-fi, TVs and other household gizmos. Amazon's auctions and zShops are also worth exploring.Lastminuteis a good place for last minute deals on holidays, flights and tickets: good Christmas surprises in themselves. However, the Presents section also has an excellent selection of gift ideas.Alternatively, for general gifts, tryHotboxfor blokes' stuff or Chiasmus atwww.chiasmus.co.uk(for offbeat products for the home). Also worth a look arePropagangsta,KitschandThe Best of British.For lingerie, tryEasy ShoporBras Direct. For chocolates, tryThe Chocolate Store. And some very nice hampers are available fromThe Teddington CheeseandGourmet World.Finally, for toys, have a look atToyzone,eToys, theEarly Learning Centre,Toys R Us. For something less corporate, tryDawson and Son(for wooden toys) and The Toy Chest, to be found atwww.toychest.co.uk.And if you do forget someone this year, there's always the electronic gift certificate, which can be sent on Christmas Day if necessary. Many big sites offer these. Alternatively, try Jomono atwww.jomono.com, a new site specialising in e-gift certificates.
Going online to have a good night out seems a little bizarre. Aren't you supposed to turn your computer off when it's time to face the real world?In fact, it makes perfect sense to get online before getting downtown, as a good night out involves all the things the internet should be great at - finding information and reviews, making reservations and ordering tickets.So where do you start? If it is inspiration you're after, tryLastminute.com. The site, once fairly London-centric, now boasts that it "knows theatre doesn't stop at the west end". It offers tickets to events in several cities around Britain and Europe - even if the choice is thinner than the London listings.But let's not be churlish -   much of what's up for grabs is at a reasonable discount, if you can make it on the limited number of dates and times they're offering. And even if you can't, it might give you an idea, or inspire you to book full-price tickets elsewhere.Elsewhere might include Ticketmaster, the world's biggest ticket agency, which sells tickets for most of the big events nationwide. The website atwww.ticketmaster.co.ukmight not be hugely pretty, and contains far too many pictures of Cliff Richard, but it does give an idea of the breadth of coverage.You'll find tickets for events around the country - including theatre, concerts and a large section on millennium bashes - with a helpful days, hours, minutes and seconds countdown at the top, just to focus your mind.If live events aren't your scene, there's always the cinema - and surfers are not short of sites keen to offer advice on films to watch. There's our own award-winningFilm Unlimitedwhich, alongside news and features from the Guardian and Observer, has a full cinema listing by postcode.Gratuitous plugs aside, there's also Carlton's colourful Popcorn sitewww.popcorn.co.uk. This also has full listings, news and features plus the rather cool ability to view trailers online, via RealPlayer or Windows Media plug-ins.Mind you, seeing the tiny images flicker onto your screen, with phone-quality sound and occasional halts depending on the internet traffic conditions, doesn't quite bring the glory of the silver screen onto your desktop. But it's a start - and you can see the potential should we ever be allowed high bandwidth lines into our homes.Neither movie site lets you book online direct, although Popcorn links to the cinemas' websites. If, like me, your local multiplex is run byCineworldthen it's a case of logging off and phoning them up, as their flash and broken links-filled   nightmare of a site has yet to hear of e-commerce.On the other hand, if you've got anOdeonnearby, pop along to  where - as well as getting all the information and the occasional multimedia clip - you can also book your tickets online through their secure server.So, with the tickets for your big night out secured, what about somewhere nice to eat?If you're in London, you're well served. The Evening Standard's excellentThis is Londonwebsite has a comprehensive guide to the city's restaurants. It's also worth checking Lastminute.com again to see its special offers on the city's more exclusive eateries.Outside London, things become a little more tricky.Yahoo!offers dozens of small, local listings - type "restaurant guide" into Yahoo! and pull down the UK Only option to   find the list. The only worry is whether or not to trust the reviews: some sites appear to list only those establishments that have paid for the privilege.A more reliable guide comes from the AA. It has put its entire Hotel and Restaurant guide online atwww.theaa.co.uk/hotels. The whole thing is clearly designed, with hotels and restaurants neatly segregated according to location and then quality. The depth of the reviews varies, but we can forgive the AA that. At least they're providing something for those of us who live outside the big, black smoke.
A web-organised protest could snarl up Seattle next week as delegates from the World Trade Organisation meet to discuss further reform of world marketing.Internet sites are urging activists to take part in a programme of rallies, walk-outs and civil disobedience to shut down central Seattle, to make it impossible for the delegates to meet.Simultaneously, nearly 1,200 non-governmental organisations in 87 countries will be calling for wholesale reform of the WTO, and a number of mass protests along the lines of the "carnival against capitalism" on June 18 - the J18 protest that brought riots and chaos to the centre of London - will be held across the globe.CalledN30by its organisers, the events on November 30 could mark the largest demonstration of "transnational activism" yet.While the riot in June may have captured the headlines, the violence in London threatens to obscure the real story behind the transnational activist movement. The key point is that the internet enables large bodies of demonstrators - often unaligned to political parties - to mass simultaneously in dozens of capital cities.This way groups with often opposing agendas can find themselves rubbing shoulders on a loose political platform. J18 raged against capitalism, N30 marches against globalisation. Demonstrations are being planned in both London and Wales, although police intelligence suggests that the protests will be on a smaller scale in the UK than elsewhere. The focus for N30 will be Seattle, and so popular is the transnational cause, some suggest activists in Seattle could outnumber WTO delegates by 10 to one.One protest group is India'sNational Alliance of People's Movements (NAPM), whose national co-ordinator, Sanjay Mangela Gobal, will be taking his arguments to Seattle. His cause is simple: "We feel that International Monetary Funds, World Bank, World Trade Organisations, all of these institutions are coming under pressure of transnational corporations - and are coming in the way of the development we &#91;in India&#93; are striving for. Our objective is to demolish these institutions."But Gobal stresses that this goal must be achieved through "peaceful means".One difference between J18 and N30 is the way the events have been put together - how the growing influence of non-governmental organisations such as Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth are making the movement professional. Also, organisers in the States are more willing to deal with the authorities and are generally more open about their activities.  The majority of the demonstrators hope that events next Tuesday will mark a maturing of transnational activism.However, its very spontaneity still means that the threat of trouble always hangs in the air. And if the internet has produced a new type of dissent and a new type of criminal, can the police evolve methods to cope?Detective chief inspector Kieron Sharp of City of London Police is the senior   investigating officer for the J18 riot. He defines the transnational movement as the most highly organised type of activism yet."When you start looking back at the way these groups operate, they say that they are non-hierarchical, that nobody takes control, nobody is in charge, that they are not an organisation."If that's the case, they must have been very, very lucky to achieve what they achieved on June 18. It was apparent to us that they were extremely well organised."I think this &#91;J18&#93; was different because this was the first time we got them all together, and that the violence was pre-planned. The attack on the Liffe building was planned from the beginning."Sharp admits that none of the 82 people arrested on June 18 are likely to be ringleaders. Last month the City of London Police put up a website of their own atwww.cityoflondon.gov.uk/citypolice. It displayed photographs of 85 people that police would like to interview. This has led to 13 positive identifications, but, as yet, no arrests.In Seattle, home of    Microsoft, the situation is likely to be different. Dee Dee Halleck, an organiser of Deep Dish TV - one of the groups responsible for the webcastingN30- thinks that there is less likelihood of trouble this time. "We have a very different situation in Seattle. It's very middle class and it's also a boom town. People are not going hungry and there is very little unemployment."So as far as local people are concerned I don't think that you going to see the same degree of violence as you saw in London."Part of the problem seems to be that to police demonstrations properly, the police expect organisations to liaise with them. The groups behind N30 in the UK refuse. In turn, the police refuse to admit to any international policy for dealing with transnational activism. "From the point of attacking it in a transnational way, we will just continue to monitor events," says Sharp.But sources close to the N30 movement believe a number of surveillance operations may be underway already. Earlier this month Toshinori Kanemoto, president of Interpol, told 900 police chiefs at the 68th general assembly of the international law enforcement that "we should not make the internet a Wild West... &#91;transnational activism&#93; is one of the new types of crime which we have to defend against very much."On Tuesday, the police hope that a combination of the cold weather and the proximity to Christmas will help prevent the ugly scenes seen in London in the summer.Many of the groups involved in the transnational activist movement concur. If we do see rioting in Seattle or London, it will suggest that the police are restricted to warning the public and mopping up afterwards.Although the police are increasingly interested in new technology, it will be some time before a transnational way of policing transnational activism is fully developed.Read full coverage of the WTO summit online at:www.newsunlimited.co.uk/wto
