Chinese smartphone manufacturer Xiaomi will launch its first stores in North America and Europe on Tuesday, selling low-cost accessories as a prelude to launching smartphones in the west.The Mi store launch in the US, UK, France and Germany will be the five-year-old company’s first steps beyond China and selects developing markets after struggling with litigation over alleged patent infringement.The online store will sell Xiaomi’s competitively priced headphones, two portable battery packs and the Mi Band – a low-cost butwell-receivedfitness tracker.Big ambitionsXiaomi’s chief executive and co-founder Lei Jun aims to take the $45bn (£28.7bn) startup from one of the world’s top five smartphone manufacturers, purely based on sales within China, to the world’s biggest,supplanting Samsung and Applein the process.But the company has faced issues expanding beyond China. Its launch in India, one of the world’s largest emerging smartphone markets, was plagued with issues around patent infringement thatresulted in it being banned from selling in the country.A similar situation would likely occur if the company launched its current range of smartphones in the US or Europe, despite Xiaomi being awarded various patents of its own across smartphone technology.Apple’s chief designer Jonathan Ive recently criticised Xiaomi’s alleged copying of its iPhone, saying: “It is theft and it is lazy. I don’t think it is OK at all.”Lin Bin, Xiaomi co-founder, told a press conference – the company’s first significant event for media in the US – that intellectual property was “not the most important matrix”. However, it was one factor that he and Jun use when planning country-launch strategies.Xiaomi sees itself as more than a smartphone company. It recently released media streaming and internet of things products for home automation, but has yet to commit to a European or US launch.For now, the company is using its accessory range as a way to introduce the brand to key markets and create a foothold for further expansion at a later date.•Xiaomi: It’s China’s Apple, though you’ve probably never heard of it
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest iPhone and iPad apps and games. All these apps have been released for the first time – i.e. not updates – since the last roundup.All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if Android is your platform of choice, check theBest Android Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection!Camera51 for iOS.APPSCamera51 (Free)This has long been one of the most popular photography apps on Android. Now it’s finally available for iOS, promising clever tech to automatically detect faces and other elements of your shots, to help you frame them.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPhone apps of 2014GLP - Great Little Place (Free)There are so many city-guide apps on iOS, they need their own city-guide-app-guide almost. But Great Little Place is well worth a spot on the homescreen of travellers: a neatly-designed way to check out hotspots before (or while) visiting.iPhoneVimo Fitness (Free)Launched by Vimo Labs, this is one of a number of apps looking to use smartwatches for fitness purposes. It’ll track your exercises in the gyms – rep-counting included – while the parent app helps you create new routines to get the most out of your activity time.iPhoneDeeMe (Free)Does anyone need a “new way to instant message” at this point? DeeMe hopes so: it’s throwing photo-editing into the mix, encouraging people to add “amazing typography” to their shots before pinging them to friends.iPhoneFrozen: Early Science - Cooking and Animal Care (£4.99)Let it boil, LET IT BOIL, turn away and slam the oven door, etc etc. Yes, Disney’s Frozen and cookery: together at last! This app for children gets them virtually cooking for Queen Elsa with various ingredients, then throws in some reindeer-care for good measure. Young fans will love it.iPhone / iPadSantander Cycles (Free)One of the good things about London’s ‘Boris Bikes’ having its data opened up has been the number of apps helping the capital’s casual cyclists find one to ride. This, though, is the official app from Transport for London: its key feature being its ability to send bike release codes to your device.iPhoneLinqapp (Free)Here’s an app that could be really useful if you’re learning a foreign language: a way to ping your questions about vocabulary and phrases – from Spanish to Chinese – and get answers from native speakers. And then hope they’re telling you the truth…iPhoneRelated:The best iPad apps of 2014Yen (Free)A lot of companies are looking into making mobile payments between contacts easier. Yen is the latest app to make its debut, promising a secure way to transfer money to friends “for diner, drinks, rent and more”. Messaging is built in so you can argue over who owes what to whom.iPhoneFruit Ninja Academy: Math Master (£3.99)Game or education app? Well, both. Aimed at 5-7 year-olds, this is a new version of the Fruit Ninja game that throws maths into the mix: addition, subtraction, multiplication as well as sequences and shape recognition. It’s a clever take on the original.iPhone / iPadBeamly Bite (Free)Once upon a time, there was an app called Zeebox for chatting to other TV viewers about the shows you watched. Then it rebranded as Beamly. And now it’s got a new spin-off: less about socialising and more about quick news stories and gossip about the world of TV.iPhoneTest Chamber for iOS.GAMESTest Chamber – Mind-Bending Puzzles (Free + IAP)If you relish a challenge, and yearn for something original to distract you from base-building / match-three-puzzling mobile games, Test Chamber is brilliant. A stylish puzzle/exploration game with an isometric perspective, genuinely-tough puzzlers and “tongue-in-cheek existentialism”. Which is always nice.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPhone and iPad games of 2014Knights of Pen &amp; Paper 2 (£3.99 + IAP)The first Knights of Pen &amp; Paper game was excellent: a knowing take on old-school roleplaying games (as in sit-round-a-table ones). This sequel is even better, retaining the humour while expanding pretty much everything around the gameplay.iPhone / iPadMarvel Future Fight (Free + IAP)Lots of Marvel characters and lots of fighting sums up why this game should be in your present AND future. It’s a polished brawler packed with characters, and ripe for tactical thinking rather than (virtual) button-mashing.iPhone / iPadKindo (£1.49)It’s a good week for minimalist brain-testers: Kindo is more of a digital board-game, but will sit neatly alongside Test Chamber on the devices of discerning iOS gamers. It sees you colouring in squares and fortifying them to fend off an opponent. Be warned: you’ll sometimes want to throw your device through the nearest window when you make a mistake and lose. But what’ll stop you is the craving for another go.iPhone / iPadSkatelander - Endless Arcade Skateboarding (Free + IAP)Endless-skateboarding meets Crossy Road, in a nutshell. And just as fun as that sounds. This game sees you skating along endless tracks jumping over obstacles and unlocking its 60 characters, which you can buy if you’re impatient to access them. Its inspirations are clear, but they make for a satisfying blend.iPhone / iPadRival Kingdoms: Age of Ruin (Free + IAP)Developer Space Ape Games had a huge hit with its Samurai Siege: Alliance Wars game. Now it’s going for a second with Rival Kingdoms, which may initially look like yet another Clash of Clans clone, but adds enough depth and extra features to take the genre on a step or two.iPhone / iPadGrim Fandango Remastered (£7.99)If you have fond memories of adventure game Grim Fandango, you’ll want to shell out straight away for this mobile remake from developer Double Fine. Newbie? It’s well worth the price: a deep, satisfying adventure with lots of original touches.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPad apps for kids of 2014Bears vs. Art (Free + IAP)Not even the edgiest modern artist has (yet) hit on the idea of letting an angry bear loose in their gallery. That’s the idea of this game though: you play said bear, Rory, as he tries to destroy “pointless pieces” in 150 galleries. It’s a clever puzzler at heart with planning, not blind rage, the key to success.iPhone / iPadEmpires &amp; Allies (Free + IAP)Once king of the social gaming hill thanks to FarmVille, Zynga is still trying to find its mobile mojo in 2015. Could the answer be… a Facebook game that was shut down in 2013? Let’s see: it’s a polished combination of base-building and battling.iPhone / iPadLet’s Go Rocket (Free + IAP)Billed as a “one-touch rocket game”, that’s exactly what you get with this moreish casual game: less Flappy Bird and more Zoomy Rocket, as you boost your way up the screen avoiding obstacles.iPhone / iPadThose are my choices, but what have you been impressed by on iOS in the last couple of weeks? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest Android apps and games, covering smartphones and tablets.All these apps have been released for the first time – i.e. not updates – since the last roundup. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest Android Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if iOS is your platform of choice, check theBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection!Meerkat for Android.APPSMeerkat (Free)In the battle for live-video-broadcasting supremacy, Meerkat is hampered by not being owner by Twitter, unlike rival Periscope. Still, in its favour is beating Periscope to Android with its app, which enables you to stream video to Twitter or tune in to other broadcasters.Microsoft Hyperlapse (Free)Remember when Instagram launched an app to create nifty time-lapse videos? Now Microsoft has unveiled its take on the idea: initially as a beta preview that you have to sign up for on Google+. It looks good though: stabilising your footage as it goes.Related:The best Android apps of 2014Wear Fitness Personal Trainer (Free)Launched by Vimo Labs, this is one of a number of apps looking to use smartwatches for fitness purposes. It’ll track your exercises in the gyms – rep-counting included – while the parent app helps you create new routines to get the most out of your activity time.Fruit Ninja: Math Master (£4)Game or education app? Well, both. Aimed at 5-7 year-olds, this is a new version of the Fruit Ninja game that throws maths into the mix: addition, subtraction, multiplication as well as sequences and shape recognition. It’s a clever take on the original.DeeMe (Free)Does anyone need a “new way to instant message” at this point? DeeMe hopes so: it’s throwing photo editing into the mix, encouraging people to add “amazing typography” to their shots before pinging them to friends.Desire42 (Free + IAP)There’s been a rash of apps aimed at couples in the last year or so: some focused on social networking – a way to privately share texts and photos (of babies, for example) – and others focused more on sex. This is the latter: a way for partners to send dares back and forth to spice up their love lives.Dreamstime: Sell Your Photos (Free)No, don’t sell the private photos you sent to your partner. Although that’s probably an app too. Dreamstime is a way to sell your mobile snaps on a popular stock photography service, creating your account and uploading from your smartphone, then keeping track of your stats.Livescribe+ (Free)You’ll need a Livescribe 3 smartpen for this, as well as its partner Livescribe Link app. It’s worth investigating though: an app for viewing, converting and sharing the notes you’ve scribbled with the pen peripheral, including storing them in the cloud to access across several devices.VoxelMaker (£3.95)VoxelMaker looks a bit like Minecraft, although its developer prefers to pitch it as “a 3D version of pixel art”. Either way, it’s building things with colourful virtual cubes, with your models then able to be exported to other creative software. Bags of potential, in the right hands.Adidas Smart Ball (Free)Another app that needs a peripheral: Adidas’ new miCoach Smart Ball, which has sensors to measure how well (or not) you kick it, and can then feed them back to the app. If you haven’t got the ball, this isn’t useless though: it provides football tips and can even video your foot-wallops for analysis.Seabeard for Android.GAMESSeabeard (Free + IAP)Freshly sailed from iOS, Seabeard is a cute, characterful game that’s the best mobile attempt yet at an Animal Crossing-style title. You explore, perform tasks for villagers and rebuild your island village while playing deceptively-challenging mini-games.Knights of Pen &amp; Paper 2 (£3.99 + IAP)The first Knights of Pen &amp; Paper game was excellent: a knowing take on old-school roleplaying games (as in sit-round-a-table ones). This sequel is even better, retaining the humour while expanding pretty much everything around the gameplay.Related:The best Android games of 2014Lego Star Wars: TCS (£4.22)If you’ve got the space on your device – 735MB at least – this is a treat for Lego and/or Star Wars fans. It bundles together the two Lego Star Wars games with bricky versions of pretty much every major character from the film double-trilogy.Marvel Future Fight (Free + IAP)Lots of Marvel characters and lots of fighting sums up why this game should be in your present AND future. It’s a polished brawler packed with characters, and ripe for tactical thinking rather than (virtual) button-mashing.Earn to Die 2 (Free + IAP)Standing proudly alone in the “endless-driving-while-squashing-zombies” genre, Earn to Die now has a sequel. The key addition to this side-scrolling game is a proper story mode, as well as more paths to take through its levels as you bash undead out of the way.Grim Fandango Remastered (£7.87)If you have fond memories of adventure game Grim Fandango, you’ll want to shell out straight away for this mobile remake from developer Double Fine. Newbie? It’s well worth the price: a deep, satisfying adventure with lots of original touches.Bears vs. Art (Free + IAP)Not even the edgiest modern artist has (yet) hit on the idea of letting an angry bear loose in their gallery. That’s the idea of this game though: you play said bear, Rory, as he tries to destroy “pointless pieces” in 150 galleries. It’s a clever puzzler at heart with planning, not blind rage, the key to success.Empires &amp; Allies (Free + IAP)Once king of the social gaming hill thanks to FarmVille, Zynga is still trying to find its mobile mojo in 2015. Could the answer be … a Facebook game that was shut down in 2013? Let’s see: it’s a polished combination of base-building and battling.Mortal Kombat X (Free + IAP)Finish him! The Mortal Kombat franchise has spawned some good and some not-so-good games down the years. This latest mobile incarnation fits into the former camp, thankfully: a meaty beat ‘em up that works well on the touchscreen – although in-app-purchase avoiders won’t be keen.Goat Simulator GoatZ (£3.99)Remember Goat Simulator? If you thought it’d be a short-lived novelty, then think again: this new spin-off adds zombies into the mix, as well as limited crafting (“Craft anything in the world, as long as it’s one of the half dozen weapons in the game …”) It’s ridiculous, of course, but there’s still a spark about it.That’s my choice, but what Android apps and games have you been enjoying this week? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
YouTube. Cats. Two concepts that, however much that horse-dancing chap from South Korea sticks his oar in, will always be interlinked in hundreds of millions of people’s minds.Cats are YouTube’s muses and its mascots. But which are themostmusey and mascotty? As the service celebrates its 10th birthday, we asked YouTube’s trends team what the most popular felines of its first decade were.They came back with a chart based on views, subscribers and how much “discussion and creativity” its subjects had inspired during that decade. And sorry, Grumpy Cat, but the top slot goes to ...1. MaruThis Scottish Fold cat lives in Japan, loves boxes, and has accumulated more than 289m views onhis channel– which also has nearly 500,000 subscribers. From tail-dancing and paper-bag wearing to loafing about on the sofa, he’s a global hit.2. Grumpy CatGrumpy Cat.Photograph: Amanda Edwards/WireImageShe may have less views than Maru – 31.5m on her official channel – but Grumpy Cat is arguably more famous in the wider world thanks to her bestselling books and appearances at various tech events. Tardar Sauce (her actual name) owes her looks to feline dwarfism rather than a gloomy character.3. Simon’s Cat“Mow?” This animated cat was the work of Simon Tofield, who set up his YouTube channel in 2007 and has since generated more than 640m views and attracted nearly 3.5 million subscribers.Tofield recently raised £310k on crowdfunding website Indiegogoto make a longer 11-minute film with his feline star.4. Surprise KittenSurprised Kitten.Photograph: YouTubeNot a channel, but a single video – the only one ever uploaded to the channel of its owner “rozzzafly”, in October 2009. The 16-minute clip of a kitten being tickled has since been watched more than 75m times.5. BaneCatPublished on YouTube channel BloodBlitz, this series of videos features a take-no-nonsense cat wearing a supervillain-inspired mask, and terrorising his owner. A Behind The Scenes video revealed that BaneCat is female, incidentally.6. Henri The Existential CatHenri, the Existential Cat.Photograph: YouTubeSomething more arty on this channel, which has nearly 9.5m views for its videos presenting the life of a cat filled with angst, filmed in suitably moody monochrome. “Just when I think they have exhausted all means of insulting me. Now this ...”7. Colonel MeowColonel Meow.Photograph: YouTubeLet’s get the bad news out of the way: Colonel Meow isn’t alive any more. But when he was, he was a hit on YouTube, with 3m views of his channel and aGuinness World Record for having the longest fur(nine inches, since you ask).8. Nyan CatNyan cat is one viral hit to have contributed to the ascendence of online video.Photograph: The DishhThe original Nyan Cat video has been watched more than 120m times on YouTube, so it’s surprising to see the multi-coloured poptart-cat so low on this list. But it was as much of a meme off-YouTube, including a website challenging people to watch (and listen to his song) for as long as possible.9. Keyboard CatKeyboard Cat.Photograph: YouTubeIf you ever see a snarky reference to YouTube as a place full of “cats playing pianos”, chances are Keyboard Cat is the cause. His original video was seized upon by the media, with his channel since generating nearly 71m views.10. Sparta CatSparta Cat.Photograph: YouTubeRelated:What’s new, pussycat? The growing economy of internet cat videosAnother veteran YouTube feline, the original Mean Kitty Song was uploaded in 2007, going on to rack up nearly 82m views since, providing a platform for parent channel SMP Films (which is more focused on comedy skits and tricks) to build its audience.Dubious about the merits of these cats? Here’s a playlist to help you decide:
First released in Japan in 2012,Puzzle &amp; Dragonshas proved to be a phenomenal success and is presented here as a double pack of two versions on the 3DS. The game combines puzzle gameplay (similar toBejeweled) with an RPG element (akin toPokémon). Players must build a team of monsters, level them up, develop their abilities and use them in battles. These battles take the form of match-three puzzles, and monsters will only unleash their attacks if gamers can combine the correctly coloured orbs.It’s a compelling template that has inspired multiple rivals and, while the Mario edition boasts familiar characters and locations, it lacks the variety and depth ofPuzzle &amp; Dragons Z. However,Zin turn gameplaydoes become bogged down in a rather tedious story in places but when the game gets going, it’s an addictive experience. With hundreds of levels to discover, this is a really generous package for fans of match-three puzzlers. Out on Friday.
An intriguing effort to bring classic PC gaming to the iOS platform. Players take the role of a starship pilot moving through various star systems. With the help of an AI co-pilot, making a name and fortune is the goal – in open space there is the chance to ferry cargo, guard massive convoys from pirate attacks or even turn criminal. Then, when docked at space stations, one can engage in bidding wars, take on new assignments and upgrade the ship. The obvious parallel would beEVE, the space-capitalism MMORPG. But players are going to hit a brick wall very early on inRogue Star. Though the moment-to-moment gameplay is easy to learn and the user interface works well, there are major problems with the progression system. earning enough to buy even the first ship upgrade is a long, tedious grind as most jobs pay very little and all potential income from cargo and missions vanishes on death. One-on-one dogfights are fair challenges but far more common – and far more deadly – are two-versus-one attacks on the player. The developers have promised to fix some of these issuesin future updates, but until thenRogue Staris a brave attempt but too much of a chore to be fun.
Oh, it’s Monday. How didthathappen?
On a very base level,Project CARSis going to be a divisive game: you’re either going to love it or hate it. Developed with a strong emphasis on realistic graphics and accurate physics,Project CARSis a stunning and complex racer.It’s almost tempting to call it a “simulation” instead of a “game” as the whole thing feels more like a training programme for real racing drivers. There are hours to be spent tweaking tyre pressures and brake sensitivity to run practice laps and shave a couple of seconds off the best time. There’s a wealth of player choice with multiple career modes, dozens of cars and customisable weekend races.For someone who loves minutiae, who tinkers and fiddles, whose blood is brake fluid, this is going to be bliss. Everyone else is going to have a rougher time becauseProject CARSis demanding, unforgiving and strict – you are dropped in at the deep end and told to swim but not how.In the opening race, you will very quickly and inevitably enjoy immaculately rendered first-person views of the nearest wall. But stick it out, push through the frustration and you will begin to learn. This hardcore experience will not tolerate boy racers.
Steve Jobs’ vision of Apple products helping to change the world has come true, Apple chief executive Tim Cook said on Sunday, thanks to iPhone cameras enabling people to capture instances of injustice on film.Cook was delivering the commencement speech at George Washington University, in Washington DC.“His vision for Apple was a company that turned powerful technology into tools that were easy to use, tools that would help people realize their dreams and change the world for the better,” Cook said of Jobs, Apple’s co-founderwho died in 2011.“Our products do amazing things, and just as Steve envisioned, they empower people all over the world,” Cook continued. “People who are blind and need information read to them because they can’t see the screen. People for whom technology is a lifeline because they are isolated by distance or disability.“People who witness injustice and want to expose it. And now they can, because they have a camera in their pocket all the time.”In one recent, high-profile instance, a video recorded by a bystander in South Carolina showed a white police officer shooting Walter Scott, a 50-year-old black man, eight times in the back as he ran away. The officer, Michael Slager,was charged with murder.Phone footage shows South Carolina police officer Michael Slager shooting dead Walter Scott.In his 20-minute speech, Cook spoke about growing up in southern Alabama, where former governor George C Wallaceblocked school doors to prevent blacks from enrolling. According to Cook, Wallace “embraced the evils of segregation”.“Meeting my governor was not an honor for me,” Cook said. “My heroes in life were Dr Martin Luther King and Robert F Kennedy, who have fought against the very things that Wallace stood for.“Keep in mind that when I grew up, I grew up in the place where King and Kennedy were not held in high esteem. When I was a kid, the south was still coming to grips with its history. My textbooks even said that the Civil War was about states’ rights. They barely mentioned slavery.”Cook said that when he was 16, shaking hands with Wallace felt like a betrayal of his own beliefs. He impressed upon the students that “injustices like segregation have no place in our world” and that “equality is a right”.“In his letter from the Birmingham jail, Dr King wrote that our society needed to repent – not merely for the hateful words of the bad people, but for the appalling silence of the good people,” Cook said.“Sidelines are not where you want to live your life. The world needs you in the arena. There are problems that need to be solved. Injustices that need to be ended. People that are still being persecuted.”Since coming out last October, Cook has used his position to speak out against‘religious freedom’ lawsmooted in states such as Indiana and Arkansas, which critics say enable discrimination against gay people.As he introduced Cook, GW’s president, Steven Knapp, said: “You’ve used your position as a platform to speak out about injustice and press for societal progress in the United States and around the world. As you recently told Fortune magazine, you want to be the pebble in the pond that creates the ripples for change.”Cook was invited to be the commencement speaker on the suggestion of the GW students. He joined Apple in 1998 and served as chief operating officer beforetaking over as CEO in 2011.Ending his speech, Cook put his iPhone camera to use by taking a photo of the graduates.“This is the best view of the world,” he said.
All the most exciting technological innovations start life in the US, don’t they? The space shuttle, the iPhone, the lightbulb. Now, a new invention can be added to this list – anapp that enables you to send your friends pictures of goats, purporting to be from the goats themselves, along with faintly disappointing goat puns. It is inexplicably popular with a certain genre of tech blog, and thus it reaches us. This is probably how jazz began.While you have to live in the US to receive a Goat Attack, you don’t have to live there to send one. Accordingly, I went online and paid $0.79 to bombard my expat friend Jon with goat puns. It felt more gleeful than I had expected. This sense only grew when I learned that Jon, an intrepid journalist who, by and large, does not write aboutgoat-based text apps, had been a little unnerved initially, thinking he was “being targeted by someone I’d pissed off with a story”.Messages Jon received included “ROW ROW ROW YOUR GOAT BITCHES!”, “LET IT GOAT!” and “GOAT’S CHEEEEESSSSSEE!!”. Each was accompanied by a picture of a goat. How does he feel the app could be improved? By “receiving one good goat pic instead of several OK ones”. Did he think, at any point, that he might be getting messages from a goat? “Yes, I wondered for a few minutes then forgot and stopped wondering.” Jon is apparently uncurious about the mysteries of the universe. Will he be trying it himself? “I would never send people goats.”This kind of barely submerged antipathy is the risk you take with a Goat Attack, I guess, but it’s worth it for the pleasant spell after sending one where you imagine the bemusement on your target’s face, and at least Jon and I are getting some of our issues out in the open at last. Give it a go, if you can find an American. Ideally, one a bit less frumpy than Jon Who Thinks He’s Too Important for Goat Attacks.
Price from £10,145MPG up to 85.6Top speed up to 139mphIt’s Sunday morning and I’m trailing along a winding country road. Lambs are bouncing about in the sunshine and theArchersomnibus is on the radio. Up ahead a batteredFord Fiestais pottering along. I can see the curly, white-haired heads of two old ladies nodding in the back seat and I start to wonder if they’re listening to theArchers, too – probably wondering when the dastardly Rob is going to get his comeuppance. The road straightens and I take my chance to overtake. As I pass, I glance over at the farmer driving and then at his two passengers in the back. I can hardly believe my eyes. They aren’t old ladies after all, but two big woolly sheep, happily peering out the window. I didn’t see if they were wearing seat belts…As it happens I’m in a Ford Fiesta, too. That’s hardly a surprise, since it is Britain’s bestselling car this year. It was last year and the year before that, too. In fact it’s Britain’s bestselling car of all time. We Britons love the little Fiesta, and since 1976 we’ve bought more than 4m of them. Ford has sold an incredible 16m worldwide, which works out at almost 1,200 a day, every day, for nearly 40 years.Bridge of sighs: an older Fiesta shows just how far it, and we, have travelled.Photograph: PRThis current model is the seventh generation of the supermini. You’ll be relieved to hear it bears almost no relation to the first. That was a right biscuit box and looked like a drawing of what a car might be (by a child who was bad at art). It was about as aerodynamic as a brick. Today those folded-paper edges have been replaced by sweeping curves and wraparound finishing. The Fiesta today has perfect proportions, so it’s hard to guess its scale. It looks quite big in the picture, but on the road it is remarkably neat and tidy – like one of those muscly little gymnasts.The supermini category is probably the most competitive in the auto market – in World Cup lingo it’s the pool of death. The Fiesta has to battle it out with some little cars with big reps – VW Polo, Vauxhall Corsa, Kia Rio, Mini, Peugeot 208, Renault Clio, Nissan Micra… Yet somehow the formidable Ford bubbles to the top of the bestseller list time and time again.Inside story: the open and spacious cockpit is a surprise considering how small the car’s road print is.Photograph: PRThere is no one reason why it remains so popular – with the Fiesta it comes down to a combination of factors. It has striking looks and low running costs and it’s great value for money. There is also a huge range of models on offer, from the basic Style through to the hot hatch ST, each with an array of drive systems, from the 1-litre EcoBoost “engine of the year” to the thrilling 180bhp 1.6-litre petrol in the ST. But none of this would matter if it didn’t drive well – and in that department it is a revelation. Ford describes the combination of that EcoBoost engine with Fiesta’s chassis as the best pairing since Lennon and McCartney. It’s hard to disagree.The most popular spec of Britain’s most popular car is the Zetec – the second-cheapest in the line-up. It gives you everything you get in the most basic model, but with a touch more refinement. We buy it for the same reason we order the second-cheapest bottle on the wine list. We’re cheapskates, but we don’t want the cork dorks on the next table to know that.Most of us will drive or travel in a Fiesta at some point in our motoring lives. And very few of us will get out of the car having any complaints at all. Just ask those sheep – they looked pretty happy…The art of cycle maintenance for womenKnow your gear: get to grips with your ride.There’s nothing worse than suffering a mechanical when you are out on the open road. And whether it’s a slipped chain, a jammed gear or a flat tyre, it will give you confidence to know you can sort it out for yourself. Which is why Halfords is about to launchWomen’s Bike Workshops. From Wednesday 20 May – at 420 Halford stores across the country – women are encouraged to join in the interactive sessions, worth £10, to learn the basics of cycle maintenance. It will also be a good chance to meet other like-minded female cyclists in your area. For more information, go tohalfords.com/womensbikeworkshopWork those musclesLeg work: look after the power units and the race will look after itself.Photograph: Tom Jenkins/ObserverIf you do visit one of the Halfords’ cycle maintenance sessions (above) you will almost certainly be told to “Muc-Off”. Hardened cyclists and bikers swear by this ingenious product. You spray it on to the dirtiest, oiliest parts of your machine and then simply hose it off. Now Muc-Off is applying itself to looking after your body as well as your bike. It’s just introduced a range of athlete protection creams. Each has been scientifically formulated to improve and boost your performance from start to finish, including preparation and recovery. There’s Warm Up Cream which allows your muscles to work at an optimum level of effectiveness with an intelligent heating system; Explosive Power Cream which uses Arginine amino acids to help dilate blood vessels and increase blood supply to the muscles; Ultra Endurance Cream which uses Taurine amino acids to convert glycogen into glucose to fuel your muscles. And finally Recovery Balm which increases glycogen storage and hydrates muscle cells so you can fully maximise your training. It smells pretty good too. The creams cost from £15 and can be bought frommuc-off.com/30-fitness.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Related:Hot Chip's Guardian edit“Sometimes I feel guilty about playing games: I’m busy, I’ve got kids, always working, and yet I manage to squeeze in hours and hours of gaming,” reflects Peter Serafinowicz, comedian and console addict, who has lent his voice to games such as Dark Souls II and LittleBigPlanet 3. “But then I don’t watch football, I don’t go out drinking. I have quite a boring life, really. So you’re allowed something, aren’t you? I don’t want to call it a vice…” Indeed, video games are not a vice but a character-building asset in modern life, as Serafinowicz and Martin will attest…Computer games give you your fondest childhood memoriesPeter Serafinowicz:I remember [early video game] Spacewar. You had to manoeuvre these little triangular ships around space and try to shoot each other. I was totally enthralled by these little dots. I thought it was the most exciting thing ever.Felix Martin:The aesthetics of those early machines were great – the rubber keys, even the pungent blue packaging, which was probably full of carcinogens. The Atari 800 is still the most beautiful computer I’ve ever seen. There was such a build-up to playing early computer games – the loading of the cassette – that it felt ceremonial. Even getting the game started was a magical thing.Games are about the journey, not the destination (which is usually death)PS:Games such as Bloodborne and Dark Souls are poetic experiences, in which you piece things together as you go along. It’s not about “winning”.FM:Yeah, even when they’re unrelentingly punishing and full of people who are utterly horrible to you, on some level they’re a fun way to demonstrate the power of your own brain, your muscle memory.Peter Serafinowicz on Dark Souls II: ‘The best game ever’ – videoCamaraderie is important if you don’t want to end up as a pool of blood and organsFM:I always had to share with my older brother when I was a kid; my allotted task was to press one key. There was a game called Commando: he would do all the movements and the hard bits and I would just repetitively press the fire button.PS:In Dark Souls, you have 15 or 20 different gestures like waving, bowing, pointing. This etiquette has developed – if someone comes into your world, you bow before you start fighting them – and if you jump the gun and start hitting them before that, it’s considered very poor form.FM:You can help other people as well. In Bloodborne, you have a bell you can ring and other people can respond to that if you’re in a tight spot. It’s very cooperative.PS:You feel a real friendship with these people for those moments in which you’re fighting together.Games actually teach you to do proper, grown-up life skillsFM:Last year, as well as gaming I was also learning to drive, and I found many parallels in the way your mind and body fuse these skills. It accrues over time the more you do something.PS:I got Deus Ex when I was 15; it’s set in a futuristic dystopia. Funny, it’s the only video game that’s been set in a nightmarish dystopia ever, I’d like to see another one… Anyway, you’re hiding in a building and to get out you have to get past all these robot guards. And depending on how you wanted to play it you could sneak past them, take each one down one by one; you have all these different tools at your disposal. So it’s creative, it’s problem solving.Deus ExGames help you to ‘monotask’PS:There ought to be a backlash to multi-tasking. Do the task in hand.FM:Yes, that’s the beauty of the video game world – that you are immersed in a single experience.PS:I played a game called Enchanter when I was a kid. I remember a friend coming round during the holidays for a few hours but I was so obsessed with the game I had no idea he was there. He was very hurt; he thought it was a reflection on him but it wasn’t, it was just the game being so utterly compelling.Computer games are a bona fide art formFM:I like any art form that’s full of atmosphere, that’s immersive, well written, well-designed. I don’t see a distinction between a good film, piece of music or video game.PS:I’m in Dark Souls II as an actor. I play a character and I do all the exertion noises – all those “URRGHH!!” or “ARRGGH!”s – but I still play the game, and I always forget I’m part of it until I get hit and hear myself grunting or screaming.Alien: IsolationYour gaming prowess will impress your peers… er, actually, scrap thatFM:There’s a game called Alien: Isolation, based on the movie franchise, and one of the things you find yourself doing is hiding in cupboards quite a lot, looking through a crack in the door and this can go on for some time. My girlfriend would occasionally walk in and see me doing this and being, like: “What the fuck are you doing?”PS:I was so excited to do this job [voiceover for Dark Souls II], I turned up in this black T-shirt that says “YOU DIED”, which happens when you die in Dark Souls. I walked into the studio – the writer and director were there – and said: “Hey, everybody!” No one mentioned it at all. I just thought: “What the fuck are you doing, you idiot?”Peter Serafinowicz directed the Hot Chip videos Don’t Deny Your Heart, I Feel Better and Night And Day
I couldn’t get over how extremely posh I looked in my Seat Leon. The suedette seats reminded me of that headline in the Onion when Diana died (“Princess Dies As She Lived: In Incredible Plushness”). The gigantic boot could hold any tat you might throw in it – blow-up mattresses and buckets and spades, travel cots and micro scooters, plastic bags full of things that would end up lost – and still give the appearance of order and tessellation. The headlamps have an elegant, feline shape and the car has a nice balance – weighty and serious at the back, sleek at the front. Driving it, you look as though you have a pension and an Ocado account; you look like someone who sends their forms back on time, and who never lets their athlete’s foot get out of control.Motorway driving showed off all this smooth confidence; a bit of height has been added to the seats, which give you a rather kingly posture. It’s a little noisier than you’d expect – tyre roar, mainly – but otherwise this felt proper, executive. (I don’t think the next generation will realise that “executive” once referred to a type of job; they’ll think it’s just a word for “comfy car”.)On shorter journeys, it was a little less rosy. The display in the binnacle constantly nudges you up a gear – 6th, 6th, it urges, just because you’ve touched 31mph on a clear road – and the two-litre turbo diesel engine isn’t up to maintaining any punch at a borderline-too-high gear. The turbo element doesn’t feel as beefy as in cars that look less ambitious, like the Passat. The answer, I guess, is don’t listen to the instruction; but that annoys me, since it was taking up space in my eyeline that could have been used for, I don’t know, a clock.There’s a lag on the satnav that is frankly disgraceful – a proper, pull-over, drum-your-fingers delay between one screen and the next. As the satnav is the main, immediately noticeable difference between the standard and tech versions (that, and £2,000) it ought to be way better.Yet that’s a quibble in the grander scheme, where fuel economy (57.6mpg combined) is impressive for a wagon like this. Carbon emissions are 129g/km; again, pretty impressive, if not head-turning. The steering is light, and I won some admirers with my parking on a curved main road – either that or they were just gaping at my discourteous London ways.In the final analysis: a lot of class but not quite enough welly. Like a pair of those ankle Hunters.Seat Leon X-perience: in numbersPrice£26,370Top speed129mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption57.6mpgCO2 emissions129g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
If you’re near Google’s headquarters in Mountain View, California, this summer, you may see a different kind of robot car driving around without the aid of the person in the front seat. The tech companyannounced on Fridayit will soon release a smaller, more compact version of its driver-assisted vehicles on to roads near its headquarters.Self-driving vehicles are an area of significant investment at the company and the market for their potentially society changing product is getting ever larger.There are four states now (two of them contiguous) that allow self-driving cars on the road: Michigan, Florida, California and Nevada. And as other states consider following suit, we’re getting to see exactly how Google brings a product as radical as its self-driving car to market.The new vehicle was put under some significant stress before Google and the Department of Transportation okayed it to interact with primate-operated vehicles. “We’ve made the car hot, we’ve made the car cold, we’ve done reliability testing, we drive the car through a durability ‘bump track’”, said Google systems engineer Jaime Waydo in a video of the new vehicle the company put out today.There’s been visible progress since Google’s last car was released into the wild. The latest vehicle will be assisted, if need be, by a single person with a detachable steering wheel, gas pedal and brake pedal in case it needs to be taken over. Older versions required a two-person team of emergency operators.There are a lot of ducks to get in a row before self-driving vehicles become a regular feature on US highways. Nevada’s Department of Transportation spokesman Tony Iliatold The Guardianthat the state had been asked to “brighten up the lane-striping and the buttons”, something that is probably good for all drivers everywhere. But it does point up a significant problem with the potentially cost-saving (and life-saving) innovations: they require regular, functioning, regularly maintained highway infrastructure.Related:Google acknowledges  its self-driving cars had 11 minor accidentsMuch of the UScan’t even afford to repair its bridges, much less repaint the dotted lines and reflectors on its highways. The built-in hesitation to spend on essentials probably won’t keep Google out of California, but it will make it harder for it and Daimler - which has a series ofautonomous vehiclesunder development - to cross state lines. Google is aggressively petitioning the government on this issue, presumably to reinvest. The company employed lobbyists at multiple government agencies and on several bills, notably H.R. 5021, signed last August, an act thatmoved $7.8 bn into the Highway Trust Fund, which maintains interstates.Google said its ultimate goal was “a vehicle that could shoulder the entire burden of driving” in a release issued Friday morning. “To provide the best experience we can, we’ll need to master snow-covered roadways, interpret temporary construction signals and handle other tricky situations that many drivers encounter.”Self-driving cars, at this point, require a special license to operate and are available only to the testers of the vehicles, rather than the general population. Both Google and Daimler are hoping to change that, Google in an effort to encourage broad enough adoption to ease congestion in cities and eliminate facilities like parking garages. Daimler’s goals are more straightforward: to make the business of long-haul trucking less reliant on overtaxed drivers.Both companies have pointed out the human error inherent in more than 90% of traffic accidents; Chris Urmson, director of Google’s project, saidlast yearthat ultimately the goal is for its cars to be “more courteous and more defensive drivers” than human beings. “Imagine never losing someone to a traffic accident again,” he said.Google’s cars have logged more than a million autonomous hours since a few states including Nevada and California made it legal to operate them on public roadways. They have been involved in 11 accidents over the course of that testing. All 11 were the fault of human beings.
Billionaire investor Carl Icahn has bought a $100m stake inLyft, the fast-growing taxi app rival to Uber.Icahn, who is well known for forcing changes at companies he invests in – including ousting Jerry Yang as chief executive of Yahoo,said he believed “ridesharing is poised to become a fundamental component of our transportation infrastructure”.Icahn’s investment values three-year-old Lyft at $2.5bn, which Icahn said made investing in it a “no-brainer” compared with Uber, which was recently valued at $41bn.“If you look at the way the market evaluates Uber and then look at the valuation of Lyft, Lyft is a tremendous bargain,” Icahn said inan interview with the Wall Street Journal. “There is room for two.”Icahn said Lyft’s rapid growth was “extremely compelling, and increasing urbanization over the next five to 10 years should enable the Company to maintain that trajectory”.His investment is an extension of a $530m funding round led by Japanese e-commerce company Rakuten, which valued Lyft at $2.5bn. As part of the investment Jonathan Christodoro, one of the managing directors of Icahn Enterprises, will join Lyft’s board.John Zimmer, Lyft’s president, said: “Carl Icahn’s record as an investor is unparalleled.“His recent success investing in the technology sector stems from a focus on companies that deliver incredible long-term value to their customers, such as Apple, Netflix and eBay/PayPal. We’re thrilled to partner with Carl during this exciting period in Lyft’s growth as we work to rebuild the US transportation infrastructure and reconnect local communities. With this additional investment, we remain focused on deepening our US footprint, continuing to lead with product innovation and providing the best possible experience for drivers and passengers.”Lyft, which is known for the trademark pink mustaches fixed to its drivers’ cars, operates in 65 US cities. Uber, which was founded in 2009, has expanded to more than 250 cities across the world.Lyft has had a headstart on Uber in encouraging passengers to share their ride with other customers in return for cheaper fares. In March Lyft’s chief executive Logan Greensaid ridesharing via its Lyft Line service,which matches up customers going in similar directions, had overtaken single-person journeys in terms of revenue in San Francisco. Uber has launched a similar service calledUber Pool.As well as being CEO, Green makes extra cash on the side by operating as a Lyft driver. “The other day I picked somebody up and made $20 on my way into work,”he said at the South by Southwest technology and music festival in March. “Every dollar counts.”
From the developer that made Advance Wars and Fire Emblem, two of the most perfectly balanced turn-based strategy games ever, comes Code Name S.T.E.A.M., a game full of surprises. The first is that while it is indeed another turn-based game of war, requiring you to move your team members and shoot at colourful aliens as they attempt to invade a steampunk, late 19th-century Earth, it plays like a third-person action game where your aim actually matters. Unlike most strategy games, there’s no overarching map, and the game’s levels conspire to limit your view, forcing you to use your warriors as cameras to pinpoint the next set of multi-tentacled monstrosities. Maps quickly get complex with multiple routes to the goal, meaning you need to split your teams to get anywhere near successful completion. Fast, messy and challenging, Code Name S.T.E.A.M. is refreshingly different from other strategy games.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKThe Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, PS4, Xbox One &amp; PCThe Witcher 3Photograph: APIn a world beset by supernatural terrors, The Witcher is a kind of fantasy-historical Ghostbuster hired to chop up spectral interlopers before they eat relatives and livestock. In a departure from past outings, The Witcher 3 has a mellower learning curve, and rather than starting by grinding your face into the dust, it gently steers you in the direction of easier kills until you’re beefy enough to take on bigger game. More story-driven than most role-playing games, its biggest draw is how consequential your actions feel, with each choice you make having ramifications that affect the story and others around you. And while you can’t choose what he looks like, your Witcher can be a mildly sarcastic pragmatist or an arrogant monster-dicing douchebag depending on how you respond to events. Set in a rich and startlingly lovely-looking world, The Witcher 3 is utterly enthralling.Namco Bandai, £19.99-£44.99Lifeline, iPhone &amp; Apple WatchAs well as providing a handy way to know who’s texted you a split second before friends who have to resort to the unthinkable tedium of actually glancing at their mobiles, Apple Watch is also a new platform for games. With a screen so tiny that your finger obscures a large portion of it, making them work needs some original thinking. One of the most successful games of its maiden batch is Lifeline, a text-only adventure about a student astronaut who has crash landed on a remote moon, alone and confused. You’re his only link with mankind and it’s your job to help guide him to safety by advising him on what to do, which inevitably boils down to a binary choice: head for a distant mountain or investigate the crash site; sleep next to the nuclear reactor and get mild radiation poisoning or risk dying of exposure. Well written, emotionally affecting and witty, Lifeline is a promising start for Apple Watch games.3 Minute Games, £2.29
Google’s prototype self-driving car pods will take to public roads for the first time around its headquarters in Mountain View, California this summer.The pods, which resemble aSmart Car crossed with a Nissan Micra, will be fitted with a removable steering wheel, brake and accelerator pedals, and willrequire a human “safety driver” at all times.The new electric car prototypes are built from the ground up as autonomous vehicles making them different to Google’s fleet of modified self-driving Lexus sports utility vehicles, which have been driving around 10,000 miles of public roads a week.The two-seater pods will run the same software as the modified Lexus cars, however, and will be capped to a top speed of 25mph. They were originally shown and have been tested on private roads without a steering wheel and typical car controls, instead operated by a touchscreen and a start-stop button.Google’s latest self-driving carsGoogle recently acknowledged that its self-driving car fleet had beeninvolved in 11 minor traffic incidents, having collectively driven 1m miles autonomously on public roads since the company began experimenting with the technology six years ago.“Not once was the self-driving car the cause of the accident,” Chris Urmson, director of Google self-driving car project said. “Even when our software and sensors can detect a sticky situation and take action earlier and faster than an alert human driver. Sometimes we won’t be able to overcome the realities of speed and distance. Sometimes we’ll get hit just waiting for a light to change.”•Google’s self-driving car: How does it work and when can we drive one?•Google almost bought Tesla when it had just two weeks of cash left•Nevada clears self-driving 18-wheeler for testing on public roads
It was this week 20 years ago that Sega launched its Saturn console in the US, bringing forward the date by several months to beat the original PlayStation to market. Starved of software support and with only a few retailers on board, the ploy failed, and Sony’s machine marched to victory.But the Saturn was a really interesting console, with dozens of great games that still hold up today. Occasionally, they turn up as digital downloads on PlayStation and Xbox consoles, but the best way to experience them is on the original machine – as long as you have some space under your TV.Related:Sega Saturn: how one decision destroyed PlayStation's greatest rivalThe cheapest and easiest option is to pick up a UK PAL console on eBay for around £60-70 – they will often come with a few staple games like Virtua Fighter 2, Sega Rally and Nights into Dreams, and at least one controller. There are two drawbacks with this. First, you won’t be able to play imported Japanese games, which means you’ll miss out on quite a few cult 2D shooters and beat-’em-ups that never got a European release. Also, PAL televisions have a 50hz refresh rate as opposed to the 60hz on Japanese and US sets, so poorly converted titles will run slower and may have black bars at the top and bottom of the screen. However, many releases were carefully prepared for the European market, and Sega actually ironed out early bugs present in the original Japanese NTSC versions. It’s worth checking out retro gaming forums for advice on specific titles.If you buy an imported Japanese machine, you’ll need a stepdown transformer so that you don’t blow your console up when you plug it in (Japanese voltage is 100v, in the UK our mains voltage is 240v), and a multi-region TV set. An easier option would be to buy an Action Replay or ST-Key cartridge, which allows you to play imported titles. You may also need to replace the internal battery, which is used for the machine’s built-in memory. Fortunately, that’seasy to do.You’ll want to play games through a good cathode ray tube TV, or even better a CRT monitor like a Sony PVM or Trinitron, or a Hantarex ‘quadristandard’ set (available reasonably cheaply on eBay these days). If you’re determined to stick with a modern flatscreen display, and want to play lots of 2D games, I’d advise the purchase of ascan-line generatoror a scaler like theMicom XRGB-mini Framemeisterwhich will improve the visual output (although results will vary depending on your TV and the game itself). RGB Scart, RGB component, S-Video and composite connections are preferable to the default RF cable, and can all be bought online. I useRetro Gaming Cablesfor my older consoles, and they offer friendly advice on getting everything set up.What to playSo what games should you buy? Well, there are staple titles that you absolutely have to own (that’s if you can find them – and afford them). The Virtua Fighter and Panzer Dragoon games, Sega Rally, Fighters Megamix, Burning Rangers, Nights, Shining Force III, Radiant Silvergun and Sega Worldwide Soccer are all great. Beyond these, the Saturn has perhaps the strongest line up of 2D shooters and fighting games in console history (and the standard Saturn controller is excellent for this genre). Capcom’s Street Fighter Alpha, XMen: Children of the Atom and Darkstalkers titles are all fabulous, as are SNK’s Fatal Fury, Samurai Shodown and King of Fighters franchises.For shooters, anything by Cave, Taoplan or Treasure is worth picking up. Radiant Silvergun, Battle Garegga, Batsugun (arguably the first bullet hell game), Darius and DoDonPachi are the key titles, but the excellent Racketboy site hasa huge list of recommendations. There’s alsoa great rarity guideif you’re interesting in tracking down more hard-to-come-by titles.Apart from the console itself, you can also pick up a multitap which lets you plug in up to six joypads (there’s a list of compatible gameshere, but the key draw is ten player Bomberman with two multitaps), and an excellent arcade stick, which will enhance all those 2D blasters and fighters. Sega also released its own analog stick, the 3D control pad, but only a handful of titles supported it – though one of these is the essential Sonic Team title Nights into Dreams, so it may well be worth hunting down. Oh, and you’ll definitely need a light gun if you have Virtua Cop.The great thing is, Sega has a huge online community of fans and acolytes. Sites likeRacketboyandSega-16are mines of information and have busy forums populated by friendly and knowledgeable enthusiasts. The Saturn may have failed, but it left behind almost 1,000 titles (over 250 of those for PAL territories), many of which are still worth discovering and playing in their original format. The only problem is, the Saturn is a powerful gateway drug to other similar contemporary systems. Before you know it, you’ll be clearing space for a Neo Geo, PC Engine and FM Towns Marty. The one part of the retro console experience you can’t buy on eBay is an understanding partner.
Ministry of Sound chief executive Lohan Presencer isno fan of music-streaming service Spotify, but in his latest public speech he reserved more criticism for the major labels that license it.“Ever since the 80s and the beginning of the consolidation of the record industry… the way that the people who run those companies are contracted and remunerated and rewarded is all short-term,” said Presencer, speaking in Brighton at a Fireside Sessions event alongside industry conference The Great Escape.Related:Warner Music reveals streaming income has overtaken downloadsLohan said the fact many people are on three- or five-year long contracts cause them to make very short-term decisions.“As we have seen from theSony Wikileaks emails, they are incentivised to deliver short-term goals. So what they do is all driven by that … and the decisions they have made have completely fucked everyone up the arse.”Presencer also criticised Sony’s rival Universal Music, suggesting that a recent change of heart over free, on-demand streaming music by its boss Lucian Grainge – who has beenpublicly critical of the free tiers of companies like Spotify– has caused panic lower down the company’s managerial ranks.“All of a sudden the guy at the top has changed his mind, and all the executives below are saying ‘I was saying this, now he’s saying that, and … Am I going to keep my job? Oh fuck!’,” he said, before praising Grainge but attacking his company’s strategy in licensing free streaming services.“I’ve got a tremendous amount of time and respect for Lucian. I think he’s a great executive. He’s consistently taken risks, taken chances, rolled the dice, done big deals, signed great artists – right at the heart of Lucian is music and he really gets that,” said Presencer.“I think some of the things they’ve done digitally areawful, and they have created a landscape for themselves that they’re now trying to dig themselves out of, and they don’t quite know how. That has massive, rolling implications for all of us.”Presencer claimed that major labels were too keen to license free, unlimited streaming services as a response to online music piracy, and contrasted their approach with other creative industries.“The music industry’s response to piracy was: ‘Lets give everything away for free legally’. The movie industry didn’t do that and the TV industry didn’t do that. Even the book publishing industry hasn’t done that. And newspapers have managed to put paywalls around their content,” he said.Related:Free streaming is 'killing music industry': Ministry of Sound bossA combative speech also saw Presencer accuse the major labels of being reluctant to license music services that adopt different models to Spotify, to protect their investments in that company ahead of its anticipated IPO.“Clearly there are other models, but they’re not interested in licensing those other models. The services all exist, they’re all out there … but when they go to the big content owners and say ‘we’ve got a different model’ the big guys go, ‘hmm, we don’t want to damage Spotify because we’ve all got a piece of that … so the only way we’ll consider this is if you give us a massive advance or an equity stake, and we’ll give you a one-year licence’,” he said.“Why would anyone want to start a fucking music service?! Why would anyone want to go and negotiate with those beasts?”
The Belgian privacy commission has told Facebook to stop tracking the internet activities of people who have not registered with the site or have logged out, after a “staggering” report showed alleged breaches of EU privacy law.“Facebook tramples on European and Belgian privacy laws”, the data protection authority said in a statement. “Facebook has shown itself particularly miserly in giving precise answers,” it continued, adding that the results of its investigation were “disconcerting” and that it would take legal action if its recommendations were not followed.Willem Debeuckelaere, president of the Belgian privacy commission, said that the way Facebook is treating its users’ private lives “without respect needs tackling”, and that “it’s make or break time.”According to a report commissioned by the Belgian data protection agency Facebook has been tracking users on a long-term basis who visit any page – be it a fan page, profile or any other portion of the site that does not require a Facebook account to visit – belonging to the Facebook.com domain.The opinion published on Friday noted that because Facebook has the power to link internet users’ browsing habits to their real identity, social network interactions and sensitive data including medical information, religious, sexual and political preferences, it is in a unique position compared to most of the other cases of so-called “third-party tracking”.Explicit consent neededThe privacy commission insists that Facebook seeks explicit consent from users for any tracking related to serving ads, commonly called behavioural ads, and that its current measures are insufficient to obtain that explicit consent and are not exempt under EU law.EU privacy law states that prior consent must be given before issuing a cookie or performing tracking, unless it is necessary for either the networking required to connect to the service (“criterion A”) or to deliver a service specifically requested by the user (“criterion B”), neither of which apply to tracking for ads according to the watchdog.The same law requires websites to notify users on their first visit to a site that it uses cookies, requesting consent to do so.A cookie is a small file placed on a user’s computer by a website that stores settings, previous activities and other small amounts of information needed by the site. They are sent to the site on each visit and can therefore be used to identify a user’s computer and track their movements across the web.The opinion also states that Facebook should only track users when logged into the social network and not when logged out, using session cookies which expire after a set time period or when no longer needed.Social plugins on 13m sitesThe watchdog’s opinion was published after scrutinising the findings of a study it commissioned into Facebook’s use of tracking technology and amendments made to its privacy.Thereport found that Facebook’s social pluginssuch as the “Like” button, which has been placed on more than 13m sites including health and government sites, read tracking cookies and send that data back to Facebook.The data protection authority recommends that website owners using Facebook’s social plugins implement a two-stage click-through process so that users not wanting to interact with Facebook are not exposed to the service.It also requests that Facebook alter the design of its plugins so that the mere presence of a social plug-in on an external website does not lead to the transmission of data to FacebookUsers are also advised to adopt the use of privacy-guarding software, such as Privacy Badger, Ghostery or Disconnect browser extensions.‘Facebook is already regulated in Europe’A Facebook spokesman said: “As we expressed to the CBPL in person when we met, there is nothing more important to us than the privacy of our users and we work hard to make sure people have control over what they share and with whom. Facebook is already regulated in Europe and complies with European data protection law, so the applicability of the CBPL’s efforts are unclear. But we will of course review the recommendations when we receive them with our European regulator, the Irish Data Protection Commissioner.”The Irish data protection watchdog declined to comment.The opinion comes at a time of increased scepticism in Europe over the practices of US technology companies when it comes to user data. Many operate their European businesses from Ireland, which has its own data protection authority.Facebook, in particular, has been very bullish over the fact that it conforms to the letter of the law as laid down by Ireland. Under European Union law, companies that conform and are governed by one member state, in this case Ireland, can operate in other parts of Europe.However, there is growing political pressure outside of Ireland to investigate the practices of Facebook and others, including Google, concerning data privacy.Probed all over EuropeThe Belgian regulator said it has the power to investigate the company’s possible breaches of its citizens’ privacy rights because Facebook operates a politically and operationally active office within the country.Facebook is also being investigated by the Dutch data protection authority and iscurrently being probed by the pan-European data protection working party, Article 29.The Belgian data protection authority does not have the power to fine companies, such as Facebook, but can initiate lawsuits and can be aided by the Belgian prosecution service if breaches of law are found.The opinion could also carry weight with Article 29, which is currently discussing the possibility of establishing a pan-European data regulator.The European Commission recently warned that EU citizens should close their Facebook accountsif they want to keep their information private from US security services, after finding that current Safe Harbour legislation does not protect citizen’s data.Facebook was also recently ordered by a Vienna court to respond to a class action data privacy lawsuit that was filed against Facebook in Austria by privacy activist and lawyer Max Schrems, which isseeking damages of €500 (£397) per plaintifffor alleged data protection violations.•Facebook admits it tracks non-users, but denies claims it breaches EU privacy law•How can I delete my Facebook account?•Facebook Instant Articles: BBC News and Guardian sign up to initiative
The Washington Post’s mobile website was brought down on Thursday evening, with the Syrian Mobile Army claiming responsibility for the attack.#SEAhacks@Washingtonpostmobile site in order to deliver a message.#SEApic.twitter.com/CDX5CKSXRk&mdash; SyrianElectronicArmy (@Official_SEA16)May 14, 2015Visitors to the Washington Post on mobile phones were served a pop-up message saying, “You’ve been hacked by the Syrian Electronic Army”, the state-sponsored hacking group which has targeted media companies, and others, critical of the Assad regime.Other pop-up messages included “US govt is training the terrorist to kill more Syrians” and “The media is always lying”.“The Washington Post’s mobile homepage and some section fronts on the mobile site were redirected to a site that claimed to be run by the Syrian Electronic Army. The situation has been resolved and no customer information was impacted,” the paper’s chief information officer said in a statement.The outage was only brief, lasting slightly more than 30 minutes, but represented a far more serious breach than the hacking group’s typical targets such as social media accounts or ad servers.According to Motherboard, the attack took control of the paper’s content delivery network, and redirected visitors to a different server.
Office-worker productivity is likely to take a hit once Windows 10 lands, after Microsoft decided to include Candy Crush Saga alongside the preinstalled classics Minesweeper, Solitaire and Hearts.The freemium match-three game, which propelled British developer King Digital to record heights with users addicted enough to pay to keep playing, will bebundled with Windows 10.King’s other games, including Pet Rescue Saga and Papa Pear Saga, will also be ported to Windows 10, allowing cross-play with users on iPhone and Android devices.The classic Microsoft Minesweeper was removed from Windows 8, but makes a return in Windows 10. Whether Candy Crush can cut it with such classics of time-wasting and procrastination remains to be seen.For King it is welcome news. Despite announcing $569.5m in first quarter revenue, above expectations of $553.8m, shares in King Digital slid 12% in after-hours trading on forecasts of a decline in gross bookings – money spent by players ignoring costs such as app store fees – for the second quarter.Being bundled with Windows 10 can only help King’s shares – but at what cost to world productivity?•Candy Crush Saga players spent £865m on the game in 2014 alone•MP played Candy Crush in parliamentary committee meetingIs Candy Crush thumb the new BlackBerry thumb?
For the past five years, I’ve been engaged in a very strange relationship, with an unknown number of people all around the world, which opens up the most intimate details of their personal lives to me. I’ve also deleted a child’s reading history, and nicked someone’s music streaming account. But I’m the victim, here: I’ve fallen prey to reverseidentity theft.My first name is fairly common worldwide. It exists in different forms depending on your gender and location, from Alexis to Alejandro, but almost always gets shortened to Alex.My surname is much less common, particularly spelled without superfluous “a”s or “e”s. But what is hugely common is the Hispanic surname Hernandez, which gets shortened to Hern if you’re trying to lop a few characters off the email address.That means that my email address, alexhern@[major webmail provider], often gets the wayward missives intended for Herns and Hernandezes across the world. To make matters worse, full-stops in email addresses are ignored by a lot of webmail providers, meaning alex.hern, and even a.l.e.x.h.e.r.n will also end up in my inbox.As a result, in the past few years, I have been sent:A distance-learning prospectus for California’s Ashford University by an admissions counselor who thought I was “Alexsis”.A request for a professional reference by somebody called Amber, who thought I was her boss Alex Hernedez.The price list for a bulk order of Build-a-Bear Workshop teddy bears (it’s $10 a bear, with a discount of 20-40% the more you order, in case you’re curious).Build-a-bear workshop.Photograph: Private EmailThanks for touring a gated community in Colorado with an interest to buy a house by a realtor named Tara who thought I was her client Alexandra.A signed and completed contract for a house in Hampton, Virginia by another realtor – the contract was complete with a scan of a cheque, and the complete personal information of an Alexander Hernandez.A spanish-language presentation on the taxonomy of species by a biology student at Chihuahua University in Mexico.A schedule for a three-hour acting lesson by a Hollywood-based actor training company.The syllabus for the Salvadoran Vocational Training Institute, where an Alex Hern was taking English lessons (the email was in Spanish).A confirmation of a house sale in Bogota, Colombia.A pension programme for Americans turning 65.Buying a house in Colorado.Photograph: Private EmailRelated:Pagan polygamists, prayer circles and golf invitations – the joy of emails meant for someone elseAnd a request for a prescription of beta-blockers from an elderly couple in Arizona.At least one of those emails came not from someone who had forgotten their own email address, but from someone who had copied down “alex.hernz” wrongly. So for a while, I was left with the hope that the world wasn’t full of people who forget their own email address on a regular basis.And then I started being signed up to services. If you don’t pay attention, you probably think that most websites have some sort of email verification, preventing you from making a mistake and being locked out of your account. I thought that as well. It’s not true.In the past year or so alone, I have been signed up to:File sharing service 4Shared.Mexican dating app Twoo.LA Fitness gyms.Kik Messenger.US mobile network Sprint.Kik Messenger, again.The Mexican version of Spotify.So I’m now signed up to the Mexican Spotify, ¡Feliz Premium!, among other random websites.Photograph: Email from SpotifyFacebook.Children’s reading tracker Epic.The Jay-Z-backed music streaming service Tidal.Having a common name isn’t all bad, however. When I wrote about GamerGate early this year, and the practice of a related group based around the Baphomet image board ofsending SWAT teams to opponents’ homes, an attempt to “dox” me fell mercifully short. Doxing – collecting and publishing personal information about someone in an attempt to intimidate or out them – can ruin lives.But in my case, I have thousands of people accidentally providing cover for my personal information.Which is how I ended up being doxed as Paraguayan engineer– apparently the lucky person to have grabbed the Facebook short URL alex.hern.Despite the positives, I’ve spent the best part of a year trying to ignore these emails, deleting them as they come in, and unsubscribing when I remembered to. But the one-two punch of Facebook and Epic broke me: the quantity of updates was never-ending, and I couldn’t unsubscribe from everything with one click. On top of that, I was still receiving emails from LA Fitness and Sprint, which don’t actually offer any ability to unsubscribe at all.So I logged in myself.The problem with using someone else’s email to sign up to web services is that, well, your email address is the final arbiter of identity online. In a very practical sense, if you sign up for an account with my email, I control it, not you. And with a single click on the “forgotten password”, I can consolidate that control.Unfortunately, once I’ve logged in – just to disable email notifications – there’s no way to hand control back. After all, I don’t know the original password, and I can’t exactly get in touch with the account holder. What am I going to do, email them?I feel bad. Of course I feel bad. The kid of one Alex Hern was halfway through the Adventure Time comic, and dutifully recording their progress as they went. Another (or maybe the same?) Alex Hern had signed up for a Tidal account but apparently not logged in once, because they – by which I mean me – kept getting reminder emails. Incessantly.But hopefully some good will come of this. As the websites blink out for Alex Herns across the world, maybe they’ll finally realise that I’m the one with the email address. And then they’ll go and register with their own bloody emails.Are you an Ale(xander/xis/xei/xandra/jandro/ssandro) Hern(andez/ez/e) who has stolen my email address? Or have youhad a similar experience?Leave a comment below - or email somebody who isn’t me.
It’s Friday – how are you all?
Concerns have been raised over the ease with which thieves can reset the Apple Watch, as well as pair it with any iPhone, without the original owner’s permission.Apple’s first smartwatch has a passcode feature that can lock the wearable device when it is removed from the wrist, which is meant to prevent it from being used without permission.However, while the passcode lock prevents access to personal data stored on the watch, it does nothing to stop a thief from resetting the Apple Watch back to factory settings and reactivating it.Apple’s iPhone, since the inception of iOS 8, has been fitted with a security setting that means when an iPhone is returned to factory settings it cannot be reactivated with another Apple user account without the express permission of the original owner.The feature, called activation lock, was first introduced in 2013 as an option within Apple’s iOS 7, but turned on by default on iOS 8 in 2014. It is intended to help curb the rise in smartphone thefts.Other manufacturers followed with similar theft prevention systems, which have helped reduce smartphone theft.However, Apple has not implemented a similar system for the Apple Watch, which is priced upwards of £300 and can cost considerably more than an iPhone. Apple sells a version of the watch with a gold case that starts at £8,000.A video demonstrating how to reset an Apple Watch without knowing the passcode.The Apple Watch can only be used when paired with an iPhone, and needs an Apple user account and internet access to register with an iPhone before it can even be used to tell the time.Other watches, of course, do not have theft protection, and neither do other smartwatches beyond lockscreens, but given Apple’s existing system for its iPhone, its omission of an activation-lock-style feature makes the Apple Watch a more tempting target for thieves.Apple had not replied to requests for comment at the point of publication.•Apple Watch review: beautiful hardware spoiled by complicated software•How #tattoogate has highlighted a wider problem with wearables•Apple Watch: ‘Trying to match the structure of the iOS app was a mistake’
Chris Underwood is worried about his wife. Doing his best to ignore the 50 Netrunner players around him, he wanders the Loading Bar in Dalston, east London, like a ghost, taking furtive sips from a pint of beer. He’s the most anxious I’ve ever seen him, and I can’t stop laughing.Chris is the cheery veteran of a dozen Netrunner tournaments, all of them gruelling, eight-hour affairs that leave players exhausted. I’ve been by his side for most of them. But today is his wife Cathy’s first tournament, and I’m having a great time watching him lose his mind.“I can’t watch,” he tells me, shooting a glance over his shoulder. “This is worse than competing. It’s so, so hard.”It’s not about mastery. It’s about constant tinkering and experimentationAndroid: Netrunner is a geeky card game currently undergoing a uniquely un-geeky revival, with communities of players to be found in every major city and London playing host to the largest in the world.If you’ve played Magic: The Gathering or Hearthstone you’ll be aware of the game’s format. Netrunner players design decks of cards, oftenusing online tools, and decks we build at home become our personal weapon outside it. New cards are released by the publishers about once a month, keeping the game in a constant state of flux. Netrunner’s unique, however, in that you actually build two decks.One deck represents a sinister cyberpunk corporation, made from cards with names like “hedge fund” or “geothermal fracking”. The other deck? That’s your hacker, or “runner”, working to take the corp down. This is someone with a name, personality and even motivation. In this deck, you might find cards representing acts as laughably banal as “staying up all night” or “waking up early”, or maybe something a touch darker – a “sacrificial clone” or “hostage” helping your hacker as they hurriedly assemble a suite of hardware and programs.A game of Netrunner sees one player’s runner taking on the other player’s monolithic corporation. The runner needs to rob the corp of the “agenda” cards shuffled into the corp’s deck that represent their dastardly plans, while the corporation has to slowly advance these plans to completion.And here we arrive at Netrunner’s biggest selling point. Netrunner was originally created by Magic: The Gathering designer Richard Garfield as a means of incorporating the bluffing and at-the-table play of poker into a collectible card game.Five cards from Netrunner’s Breaker Bay expansion of the core set.Photograph: FantasyflightgamesTo this end, almost every card the corporation deploys is placed face-down. Servers are created, net security is hooked into place and agendas are advanced, with the runner having to take a blind guess at what these cards might be. Does that server contain the game-winning agenda, or is it a “cerebral overwriter”, which will leave them brain damaged if they touch it?The runner, however, has an equally intimidating power. Rather than being limited to hacking into the strange geography of servers and intrusion counter measures the corporation creates on the table, they can hack straight into their opponent’s hand of cards, the top of the corp’s deck, or even their pile of discarded cards. For the corp, this is profoundly invasive and nerve-wracking. A not-uncommon situation is for the corporation to have a miserable hand of nothing but agenda cards, and then having to keep their cool when the runner announces a run on HQ – hacking into the corp’s hand – and afterwards faking surprise when the runner pulls an agenda, offering congratulations as if it were the only one in your hand.What makes this a still more fascinating system, though, is that even if the runner doesn’t slip an agenda from your hand or deck, even if they rummage through your discard pile and come up empty, they still learn something about your deck, your plan, your problems. A clever runner will remember what they’ve seen to better help them guess at face-down cards. A clever corp will use this to their advantage. The runner saw an intimidating curtain wall off the top of your deck? Fantastic. You immediately put down a card to protect a server which secretly isn’t the curtain wall at all, but a cheap pop-up window. With luck, the runner will assume they can’t get into that server, and you’ve still got the Curtain Wall for later.It’s a phenomenal game.I review board games for a living, but this is the one that’s taken over my life. But that’s only in part because of the game. It’s also because being a part of the community is such exceptional fun.Related:Blood on the living-room table: why I still love the Game of Thrones board gameThe meet I attend is in the basement ofa London pubon Tuesday evenings, and after a year I’m more in love with it than ever. Originally Netrunner may have been aping poker, but it differs from it in one key respect: Netrunner is an almost unknowable game. It’s not simply that the game has a wealth of of different corporations, runners, strategies and playstyles. It’s that this balance is forever being undermined and warped by the release of new cards.Netrunner offers tense, fascinating and often surprising games, yes, but it also offers bottomless conversations. Whether you’re preparing for a tournament, unwinding afterwards or just chatting about new cards, old cards or this new deck that’s supposedly dominating Berlin, Netrunner is something you can endlessly theorise, argue and enthuse about.It’s also hugely creative. My girlfriend (also a games writer) put togethera pieceabout learning Netrunner, concluding: “It’s not about mastery. It’s about constant tinkering and experimentation.” That’s a much healthier place for a game to be in than the alternative – an oppressive realm of ego and competition.Here’s a game where you can lose miserably, but still be overjoyed at your opponent’s idea for a deck or the cunning play that took you by surprise.Recently I’ve taken to running my own tournaments. I’m thanked for this, but it’s a selfish pursuit. Partly because I can create reserves of tickets for women and do my best to create a more diverse culture within board gaming, which makes me happy, but mostly because of the thrill I get as the first round begins. It’s a hell of a feeling to sit down 60 affable players across from each other, project the giant timer on the wall of the bar and wish everyone good luck. It’s because I know how nervous they all are, many of them deploying precious ideas that they’ve been refining for weeks, months, even years.Cathy ended up claiming fifth place at that tournament, which sent a cheer up from her friends. Hercomplimentary cocktail was set aflameand the winners filed up to claim their prizes. Chris was grinning ear to ear, and so was I.To learn more about Netrunner, a visit to theofficial siteoffers a decent video tutorial. After that, you want to buy acore set, a big box containing everything you need to start playing. Once you have your own decks and know the rules, a search for your city’s Netrunner community on Facebook,Netrunners.co.ukor the game’sReddit boardshould let you know about your local meet.
Iris-scanning technology promises to kill the password with the launch of a new smartphone that looks into users’ eyes to unlock it.The new smartphone made byFujitsuandsold byJapan’s largest mobile phone operator, NTT Docomo, uses an infrared LED and a special camera to snap a picture of the iris of a person’s eye.The phone recognises the hidden unique pattern of the iris, which is set after about the age of two and is difficult to forge. Unlike fingerprints, the iris is protected and does not suffer from wear and tear, while its shape is easier to predict and model than that of a face as it is flatter and only changes in an area controlled by the pupil reflex.Like fingerprints, however, iris scanners have been fooled by high-quality images of an iris.From border patrol to smartphonesMultiple biometric technologies – those that use parts of the body that are unique to the individual – are vying to replace the username and password system that has proved to be too easy to break by hackers and too hard for users to remember consistently, leading to dangerous password reuse and lax security practices.Fingerprint scanners, for instance, have been used on computers since 2000. But it was their introduction into portable devices such as smartphones and improvements in reliability and speed of recognition that made them viable as password replacement systems.Iris-recognition systems promise to be harder to fool and easier to use without needing contact with a device. They have been in use for the past 15 years, frequently as systems of recognition and control of border crossings. The United Arab Emirates has used iris recognition at land, air and seaports since 2001. The UK also implemented an iris-recognition system for immigration in 2004, but it was phased out by 2013.Most implementations of iris-recognition systems work at a distances of 10cm. Fujitsu’s miniaturised system can operate at a standard smartphone operating distance.A promotional video for the new iris-recognising phone looks more like sci-fi.Fujitsu claims its new scanner will be faster and more accurate than face recognition, which is a common feature in Android devices, and can be used as part of a new online authentication system in the same way fingerprints are used on high-end smartphones from Samsung, Huawei and Apple.Demonstrations of the new phone took a couple of seconds to recognise the user, but Docomo chief executive Kaoru Kato claimed that the scanner’s accuracy would improve and therefore speed up each time a person uses the feature.Fujitsu is not the only company working on iris-recognition technology. Chinese smartphone manufacturer ZTE launched a smartphone with the technology earlier this year, while the world’s largest smartphone manufacturer Samsung has recently filed patents for iris recognition.•The question: when will biometrics take over from passwords?•Hacker fakes German minister’s fingerprints using photos of her hands
Apple’s last attempt at blending digital music and social networking flopped: Ping wasunveiled in September 2010as a way for people to follow friends and musicians within the company’s iTunes store, butshut down two years laterafter it failed to catch on.Now the company is reportedly planning another crack at social music, as part of its plans to relaunch its Beats Music streaming service in the summer.Related:Why are Apple's music streaming plans arousing the interest of regulators?According to 9 to 5 Mac, the new service will be called Apple Music, and will have social features at its heart – albeit more strongly focused on the relationship between musicians and fans this time round.“The service will allow artists to have their own pages within the streaming music service that they can use to post track samples, photos, videos and concert updates,” reported journalist Mark Gurman, who has a good track record of ferreting information out of his Apple sources.Artists will also be able to share the content of other artists in an effort of cross-promotion. For example, all-gold Apple Watch wearer Kanye West could promote a new album from Taylor Swift on his Apple Music artist page, if he so chooses.Using iTunes accounts, all users of the streaming music service will be able to comment on and like these posts from big name artists, but users won’t have their own social network profiles like with Ping.”Existing streaming services have been exploring similar features, albeit not yet at this level of detail. On Spotify, for example, artists have profiles that their fans can follow to get updates when new music is added, as well as subscribe to playlists published through those accounts.If 9 to 5 Mac’s report is correct, though, Apple’s plans are as much a challenge to Facebook.Musicians can post similar updates and content on that social network from their official pages, but the “organic” reach of these posts – the percentage of people who have liked the page who will actually see its posts – has been steadily declining over time, as Facebook nudges labels towards boosting their reach by paying to promote posts.Apple Music will offer an alternative route to fans, just as Spotify and other streaming services are expanding the features through which musicians can communicate with their listeners.Related:Trent Reznor to be 'point man' for iTunes relaunchSuccess is far from guaranteed though, with the memory of Ping still regularly cited as evidence that Apple has historically struggled to get to grips with social media.The likely scale of Apple Music – its app isexpected to be preloaded on every iOS devicewhen it launches later this year – should ensure that musicians at least give its social features a try, to figure out how they compare with the likes of Facebook, Twitter and rival streaming services.Apple is expected to unveil its streaming plans on 8 June at its WWDC event in San Francisco, having bought Beats Music as part of its $3bn acquisition of Beats Electronics in 2014. More recently, itpoached radio DJ Zane Lowefor a role within the new service.
The wait has been long. Delayed more times than Lewis Hamilton’s Mercedes contract renewal, Project Cars has finally arrived on the starting grid with a clear desire to make up for lost time.Driving sim fans have been waiting months to hear the roar of this game’s superbly sampled engines, and that’s been hard – particularly for PS4 owners, who haven’t yet had a proper racing simulation to play on their 18-month-old machine. Fortunately, Slightly Mad Studios, a specialist in this most demanding of genres, has ensured that the end result has justified its late arrival.In an unmistakable “shut-up-and-drive” statement, reflecting the game’s rigorous and singular focus, Cars wastes little time before throwing you behind the wheel of a RWD P30 LMP1 around Dubai Autodrome. This Le Mans-style car may be fictitious but its galloping 577-horsepower engine feels very real, trampling your senses while you struggle to adjust to the intensity of the action, the visuals, and the sound.The sound, sights and feel of racing are all obsessively captured by the design team.Photograph: Bandai NamcoAnd if there is a feeling of impatient enthusiasm at the core of Cars, there is also a noticeable push to shake things up.Dynamic weather isn’t new, but its skilful and full-featured inclusion ought to get the Gran Turismo and Forza teams thinking. Here, the changing conditions are far from cosmetic, bringing a huge sense of excitement and uncertainty to qualifying sessions and the races themselves. It’s no clear that no serious driving title can ever turn up without the feature again.More striking, the game is open from the outset, meaning you get to tinker with all of its numerous components. We don’t just mean getting to play with front sway bars, wastegate pressure, brake mapping, fuel consumption, tyre wear and pit strategy – this is a simulation, after all, so all those areas and more are covered – we mean the access you’re afforded to the whole racing experience.Select one of three (fully customisable) difficulty levels, survive the aforementioned LMP1 outing, and you can dive into the Quick Race Weekend and Free Practice options to gain entry to all current 110 track variations from 31 mostly licensed locations, as well as the 60-odd vehicles you can race on them.Fancy taming a late 1970s BMW 320 Turbo Group 5 around Brno? Want to find out how Zolder will handle a McLaren P1 at full chat? Has your lifelong dream been to complete the entire 24 hours of Le Mans in a superkart? These and many, many more opportunities are waiting – and unlike in many serious sims, you won’t have to grind through more championships than there are stars in our galaxy.The freedom is refreshing, though it does underline the game’s PC sim heritage, and those expecting traditional console-rich features won’t find them here (reward is a sense of personal achievement, not XP gain). That said, it shouldn’t come as an astronomical surprise to find there is also a recognisable structure. Career mode may offer the choice between three types of vocational path for your created driver to commit to – ranging from zero-to-hero progression to “straight in at the deep end of high category motorsport” – but it very much follows in the faded tyre tracks of predecessors rather than mark out its own.The danger in that approach is that you sometimes end up where you shouldn’t be. The system gives you get access to invitational events and season-end contract offers, as well as general fan feedback, dependent on your on-track performances, via a social media system. This echoes the life of a professional racing driver and is theoretically sound but the execution proves too feeble. Coming back to your career dashboard to find a mail or Tweet identical to the one you received just one or two races previously does nothing to enrich the experience.If that sounds like a small point to pick apart, it’s mentioned because it’s indicative of a wider issue affecting Project Cars. The game is rife with minor glitches, ranging from technical hiccups that affect its otherwise detailed graphics (though not to the point of spoiling the on-track fun, even when pushing the grid to an impressive 35+ vehicles), to bugs that make menu navigation and general progression confusing and unintuitive, or sillier blunders such as a draconian off-track penalty system that indicates a lack of attention to detail the game deserves.While trivial individually, these niggles are constant enough to instil an unnerving feeling of things being rushed and unfinished, further compounded by inconsistencies in how various elements of the game present themselves throughout.But that insecurity and frustration lasts until the second the lights go out and you’re behind the wheel again. Because, right now, it’s difficult to think of a driving game on console that engages you more fully than Project Cars.Whether it’s a modest 125cc kart, a GT racer, a track day special, a hypercar, or a comparatively mundane hot hatch, the handling model rarely falters, sending a continuous and convincing stream of information – particularly road surface nuances – through the rim of a Thrustmaster T300 force feedback wheel, which is the game’s target controller. There issomesense of what the wheels and chassis are up to via a joypad but the exposure to the full Cars experience is limited, and also much harder (though it is possible to get good lap times with practice). Serious players, though, should consider a force feedback steering wheel controller; with this installed, Cars provides a greater appreciation of track and tyre contact than even Gran Turismo 6 manages.Road feel is communicated in detail through a force feedback steering wheel, while the cockpit view accentuates the feeling of being there.Photograph: Bandai NamcoHow does the game cope at the extreme end of the vehicular scale? There’s one way to find out. Strapping yourself into a Lotus 98T F1 car and attempting the infamous Nordschleife is immense, the brutal acceleration once the turbo wakes up unsettling you in a way that only the finest driving games manage. The wrestling match that ensues is likely to remain a console driving highlight for some time: it’s about catching the rear wheels and slapping them back into place as time and again they attempt to overtake the front axle; it’s about feeling the moment those wide black rubber rings bite with enough purpose to point this automotive beast at the apex without running out of road; you even gain a sensation of the downforce at work through the intricacy of the game’s dynamics.On track, the only real disappointment is the unsatisfactory AI, with opponents often displaying dubious behaviour. It’s easily fixed by settling for online encounters, where simple but robust and respectful up-to-16-player racing courtesy of an involved community appears to dominate the majority of meetings. Better features will be needed in time, though it’s encouraging to see Slightly Mad has at least added to the variety with some community-focused events.Other limitations are more subjective. The game’s admirably singular focus on thrashing a car around a track will appeal to purists who are happy to create their own entertainment from the tools at their disposal. However, Cars will be a harder sell to less experienced drivers, despite a clear wish to target a wider audience (the driving aid options make things easier for non-driving sim specialists).That directness of approach is most notable when placing it alongside the current console kings. GT6 outpowers Cars in elements such as racing category and event variety, while Forza’s sheer overall polish is a tough act to beat (even if its formula is now overdue for a service).The next instalments of both those franchises will of course show up one day, hoping to overtake this admirable curent-gen racing engine. But they had better hurry, because Project Cars has got one heck of a head start, and you get the feeling this developer isn’t going to waste it.Bandai Namco; PC/PS4(version tested)/Xbox One/Wii U; £40; Pegi rating: 3+
On the face of it, theroguelikeand rhythm-action game genres are not obvious bedfellows. The former is about grinding through endless dungeons, hacking and slashing at enemy monsters, the latter is about hitting buttons in time to music. It’s hard to think of two more opposing video game styles. Maybe first-person shooters and sports management sims? Or massively multiplayer fantasy games and match-three puzzlers?Whatever the case, a small Vancouver studio named Brace Yourself has picked up the, erm, “rhythm roguelike” gauntlet and ran with it.The result isCrypt of the Necrodancer, the unlikely lovechild of proto-RPG Rogue and rhythm game Dance Dance Revolution. From one parent we get the basics: a sprightly adventurer, Melody, delves into four randomly generated dungeons, collecting items, battling monsters and digging for treasure, all in a delightful 2D aesthetic most immediately reminiscent of Link to the Past-era Zelda; if the enemy designs and top-down viewpoint don’t summon that to mind, the (usually empty) heart containers in the top right will.But from the other parent comes the flair: Melody, and everything else in her world, can only move to the rhythm of a pounding chiptune soundtrack. The world pulses to the beat, while a multiplier stays in effect for as long as you can keep moving without standing still or miss-timing an action, pushing you to get into, and stay tuned with, the flow of the game.The effect is mesmerising, and from a gameplay point of view, it heightens and intensifies the puzzle at Necrodancer’s core. All the enemies move according to predictable patterns: slimes bounce back and forth every two beats, minotaurs charge directly towards you before hitting a wall and collapsing if you dodge out of the way, while golems advance inexorably every four beats and will crush you underfoot for an instant kill.Without the beat, the game would be a merely methodical challenge, with enemies moving every time you do, and all the time in the world to plot out the best line of attack. It’s not unpleasant – you can actually pick to play the game this way, with a different character – but it’s also nothing special. Rogue was doing this thirty years ago, after all.But with the music, the puzzle suddenly gains a time pressure. It’s not as simple as the ever-falling blocks of Tetris, but it’s enough to mean that you rush into situations without spending time thinking them through; and even when you don’t, you’ll still end up with your character hopping nervously from one foot to the other, as though wanting to burst out dancing but afraid of embarrassing themselves in judgmental company.It means that whenever you die (as you will, a lot, because the game doesn’t go easy on you), you can see exactly what you did wrong, and how to do it better next time. And then you’ll go and panic in another way instead, jumping into the path of a dragon’s breath or spending too long near an exploding mushroom.But that puzzle effect could be done in other ways. After all, the levels have a time limit that serves to push you forward, and predictable yet dangerous enemies are a staple of games such as Bloodborne and the rest of the Souls series, showing they can be pulled-off in real time.What can’t be done in real time is the mesmerising flow of the game. Crypt of the Necrodancer pulls you into the zone, that state of mind where play happens automatically, unthinkingly and perfectly, faster than anything else I’ve played. Even Super Hexagon, the undisputed king of instinctive rhythmic gameplay, takes longer to get properly absorbed in than this.Of course, that flow does require you liking the music. I’m a fan of the chiptune soundtrack, but not everyone is, and if you’re the sort who plays games with the volume off, this may not be the one for you. The optional ability to play to your own custom music, with the beat automatically determined, may make up for it (particularly if you like music with a clear, simple rhythm; math rock fans need not apply), but you’ll be missing out on some of the nicest touches of sound design in any indie game, from the shopkeeper who sings along, to the ice-and-fire world with production that shifts from metal to electronica depending on the temperature.While we’re stating the obvious, it also helps if you’re a fan of roguelikes. The genre has entered something of a renaissance recently, largely due to the influence of break-out hit Spelunky, and it can be hard to find an indie game without some mixture of randomly generated levels, copious item pick-ups, and a gruelling difficulty level.One of the boss characters is called King Conga and is, of course, a drumming gorillaPhotograph: public domainAnd so many of the standard criticisms of roguelikes apply here: sometimes it can feel like success is down more to finding a great weapon in the first chest you hit than any actual ability on your part, and the die-rinse-repeat loop appeals more if you’re a fan of chasing high scores than if you just want to play a game start to finish.Related:Witcher 3: Wild Hunt review – a rich adventure born in literatureBut to its credit, Necrodancer innovates with its handling of that traditional core, too. It would be easy to have come up with “roguelike plus rhythm” and end there, but tweaks to the model include compressing the game into four distinct worlds (so you can achieve some progression even if you don’t beat the game first try), adding new characters who change the structure (one has no weapons; another cannot pick up gold) and breaking out boss battles to a separate level entirely.Sure, this is not the first game to attach rhythm dynamics to a “hard core” genre – the superb smartphone title Beat Sneak Bandit, did a similar thing with the stealth adventure. But then Brace Yourself’s game also has a conga-dancing gorilla, local co-op and a DANCE MAT MODE. So there.Crypt of the Necrodancer may not be for everyone, but if the idea of a steamy love-in between two seemingly incompatible genres turns you on, you’re gonna love it.Brace Yourself Games; PC (version tested)/Mac/Linux; £11; no age certificate
Twenty years ago this week, at the E3 video game conference in Los Angeles, the head of Sega of America accidentally killed the company’s Saturn video game console.Tom Kalinske was in a bind. He knew that Sony was readying its new PlayStation machine for an autumn launch in the US (both the Saturn and the PlayStation had already been released in Japan at this point), and the hype was building. The creator of the Walkman, the portable music device that revolutionised the music industry, was coming after games. And it was serious.Sony had spent 1994 on a global charm offensive. The company’s chief system designer, Ken Kutaragi, visited developers all over the world, bringing an impressive set of graphics demos (including the fameddinosaur 3D model) and promising a wealth of cool development tools and favourable production deals. Sega meanwhile, had been confusing and alienating its audience and development community with a string of add-ons for the hugely successful (but increasingly dated) Mega Drive, and a wealth of promises about new hardware platforms that never materialised. Sony had one product and one message: PlayStation is the future.There were also rumours of a rift between Sega of Japan and Sega of America; although it was never quite as simple – or juicy – as that. What the divisions faced was a huge challenge in appeasing two very different markets. The Japanese office was encouraged to head straight into Saturn development after the launch of the Mega Drive because the machine hadn’t been a huge success in the domestic market. However, the company had to be much more cautious about the US, where it wanted to protect and enhance the huge market share it had torn away from Nintendo. The 32X, a semi-32-bit add-on for the old console, was engendered almost entirely by the US R&amp;D team – in fact, the original concept was designed by lead engineers Joe Miller and Marty Franz, who hastily jotted down the idea for a basic 32-bit system on a piece of hotel notepaper while attending the Consumer Electronics show in 1994.A typically gritty and mature image from Sony’s early console advertising, bearing the slogan, ‘Do not underestimate the power of PlayStation.’Photograph: public domainBut the order to go ahead with this curious hybrid came from Sega of Japan president Hayao Nakayama who – as incredible as it may seem today – was concerned not about the looming PlayStation, but about Atari’s Jaguar console. He wanted a quick stop-gap to rival the Atari system (which would go on to flop hopelessly) and the US team agreed. But this muddied the waters for the Saturn. The 32X was an expensive failure with little software support. And, although the Saturn was selling well in Japan, shifting almost 500,000 units in its first month, PlayStation was catching up.Sega had an autumn US release for the Saturn all planned out; its production line was in motion, retailers were ready. But Japan panicked. Nakayama believed that Sega had to get into the US market early and establish a presence before Sony. So on 11 May, at the E3 event, Tom Kalinske went on stage and announced that the Saturn was not only launching early in the US, it was already on the shelves – at the basic price of $399. “Many Americans have gone to the extent of paying $800 and more for Sega Saturn units from Japan,” said Kalinske in the resulting press release. “We’ve decided to bring the product to market earlier than scheduled to meet the high consumer demand, to refine our marketing strategy over the summer, prior to the important fall season, and to get a head start on the competition.”But it was a shambles. The machines were expensive and in short supply; only a handful of major retailers got them, alienating the rest of the market. There was only a small selection of games, including an OK port of the arcade hit Virtua Fighter, with few new titles expected until later in the year. All that was to come, but the big blow was only minutes after Kalinske’s announcement. During Sony’s own E3 press event, Sony America chief Olaf Olafsson called head of development Steve Race on to the stage to make a brief announcement. In a piece of theatre that foreshadowed the cruelly funnyPlayStation 4 game-sharing videoproduced by Shuhei Yoshida in 2013, Race calmly approached the lectern, put his notes down and said “$299”. Then left the stage. If he’d had a hand mic, he would have dropped it. The audience went wild.That was it. Although Saturn was hanging on in Japan, the US market was essentially lost, and with it the big British publishers and developers too. There were technical issues as well: PlayStation was comparatively easy to develop for, with its clean architecture and suite of user-friendly programming APIs. Saturn was a complex beast that used twin CPUs and another couple of video processing chips. With PlayStation, Sony understood that the future was about sleek 3D visuals at all costs; Saturn still had one foot in gaming’s 2D, sprite-based past. It also thought that games were still about teenage boys – the boys it recruited through its chaotic Mega Drive TV ads. But Sony was already shifting upward,targeting its ads at twentysomethings, licensing dance music soundtracks, sponsoring club nights. It saw a future of post-pub gaming sessions, it saw a new audience of young professionals with disposable incomes, using their formative working careers as an extended adolescence.But if Sega had held its nerve, perhaps all that wouldn’t have mattered. Even outside of Japan, Saturn had some rank-and-file dev support. Although coding the PlayStation was certainly easier, thanks to its well-coordinated architecture and useful graphics libraries, Saturn was a geek’s dream, a mess of interlocking chipsets that skilled programmers could code down to the metal. Sega also retained some close international relationships from its 16-bit days. The company had always supported Derby-based developer Core Design, for example, so when that studio was working on a certain game about a female archeologist exploring treasure-filled tombs, Saturn was the development target. Perhaps if things had gone differently, it could have been an exclusive.Furthermore, at that time, arcade game conversions were the real profit drivers in the home console space – and Sega had the best coin-op development divisions on the planet. Its Amusement Machine (AM) departments were cranking out smash hits like Virtua Racer, Virtua Fighter and Daytona USA and its Model 2 arcade hardware was enormously powerful. Sony knew it had to compete, so it tied an exclusivity deal with coin-op rival Namco to ensure games like Ridge Racer and Tekken only appeared on PlayStation, but Sega had the talent to compete. It also had great first- and second-party console studios like Team Andromeda, responsible for the gorgeous Saturn hit Panzer Dragoon Saga, and Team Sonic, that had more than a certain blue hedgehog to offer: innovative fire-fighting game Burning Rangers and flight adventure Nights Into Dreams being prime examples.PlayStation grabbed an exclusivity deal with Square to secure the hugely popular Final Fantasy series and dominate the role-playing genre. But Saturn had old ally Treasure and its wonderful Guardian Heroes, a mix of side-scrolling platformer and RPG. It also had Camelot Software Planning and the superlative Shining Force series. And it had its own groundbreaking fantasy strategy titles Dragon Force and Mystaria: The Realms of Lore. Thanks to its 2D capabilities, Saturn also got the best of the 90s fighting games including the Street Fighter Alpha series and the prescient X-Men: Children of the Atom, which cemented the relationship between Capcom and Marvel that would lead to the excellent “Vs” series. 2D shooters flourished too, with visually astonishing hits like Radiant Silvergun and Battle Garegga with which to thrill the domestic market.Interviewed recently bythe website Sega Nerds, Kalinske is adamant about how much that early US launch cost Sega: “Had we waited until we had more and better games, launching with all retailers instead of with a few, with marketing that could reach every player, we would have been much more successful, even if that meant waiting for a late October or November launch.”Sega’s US advertising was meant to highlight the radical new visuals of the system, but it turned out to be more symbolic of the company’s internal business approachThere was, of course, another possible outcome. In the early nineties, after Sony had developed a CD-Rom drive for Nintendo’s SNES console only to be rebuffed at the last minute, Sega of America approached the spurned consumer electronics giant about working together on a new machine. Sony had its own game development studio, Sony Imagesoft, based in California, and it was making games for the Sega Mega CD. A relationship was there. Kalinske saw the benefit, he understood both the marketing and development talent that Sony could bring. He saw Nintendo waiting in the wings with its next machine – which would become the N64. He thought an alliance could win out. But according to him, Sega Japanturned it down outright.Related:Sega Saturn – how to buy one and what to playEven without that deal, the Saturn was a fascinating, difficult and brilliant machine. It had interesting, beautiful games, it experimented with online play and digital downloads through its NetLink modem, it provided a platform for some emerging industry names like Tetsuya Mizuguchi (Rez, Lumines) and Hideo Kojima (the Saturn had excellent versions of his Snatcher and Policenauts titles), and it housed fabulous experiments (like the chaotic 10-player Bomberman). But Sega of Japan blinked first; after a good domestic launch it showed its hand in the US too early, allowing PlayStation to beat it straightaway on price alone.What the company didn’t see was the roots of a prevailing trend, away from arcade conversions and traditional role-playing adventures and toward a much wider console development community with fresh ideas about gameplay and structure. Within two years, we’d see the release of Grand Theft Auto and Tomb Raider, games that had no arcade origins or conventions to adhere to. The open world was coming in more ways than one and Sony leapt at it with open arms (and development budgets). But Sega stumbled and all was lost – way before the subsequent launch of the Dreamcast and the desperate last shot that it represented.No, the gunfight was already over. History beckoned and it would not be kind.
I have a five-year old Toshiba Satellite P500 with Microsoft Windows 7 installed. I like it because it’s got a 17.1in screen, but it’s getting slower and creakier. Could I just replace the existing hard drive with an updated one? Would this get me back to how it was performing when it was new?HughThe Toshiba Satellite P500 belongs to a class of high-specification laptops known as “desktop replacements”, and it should still perform well. Without seeing it, I can’t tell whether it’s a hardware or a software issue, but both can be improved. The main issues are whether you can spare the time to fix your laptop, and how much money you’re willing to invest in an old machine. These are the things that drive people to buy new laptops.Windows includes a number ofperformance-monitoring tools, so you can run these before and after making changes to see how well they have worked.Hardware problemsDesktop-replacement laptops typically use fast processors that tend to run hot. This can affect performance because the chip will either be throttled back or shut down altogether if it starts to overheat. You can reduce the risk by making sure there’s good airflow under your laptop, perhaps by standing it on a riser or cooler. You can check the internal temperatures (and many other things) usingHWMonitorsoftware. Consult the P500 manual for the maximum operating temperature, which is probably about 95F.Your machine may be overheating because it has five years’ worth of dust and detritus inside, especially if you’ve used it on carpets or fabrics. If you think this might be contributing to the problem, take the case apart and blow away anything that’s clogging the insides – especially, clean the fan. (A local PC shop could do this for you.)If the hard drive is still in good condition, then replacing it won’t help. Unfortunately, it’s hard to tell if a hard drive is failing, but running a hard disk checker such asHD TuneorCrystaldiskinfowill help.Either way, you could give your P500 a boost by upgrading the hardware in two ways. First, you could expand the memory from 4GB to 8GB. System Scanner software from theCrucial websitewill tell you your options. Second, you could replace the old 500GB hard drive with a 128GB or 256GB SSD (solid-state drive). That will make your machine much more responsive, though you won’t have as much storage space. However, you can stick the hard drive in an external USB enclosure and still access your old data.With 8GB or memory and an SSD, your Satellite P500 should run faster than it did when it was new, even with today’s bloated websites.Software spring cleanYou can also try giving your laptop’s software a spring clean. You have probably installed lots of programs over the past five years, and you may have left the bundle of free Toshiba software – Service Station, Toshiba Assist etc – in place. Uninstall the ones you don’t need.The quickest way to spring-clean your hard drive is to runSlimCleaner.(Use the link that says “Download SlimCleaner Now from SlimWare Utilities”notthe one for Download.com.)It will list and rate the software you have installed, clear out old log files etc, and remove unwanted registry entries. Under Disk Tools, it also includes utilities to analyse, defrag, wipe and shred hard drives, plus a duplicate file finder.In the old days of DOS-based Windows and even Windows XP, the operating system tended to slow down under the weight of accumulated crud. Some of us did clean re-installations every 18-24 months. Happily, that’s not a problem with Windows 7, and I’m still using a five-year-old laptop that hasn’t slowed down. However, you could certainly try re-installing Windows 7.Your Toshiba should still have the original Windows code on a hidden partition, and aRecovery Media Creator utilitythat will create two DVDs so that you can take your P500 back to “factory condition”. Bear in mind that you will also have to download a few hundred megabytes of Windows updates and security patches, as well as re-installing all your programs and data files.Windows Update will automatically install all the updates in the required order in the background, so as not to affect what you’re doing. However, it could take two or three days and will probably require half a dozen or more restarts. At least it’s not 60!Taking your P500 back to “factory condition” will mean that all the original Toshiba drivers will be re-installed. If this restores your laptop’s performance, I’d stick with those for a while. You can update the drivers (one at a time) later, but be ready to roll back a driver update if it hurts performance.If the software spring clean doesn’t make a significant difference, then installing more memory is the quickest, cheapest upgrade. After that, consider installing an SSD.What about Windows 10?At this stage, I wouldn’t bother re-installing Windows 7: I’d wait until you can do a clean installation with Windows 10, which will be free to Windows 7 users.In most respects, Windows 8.1 and Windows 10 are better operating systems than Windows 7: they’re faster, more secure, run in less memory, and have generally been further optimised and debugged. They also provide the opportunity to run “modern” apps, which are securely sandboxed and controlled in ways that are not possible with old Windows desktop programs. Microsoft Edge (formerly Project Spartan), the fast new not-IE browser, shows what can be done.Of course, not everyone prefers the Windows 8.1 user interface, especially on systems that don’t have touch screens. However, the Windows 10 user interface has been changed fairly dramatically to make apps much easier to handle with just a mouse and keyboard.While I think Windows 10 is worth a go, you will need to run the compatibility checker first, when it appears. Also, make sure you have working Windows 7 installation DVDs, so that you can go back to Windows 7 if you don’t like it. Alternatively, you can order Recovery Media fromToshiba’s support websiteby typing in your laptop’s serial number.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
The LG Watch Urbane is the Korean company’s third smartwatch in under a year, a shiny, metal-covered, round Android Wear watch to compete with Apple’s Watch – and with a price tag to match.The Urbane is a follow-up to the chunkyG Watch Rand LG’s second round smartwatch to use its 1.3in plastic OLED screen.It is the first watch to ship with Google’s newAndroid Wear 5.1, which is a big step forward for the wearable operating system.•Android Wear 5.1 review: simple, useful and the best – for nowBig and shinyThe Watch Urbane is a big, chunky watch, here pictured on a medium-sized wrist and a small wrist.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianBig. Chunky. Shiny. Gaudy. These are all adjectives that can be thrown at the Urbane. It is the largest Android Wear smartwatch I’ve had the pleasure to use, even though its screen is actually smaller than the1.6in Moto 360.The frame surrounding the watch is shiny stainless steel, in a choice of pink gold or grey. I’ve been testing the pink gold version for a week. To say that it stands out is an understatement.The Urbane is not unlike in size to many men’s watches, which tend to be big.However, it’s too plain for a watch, with a lack of detail in the body that makes it look bulky and featureless. The block pink gold could be considered a bit gaudy, but while I wouldn’t have chosen it, I have grown used to it.When compared with a Rolex Submariner, left, the lack of detail in the Urbane’s body design, right, emphasises its bulky form.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe round screen is clear, bright and can be read outside without problems. It isn’t as sharp as a smartphone screen, but rivals the best currently available on a smartwatch. It does not have an ambient light sensor, however.The button on the side lights the screen or puts it to sleep. Double press it to trigger cinema mode and stop the screen from lighting. Holding it down brings up the settings menu.The Urbane is IP67 rated, which means it’s waterproof to a depth of 1.5m for 30 minutes. The leather strap prohibits getting it wet, however, but you can easily change the strap for a metal or rubber one. The supplied strap is stiff and requires a week to break in, but feels well made.Battery lifeThe Urbane charges fast via any microUSB charger, but requires a special little magnetic dock to do so.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianWith the screen on all the time, the Urbane lasted around a day and a half per charge. Without the screen always on, it lasted a lot longer, well into the third day.You need a little magnetic dock to charge it, which is another thing to lose, but the watch charges at about 1.7% a minute, which means a full charge takes under an hour.Wi-Fi and heart rateThe back hides a heart rate sensor and contacts for the charging dock.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAbove and beyond the features standard toAndroid Wear 5.1, the Urbane includes Wi-Fi for connecting remotely to your smartphone and a heart rate monitor, which must be manually activated.The heart rate monitor proved about as accurate as most other smartwatches, although it frequently rated my pulse slightly higher than dedicated heart rate monitors.LG’s appsThe LG Pulse app shows a continuous heart rate reading and can show heart rate in ambient mode, when the watch is not in use, although this impacts battery life.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianLG includes several apps that duplicate functionality with the standard Android Wear apps. LG Pulse takes heart rate readings and displays a live beats per minute, which works better than the built-in Google Fit one.LG Call also allows users to trigger phone calls on the connected smartphone if they download a separate app on their phone and connect Bluetooth headphones. Given Android Wear 5.1 now includes a contact list that you can use to make calls, send text messages or emails, I’m not sure why it bothered.The Urbane also includes Android Wear’s new lockscreen, but I could not get it to show up when the watch was taken off, and only occasionally when the watch was charging.PriceThe LG Watch Urbane is the most expensive Android Wear watch yet, costing £260. This is £60 more than the Moto 360 andAsus Zenwatchand £35 more than theG Watch R. The Urbane is £40 cheaper than thelowest-priced Apple Watch, however.VerdictThe Watch Urbane is the best smartwatch LG has made to date, but it’s also the most expensive and its styling isn’t everyone’s cup of tea – it certainly suits a larger wrist. One to try before you buy.Its battery life could also be better. A full two days would make weekend getaways easier.But it is fast,Android Wear 5.1 is great, the always-on screen is decent and the strap can be replaced for any standard 22mm watch strap.The Urbane is a close tie with theAsus ZenWatchandSony Smartwatch 3for the best Android Wear watch available at the moment, but it’s certainly not perfect.Pros:Fast, always-on screen, latest Android Wear, heart rate monitor, Wi-Fi, quality leather watch strap.Cons:Really big, styling is divisive, less than two-day battery, no ambient light sensor, expensive.The Urbane lacks tapered edges down to the strap featured on many watches. The two small holes visible are the microphones.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviews•LG G Watch R review: chunky, masculine, and fast•Asus ZenWatch review: a sophisticated-looking Android smartwatch•Sony Smartwatch 3 review: great design, good screen and decent battery•Apple Watch review: beautiful hardware spoiled by complicated software
A mobile game that tries to get you fit by making you run away from hordes of zombies – actually physically run, in the real world – may sound like a niche.But for British apps developer Six to Start, it’s a niche that has yielded more than 1m sales of itsZombies, Run!game since its launch in early 2012.In a mobile gaming industry dominated by “free-to-play” titles and their in-app purchases, this is one of the case studies showing that independent developers can have a successful paid – as in pay upfront – game.Related:Zombies, Run! – reviewAll of which leads up to the fact that, as of this week, Zombies, Run! is going free-to-play. But, so Six to Start’s boss Adrian Hon hopes, from a position of strength rather than weakness.“The market has shifted towards free games, even though we still sell many hundreds of copies a day globally. Making paid apps is really difficult,” Hon told the Guardian ahead of the relaunch.“Yesterday, Zombies, Run! was about No 30 in the top paid apps chart in the UK, which is quite a high ranking, but that means about 50 sales, which tells you something about people’s appetite for buying paid apps. It’s a bit like hardback books, where a Top-10 bestseller only has to sell 300 copies.”From today, Zombies, Run! is a free download, with its first four story missions included, and another mission playable for free every week.(If you’re new to the game, it gets you to run, jog or walk while listening to the audio adventure, gathering supplies as you go to build your base back home. It has a proper story at its heart, courtesy of author – andGuardian columnist– Naomi Alderman.)People will be able to pay $2.99 a month or $19.99 a year to unlock all 200 story missions – arranged in TV-style seasons – for unlimited play, as well as Interval Training and Airdrop modes.People who paid for it first time round will get full access to the first three seasons of missions, as well as one a week from season four for free, and can then pay $7.99 a year to unlock all the remaining content.“We have a great hook: run away from zombies in the real world and get fit. But it’s not really easy to convey that on the App Store. What we really need to get people to do is just try it,” says Hon.Zombies, Run! has always been about the crowd, right from the point in 2011 when Six to Start and Aldermanraised $72.6k on crowdfunding website Kickstarterto fund their plans for a game where players would “rebuild civilisation after a zombie apocalypse by running in the real world”.Zombies, Run!Photograph: PRSix to Start is thinking hard about how going free-to-play will (hopefully) bring a bigger audience to Zombies, Run!, which will in turn fuel Hon’s plans for expansion.“Something like 15-20% of the players who have ever bought the app over the last three years are still playing it,” says Hon, who admits he wasn’t sure whether that was a good or bad thing until he met people in Silicon Valley who were impressed by the game’s retention rate.That percentage will go down once Zombies, Run! is a free-to-play game, but its overall audience should increase considerably, from its current 150,000 to 200,000 active users to millions if all goes well.Related:Unfitbit: When fitness tracking goes wrongThat will bring new commercial opportunities – Six to Start is exploring the idea of audio advertising, with Hon citing the “extremely high” rates for popular podcasts like Serial as inspiration.“For something like Serial, it was $50-$100 per thousand users – basically you’re getting five or 10 cents for every person that listens to you,” he says. “We’re thinking about treating Zombies, Run! as if it was a podcast, but also about how not to make it really annoying, and how to do it in a way that doesn’t break the fiction.”A bigger audience will bring new creative possibilities too: for example, books, real-world events and even official Zombies, Run! races.“Even with a million players it was a bit marginal whether it was worth us doing more of these kinds of things. Once we go free-to-play and we have millions more players, it becomes much more interesting and worthwhile,” says Hon.“We are deep into the planning of the first book set within the Zombies, Run! universe, and there is potential for original audio dramas that are not about you running away from zombies, but which are set within the Zombies, Run! universe.”Hon’s background is in alternate reality games (ARGs) and he’s keen to bring some of that experience to his company’s current work. “This has that ARG aspect to it. I would love to do something that is like [immersive theatre company]Punchdrunk, but more interactive and gamey.”In hindsight, teaming up with a novelist – Alderman – in those early days was a very smart move: providing the narrative backbone that makes Six to Start’s game much more than just zombie noises spurring people to run, and setting it up for expansion beyond a game now.“We didn’t think: ‘If this got big we could do books and events and a TV show and movies.’ It just seemed like it made sense, and would be really original and fun. It was like: ‘How come no one’s done this?’” says Hon. “It also came from the belief that story makes a lot of experiences better.”Related:Candy Crush Saga players spent £865m on the game in 2014 aloneThis is a subject close to Hon’s heart, with that background in ARGs. He also says that it’s a sharp contrast to the game design philosophy of some of Six to Start’s peers in the mobile games market, where the mechanics of tapping and rewards can seem more important than traditional narrative.“I’ve been going to mobile games conferences recently where the notion of story, to a lot of games developers, is the worst thing in the world. Because having a story in your game is inherently ‘not scalable’,” says Hon.“It makes it harder to translate, so you can’t get those amazing dollars from non-English-speaking countries. And unless you’re Harry Potter or Marvel, most stories are going to put someone off: they’re not going to be universal.“So a lot of games developers think: ‘Why would we do story?’. There’s a weird sense that if you make a game that can’t be played by 500 million people then it’s not worth making.”Hon suggests that this may be particularly the case in the UK – or at least in the dialogue around free-to-play games in the UK.“A lot of people involved in the mobile games industry in the UK have finance backgrounds, so they like games like Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans: these are very easy to model,” he says.“If you put The Hunger Games as a movie or Harry Potter as a book in front of them, they wouldn’t know what to do. It’s just too risky. But the downfall of that is I don’t think we’re going to be playing Candy Crush or Clash of Clans in 10 years’ time.”Apple Watch: ‘People are losing their minds about wearables!’Photograph: Kay Nietfeld/Kay Nietfeld/dpa/CorbisLike other mobile games companies, Six to Start is mulling what devices people will be playing games on in 10 years’ time.Smartwatches, for example – a device category that seems well suited to fitness games like Zombies, Run! in the long term, even if there are restrictions in the shorter term with what can be done on these gadgets.Hon combines enthusiasm with scepticism on the opportunities for smartwatch games – something that was clear from hiseven-handed speech at a mobile games industry conference earlier in 2015. Six to Start is making Apple Watch and Android Wear extensions for Zombies, Run!“I think people are losing their minds about wearables! And I say that as someone who really likes wearables. A lot of developers don’t realise how limited the SDK [software development kit] is. You can’t really do much with it, although you can show stuff. You can’t really do a proper Tamagotchi-style game yet,” he says now.“The more exciting stuff is going to come when we have more control of the hardware: I think Apple is going to do a native SDK later this year. I’m amazed it’s happening that quickly to be honest.”Related:Game developers on Apple Watch: smartwatches are all about contextHe adds that developers need to think about what’s appropriate for these devices, especially for fitness apps and games like Zombies, Run! where a common-sense approach will help developers avoid pitfalls. And, indeed, help players avoid potholes.“The idea that you could look at, say, a live map on your watch and see zombies on it? I don’t know, a lot of people design these games without being runners or trying out the technology. It’s not safe running while looking at your watch!” says Hon.“That’s not to say there aren’t cool things you can do with wearables and exercise. There are. But you have to think about how they fit into the shape of the workouts and routines.”The conversation comes back to indie games and paid games and the chances of success for Zombies, Run! as it takes its risky step into free-to-play .“This isn’t the common story of ‘Oh my God, we have no money left, we’d better go free-to-play’. If we had no money left we couldn’t go free-to-play with the marketing and support costs!” says Hon.“Ultimately, we just want more people to play Zombies, Run!, and we think we can do that in a way that’s not going to turn it into a terrible game.”
Google needs to be more transparent in the way it handles so-called “right to be forgotten” requests, with 80 leadingacademics writing an open letterthat accuses the firm of developing its policies “in the dark”.In the detailed and strongly worded four-page letter shared with the Guardian, experts in technology law, data protection and philosophy claim that releasing more information about the volume, character and classification of removal requests would benefit the public and help inform a wider global discussion on privacy and personal data.Related:Dear Google: open letter from 80 academics on 'right to be forgotten'“The public should be able to find out how digital platforms exercise their tremendous power over readily accessible information,” says the letter.“Beyond anecdote, we know very little about what kind and quantity of information is being delisted from search results, what sources are being delisted and on what scale, what kinds of requests fail and in what proportion, and what are Google’s guidelines in striking the balance between individual privacy and freedom of expression interests.”The European Court of Justice ruled one year ago that Google is responsible for removing links to outdated, irrelevant or misrepresentative information on search results for individuals. Representing 90% of Europe’s search engine market, Google has been the focus of the so-called “right to be forgotten” implementation.Google responded by developing substantial processes and criteria internally for responding to requests, and established an independent advisory panel of legal and ethical experts that toured seven European cities on an evidence-gathering tour.But it has released limited information on the 250,000 requests it says it has received, and academic specialists – including two members of Google’s own advisory council – say that search engines have been left to decide how to determine complex judgments about the balance between personal privacy and access to information.“The vast majority of these decisions face no public scrutiny, though they shape public discourse. What’s more, the values at work in this process will/should inform information policy around the world. A fact-free debate about the RTBF is in no one’s interest,” the letter says.“We are not the only ones who want more transparency. Google’s ownAdvisory Councilon the RTBF in February 2015 recommended more transparency, as did theArticle 29 Working Partyin November 2014.“[There are] few safeguards for the public interest in information access. Data protection authorities seem content to rely on search engines’ application of the ruling’s balancing test, citing low appeal rates as evidence that the balance is being appropriately struck. Of course, this statistic reveals no such thing.”Related:Google says it acknowledges some people want 'right to be forgotten'The letter cites Peter Fleischer, Google’s global privacy counsel, who reportedly told a meeting of European data experts in May that Google was “building a rich program of jurisprudence on the [RTBF] decision”. The letter describes that process as “jurisprudence built in the dark”.“The ruling effectively enlisted Google into partnership with European states in striking a balance between individual privacy and public discourse interests. The public deserves to know how the governing jurisprudence is developing. We hope that Google, and all search engines subject to the ruling, will open up.”Signatories include Prof Ellen P Goodman from the Rutgers University School of Law, Paul Bernal from the University of East Anglia School of Law, and Ian Brown, professor of information security and privacy at the University of Oxford.It was also signed by Peggy Valcke of the University of Leuven, one of 10 academics, regulators and executives on Google’s advisory council. A second member, former German justice minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger, also said the letter has her full support, stating that more transparency and a detailed report was required.Replying to a request for comment, a Google spokesperson said: “We launched a section of our transparency report on these removals within six months of the ruling because it was important to help the public understand the impact of the ruling.“Our transparency report is always evolving and it’s helpful to have feedback like this so we know what information the public would find useful. We will consider these ideas, weighing them against the various constraints within which we have to work –operationally and from a data protection standpoint.”
It is one year since the European Court of Justice ruled that citizens have the right to request that Google remove links to information about them if these are out of date, misreprentative or irrelevant. But some of the world’s most expert academics claim that Google has not been transparent enough in how it is responding to requests for delisting, and 80 academics from around the world have written to the corporation demanding more transparency about its processes.Here is the full text of the open letter, also published onMediumtoday:What we seekAggregate data about how Google is responding to the more than 250,000 requests to delist links, thought to contravene data protection laws, from name search results. We should know if the anecdotal evidence of Google’s process is representative: What sort of information typically gets delisted (e.g., personal health) and what sort typically does not (e.g., about a public figure), in what proportions and in what countries?Related:Google must be more open on 'right to be forgotten', academics warn in letterWhy it’s importantGoogle and other search engines have been enlisted to make decisions about the proper balance between personal privacy and access to information. The vast majority of these decisions face no public scrutiny, though they shape public discourse. What’s more, the values at work in this process will/should inform information policy around the world. A fact-free debate about the RTBF is in no one’s interest.Why GoogleGoogle is not the only search engine, but no other private entity or Data Protection Authority has processed anywhere near the same number of requests (most have dealt with several hundred at most). Google has by far the best data on the kinds of requests being made, the most developed guidelines for handling them, and the most say in balancing informational privacy with access in search.One year ago, the European Court of Justice, inGoogle Spain v AEPD and Mario Costeja González, determined that Google and other search engines must respond to users’ requests under EU data protection law concerning search results on queries of their names. This has become known as the Right to Be Forgotten (RTBF) ruling. The undersigned have a range of views about the merits of the ruling. Some think it rightfully vindicates individual data protection/privacy interests. Others think it unduly burdens freedom of expression and information retrieval. Many think it depends on the facts.We all believe that implementation of the ruling should be much more transparent for at least two reasons: (1) the public should be able to find out how digital platforms exercise their tremendous power over readily accessible information; and (2) implementation of the ruling will affect the future of the RTBF in Europe and elsewhere, and will more generally inform global efforts to accommodate privacy rights with other interests in data flows.Google reports that it hasreceived over 250,000 individual requestsconcerning 1 million URLs in the past year. It also reports that it has delisted from name search results just over 40% of the URLs that it has reviewed. In various venues, Google has shared some 40 examples of delisting requests granted and denied (including 22 examples on its website), and it has revealed the top sources of material requested to be delisted (amounting to less than 8% of total candidate URLs). Most of the examples surfaced more than six months ago, with minimal transparency since then. While Google’s decisions will seem reasonable enough to most, in the absence of real information about how representative these are, the arguments about the validity and application of the RTBF are impossible to evaluate with rigour.Beyond anecdote, we know very little about what kind and quantity of information is being delisted from search results, what sources are being delisted and on what scale, what kinds of requests fail and in what proportion, and what are Google’s guidelines in striking the balance between individual privacy and freedom of expression interests.The RTBF ruling addresses the delisting of links to personal information that is “inaccurate, inadequate, irrelevant, or excessive for the purposes of data processing”, and which holds no public interest. Both opponents and supporters of the RTBF are concerned about overreach. Because there is no formal involvement of original sources or public representatives in the decision-making process, there can be only incidental challenges to information that is delisted, and few safeguards for the public interest in information access. Data protection authorities seem content to rely on search engines’ application of the ruling’s balancing test, citing low appeal rates as evidence that the balance is being appropriately struck. Of course, this statistic reveals no such thing. So the sides do battle in a data vacuum, with little understanding of the facts – facts that could assist in developing reasonable solutions.Peter Fleischer, Google global privacy counsel, reportedly told the 5th European Data Protection Days on 4 May that, “Over time, we are building a rich program of jurisprudence on the [RTBF] decision.” (Bhatti, Bloomberg, 6 May). It is a jurisprudence built in the dark. For example, Mr. Fleischer is quoted as saying that the RTBF is “about true and legal content online, not defamation”. This is an interpretation of the scope and meaning of the ruling that deserves much greater elaboration, substantiation, and discussion.We are not the only ones who want more transparency. Google’s ownAdvisory Councilon the RTBF in February 2015 recommended more transparency, as did theArticle 29 Working Partyin November 2014. Both recommended that data controllers should be as transparent as possible by providing anonymised and aggregated statistics as well as the process and criteria used in delisting decisions. The benefits of such transparency extend to those who request that links be delisted, those who might make such requests, those who produce content that is or might be delisted, and the wider public who might or do access such material. Beyond this, transparency eases the burden on search engines by helping to shape implementation guidelines and revealing aspects of the governing legal framework that require clarification.Naturally, there is some tension between transparency and the very privacy protection that the RTBF is meant to advance. The revelations that Google has made so far show that there is a way to steer clear of disclosure dangers. Indeed, the aggregate information that we seek threatens privacy far less than the scrubbed anecdotes that Google has already released, or the notifications that it is giving to webmasters registered with Google webmaster tools. The requested data is divorced from individual circumstances and requests. Here is what we think, at a minimum, should be disclosedWhat we seekCategories of RTBF requests/requesters that are excluded or presumptively excluded (e.g., alleged defamation, public figures) and how those categories are defined and assessed.Categories of RTBF requests/requesters that are accepted or presumptively accepted (e.g., health information, address or telephone number, intimate information, information older than a certain time) and how those categories are defined and assessed.Proportion of requests and successful delistings (in each case by % of requests and URLs) that concern categories including (taken from Google anecdotes): (a) victims of crime or tragedy; (b) health information; (c) address or telephone number; (d) intimate information or photos; (e) people incidentally mentioned in a news story; (f) information about subjects who are minors; (g) accusations for which the claimant was subsequently exonerated, acquitted, or not charged; and (h) political opinions no longer held.Breakdown of overall requests (by % of requests and URLs, each according to nation of origin) according to theWP29 Guidelinescategories. To the extent that Google uses different categories, such as past crimes or sex life, a breakdown by those categories. Where requests fall into multiple categories, that complexity too can be reflected in the data.Reasons for denial of delisting (by % of requests and URLs, each according to nation of origin). Where a decision rests on multiple grounds, that complexity too can be reflected in the data.Reasons for grant of delisting (by % of requests and URLs, each according to nation of origin). As above, multi-factored decisions can be reflected in the data.Categories of public figures denied delisting (e.g., public official, entertainer), including whether a Wikipedia presence is being used as a general proxy for status as a public figure.Source (e.g., professional media, social media, official public records) of material for delisted URLs by % and nation of origin (with top 5-10 sources of URLs in each category).Proportion of overall requests and successful delistings (each by % of requests and URLs, and with respect to both, according to nation of origin) concerning information first made available by the requestor (and, if so, (a) whether the information was posted directly by the requestor or by a third party, and (b) whether it is still within the requestor’s control, such as on his/her own Facebook page).Proportion of requests (by % of requests and URLs) where the information is targeted to the requester’s own geographic location (e.g., a Spanish newspaper reporting on a Spanish person about a Spanish auction).Proportion of searches for delisted pages that actually involve the requester’s name (perhaps in the form of % of delisted URLs that garnered certain threshold percentages of traffic from name searches).Proportion of delistings (by % of requests and URLs, each according to nation of origin) for which the original publisher or the relevant data protection authority participated in the decision.Specification of (a) types of webmasters that are not notified by default (e.g., malicious porn sites); (b) proportion of delistings (by % of requests and URLs) where the webmaster additionally removes information or applies robots.txt at source; and (c) proportion of delistings (by % of requests and URLs) where the webmaster lodges an objection.As of now, only about 1% of requesters denied delisting are appealing those decisions to national Data Protection Authorities. Webmasters are notified in more than a quarter of delisting cases (Bloomberg, May 6). They can appeal the decision to Google, and there is evidence that Google may revise its decision. In the remainder of cases, the entire process is silent and opaque, with very little public process or understanding of delisting.The ruling effectively enlisted Google into partnership with European states in striking a balance between individual privacy and public discourse interests. The public deserves to know how the governing jurisprudence is developing. We hope that Google, and all search engines subject to the ruling, will open up.Sincerely yours,Ellen P. GoodmanProfessorRutgers University School of LawCo-DirectorRutgers Institute for Information Policy &amp; Law@ellgoodJulia PowlesResearcherUniversity of Cambridge, Faculty of Law@juliapowlesDatabase of Academic CommentaryJef AusloosResearcherKU Leuven, ICRI/CIR – iMindsPaul BernalLecturer in Information Technology, Intellectual Property and Media LawUEA School of LawEduardo BertoniGlobal Clinical Professor, New York University School of LawDirector of the Center for Studies on Freedom of Expression and Access to Information –CELE-Palermo University School of LawReuben BinnsResearcherUniversity of SouthamptonMichael D. BirnhackProfessor of LawTel-Aviv University, Faculty of LawEerke BoitenDirector of Cyber Security CentreUniversity of KentOren BrachaHowrey LLP and Arnold, White &amp; Durkee Centennial ProfessorUniversity of Texas School of LawGeorge BrockProfessor of JournalismCity University LondonSally Broughton MicovaLSE Fellow &amp; Acting Director, LSE Media Policy ProjectLondon School of Economics and Political ScienceIan BrownProfessor of Information Security and PrivacyUniversity of Oxford, Oxford Internet InstituteRobin Callender SmithProfessorial Fellow in Media Law, Centre for Commercial Law StudiesQueen Mary University of LondonCaroline CalommeMJur candidateUniversity of OxfordIgnacio CofoneResearcherErasmus University RotterdamJulie E. CohenMark Claster Mamolen Professor of Law &amp; TechnologyGeorgetown LawRay CorriganSenior Lecturer in Maths, Computing and TechnologyOpen UniversityJon CrowcroftMarconi Professor of Communications SystemsUniversity of Cambridge, Computer LaboratoryAngela DalyPostdoctoral Research Fellow, Swinburne University of TechnologyResearch Associate, Tilburg University - TILTRichard DanburyPostdoctoral Research FellowUniversity of Cambridge, Faculty of LawLeonhard DobuschAssistant Professor on Organization TheoryFreie Universitaet BerlinLilian EdwardsProfessor of Internet LawUniversity of StrathclydeNiva Elkin-KorenProfessor of LawUniversity of HaifaDavid ErdosUniversity Lecturer in Law and the Open SocietyUniversity of Cambridge, Faculty of LawGordon FletcherSenior Lecturer in Information SystemsUniversity of SalfordMichelle FrasherNon-resident Visiting Scholar, Fulbright-Schuman ScholarUniversity of Illinois, European Union CenterBrett M. FrischmannProfessor of LawBenjamin N. Cardozo School of LawMartha Garcia-MurilloProfessor of Information StudiesSyracuse UniversityDavid GlanceDirector, UWA Centre for Software PracticeUniversity of Western AustraliaAndres GuadamuzSenior Lecturer in IP LawUniversity of SussexEdina HarbinjaLaw LecturerUniversity of HertfordshireWoodrow HartzogAssociate Professor, Samford University, Cumberland School of LawAffiliate Scholar, Stanford Law School, Center for Internet &amp; SocietyAndrew HoskinsProfessorUniversity of GlasgowMartin HusovecLegal Advisor, European Information Society InstituteAffiliate Scholar, Stanford Law School, Center for Internet &amp; SocietyAgnieszka Janczuk-GorywodaAssistant ProfessorTilburg University - TILECLorena Jaume-PalasíPhD candidate and LecturerLudwig Maximilians UniversityBert-Jaap KoopsProfessor of Regulation and TechnologyTilburg University - TILTPaulan KorenhofResearcherTilburg University - TILTAleksandra KuczerawyResearcherKU Leuven, ICRI/CIR – iMindsStefan KulkResearcherUtrecht UniversityRebekah LarsenMPhil candidateUniversity of Cambridge, Judge Business SchoolDavid S. LevineAssociate Professor, Elon University School of LawVisiting Research Collaborator, Princeton Center for Information Technology PolicyAffiliate Scholar, Stanford Law School, Center for Internet &amp; SocietyMichael P. LynchProfessor of Philosophy and Director, Humanities InstituteUniversity of ConnecticutOrla LynskeyAssistant Professor of Law and Warden, Sidney Webb HouseLondon School of Economics and Political ScienceDaniel LyonsAssociate Professor of LawBoston College Law SchoolIan MacInnesAssociate Professor, School of Information StudiesSyracuse UniversityRobin MansellProfessor, Department of Media and CommunicationsLondon School of Economics and Political ScienceAlan McKennaLecturerUniversity of Kent Law SchoolShane McNameeResearch Assistant, Research Centre for Consumer LawUniversity of BayreuthMaura MiglioreLL.M. candidate, Centre for Commercial Law StudiesQueen Mary University of LondonChristian MoellerInternet Policy Observatory, Center for Global Communication Studies, Annenberg School for Communication, University of PennsylvaniaUniversity of Applied Sciences KielMaria Helen MurphyLecturer in LawMaynooth UniversityAndrew MurrayProfessor of LawLondon School of Economics and Political ScienceJohn NaughtonProfessor, Wolfson CollegeUniversity of CambridgeAbraham NewmanAssociate Professor, School of Foreign ServiceGeorgetown UniversityKieron O’HaraSenior Research Fellow, Electronics and Computer ScienceUniversity of SouthamptonMarion OswaldSenior Fellow, Head of the Centre for Information RightsUniversity of WinchesterPablo A. PalazziProfessor of LawSan Andres UniversityFrank PasqualeProfessor of LawUniversity of Maryland Carey School of LawRichard J. Peltz-SteeleProfessorUniversity of Massachusetts Law SchoolArtemi RalloConstitutional Law Professor and Former Director, Spanish Data Protection AgencyJaume I UniversityGiovanni SartorProfessor of Legal Informatics and Legal TheoryEuropean University InstituteEvan SelingerAssociate Professor of PhilosophyRochester Institute of TechnologySophie Stalla-BourdillonAssociate Professor in IT lawUniversity of SouthamptonKonstantinos StylianouFellow, Centre for Technology and SocietyFGV Direito RioDan Jerker B. SvantessonProfessorBond University Faculty of LawDamian TambiniResearch Director and Director of the Media Policy ProjectLondon School of Economics and Political ScienceJudith TownendDirector, Centre for Law and Information PolicyInstitute of Advanced Legal StudiesAlexander TsesisProfessor of LawLoyola University School of LawSiva VaidhyanathanRobertson Professor, Department of Media StudiesUniversity of VirginiaPeggy ValckeProfessor of Law, Head of ResearchKU Leuven - iMindsAlfonso ValeroPrincipal Lecturer, College of Business Law &amp; Social SciencesNottingham Law SchoolBrendan Van AlsenoyResearcherKU Leuven, ICRI/CIR - iMindsJoris van HobokenResearch FellowNew York University School of LawAsma VranakiPostdoctoral Researcher, Centre for Commercial Law StudiesQueen Mary University of LondonKevin WerbachAssociate Professor of Legal Studies &amp; Business EthicsUniversity of Pennsylvania, The Wharton SchoolAbby WhitmarshWeb Science ResearcherUniversity of SouthamptonTijmen WismanPhD candidate and LecturerVU University AmsterdamLorna WoodsProfessor of Internet LawUniversity of EssexNicolo ZingalesAssistant ProfessorTilburg University - TILEC
Rachel Whetstone, the Briton who has been head of communications and public policy at Google for several years, has been poached by Uber for a similar role.She will become senior vice-president of policy and communications at the taxi company, which is expected to list on the stock market this year and has been valued at as much as $50bn (£31.7bn).Whetstone will replace David Plouffe, who wasBarack Obama’s campaign managerin 2008 and joined Uber in August last year.He has been elevated to the role of chief adviser to the company and its chief executive Travis Kalanick, and will also sit on the board of Uber.Whetstone’s appointment wasfirst reported by Recode. She begins her new job next month.In recent months Uber has beenbuffeted on several frontsin anumber of citiesand countries by regulators, taxi drivers and others who oppose the rise of the smartphone-based service that has proved popular with thousands of users.Related:All hail Uber! But what about the black cabs?In the face of fierce resistance in numerous European cities,Kalanick said in January that he wanted to focus on forging “new partnerships”. Uber’s expansion could eventually create 50,000 jobs, he added.Whetstone is married toSteve Hilton, who was a senior adviser to David Cameron before quitting in 2012. He now lives in California and is chief executive of technology start-up Crowdpac.Policy Exchange, a conservative British thinktank, said Hilton would become a visiting scholar and visit the UK several times a year but not be based in London.Before starting her career with Google in Europe in 2005, Whetstone was Michael Howard’s chief of staff after he became Conservative leader in 2003.She joined Conservative Central Office after studying politics at Bristol University before switching to Carlton Communications –where she worked with David Cameron– and then went on to co-found the PR agency Portland.The couple were godparents to Ivan, the Camerons’ disabled son who died in 2009.In March Whetstone wrote ablog postfor Google hitting back at Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp after the Wall Street Journal accused Google of wielding undue political influence. Robert Thomson, chief executive of the company, had accused Google of creating a “less informed, more vexatious level of dialogue in our society”.Whetstone wrote: “Given the tone of some of your publications, that made quite a few people chuckle” and followed the comment with a gif of a baby laughing.
Facebook has come out in favor of the minimum wage movement, announcing an increase in pay for contractors and vendors alongside other improvements in benefits.In ablogposton Wednesday, chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg said the company would pay a minimum of $15 an hour, with 15 vacation days and a $4,000 bonus for having a child. The announcement comes as the Fight for $15 movement is gaining steam across the country, with protests directed at employers, especially large corporations,as recently as last Friday.“Today, I am pleased to announce that we are implementing a new set of standards on benefits for contractors and vendors who support Facebook in the US and do a substantial amount of work with us,” wrote Sandberg. “Taking these steps is the right thing to do for our business and our community. Women, because they comprise about two-thirds of minimum wage workers nationally, are particularly affected by wage adjustments. Research also shows that providing adequate benefits contributes to a happier and ultimately more productive workforce.”Sandberg, arguably the highest-profile female executive in the US, has often spoken out on matters of gender parity in parts of the tech sector hostile to women, and has criticized sexist media coverage as well as the ingrained problems at work faced by women in her industry and elsewhere. Last year she co-bylineda series of op-edsin the New York Times on women in the workplace.But she has been at the center of wage-related controversy as recently as 2013, when her Lean In foundation, which exists to empower women and girls, posted a listing for unpaid interns. (The foundationsubsequentlyagreed to pay its interns.)Today’s announcement was met with praise from labor leaders. “Facebook’s decision is a direct result of security officers and shuttle drivers joining together for a stronger Silicon Valley,” said SEIU United Service Workers West president David Huerta. “We see this as a great first step and we will continue to work with good corporate citizens like Facebook who are heeding the call to raise standards and respect service workers’ right to organize a union.”
Deflecting asteroids before they smash into the earth and kill hundreds of millions of people? That’s what Bruce Willis is for, surely? But now there’s an alternative strategy being touted by a body called the Emergency Asteroid Defence Project (EADP).The Danish non-governmental organisation istrying to raise $200k on crowdfunding website Indiegogoto continue its research into hypervelocity asteroid intercept vehicles (HAIVs) designed to “deflect or disperse asteroids and comets with only a few days’ warning”.Related:Space telescope Kickstarter campaign raises more than $1mEADP is offering badges, shoulder patches, bumper stickers and even “space cream sandwiches” to people who pledge money in the campaign, although rewards for backers who stump up more cash will include 3D printing files of its HAIV design, a chunk of asteroid or a ride in a rocket car.In its crowdfunding pitch, EADP claims that it is aiming to step in where Nasa and other government agencies have failed to find a “definitive solution” to the threat posed by asteroids:“This global crowdfunding campaign, the first ever for active asteroid defence, will fund a design feasibility study for the development, construction and in-space testing of HAIV asteroid defence spacecrafts, to be followed by the production of several HAIVs that will be ready for use in case of emergency.”The crowdfunding page certainly doesn’t hold back on the scary stories about potential asteroid impacts, citing the 2013 asteroid crash in Russian city Chelyabinsk “exploding with 30 times more energy than the atomic bomb that hit Hiroshima” and causing widespread damage.The campaign claims there is hard science behind its ambitions, citing its partnership with the Asteroid Deflection Research Center at Iowa State University as proof that its plan for HAIVs has a realistic chance of success.“The HAIV is a two-body spacecraft capable of striking an asteroid with a one-two punch. The fore body, or Leader, first hits the asteroid with a kinetic impact, making a crater in it. The aft body, or Follower, then delivers an NED (nuclear explosive device) into the crater to break up the asteroid into small harmless pieces, eliminating the threat.This combination double-impact strategy requires only 1/20th the explosive force that would be necessary to shatter an asteroid with a direct nuclear impact.Scepticism may still be a challenge for EADP’s campaign, withIndiegogo having faced scrutiny in the last yearover the science behind some of its most prominent technology crowdfunding campaigns –Healbe,Ritot,Nanoplug,Anonabox, andTellSpecbeing a few examples.Related:Nasa Asteroid Data Hunter contest hopes humans will outsmart dinosaursCaution about grand scientific claims on crowdfunding sites may be one reason why only 22 people have backed EADP’s asteroid defence project in its first 17 hours, at the time of writingNasa has also turned to the crowd, but in a more practical way. In 2014, the agencylaunched a series of developer contests under the banner of Asteroid Data Hunter, challenging developers to help it improve the technology for identifying asteroids using images from ground-based telescopes.“If a 30-metre asteroid were to hit in the wrong place at the wrong time, it could wipe out an entire city,” said Nasa’s Jason Kessler at the time.“The problem is there are about a million out there that go down to about the size of 30 metres. The likelihood of something hitting us in the future is pretty guaranteed.”
The US stock-exchange Nasdaq is experimenting with incorporating the underlying technology of the bitcoin cryptocurrency into its pre-IPO trading arm, Nasdaq Private Markets.The wing, a subsidiary of the company that focuses on assisting investment for firms that are not yet publicly traded, will begin to write a copy of its trades into the publicly available ledger of all bitcoin transactions, known as the “blockchain”.In doing so, it hopes to “provide extensive integrity, audit ability, governance and transfer of ownership capabilities”, according to a release from Nasdaq.Conventionally, cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin rely on the blockchain to free them from the centralisation of traditional finance. Traditionally, one trusted authority (usually a bank) holds an accurate ledger of how much money each customer has, and electronic transactions are made possible by rewriting the ledger of the sender and recipient simultaneously.But bitcoin, with no central body, instead shares all the information about who holds what amongst every computer running the software, to create a public ledger, the blockchain. The blockchain is so called because it records every transaction in the currency’s six-year history, grouped into a continuous chain of approximately 10-minute long transaction blocks. Every 10 minutes, when a complex mathematical problem is solved, a new block recording all the latest transactions is added and the blockchain. It means that every bitcoin transaction is public, and no single authority can prevent a transaction from taking place.The blockchain can also hold information other than just who spent what, however, and it is this feature which Nasdaq is using. The company will be creating “coloured coins”, appending special information to the blockchain indicating that a particular fraction of a particular bitcoin can be redeemed according to the terms written into it. That coloured coin can then be passed around just like a normal bitcoin, while preserving a record of who owns the asset it is linked to.It’s akin to sticking a note on to a pound coin that says “the owner of this coin also owns 1% of HotNewStartup Inc.” – except that the note can never be removed, the ownership of the coin is always public, and the message doesn’t have to fit on a postage stamp.Bob Greifeld, Nasdaq’s chief executive, said: “Utilising the blockchain is a natural digital evolution for managing physical securities. Once you cut the apron strings of need for the physical, the opportunities we can envision blockchain providing stand to benefit not only our clients, but the broader global capital markets.”Bitcoin remains in use as a currency, with companies such as bitcoin bank Coinbasegrowing rapidly. That firm is now valued at $400m, and provides services such as online wallets, currency exchange, and merchant tools to customers who want to use bitcoin to buy and sell goods and services.But with interest in the currency at a low point in its recent history leading to a corresponding slump in the price of bitcoin, many have begun to examine the use of the blockchain technology for other purposes.London’sEris Industriesuses a spin-off of the blockchain to offer users a fully programmable decentralised database and web server, while San Francisco’sHello Blocklets developers build their own applications directly into the blockchain.
US mobile phone provider FreedomPop is launching its Sim-only service in the UK - which offers free calls, texts and data.The service is launching as a virtual network operator using Three’s mobile network to provide users with 200 minutes, 200 texts and 200MB of data for free. FreedomPop has not said whether there will be an upfront cost for the Sim.Users can buy more allowance or additional services such as a second phone number tied to one mobile phone and will have to pay to go over the free calls, texts or data allowance.The company already offers a similar free service in the US, which launched in October 2012, and currently has under one million customers with around half paying for services beyond the free offerings. The company says that it only needs 30% of users to pay for services to be profitable.FreedomPop is not the first company to offer free mobile voice, texts and data services in the UK. The ad-supported Ovivo Mobile offered a similar service using Vodafone’s network, butabruptly shut down in Marchlast year leaving 50,000 customers without mobile phone service.Data-onlyFreedomPop is different to most mobile phone service providers because it only uses mobile data, employing an app available for Android and iPhone to send and receive text messages and make calls that are not carried over the traditional mobile voice network.The UK service will launch this summer after a trial period. FreedomPop is also launching a European roaming service called Jetsetter in the UK, Spain and France with plans to expand to more than 20 countries providing 100MB of data a month for free, again offering paid-for add-on services.The Los Angeles-based venture capital funded FreedomPop is backed by Skype, Kazaa and Rdio co-founder Niklas Zennström and has offered services in the US since 2012. It announced plans to partner with four European mobile operators in five countries, including KPN and Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile at the beginning of the year but the UK is the first service to launch.The company was criticised in 2013 for having hidden service fees above and beyond its free usage allowance. The company later waived those fees and currently states that in the UK the service “is really free, no gimmicks or games” and is “committed to offering basic levels of mobile service 100% truly free”.The service is unlikely to tempt users with large data allowances, but instead looks to impact current low-allowance, low-cost mobile phone plans currently available for around £10 a month, as well as pay-as-you-go offerings.•Vodafone tops list of most complained about mobile sevices•Tesco Mobile readies for sell-off to cut £22bn debt
Geralt of Rivia was born in literature. The lead character of Witcher 3 first appeared in the fantasy novels of Polish writer Andrzej Sapkowski. But his true home is in video games.As a Witcher, he has many talents, which make him the perfect, pliable protagonist. Geralt is a fine swordsman, able to control both crowds of jabbing bandits and the hulking beasts that he pursues across the countryside for rich bounties. He is an accomplished rider, able to drive a stallion through forests and across shallow rivers – even, sometimes, in formal races on the manicured track – at speed. It’s a necessary skill here in Temeria, which stretches farther than most video game lands, from the fields of Velen, with their stoic windmills and muddles of sunflowers, to the craggy, froth-lapped rocks of the Skellige islands and beyond.He is a skilled and charming negotiator, always ready with a witty retort, or a shrewd observation (you pick the response) and, when an interviewee proves contrarily aggressive or guarded, Geralt is able to issue a Jedi-like wave of the hand to calm their blood or loosen their tongue. His talent for detective work would make Sherlock Holmes hot with envy. Geralt is able to read a murder scene of which there are a great many even for a medieval-esque fantasy game, intuiting clues where others see none. As he prods at the bloodied carpet and the broken mirror, he’ll murmur a recreation of the deadly event like one of the grizzled Baltimore detectives from The Wire. Outside, he can track the daintiest paw through terrain that would prove unreadable to others. He is a skilled alchemist who can mix a potion from almost any combination of plants, and his resourcefulness in turning an animal’s carcass into a life-giving morsel is unparalleled (press “Up” to pop a life-giving steak or a rejuvenating beer at any point mid-battle).Naturally, you make firm friends in every village you visit.Photograph: Bandai NamcoThese considerable attributes combine with his battle-worn good looks to make Geralt something of a triumph with women – although, at his age, he must now also pay the unavoidable taxes on debauchery: loneliness and longing (for much of the game he pursues lost loves both romantic and familial). While we have known this much about Geralt for some time, in this, the third game from Polish developer CD Projekt RED, these abilities are given a freer rein than ever before. The linear, on-rails approach of the preceding Witcher titles is gone, making way for an open, Grand Theft Auto-style adventure, in which you are permitted, to a certain degree, to pursue goals of your own choosing. Geralt has a Swiss army knife of interactive tools, and his set of abilities offer a uniquely varied and diverse journey. Indeed, his skills come to define the world in which he operates. For once, not every virtual problem must be solved with virtual violence.Neither do all of the game’s wonderful host of characters (voiced by a notable cast that includes Game of Thrones’ Charles Dance) exist purely for Geralt’s benefit – a design decision that tempers what might otherwise have been a tiresome power fantasy. The world is full of history, nuance and – glory hallelujah! – plausible writing. As you tour Temeria (one part Scottish highlands, one part Idaho plains), following your primary quest objectives, you happen upon scores of alluring offshoot stories. Many of these enticing distractions are advertised on town notice boards. You may be asked to retrieve an elderly lady’s saucepan from the locked house of its borrower. You could choose to take up the plight of a master swordsmith who, after the local gangsters squeezed his trade routes, has been forced to sell dumplings instead. The people you meet and the stories they tell feel authentic and meaningful, in a way that so few video games in this style truly manage.In one convoluted quest midway through the game, which lasts numerous hours, you become involved in the plight of a family that has been brought to ruin by infidelity, domestic abuse and miscarriage. It’s a perilous topic for any video game to approach, especially one in which the player has the kind of agency that can be communicated via the dumbing force of a blade. But the scriptwriters succeed in building an affecting and authentic scenario in which you are not merely a spectator, but active participant.But there are problems too. Battles have neither heft nor grace and, often, the game groans under the weight of its technological ambition (its world is, supposedly, twenty per cent larger than rival, Skyrim). Textures pop in and the frame-rate drops agonisingly. One intermittent bug sends your horse flying into the air. Dismount while hovering, and you can fall to your death. These shortfalls may be addressed post-release (and the game, arguably, is no less stable than the bug-rich world of launch-era Skyrim), but for now they slightly dampen its brilliance, even if they cannot quite spoil the sheen of its unrivalled cinematic storytelling.On that subject, the narrative interludes that frame your journey are not flimsy excuses to send you on a time-wasting trek, but rather infuse the action with weight and consequence. Often there is no clear ‘right’ answer to a conversation thread and often, regardless of your choices, the losses are substantial. Occasionally, a key character will die through a mistake you make, or an act of negligence, and you will no longer be able to complete a certain mission. You must come to terms with the loss and, as in the real world, own the event as part of your own story. Indeed, the way in which the developers manage to wrangle the various, divergent threads of your unique journey, with all of its composite choices and outcomes, while entirely concealing the seams is masterly.The scarred landscape often tells its own tales of war and death, leading to intriguing side-quests.Photograph: Bandai NamcoElsewhere, the game’s building blocks are sound but familiar. You are able to develop Geralt into your preferred cipher (predominantly warrior, alchemist or mage) through upgrades. You can build him weapons and armour from the detritus you scavenge. Many missions can be completed in more than one way. Importantly, this is a cohesive, coherent world. Shopkeepers have a limited budget (which is made visible), so may not be able to buy all of your loose tat from you. Every candle and lamp you find in a house can be lit with a burst of your flame magic – it’s pointless, but it is also logical.The world, in other words, nobly upholds its rules. This much is expected of every open world game in what is now, undeniably, the medium’s most competitive genre. What is also expected is a technical proficiency that the game is unable to deliver with consistence. Less expected, perhaps, is the fact that most players will turn a blind eye to these shortcomings. While Geralt may live in video games, he was born in literature and, as such, carries literature’s essential appeal. We simply must know what happens next.Banda Namco/CD Projekt Red; PC/Xbox One/PlayStation 4 (version tested); £45; Pegi rating: 18+
Forget Britain’sTrident, or Israel’sIron Dome– peace-loving Sweden has come up with a much more innovative, and inclusive, system of defence.The Swedish Peace and Arbitration Society(SPAS) is to deal withencroaching Russian submarinesin Swedish waters with a device emitting anti-homophobia Morse code.The device – officially titled The Singing Sailor Underwater Defence System, but nicknamed the “gay sailor” – is a “subsurface sonar system”, which sends out the message: “This way if you are gay” in an attempt to deter apparently homophobic Russians.Russia has come under fire since the Putin administrationintroduced homophobic lawsin 2013 banning “propaganda of nontraditional sexual relations”, in a climate of increasing intolerance towards its LGBT population.The design of the device features a neon, flashing sign of a dancing sailor, naked but for a cap and small white briefs, surrounded by hearts.“Welcome to Sweden: Gay since 1944” is written in English and Russian, in a reference to theyear of decriminalisation of homosexualityin the Scandinavian nation.The “gay sailor” device is lowered into the waters off Copenhagen.Photograph: SPASSweden has cut its military budget in recent yearsbut announced in Marchit would increase spending, as a result of alleged Cold War-style Russian aggression.Anoperationinvolving helicopters, minesweepers and 200 troops was launched last October to search for a suspected rogue Russian submarine in Swedish waters.Sweden is currentlynot a member of Nato. And thanks to the gay sailor defence system, it may never have to be.•Apple refuses to answer questions over ‘homophobic’ Russian Siri
“Camera. Reinvented.” claims the website forLily, the latest consumer drone to capture people’s attention. Although “selfie drone” seems to be a more popular phrase among the media covering its launch.Yes, in 2015 we have drones to take selfies for us, because maintaining the perfect duckface while tapping a touchscreen button are sorely testing humanity’s multi-tasking capabilities.Actually, that’s a little unfair on Lily, which is an interesting spin on the drone formula. Its schtick is that owners will be able to throw it in the air then go about their business, while the device follows them shooting high-definition video and photographs.Sadly (for potentially-amused bystanders) this doesn’t involve sprinting along the road in terror as a whirring hunk of metal zips towards your head like a modern, budget remake of North by Northwest.Instead, Lily is pitched at skiers and snowboarders, athletes and other active types: a hovering alternative to strapping a GoPro camera to their helmets, with the benefit of shooting footage of them, rather than just a first-person viewpoint.Lily can shoot 1080p HD video at 60 frames-per-second or 720p video at 120 frames-per-second for slow-motion action, as well as 12-megapixel still photographs.It takes two hours to charge and can then stay in the air for 20 minutes before needing to be plugged in again. The device will fly a maximum of 15m and a minimum of 1.75m above its owner’s head, to avoid accidents, with an average speed of 15 miles per hour.Those owners will wear a tracking device to ensure that Lily follows them, with the device hovering in place and trying to recover the signal if it loses the wearer, before landing “smoothly” – an action also taken if it runs out of battery.Related:British 'nano drone' Zano reaches £2m of Kickstarter crowdfundingLily’s manufacturer has opened pre-orders for the device at $499 (£319), with buyers charged immediately rather than when it ships, which the company says “helps us reduce risk”. The price will rise to $999 (£638) once it goes on sale.The company was founded by a group of graduates from Berkeley University in California who’d been tinkering with robots. “Our passion for personal robotics led us to believe that there is a better way to capture and share the world around us,”explained chief executive Antoine Balaresque on Medium.The company does not expect Lily to spark privacy arguments. “Lily is always pointing at you and less than 100ft from you. Also, Lily’s motors make noise,”explains its FAQ, in response to a question about spying on neighbours.“So other people will most likely notice Lily and quickly figure out where you are. You are better off climbing up a tree and using binoculars.”
BitTorrent is the latest company to launch a messaging app, with itsBleepservice emerging from alpha testing with a new iOS app joining the existing Android and desktop versions.Originally launched in July 2014, Bleep is a peer-to-peer chat client drawing on BitTorrent’s existing technology, with an emphasis on privacy that aims to capitalise on wider awareness of online surveillance from government agencies.“Bleep’s logo represents a folded note – a message passed directly, hand-to-hand. In our implementation, we keep messages and the encryption keys for images stored on your local device, not the cloud,”explained BitTorrent in its latest blog post.“For messages and metadata, there is no server for hackers to target and because you hold the keys, images can’t be leaked to haunt you later. We’ve solved serverless peer-to-peer messaging, including the ability to get offline friends your messages when they come back online.”Bleep certainly isn’t alone in its ambitions to make messaging more secure. Startups including Wickr, Telegram, Zendo, CryptoCat, Surespot and Open Whisper Systems (with TextSecure) are all active in this space.Meanwhile, secure communications firm Silent Circle’s Silent Text is part of its wider suite of apps, whileWhatsApp teamed up with TextSecure to add end-to-end encryption to its appin 2014.Arguably, the latter had the biggest potential impact, given that WhatsApp now has more than 600 million active users, although Apple’s iMessage, Google’s Hangouts and Facebook’s other messaging app Facebook Messenger’s security features have all been scrutinised publicly.In November 2014,the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) rated 39 apps on their security, publishing asecure messaging scorecardoutlining its findings.Only eight – ChatSecure + Orbot, CryptoCat, Off-The-Record Messaging for Windows, Signal / RedPhone, Silent Phone, Silent Text, Telegram and TextSecure – scored the maximum seven ticks in the study.Related:PGP creator Phil Zimmermann: 'Intelligence agencies have never had it so good'BitTorrent’s app includes a new Snapchat-style feature to make messages and photos disappear from recipients’ devices after they have been viewed, including a feature to block out the nicknames or conversation if people try to take screenshots.“Since our open alpha release last September, a lot has happened in the private messaging space. Services have come and gone, some have been breached and patched, and in many cases, users have been left feeling violated, or at the very least, changed what they say or do online,” claimed BitTorrent in its blog post.“We’ve been listening. Listening to our community’s feedback as well as the dialogue that has been taking place around privacy, data-collection, and the social cost of technology bringing us closer together.“We’ve decided that one of those costs should not be your identity. And by identity, we don’t just mean your personal details, but also what you choose to say and how you say it.”
The smart city is an alluring vision of the future, in which civic technology such astraffic lights, smart meters for utilities and public transport could all be connected and feed back invaluable data online.Glasgowhas spent £24m installing technology such as smart street lights that brighten for pedestrians and cyclists, and traffic-tracking sensors in roads, whileBristolis collecting data on everything from health to pollution and interpreting it via a “city operating system”. While those cities may be streets ahead of others, most urban areas have some smart features.Yet a leading internet security researcher has warned that the smart cities of the future could be more vulnerable to hackers than the computers and smartphones of today.A city has plans for earthquakes or floods in some areas, but I don’t think many cities have any plans for cyber attacksCesar CerrudoCesar Cerrudo, chief technology officer at security research firm IOActive Labs, warned that city authorities and governments that are the customers of technology firms aren’t testing the security of the systems they buy. “They do a lot of tests for functionality on the system and devices, but they don’t do any security testing. So, basically, they are trusting the vendors,” he said.Speaking at the RSA security conference in San Francisco in April, Cerrudo said many firms selling smart systems were failing to build in effective security, such as encryption – a significant problem when so many services transmitted their data wirelessly. “All the data goes over the air. If you don’t have a good encryption, anyone can capture the data over the air and compromise security,” he said.For example, he revealed that the200,000 traffic control sensorsinstalled around the world, from Melbourne to London, were vulnerable to attack from hackers.Sean Sullivan, a security analyst at F-Secure, said: “Smart cities can provide planning departments a lot of very value information for better city living – but it could also be a big vector for fraud unless properly secured.He agreed that smart cities are “highly hackable” but predicted that we are more likely to see pranks – such as fiddling with highway signs or one-day outages on transport systems that cause chaos – than large-scale attacks.Sullivan pointed toa smart power meter hack investigated by the FBIthat could be costing utility firms millions by letting tech-savvy users reprogramme the meter and get energy for free.James Lyne, global head of security research at Sophos, said that some systems have relied on security through obscurity.‘Smart cities can provide planning departments a lot of very value information for better city living – but it could also be a big vector for fraud,’ said Sean Sullivan of F-Secure.Photograph: Gavin Hellier  /Alamy“To date, the kinds of devices typically deployed to run our critical national infrastructure have relied heavily on obscurity or isolation to keep themselves safe – that is, that they’ve implemented odd protocols that the mainstream computing world doesn’t typically use, and they are placed on isolated networks to try and avoid tampering,” said Lyne. “Once one of these principles is degraded, issues are often identified.”Lyne added that: “So far there has not been a concerted effort from the attacker community to compromise such devices. I suspect this is predominantly because it has not met their financial or political goals (the former being the lion’s share of attackers’ interests).“The most popular target is still the traditional device used by you or me, as this makes the most money, but of course a more connected future might bring a change in this pattern.”Given the security risks, it may come as a surprise that some internet of things vendors (those who sell appliances and other technology that connects to, and functions via, the internet) aren’t letting researchers such as Cerrudo test their products – even when he’s willing to buy them himself.“Some vendors won’t sell it to you if they know you are a security company,” he said, without pointing the finger at any specific firms. “That happened to me with a smart street-lighting system. I tried to acquire the devices, but couldn’t even get a quote.”Cerrudo said less-established companies saw security research as a threat, despite the practice of more established manufacturers to routinely work with external researchers or hackers to identify security vulnerabilities.And even when companies did work with security researchers to identify software flaws, it could take months or even years to push out updates to city-wide systems.Related:Is India's 100 smart cities project a recipe for social apartheid?“Sometimes they don’t have proper mechanisms [for updates], where they can just produce a security fix and get it quickly installed on the systems and devices,” he said. “This is a really big challenge, because if they find a security issue, that should be solved very fast. If not, then you remain open to attacks.”What can be done to secure smart cities? Governments need to be more responsible when purchasing smart city solutions, looking not just for whizz-bang features, but taking the time to understand security systems and ensure they actually work.Cerrudo called for every city to have a Computer Emergency Response Team, or CERT – just as many big businesses do – to handle attacks or vulnerabilities, ensure vendors fix such flaws and run penetration tests to check their own systems.“In case of a security incident, it will be difficult for a city to know what to do, how to react. A city has plans for earthquakes or floods in some areas, but I don’t think many cities have any plans for cyber attacks.”
Google’s latest doodle celebrates the birthday of Danish seismologist Inge Lehmann, who discovered the existence of an inner core in the Earth.Coming 127 years after her birth, the doodle shows the Earth split in two with the inner core shining in the centre.Lehmann, who died aged 104 in 1993, studied earthquakes to find that the Earth had both an inner and outer core, a revelation which redefined how the planet was studied.“Inge used deduction and evidence to discover something unseeable. Today’s doodle sheds light on her powerful but invisible discovery. Doodler Kevin Laughlin helps us experience the gift Inge illuminated for the world by revealing it as a glowing orb. Not all of his early drafts looked the same, but the Earth’s inner core glowed at the centre of each,” commentary from Google on the artwork said.Lehmann was educated at a mixed gender school – unusual for the time – and became frustrated in her career at the attitudes towards women in the sciences.Her nephew Niles Groes has described how she had a filing system in which cardboard cards with information about earthquakes around the world were organised into porridge boxes.“With her cardboard cards and her oatmeal boxes, Inge registered the velocity of propagation of the earthquakes to all parts of the globe. By means of this information, she deduced new theories of the inner parts of the Earth,” he said.She was given the highest honour of the American Geophysical Union, the William Bowie medal, in 1971.
It’s Wednesday!
Google’s smartwatch operating system, Android Wear, is on its third major revision, and this time it is a coherent and useful platform that does what a smartwatch does best – handle notifications – making it the best platform out there.SetupThe pairing process is simple and fast.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAndroid Wear watches are only compatible with Android devices with version 4.3 Jelly Bean and up. Pairing the two is easy. The Android Wear application downloaded from Google Play handles the setup.Turn the watch on, note the name of it and find it in the list of devices inside the Android Wear app. Hit yes to pair, let it sync for about a minute, and you’re good to go.Using itAt its heart, Android Wear is all about cards. Cards can be apps, notifications, information, controls and interactive tiles. They pop up as and when required, for glanceable information and more.A notification, for instance, can display a small snippet of information such as an email subject and sender. Tapping on the email allows you to read the whole thing. A swipe to the left and you can archive the email or reply to it via voice, emoji or canned answers.Dismissing notifications is easy, as is getting them back if you swipe them away a little too readily. Swipe up to reveal the undo button for the last one dismissed.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianNavigating Android Wear is simple. Swipes to the left for more, to the right to dismiss or go back, up to scroll and down to hide. Tapping the watch face brings up the app launcher, new for Wear 5.1, with a small list of apps. Swipe to the left to bring up a list of recent and favourite contacts to send them an email or a text, or call them, then once more to talk to Google Now.Users can also just say “OK Google” to the watch to fire up Google Now for voice searches or commands for setting timers, making notes or launching apps, for example.A palm over the face puts the watch to sleep, as does a press of the button if there is one. Wrist-flick gestures can also be used to scroll up or down through cards without needing another hand.The wrist gesture is quite violent, but works well when you don’t have a spare hand.ConnectivityAndroid Wear 5.1 introduced the ability to connect to Wi-Fi direct from the watch. Wear mirrors the connections on your smartphone, pulling Wi-Fi passwords and networks so there’s no need for manual setup.When out of range of Bluetooth, the watch can automatically switch to Wi-Fi to connect to the phone as long as it has internet access. It works both across the same Wi-Fi network and remotely over the internet using Google’s servers, which means notifications, searches and any other function works even when not in the vicinity of the smartphone.It works reasonably well, with little lag over a local Wi-Fi network, but the handover between Bluetooth and Wi-Fi isn’t the smoothest, taking around 20 seconds. It is only noticeable if you’re trying to use the watch at the time.Android Wear can also store music from Google Play music on a smartphone and connect directly to Bluetooth headphones to play it back. Typically up to 4GB of music can be stored, either from playlists or albums and browsed through album cards. Syncing the tracks over Bluetooth takes a while and hits battery life quite hard, meaning that doing it overnight while charging is recommended.Wear 5.1 now includes a lockscreen, which replicates Android’s pattern lock and is meant to kick in when the watch is taken off your wrist. I have had issues getting it to work on certain watches.NotificationsNotifications are clear and easy to read, covering the full screen of the watch when active.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe primary function of any smartwatch is to display notifications from a smartphone and Wear does it best out of any smartwatch platform, including the Apple Watch, Pebble and Samsung’s Tizen.The way Wear connects with Android on the smartphone means any notification shows up if you want it to, without the developer of the app needing to do anything.If the developer has added quick actions for the notification, they show up, too, while small extensions can be made to the app to provide more options on the watch.The card interface is perfectly suited for displaying notifications. New ones crop up at the bottom of the screen with a small snippet and can be expanded. It means they’re ever present unless dismissed, with the latest one shown first, which makes triaging notifications easy and fast.Unwanted notifications can be blocked either directly on the watch or by using the Android Wear app on the smartphone.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianApps you don’t want notifications from on the watch can be blocked, turning it into a filter to prevent overload. Wear also obeys Lollipop’s “none, priority or all” notification schemes or KitKat’s silenced mode, depending on what version of Android is running on the connected phone.Android Wear has no keyboard as standard, instead relying on canned answers such as “I’m on my way”, voice dictation or emojis. Voice dictation works well even in relatively noisy environment, but is difficult for complex messages. Emojis are often the best way to respond, either picked from a list or by Google recognising a finger drawing of what you want, which works surprisingly well. All responses require a solid data connection on the smartphone.A new feature of Android Wear 5.1 is the ability to recognise hand-drawn emojis.Apps built-in and otherwiseBecause Android Wear is mostly based around notifications and information snippets, many dedicated apps simply aren’t needed.Google’s apps include Fit, standard time-keeping apps, Google Play Music, Agenda for calendar, a torch app and Google search.Google Play Music allows caching of music on the watch, or control of music on a connected smartphone, while Fit tracks steps, activity and monitors heart rate, feeding back to the Google Fit Android app.Other Google apps, such as Gmail, Camera and Maps, are triggered through searches or via the phone, with the later capable of delivering turn-by-turn walking or driving directions to the wrist.Both apps and watch faces can enter a lower-power ‘ambient’ mode, which switches the display to black-and-white, and stays on the screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianManufacturers such as Motorola, Asus and LG include their own fitness apps for monitoring heart rate and activity, as well as other apps for controlling smartphone apps. Often these duplicate functions, but users can pick which app they want to use as the primary heart rate monitor, for instance, either on the watch or through the Android Wear app on a smartphone.Dedicated Android Wear-only apps are few and far between, with notable exceptions being watch faces and the UK Trains app that displays train times on the wrist.Most apps are extensions of Android apps and the list is hundreds long, including big names such as Evernote, WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger and Uber.Fitness apps such as Runtastic, Strava and Runkeeper are also available, taking advantage of built-in GPS functions in some watches.Watch facesThere are hundreds of faces available for Android Wear from Google, watch manufacturers and third-party developers.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianGoogle ships a small but functional selection of watch faces with Android Wear. Some of the best, however, are third-party watch faces, which can add any number of features and functions; some free, some paid.Manufacturers also bundle their own watch faces with their watches. Motorola’s Pascual is of particular note because it seamlessly integrates calendar appointments into an analogue face. Others include the weather, steps, battery life and even speed, should you need it.Watch faces have a lower-power ambient mode, which is displayed when the watch face isn’t actively being used. This can be turned off to extend battery, but most Android Wear watches make it through a day with a watch face constantly displayed.Cinema mode disables the ambient screen and the wrist-turn gesture so that the screen only lights when tapped or a button is pressed, which is handy for situations where the screen lighting up would be distracting.When and where?Android Wear 5.1is launching on LG’s new G Watch Urbane and will be rolling out to all of the Google’s watches released since June last year. Not all of them will support all the new features. The LG G Watch, for instance, doesn’t have Wi-Fi, whileSony’s Smartwatch 3is the only one to have GPS.VerdictAndroid Wear 5.1 has reduced Google’s emphasis on talking to your wrist, which is a good thing. The new menu system makes it easier to get to apps and settings, and the simple swipe-based interface is intuitive.The emoji-drawing support is excellent and being able to connect remotely to a smartphone using Wi-Fi is useful for when Bluetooth won’t stretch far enough.Android Wear’s notification-handling and quick, useful interactions powered by Google Now make it the best smartwatch platform currently available, but only if your life is plugged into Google services such as Gmail, calendar and Play Music.Pros:Solid notifications, always-on screens, draw-an-emoji, decent voice recognition.Cons:App duplication, fitness functions not as good as a fitness tracker without third-party apps, buggy security.The competition•Apple Watch review: beautiful hardware spoiled by complicated software•Samsung Gear S review: can a smartwatch with a phone built in replace a smartphone?•Review: Pebble’s smart watch doesn’t try too hard, but does what you need
Fifteen years ago, when AOL effectively took over Time Warner in a deal often described as the worst in history, the gamble was that the internet was the future of communication. That bet was right even if it cost AOL and Time Warner almost everything.Given AOL’s subsequent collapse, Verizon’s $4.4bn purchase of the fallen internet star is a terrific deal for AOL. Finally, proof that AOL has something to offer besides your grandmother’s email address, and it’s something Verizon needs as it competes with other telecoms carriers and cable operators: mobile ad technology.As media goes ever more mobile Verizon is less developing a video service than piecing one together from acquisitions. Last year it bought OnCue, an internet TV platform Intel was developing. With the AOL purchase, it owns the third-largest online video ad content network in the world behind Google and Facebook. The company said last month it was launching a video service for mobile devices. Verizon will be building its business on TV and video services delivered over its own networks, and with the purchase of AOL, it owns the ready-made infrastructure to do so.In an age of consolidation between telecom companies, the purchase seems forward-looking to Craig Moffett, industry analyst with MoffettNathanson, who contrasted it to AT&amp;T’s $47bn stake in satellite service DirecTV. “AT&amp;T will now be in the position of having to hold back the forces of change,” he wrote. “Verizon is to be commended for embracing them.” Moffett observed that the investment was tiny compared to Verizon’s capacity to spend, putting the company’s enterprise value at $350bn.AOL has been experimenting with video content over the last few years, making cut-rate reality shows to air through their portal while competitors like Yahoo experiment with buying canceled broadcast sitcoms and employing stars such as news anchor Katie Couric.Verizon is probably a lot less invested in unconventional investments like those shows and, for that matter, the Huffington Post. A number of names and sites associated with the company – TechCrunch, EndGadget, controversial chairman and chief executive Tim Armstrong – may or may not be a part of the company’s future as a Verizon subsidiary, depending on how well Verizon sees them driving traffic in its lanes of the information superhighway.The decision didn’t sit well with everyone. “For the price it’s paying for AOL, Verizon could deploy its FiOS broadband service across the rest of its service area,” wrote Tim Karr of internet lobbying organization Free Press. “Instead, the company is spending a fortune to step outside of its core competency into the advertising and content production markets, the latter where it has already shown a willingness to block content and censor news coverage. It’s hard to see how this transaction is good for anyone but a few brokers and lawyers.”Still, the $4.4bn price tag is a bargain compared to what AOL commanded 15 years ago in its disastrous merger with Time Warner, which ended in a $99bn write-off. Verizon has $350bn in cash to play with, and the mobile giant is engaged in a high-stakes game for the future of communication. That this time around AOL is a penny-ante side bet just shows much that game has changed.
