The chief executive of the Egg online bank, Paul Gratton, stands to make up to &#163;9m if there is a successful bid for the company.This week the bank's majority owner Prudential revealed that it is in talks to sell its stake in the company. It owns 79% of the shares, the rest being listed on the stock exchange.Likely bidders are said to include the US firm MBNA. Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland and the Lloyds TSB are also expected to be interested.Assuming a bid of 200p per share, the price that some analysts have put on the business, Mr Gratton stands to make up to &#163;9m, at the discretion of the remuneration committee.According to the latest statements to the stock exchange, Mr Gratton and his wife, who is a senior manager at the company, own 349,000 shares. The chief executive also holds 1.12m shares conditionally, which could be quadrupled if the remuneration committee judges that the company has performed well.That would give Mr Gratton an &#163;8.5m windfall if the company was sold at 200p. In addition, he has share options which would net him about &#163;750,000 if they were excercised and sold at &#163;2.Mr Gratton has been the driving force behind Egg. Although the company has made substantial inroads in Britain, it has not made a success in France as it had hoped. It is still deciding what to do with the ailing subsidiary.The 2003 edition of the annual report will be published in about six weeks, giving details of directors' salary. Last year, Mr Gratton was the highest paid director with a salary of &#163;368,000 and a cash bonus of &#163;312,000. He is also in a Prudential share option scheme. Egg recently introduced a rule that directors should have twice their salary in shares after seven years.It is understood that Morgan Stanley has been hired to advise the Prudential on the sale, though neither side will confirm the appointment. If there is enough interest, it could trigger an auction process.Pru has put in &#163;500m to develop the business, and would make a healthy profit if it sold at 200p per share, which would value Egg at &#163;1.6bn.Egg is primarily a credit card business, which entices customers with low interest rates.
"A contact close to HP told me point blank that HP was requiring Apple to add WMA support to the iPod, a feature that's natively enabled in the iPod's firmware but that Apple disables before the units ship to customers," he writeshere.
"If Microsoft is worried about unfair competition then Apple must be doing something right,"writesour man in New York, David Teather.
Playboy Enterprises, the adult entertainment group, was given the go-ahead yesterday to sue internet service provider AOL for copyright infringement, a decision that could have broad implications for the still fluid rules governing trademarks online.The ruling by a panel of appeals court judges reopens a case first filed in Los Angeles in 1999. The case is related to the use of the words "playboy" and "playmate" as signposts in the Netscape online search engine.The words were included in a list of about 400 such as "sex" or certain body parts that would identify users interested in buying adult-themed merchandise. People typing those words into the search engine would automatically be sent banner advertising for various adult-themed sites that were not associated with Playboy Enterprises.Playboy argued in its suit that the links tarnished and diluted its brand name by associating its trademark with inferior products. Barry Felder, a lawyer for Playboy, said the firm was seeking damages "well into seven figures."He said: "There are all types of methods used by search engines and internet advertisers to sell products, and I believe that the principles established here - that one cannot use trademarks in a confusing way on the internet - will have an impact on other cases. The decision makes clear that rules applied in the actual world have equal force in the virtual world."An AOL spokesman said the company was disappointed by the ruling. He said the firm, which acquired Netscape in 1999 and is now part of Time Warner, was "assessing and considering the legal options available".Judge Thomas Nelson wrote in the panel's ruling that the "evidence suggests, at a minimum, that defendants do nothing to alleviate confusion, even when asked to do so by their advertisers, and that they profit from confusion".
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!connecting to server . . .Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:the so-called "Balance of Funding Review Team" is looking at new taxes to replace the council tax as a way to finance local government. Levies on hotel beds, vehicle excise duty, additional sales tax and a local income tax are under consideration. But what will it mean to you? Financial expert DrMoney is here to answer all your questions.DrMoney:that's very interesting.Pashmina:I was talkin abt him last week &amp; then he died!LadeezMan:coinsidenseBronco has entered the NewsRoomcapitalistpiglet:DrMoney, what do you think is the fairest solution?DrMoney:that depends on what you mean by "fairest"Pashmina:its spooky!Bronco:wot isHost_Chris2:do you agree, DrMoney, that as council tax goes up it becomes more inequitable?Pashmina:last week I said shipman and then he died!DrMoney:I see your point about council tax becoming inequitableLadeezMan:u said lots of poeples names last week &amp; they aint deadPashmina:not yetcapitalistpiglet:DrMoney what do you think is the most efficient way to fund local govt?DrMoney:Let me think for a minute.Bronco:who else have u killedPashmina:loads&gt;&gt;bob hope mother tereesa that beegeeHost_Chris2:the topic is local taxation reform. Who has a question for DrMoney?Pashmina:hi DrMoney hows yr wifeDrMoney:Hello! I don't think I have a wifeHost_Chris2:about taxPashmina:u had a wife last time u was on ereDrMoney:I'm still thinking about efficient ways to fund local govtPashmina:u said she was leavin u!Host_Chris2:this is a different DrMoneyDrMoney:Hi, what was the question?Bronco:is he stonedcapitalistpiglet:I have a questionDrMoney:I'm DrMoney. What's your money question?LadeezMan:DrMoney is mashedDrMoney:I'm DrMoney. What's your money question?capitalistpiglet:DrMoney, are you a robot?DrMoney:Am I a robot?Host_Chris2:DrMoney has to go.DrMoney has left the NewsRoomLadeezMan:was heBronco:hard to tell&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
"An advisory issued Thursday by the U.K. National Infrastructure Security Co-Ordination Centre, says the vulnerabilities affect the H.323 network protocol, a standard approved by International Telecommunications Union that helps the telephony and multimedia features on products from different vendors interoperate," reportsInformation Week."As many as 40 technology vendors may have products vulnerable to the flaws. Many are issuing security advisories and scrambling to inform their customers about the specific products that are vulnerable."A complete list of potentially affected vendors is available athttp://www.cert.org/advisories/CA-2004-01.html#vendors.
"Hewlett-Packard Co. regained the lead in worldwide PC shipments in the fourth quarter of 2003, but Dell Inc. held on to its lead for the full year, as the PC industry recorded one of its better years in recent memory, according to preliminary figures released yesterday by IDC and Gartner Inc," reportsIDG News."HP shipped 7.5 million PCs worldwide in the quarter, up 21% from its fourth-quarter 2002 shipments of 6.2 million. Dell followed with worldwide shipments of 7.2 million units, up 19.7% from its fourth-quarter 2002 tally of 6.1 million units, market research company IDC said in a statement.""For the full year, Dell shipped 25.8 million units, up 25% from its 2002 total of 20.7 million. HP came in second with 25 million units, up 14.5% from 2002 shipments of 21.8 million units worldwide, according to IDC."
Both Apple and Intel have unveiled quarterly financial results that were better than Wall Street's expectations.Intel's quarterly revenues hit an all-time high of $8.74 billion, 22% up on the same quarter last year. (The previous record was $8.73 billion, in the third quarter of 2000.) Profits climbed by almost $1 billion to $2.2 billion.The Merchas the details.Apple's first quarter revenues reached $2 billion, a four-year high, and were 36% higher than the same quarter last year. It also made a $63 million profit, compared with an $8 million loss. Revenues from sales of iPods jumped by 216%, and it represented 12% of the company's total revenue. Apple shipped 733,000 iPods compared with 829,000 Macs.APhas the details.Sun Microsystems lost money while sales declined, but it only lost $125 million, compared with a loss of $2.3 billion in the same quarter last year. Revenues slipped just a fraction from $2.91 billion to $2.88 billion. SeeAPfor more.
The Playboy empire has been given the go ahead to re-open legal action against internet search engines using the words "Playmate" and "Playboy" to trigger pop-up ads from rival companies.A US appeal court ruled yesterday that Excite, and Netscape, which uses Excite technology, were wrong to include the two trademarks in a list of 400 words that would bring up sexually explicit advertisements.Playboy now has the right to sue AOL, which acquired Netscape in 1999, over the infringement.According to court records, surfers who typed in "Playboy" or "Playmate" into a Netscape search engine received ads whose fonts mirrored those of the official Playboy site.Playboy argued the pop-ups tarnished and diluted its brand name by associating it with inferior products. It said it was not made clear that the advertisements were from other companies.The three-judge panel said in its ruling that Netscape and Excite had sought to "profit from confusion"."The above evidence suggests, at a minimum, that defendants do nothing to alleviate confusion, even when asked to do so by their advertisers," wrote judge Thomas Nelson.Playboy's lawyer, Barry Felder, said that he would still seek damages against Excite even though the company has since gone into bankruptcy protection."The decision makes clear that the rules apply in the actual world with equal force to the virtual world," he said. "In the Internet as in the actual world, trademarks are not to be used in a way that is confusing or that dilutes the value of the mark."AOL spokesman Nicholas Graham said the ruling "disappointed" the company. He said it was "assessing and considering the legal options available".No court date has been set.One US lawyer, Thomas Zellerbach of Menlo Park, California, told Reuters that the court's objection was principally against banner ads that hide their origin."If the banner ads identified their source then the use of those key words to trigger those ads would be OK."
Mars todayNasa has posted the first 360-degree panoramic view of the Martian surface taken from the Mars Exploration Rover Spirit. You can see the 30K version but there's also a 12 megabyte image to download, with a higher-resolution version to come "once it has been processed". The next Rover is scheduled to land on the opposite side of the planet on January 24. The Mars Rover site is wonderfully comprehensive and impressively fast, and Nasa's Planetary Photojournal now finds about 1,750 images related to Mars. The Whole Mars Catalog and Mars TV are also worth visiting.http://marsrovers.jpl.nasa.gov/homehttp://photojournal.jpl.nasa.gov/targetFamily/Marswww.marstoday.comwww.mars.tvSaddam storiesAmerica's National Security Archive - a non-governmental, non-profit institution - has published The Saddam Hussein Sourcebook online, including declassified secret documents released by the US and UK governments. It's good to know that, in 1969, the British embassy thought Saddam was someone "with whom, if only one could see more of him, it would be possible to do business".www.gwu.edu/~nsarchiv/special/iraqBallooneculesWhat do you get when you connect two chemists with a balloon sculptor? Well, start with simple tetrahedrons and work your way up through Buckminster-Fullerene to things like the Cuban cluster. As Francis Crick says: "It's really remarkable how you have been able to show the key elements of the double helix with balloons." The chemists, Dr Marcus Rehbein and Dr Rolf Eckhardt, reckon that balloon models are good for teaching. The balloon sculptor, Asif Karim, also has a balloon entertainment site (in German only) with examples that make modelling molecules seem somewhat pedestrian.www.balloonmolecules.comwww.asifkarim.deLegal issuesAdviceNow offers jargon-free advice on a wide range of topics from abortion to working hours with information from "selected legal and rights websites". It has been created by the Advice Services Alliance (ASA), whose members include Citizens Advice, Law Centres and Shelter, and also covers the important legal topics of the day. For example, can a princess be held accountable for her dog's actions?www.advicenow.org.ukMS blogsMicrosoft has launched two student community sites, including one aimed at British computer science students. Both include blogging. The Spoke is a global system that focuses on the "digital lifestyle" and Microsoft programming systems. The Hurricane "seeks to fulfil the need within UK academia to build a unique community run by and for students". It is based on ASP.net, but was not designed or built by Microsoft: the idea is that participants should "learn how it works and extend it with compelling and unique features". Students and student societies can set up their own communities, with one example being devoted to Longhorn, the next version of Windows. Perhaps it needs some based on binge drinking and dwile flonking.www.thespoke.netwww.projecthurricane.comhttp://whois.worldsearch.comhttp://print.google.com/print/faq.htmlGoat for itRecycle a goat in this Flash cartoon game and help Christian Aid save the world. Other games on the Globalgang site include Sneaky Snakes, Carpet kids (help rescue kids from carpet sheds in India), and Landmines Challenge (Can you cross a field without stepping on a landmine?). You can also read stories about how children in other parts of the world live ("I like snails!" says Timothy, 10, from Ghana. "They help our family and taste nice!").www.globalgang.org.uk/goatswww.christianaid.org.uk/learnNew &amp; notedDigital Deli book (1984)www.atariarchives.org/deliYet another Google-alikewww.ay-up.comHello horoscopeswww.hellomagazine.com/horoscopesSix of the best Year of the MonkeyChinatown Onlinehttp://masl.to/?Z28E12B07Backgroundhttp://masl.to/?I29E44B07Recipeshttp://masl.to/?Q1AE22B07E-cardshttp://masl.to/?F5CE13B07Lion dance linkshttp://masl.to/?G6DE12B07Yahoo guidehttp://masl.to/?Y1EE31B07
Happy birthday, Macintosh. The Mac was launched on January 24, 1984, following an unforgettable 1984-themed TV ad shown during the Superbowl. But since I was already a Mac user, I wasn't surprised when it flopped.As editor of Practical Computing, a monthly magazine, I'd got my first Mac on loan from Apple UK well before Christmas. I had installed it in my dining room so visitors could have a play, but it didn't attract much attention. Kids could see immediately that it didn't have the graphics and sound - or the games - to compete with the BBC Microcomputer or even the old Atari 800. The only non-computer person who showed even a passing interest was,    significantly, a graphic designer.The original 128K Mac had too many problems to list. It had too little software, you couldn't expand it (no hard drive, no SCSI port, no ADB port, no expansion slots), it was horribly underpowered and absurdly overpriced. The way MacWrite and MacPaint worked together was brilliant, but producing anything more than a short essay was a huge struggle. Just copying a floppy was a nightmare. Alan Kay, the father of personal computing, wrote Apple a memo about it: Would you buy a Honda with a one-gallon gas tank?Steven Levy, author of Insanely Great, asked Joanna Hoffman, the first Mac marketeer, why it sold so badly. She said: "It's a miracle that it sold anything at all. It was not a rational buy."In 1985, Steve Jobs was driven out of the company he had co-founded. Unsold Macs piled up in warehouses, Apple laid off 1,200 staff, closed three of its six factories and made the first quarterly loss in its history.However, the Mac's troubles did not change my view that graphical user interfaces (GUIs) were the future. That view was based on earlier machines with mice and graphical user interfaces: the Xerox Star, the Perq workstation and, most of all, the beautiful but glacially slow Apple Lisa.Even before the Lisa came out in 1983, VisiCorp (of VisiCalc spreadsheet fame) had shown a GUI on an IBM PC. The VisiOn suite, unveiled at Comdex in Las Vegas in 1982, was terrible, but it was enough to show that if you wanted a GUI, you would be    able to run one on an industry standard computer. Eventually. And while the Mac gave a very big kick to a developing trend, the high price meant most UK users got their first real experience of a PUI (Xerox PARC user interface) elsewhere: on cheap computers such as the Atari ST and Commodore Amiga, launched in 1985, and the first Risc-based personal computer, the Acorn Archimedes, launched in 1987.The Mac certainly had by far the best PUI, but the Amiga had better graphics and sound, while both the Amiga and the Archimedes had proper multitasking operating systems. Among the things they didn't have were the hundreds of millions of dollars Apple spent on advertising or the devoted support of Microsoft - but that's another story.History of the GUIhttp://en2.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_GUIXerox PARCwww.cnn.com/TECH/computing/9907/08/1972.idg/www.parc.com/about/history/Apple's Unlikely Guardian Angelwww.wired.com/news/mac/0,2125,61801,00.html
The United States' biometric fingerprinting initiative may have caused consternation among visitors to the US, but it is not the only security system using biological data to make the world safer.US-Visit, announced in October, uses biometric technology to track non-immigrant foreign visitors to the US. Normal passport checks are now accompanied by a fingerprint scan using each index finger, along with a digital photograph.The US is not the only country experimenting with biometrics for foreign visitors. Following a successful trial of iris-scanning software from biometric company EyeTicket at Heathrow, the Home Office has pledged to introduce iris scanning at more UK sites as a means of identifying frequent non-UK passengers. The UK system is used purely for speeding up processing times for frequent fliers, while the US system will add an average 15 seconds' processing time for each visitor and has been introduced for security purposes. US-Visit data can be used by "appropriate federal, state, and other local law enforcement personnel", which leaves the possibilities for covert number-crunching wide open.But biometrics isn't the only way to marry biology and technology to spot potential security risks. In November, the Royal Mail and King's College London officially finished a three-and-a-half year project to emulate the human immune system in digital form. The goal was to create hundreds of thousands of software "antibodies" that would detect and flag anomalies in the Royal Mail's vast database of over-the-counter transactions.International intelligence agencies are also interested in using the system for anti-terrorism, according to Dr Richard Overill, a senior lecturer in computer science at King's College London, who was heavily involved in building the system.It uses a theory called computational immunology, developed by Professor Stephanie Forrest, at the University of New Mexico, which was originally designed to spot computer viruses and hackers. The CIFD (computational immunology for fraud detection) project was a research endeavour to apply Forrest's theories to commercial fraud. Now, Overill is chasing funding to turn it into a commercial product.Computational immunology works differently from biometric systems, which record a unique piece of data once and compares it repeatedly against future inputs for identifica tion purposes. "In the human immune system, your definition of self changes over your life, because what you are when you're very young isn't what you are immunologically when you're very old," explains Overill. The immune system works by creating lymphocytes that seek and destroy cells with a different biological makeup from that of the body. Lymphocytes that successfully target damaging foreign organisms continue to survive, while those that target naturally occurring proteins are killed so they don't attack the body's resources.The CFID system, produced with IT consultancy Anite Public Sector, creates a self-profile that identifies normal everyday transactions within a computer or across a network. The self-profile is used to generate rules-based software detectors that can recognise normal and abnormal   transactions. These detectors act as software-based versions of human lymphocytes, scanning transactions regularly looking for abnormal transactions, just as the human immune system scans cells for foreign bodies.When an abnormal transaction is found, the system alerts human auditors who investigate further, feeding their response back to the system to help reduce the number of false positives. The software detectors can also evolve, explains Overill, altering their rules slightly to look for variants of fraud. And just like human immune cells, detectors are updated or killed off depending on criteria such as their age, success rate and life span.There are three types of fraud likely to affect the Royal Mail: insider jobs, external fraud targeting post office customers and external fraud targeting business customers.Anomalies detected included the   use of a post office for transactions on a Sunday and during out-of-office hours. The former turned out to be a franchise post office that was trading legitimately on a Sunday, while the latter was the 24-hour post office in Trafalgar Square.Mary Wilde, security researcher at the Royal Mail group, said that the system produces lots of small anomalies like these. The challenge is ranking the anomalies to root out the promising ones. That would form the next phase of research if the college can secure funding, says Overill, and would hopefully result in a commercial product.He thinks the system would most likely pick up insider fraud because it is less likely to involve third parties such as credit card companies. Like the human immune system, the CIFD software is most effective when working in a closed system - in this   case, a single company.Mirroring complex systems is the way to protect ourselves in a networked society, says David Lacey, director of security and risk management at the Royal Mail. "The sheer number and types of transactions and changing circumstances means you must have systems that are adaptable. You can't have a simple tool to identify and respond to an anomaly in a complex system. You need complexity and scale."Craig Mundie, chief technical officer of Microsoft, thinks that using biological metaphors in computing security could help head off the worm attacks that have spread so quickly across the internet recently. Microsoft is still using software patches - digital antibiotics and vaccines - to cure machines with security vulnerabilities.Mundie wants to move to another stage - autoimmunity - where problems are spotted and neutralised automatically. "Society will demand that machines that are not vaccinated - not healthy - will be cordoned off from what the rest of society thinks are healthy machines."This could work on a local level as PCs and local networks develop the processing power to analyse their own status, detect potential flaws and react to them autonomously. Networking giant Cisco is starting to do this with network admission control, part of its wider self-defending network initiative, for which products will become available in the first half of this year. Cisco equipment checks elements on a client device, such as its operating system patch state and anti-virus status. If a machine is found wanting, it is either denied access or quarantined on to a subsection of the network with limited functions.On a wider level, Mundie hopes that consensual trust networks will appear, in which internet users rank each other's trustworthiness, be it in terms of behaviour, responsiveness or how security conscious they are. Think of eBay's community ranking system (used to gauge how reliable a vendor is), but used to build reputation on a wider scale. "It's a research issue," he says, but hints at the Windows online bug-reporting mechanism as a potential tool to make it work.There are many potential problems, including the possibility of identity theft and the accuracy of consensual trust information, not to mention the dangers of potentially putting Microsoft in charge of that personal data. But if it happens, it would be the most complex adaptive system of all.LinksCFIDwww.icsa.ac.uk/cifd/US-Visitwww.dhs.gov/dhspublic/interapp/editorial/editorial_0333.xmlStephanie Forrest's web sitewww.cs.unm.edu/~forrest/Cisco NAC sitewww.cisco.com/warp/public/cc/so/neso/sqso/csdni_wp.pdf
For the many thousands who received cameraphones at Christmas, the following days were no doubt spent bombarding friends with photos of half-eaten turkeys and dozing relatives. But when the initial fun wears off, there is a more interesting avenue available for enthusiastic mobile phone photographers.Moblogging - the practice of submitting text messages and images directly to online diaries - has been around for more than a year, but was once the preserve of super geeks with the latest Japanese technology. Now, however, cheap handsets such as the Sharp GX20 and Nokia 7250i, together with a more organised online infrastructure, are bringing moblogging to the masses. If you were left behind by text blogging (or couldn't be bothered to write that much), now is your chance to ride the second wave.The first step is to open a free user account with a moblogging host site. Text America, Buzznet, Fotopages and Fotolog are all popular choices, although each offers a slightly different package (in-depth search facilities, photo captions, forums, etc), so shopping around is advisable. All hosts provide new users with an   email address to which images can be submitted. From here, it is a case of taking a snap, enclosing it in a picture message or email and sending it on (ensure you have your GPRS service activated with your service provider). Fifteen minutes later, it is online.There are generally two types of moblogs: public and private. Anyone can send images to the former, while the latter - like standard text blogs - can be viewed by everyone, but only updated by the person who set it up. Public blogs vary enormously in content and ambition. There are places to send totally random images:www.phonebin.comis a simple dump site for quick-fire exhibitionists, hence the predominance of soft porn. There are also plenty of daft themed blogs. Dog lovers, for example, can post photos of their pooches tohttp://dogblog.textamerica.com, while proud homeowners may display their interiors athttp://dwell.buzznet.com. If your interests aren't catered for, setting up a themed public blog can be as simple as giving out the password to your account so that anyone can post on it. Again, each host has different procedures.If you have a more serious point to make, a public moblog could be invaluable. Last June, the anti-G8 site Project Hive allowed protestors to post images of demonstrations. Text America houses moblogs organised by Peta and Caspian (consumers against supermarket privacy invasion and numbering).Chris Hoar, the site's co-founder, is sure moblogs will play a role in politics. "We have seen that take hold in the US. Supporters of San Francisco's mayoralGreen Partycandidate, Matt Gonzalez, used a moblog to promote their cause. And more recently, supporters of US Democratic presidential hopeful Howard Dean have started amoblogto follow their candidate."For most, however, moblogging is an autobiographical undertaking.   When newcomers sign up with a host, they automatically get their own private blog, and whenever a photo is submitted, it is tagged with a date and time, building an accurate visual diary. The hard part is attracting visitors. With major hosts boasting more than 10,000 accounts each, new users need to work to earn traffic.Marketing is essential: include a link to your moblog in your email sig file and submit the address to blogging search engines such aswww.feedster.comandwww.photoblogs.org. Elan Dekal, co-founder of Fotopages, suggests becoming an active member of the moblogging community. "Leave interesting comments on other peoples' photo pages, together with the URL of your own. The owner and viewers of the page may well follow the link. Also, add your favourite   moblogs to your links section, and then let the owners know you've done it. They might be flattered enough to add your page to their favourites."Once people have started showing up, the best way to keep them coming back is to post interesting shots, as regularly as possible. Some users stick with specific themes, a pregnancy perhaps, others restrict themselves to humorous images (funny foreign signs seem to be a popular motif).If your host site allows you to supply captions, do it: they provide context and personality. Photographic quality is important, too. As most camera phones lack flashes (unless you're lucky enough to own a new Samsung X600), photos taken in shady pubs won't work. Get as close as possible to the subject and ensure they are stationary. The major hosts list the most popular moblogs on their opening pages - some even pick out a favourite shot of the week - the holy grail of dedicated mobloggers.Beyond mere exhibitionism, an important socio-political role is developing for cameraphone diarists. While Salam Pax provided an unforgettably intimate commentary on the Iraq war with his text blog from Baghdad, the impact would surely have been enhanced by the inclusion of images, uploaded within seconds of the latest allied onslaught. Tellingly, Pax now has a moblog. Others have begun to maintain provocative photo diaries in such hotspots as the West Bank and Iran - devastating images of the Bam earthquake reached Fotolog.net within hours. Camera phone owners are the photo-journalists, the paparazzi, of the future.In Portland, Oregon, a police car outside a hip hop club predominantly used by black revellers was photographed displaying a soft toy monkey tied to its bumper bar. Great controversy ensued, and there will be many more important incidences.Keep your phone with you, and get some practice. Today, half-eaten turkeys, tomorrow, the world.The best of moblogging and host sitesGroundbreaking Korean news sitewww.Ohmynews.comImages of daily life in Iraq from the Guardian columnistsalampax.fotopages.comMoblog from the West Bankpalblog.fotopages.comMoblogs created by blogging pioneerswww.textually.org/picturephoningwww.moblogging.orgLinks to key moblogging articleswww.textually.org/picturephoningHost siteswww.textamerica.comwww.fotopages.comwww.buzznet.comwww.phonebin.comfotoleg.netwww.20six.co.uk
Would you make your out-of-print work available online?If I wasn't still working and had more time, I'd love to put The Cartoon History of Time online. It's never gone back into print because publishers tell me it's too expensive. In principle, it would be relatively easy to scan it in and make it available in some electronic format. The thing that surprised me is that ebooks haven't done better. I was involved in a project selecting science classics to release as ebooks but nobody seemed particularly interested.Have you ever lost data?That's a sore point as I once lost some of my   wife Mary's. It was ironic as I'm neurotic about backing up data. I keep stuff on Zip disks and I got an extra USB hard drive for storage. I walk around with the book I'm working on in my pocket. Mary's much more cavalier about backing up so I decided I'd make a back-up for her. In the process I managed to delete her files. I was persona non grata until someone from the university managed to retrieve most of the data.Will the obsolescence of storage media be a problem?It was a real possibility ... and I have stuff on non-standard formats that I have trouble getting transferred. We're getting to the stage where standards are emerging. If you save something as a text or RTF file, burn it on to a CD. Then I think it's unlikely we'll have a situation where it won't be readable in the future because everything is now backwards compatible. I'm fairly sanguine about that.Should we be proud of the part the UK has played in the evolution of IT?I was delighted to see Tim Berners Lee get his knighthood. He is a fine example of the scientific attitude, and a particularly British attitude in that he didn't try to patent anything. That's the key thing. The person who invented the web wanted it to be for public consumption and free for everybody. Being a scientist, I used the originalJanetwhen sending an email to someone on the other side of town. It was a big thing. It would never have grown out from the scientific community had it not been for the generosity of Tim.Are you disappointed that sex and commerce appear to have usurped science and information on the net?Not really, because commercial pressures have helped develop the net and made it fast and accessible. The way things are going with online music    show that it has to cut both ways. The music industry has had to accept that people want to buy their music over the net and look to new models such asiTunes.Any concerns about your iPod's battery life?I've had mine for a year so no doubt I'll find out. It's been such a big seller that I think Apple will have to keep everybody happy. The iPod has helped them put one over Microsoft and they have to hold on to that.Mac or PC?I use a Mac but also MS Word ... not because it's the best software but because it's become the standard. I was one of the first in the country to have an Apple 2 when they came out at the beginning of the 80s. The memory was something like 48k so you were hard pressed to get a whole chapter in.John Gribbin's favourites:sprott.physics.wisc.edu/fractals/www.nasa.gov/homewww.amazon.co.ukwww.cricinfo.comwww.apple.com/itunes/
Royal Mail today enters the digital era by introducing Britain's first digital postage stamp.A new online postage purchasing system, called SmartStamp, will enable customers to create their own stamps on their computer - with or without an image of the Queen - pay for them via the internet and print them on envelopes or labels.The service is geared to small businesses and can be accessed day or night, avoiding lengthy queues at dingy post offices. It can be used for international as well as domestic mail.Royal Mail said the new service had been tested, with favourable results, among financial advisers and accountants, doctors and vets, lawyers and estate agents.The system will enable individuals as well as businesses to add their own logo, with Wayne Hemingway, the design entrepreneur, saying he had already "trialled" the design of a prototype digital radio and other images.SmartStamp operates either directly online or via CD. Customers with a pre-paid user account set up by credit or debit card pay for their stamps via the internet.Alison White, Royal Mail's head of small business and consumer section, said: "SmartStamp will suit anyone working within a small or home office. If you send out a few items a day or more, then we recommend that you seriously consider using the new service."It's another example of a service that combines operational efficiency, quality of service and business enhancement services in one valuable package."The software is free but the service comes with a monthly subscription of &#163;4.99, or &#163;49.99 a year.This is the latest effort by Royal Mail to restore the state-owned company's profitability by providing a more modern and efficient service to customers.It also plans to compete with banks and building societies by offering mortgages, credit cards and other personal finance products.
A Scottish entrepreneur who made a splash during the dotcom boom by providing free government forms over the internet has levelled his sights on the legal publishing world by taking a controlling stake in Britain's largest employment law website.Russell Shepherd became a millionaire three years ago after selling his last venture,www.everyform.netto Reed Elsevier. He is taking on the business information publisher and its rivals again by buying a 49% equity stake inwww.emplaw.co.ukThe website was set up by solicitor Henry Scrope in 1997, and receives more than 20,000 visitors a month. Along with a wealth of free content, the site offers a subscription service for &#163;350 a year that provides news and comment about changes to employment law. It already has six of Britain's top 15 law firms signed up.Mr Shepherd said yesterday that he intends to offer premium legal content at well below the prices charged by traditional publishers such as Reed Elsevier, which owns Butterworths, for books and McGraw Hill for books and loose-leaf periodicals."I think there exists a great opportunity to displace the incumbent players and Emplaw could be the cornerstone of an assault on the market," he said. "Existing UK publishers of legal information have not successfully migrated to digital provision as the majority of their profits are still generated by producing loose-leaf, paper based products."We have no legacy paper products, so when we take market share we will take it directly from books."Emplaw is the latest assault on the dominance of firms like Reed in the specialist sector. In March, a committee of MPs will begin a series of hearings into the growing trend among academics for "open access" publication of research reports on the internet.Perhaps the best known online open access publisher is the Public Library of Science, which levies a one-off $1,500 (&#163;815) charge on academics who want their research published, rather than charging libraries and other academics for a copy.The Public Library of Science is hoping to attract high quality academics whose research would normally appear in paid-for journals such as Nature. But the levy has raised fears that poorly resourced academics in developing countries will not be able to afford to have research published.As a result, the PLoS yesterday launched institutional memberships that offer discounts on publication fees. In Britain, another open access publisher, BioMed Central, already offers such a scheme and has more than 300 institutions signed up in 32 countries.There is an intense debate within academic circles about how open access should work and how much academics or the institutions they work in should pay for publishing.The Association of Learned and Professional Society Publishers, based in West Sussex, is at present carrying out the first proper analysis of open access periodicals and is due to report later this year.
The trade body for the British record industry stepped up the pressure on users of illegal internet music sites yesterday by warning that legal action against web pirates is "increasingly likely".The British Phonographic Industry said it would follow the lead of its counterpart in the United States, the Recording Industry Association of America, if illegal downloading escalated.Its main target will be consumers who trawl file-sharing services such as Kazaa and Grokster for free tracks, bypassing conventional retail outlets and legal internet sites."The disturbing increase in the illegal copying and distribution of unauthorised music files over the internet is making legal action increasingly likely. Nobody should be in any doubt that such uses of file-sharing networks are illegal and are harming the health of British music. We will take legal action if we are forced to," said a BPI spokesperson.BPI lawsuits are not imminent, however. The body is concerned that illegal downloads will take off in this country as broadband penetration increases from its present level of more than 3m homes. If use of illegitimate sites increases significantly as broadband rolls out across the UK, the BPI is expected to launch legal action.Worldwide sales of recorded music fell 10.9% to $12.7bn (&#163;6.8bn) in the first half of last year, a fall blamed on file-sharing and commercial piracy.Another concern for the BPI is the negative publicity that could be created by suing individuals.The RIAA has claimed that its controversial legal campaign against users of file-sharing networks has proved a successful deterrent against would-be pirates.It served writs against 341 consumers last year, and use of the Kazaa site dropped from a high of 16 million visitors in March last year to 8.2 million in October, a month after the first lawsuits were filed.But the RIAA was accused of heavy-handed behaviour after it emerged that a writ had been served against Brianna LaHara, a 12-year-old schoolgirl. Ms Lahara's mother eventually settled the copyright infringement lawsuit for $2,000.Using file-sharing networks is banned under UK copyright law but legal experts say the Crown Prosecution Service is unlikely to take on the added burden of pursuing consumers who use illegal sites.Andrew Hobson, a partner at Reynolds Porter Chamberlain, a commercial law firm, said civil cases had a greater chance of success."You have a lower standard of proof. All you have to do is prove that there has been unauthorised copying," he said.But that could bring the BPI into conflict with service providers, who would have to release the names of customers who have been using file-sharing sites.A spokesperson for ISPA, the trade body for British-based ISPs, said the BPI would not be able to demand information under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, which allows law agencies and authorised bodies to access communications data. "If it wishes to take any action it should have to do it via law enforcement or a recognised authority," he said.
Phishing warningThere is an unfixed bug in Microsoft's Internet Explorer that makes it unsafe to click on any link in an email. The bug means that you can click on a link that says, for example,www.microsoft.com, and open a page where IE's Address box says www.microsoft.com, but you are not at the Microsoft site.The danger is that you could receive an email with forged headers that claims to be from your bank, click on a link that says it connects to your bank, and go to a website that IE's Address bar says is your bank, but is actually run by a fraudster.This type of deceit is known as "phishing". Patrick Crispen has some good examples of how the IE spoof works athttp://netsquirrel.com/spoof. Microsoft has published an article on steps you can taketo protect yourself, including JavaScript code that you can paste into the Address box to reveal the true address. The simplest workaround is, instead of clicking a suspicious link, to right-click on it and select Copy Shortcut. Paste the shortcut into the Address box and you will see the actual link rather than the spoofed one. Spoofed links look like this:www.microsoft.com%00@http://www.fraudster.com. As usual with deceptive links, the real site address comes after the @ sign.Record trackingI work in the NHS, and we have many heavyweight (literally) patient files. It will be a long time before we are accessing this information electronically. Is there any method   whereby the files could be tagged so we would be able to find them wherever they are in the building?Name withheldJack Schofield replies: Bar codes offer a cheap, standard way to tag things, and are already used on everything from packets of biscuits to international parcels. Equipment to print and scan bar codes is cheap and widely available. However, for a proper tracking system, you would also need to bar code different offices and storerooms, and install tracking software such asAlliance PaperChaseChase.htm. But even if you only tag files when they are used, installing such a system can be a mammoth task. Also, in the near future, it will be much better to tag things with RFID (radio frequency identification) chips. These have the huge advantage that they can be read at a distance, eg by scanners placed at doorways.Going wirelessI have had a studio built in the garden and want to install a PC with an internet connection. It would seem that the only way to do that is wirelessly - and that means broadband, doesn't it? - or to have another phone line put into the studio.John DJS:No, wireless doesn't mean broadband. Wireless networks have been around for decades. Even before Wi-Fi appeared, several companies sold simple wireless kits to connect two or more PCs, but home networks only became popular when people needed to share broadband. However, I think your best bet is a Wi-Fi wireless network based on a hub with a built-in modem for a dial-up connection. For example, the Lucent/Proxim Orinoco RG-1000 home gateway and similar Orinico-based products include a V.90 (56k) modem, as well as supporting ISDN and ADSL.One alternative would be to make the connection via a DECT digital phone such asLake Communications' Airway, which is sold by BT.  The BT On-Air 1800, launched at about &#163;250, is now in BT's online shop for &#163;39.99.Schedule+I work on a five-year-old PC laptop running Windows 98. I've updated to Outlook Express 6 for email, which works fine. I also run Schedule+, and I can't import/export between Outlook Express &amp; Schedule+. I need a calendar/schedule/to do list within my email system to access the same address book, data etc. Any suggestions?Malcolm MooreJS:Schedule+ became obsolete in 1997, when it was replaced by Outlook, Microsoft's PIM (personal information manager). Outlook has its own email client, which is completely unrelated to Outlook Express. It would be nice to upgrade to the much-improved Outlook 2003 but this does not run on Windows 98. However, you may be able to cadge a free copy of an older version: Microsoft gave away Outlook 98, and has bundled free copies of later versions with Pocket PC handhelds for synchronisation purposes. Otherwise, ACT 2000 is the only PIM that I can think of that works with Outlook Express, though I expect readers will be able to suggest others.BackchatGeoff Cadman asked about upgrading from Windows 98, because Microsoft was due to end support for it this month. On Monday, however, Microsoft decided to extend support for Windows 98, 98SE and Me until June 30, 2006. Microsoft's current policy for new products is to provide support for seven years.
Beyond Good &amp; EvilPS2, &#163;29.99 Ubisoft,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Beyond Good &amp; Evil distinguishes itself by being a rather good non-platform game. It takes the basics of Zelda - exploration, puzzle solving, blocky characters - and mixes in esoteric gaming influences ranging from Nomad Soul to Captain Blood.Yes, this is an adventure game with unreadable futuristic fonts. As the heroine Jade, you must uncover a conspiracy involving your planet's supposed defenders. Armed only with a camera and a stick (a Tron-style disc shooter arrives later on), it is up to you to seek out truth and justice.Luckily, your partner is a Texan pig who becomes possibly the best gaming sidekick ever. Whether it is the   way he waddles to points of interest or leaps into battle, this is one hog you don't want to roast. Another important part of the action involves snapping the local wildlife with your camera, usually before clouting it.Unfortunately, a frustrating in-game camera and some haphazard translation detracts from the action. But the interplay between the characters and the impressive and stylised visuals make Beyond Good &amp; Evil an adventure worth undertaking.Greg HowsonIn MemoriamPC, &#163;29.99 Ubi Soft, Lexis Num&#233;rique&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Too often, some of the most innovative games sneak on to the shelves quietly and with minimal fanfare, left only to the odd review and word of mouth to propel them into the spotlight. In Memoriam is one such game. It is not perfect, but it does represent an intriguing and original take on puzzle/adventure games.The idea behind it is that two researchers have gone missing while looking into a murder case. It turns out they have been kidnapped by a serial killer known as the Phoenix, who has sent a disc of taunting   games to the police. Perplexed by the Phoenix's puzzles, the authorities decide to open up the case to the general public, hence the reason why you now have a copy of the disc.On the disc is a series of puzzle games, both cerebral and physical, that open up video footage about the case and the missing researchers. The Flash-based puzzles are nicely done and suitably spooky, although the more gamey ones may frustrate traditional puzzle fans. Alongside that, you also have to research some of the puzzles and elements of the case via the internet, the developers having created hundreds of sites linked with the case.Rhianna PratchettBombasticPlaystation, &#163;29.99 Capcom,&#42;&#42;&#42;Bombastic is a puzzle game in which you play various "Aqui-Chan," which essentially are a cross between babies and Pokemon. You must negotiate levels by either moving dice around as if you were log-rolling or pushing them (if you have descended mini-staircases and found yourself at board-, rather than dice-level).To progress, you must line up dice according to the values on their top faces - if six dice showing the number six, five showing five and so on are touching each other, they will turn red and explode. This is very similar to Tetris but, gratifyingly, rather more complex.The game throws into the mix enemy characters that move in particular ways, (and can be blown up if they are sufficiently close to exploding dice), and bosses who must, for example, be fed dice that are about to explode and so on.Up to five people can play against each other, and Trial Mode introduces other gameplay devices. The downsides are the cutesy, Japanese-style video sequences and the plinky-plonk music you will want to switch off. It is a wonderfully addictive idea that needs to be pared to its essentials and developed.Steve Boxer
Iliad, owner of France's second largest broadband internet service provider, Free, will float on the Paris exchange next week with a valuation expected to be up to &euro;1bn.The shares will be priced next Wednesday as the company looks to raise about &euro;80m to fund the expansion of its broadband internet, TV and phone service across France. It has 500,000 broadband customers and intends to double that figure by next year.The move will catapult Iliad's chairman and founder Xavier Niel into the ranks of Europe's super-rich. Although the 36-year-old entrepreneur is not selling any shares in the flotation his stake in the business will be valued at around &euro;700m.A successful flotation will provide further reassurance that technology stocks are undergoing a renaissance. But Iliad is no mere dotcom. Unlike many companies which came to market in the heady days of the late 1990s, all of its businesses are profitable.It made pre-tax profits of &euro;30m in 2002 with analysts forecasting a profit of around similar levels for 2003, because of increased depreciation charges, on revenues of &euro;275m to &euro;280m.Chief financial officer Olivier Rosenfeld said that the business is self-financing but has decided to float in order to allow 6.9% shareholder Goldman Sachs to exit and to fund an attack on market leader France T&#233;l&#233;com. "On the one hand the business is strong and we could continue as we are but, on the other, there is a window of opportunity that we must take," he said.He said that the company   has kept costs down by leasing network across France during the crash, rather than spending money on digging up the countryside itself.This fibre reaches 220 central telephone exchanges across 22 cities or 55% of the population. Iliad has also designed its own network technology and set-top boxes while its customer support software is based on the free Linux code.Iliad has also managed to get   direct control over its customers by taking possession of their local copper phone lines from incumbent France T&#233;l&#233;com. This process - known as local loop unbundling - was a disaster in the UK where BT still has full control of people's phone lines.Alongside Free, which started offering internet services in April 1999, Iliad also owns the French One.Tel and phone calling card business Kertel.
Anyone arguing that Britain shouldn't repair its railways because a future regime might transport undesirables to death camps by train would be dismissed as a nutter. Yet apparently intelligent people trot out the same argument against proposals to repair the state's outdated data infrastructure.These self-appointed guardians say we should oppose the proposed national population register because of the use to which a totalitarian government might put it. Likewise identity cards and, with better reason for concern, DNA databases.A chilling statistic supports their point. Under Nazi occupation, the Netherlands was three times as efficient as France at rounding up Jews.   The difference, according to Edwin Black's IBM and the Holocaust, was that Holland had a population register based on state-of-the-art IT (Hollerith punch card tabulators). France had pieces of paper. By this argument, state inefficiency is the last bastion of freedom.The government disagrees. In the context of ID cards, David Blunkett last year dismissed opponents as "intellectual pygmies". That's a little unfair. Some of his opponents are ignorant - claiming, for instance, that Britain has no bill of rights. Others are inconsistent, combining a Holocaust warning with the claim that the technology wouldn't work. But their underlying creed - that government is inherently untrustworthy - has a respectable pedigree.This is far more established in the US, where hatred of government is by no means confined to gun-toting Arizonans driving unregistered SUVs. It is perhaps best expressed in the minimal state philosophy of the late Robert Nozick, which has had a huge influence on the Bush administration.The minimal state has its weak points: adherents seem to be fond of big government when it comes to killing people, but that's beyond the scope of this column. In any case, this is a fringe debate in Westminster realpolitik. Even Margaret Thatcher had to support the welfare state and claim the NHS to be safe in her hands.Thus Blunkett's pygmies have to carry the torch. In a pluralist democracy, they should be welcome. Possibly their day will come. But they should be honest about what they want, which is the end of the state's role in health and social care.For a welfare state cannot run efficiently and fairly without a list of customers. It is only by bizarre accident that Britain has never had one. This is unsustainable. It is doubly bizarre to spend billions on e-government without an underlying joined-up infrastructure. The government deserves credit for - belatedly - putting it on the agenda.There's another reason for getting it right. Public support for the welfare state, for the state itself, depends on it being perceived to be value for money and not open to abuse. A collapse of confidence, amid scares about foreigners swamping the system and criminals running free, would be just the circumstance in which a Spode party could come to power - and set about making the trains run on time to whatever destination it wants.
I am a big fan of iTunes, the Apple music-on-demand service that has made my iPod (one of the old white ones, not the new super cute tiny coloured ones) an indispensable accessory, especially since the introduction of audible books on demand.I have spent a large amount of money through the service - much of it on content I already own, but is out in my garage on LPs - and have rediscovered many of my favourite tracks. But I miss Napster. What I miss most about it is serendipity: stumbling across one thing of interest when looking for another and therefore finding content I never knew existed, let alone whether I liked it or not. Here is an example to show you what I mean. I was in my study,    tapping away on the computer, and suddenly decided to listen to Bad Boy Boogie, by AC/DC.I wanted my favourite version, from the splendid If You Want Blood live album, which I have on LP. But I didn't know where it was, and even if I found it, I don't have a turntable to listen to it. So I went to Napster and searched for it. In the list of available downloads that came back, I saw a remix of another AC/DC track Shoot To Thrill. I hadn't seen it before, so out of curiosity I downloaded it... and loved it.A web search revealed that it came from an album of remixes I had never heard of, so I ordered it from Amazon (receipt available on request from the Recording Industry Association of America). A couple of days later, I was happy with my new CD, Amazon    was happy with my money, AC/DC was happy with the royalties and the remix artists were happy with their cut. In others words, score one for free trade and every link of the value chain was better off than before the transaction.It was serendipity, one of my favourite aspects of the internet, that brought about this happy state of affairs. Music is a good example, because until you hear something new, you don't know whether you like it or not. But the example extends to many forms of content: reading part of a book over a coffee in Borders - not a book you chose, but one that was left on the table by someone else - and then buying it gives the same experience.I think, as an aside, that this is why blogging is so interesting: the rich interlinking can set you off on    tangents you never knew existed and you can find yourself engrossed in a topic you never knew you cared about. It is in many ways the equivalent of a Google search for things you didn't know you didn't know about. A service such as iTunes is wonderful, and having things sorted, catalogued and arranged is clearly a great benefit.Like many others, I would sooner pay 99 cents for a good-quality file of a track I want than spend half-an-hour trying to find it free.  But sometimes, just sometimes, I am nostalgic for the cacophony of Napster and the online equivalent of seeing something that you didn't know you wanted out of the corner of your eye.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Free thinkingJack Schofield is wrong to say that open source/free software can't develop independent software architecture (Jack Schofield's column, January 8). Has he not heard of perl or python or apache and many others, all of which have no proprietary equivalent that comes even close to their capabilities - a direct result of them being open source?The reason that, currently, a lot of open source software developers are devoting time and effort to cloning proprietary software is that there is a need for an open source/free software equivalent. This may be the same in functionality (usually it is more flexible/standards compliant and robust) but it will also give users the freedom to modify, improve, learn from and share their improved software (and get improvements back).As for Schofield's comment: "Without a Stallman-style ideological commitment, it is hard to see why any bright young programmer with a brilliant idea should decide not to become a billionaire and give it all away." This is happening all the time. Take a look at sourceforge.net.Dr David HoldenGlasgowCloning practiceJack Schofield's unusually fair-minded piece about free software did, none the less, manage to slip in a couple of unjustifiable slurs.While much free software is undoubtedly cloned from other software, this is simply the norm for the entire software industry.   Particularly Microsoft, whose business plan has always seemed to be based on being second to market with derivative products. Note also that "new" components in Windows Longhorn, due in several years, such as XAML and WinFS, look not unlike the free software technologies XUL and reiserFS. Cloning goes both ways.Schofield's last paragraph asserts that free software might not work because developers will elect to "become billionaires" instead: a charming example of the "OK, it works in practice. But does it work in theory?" argument.John KozakLondonTaking the fallA report this week by the charity National Children's Homes warns that UK child pornography crimes have increased by 1,500% since 1988, attributing this increase to the internet. Meanwhile, new regulations announced this week will prohibit children from accessing adult internet services via mobile phones, for fear of the online child pornography problem becoming worse.Rather less attention has been given to the fact that the numbers of criminals being discussed here are still relatively low (549 cautioned or charged in 2001); also that it only became a specific offence to possess child pornography in 1988; and that recent developments in the law do much to confuse the previously distinct categories of thoughts about children and acts upon children; and that child pornography has been given greater mainstream prominence by the number of newspaper column inches devoted to bogus scares, such as this one, than the internet could ever have provided.Once again, it seems that communications technology is going to take the fall for today's practice of obsessively seeing children as potential victims of abuse.Sandy Starrwww.spiked-online.comBlacklistedThose who fall victim to AOL's arguably over-zealous spam filtering (Ask Jack, January 8) may care to have a look at:http://postmaster.info.aol.com. I was referred to this page by AOL after discovering that it had blacklisted the mail server used to forward emails to my AOL account.The mail server was being used for perfectly legitimate purposes but, so far as I can gather, AOL runs tests on servers and blacklists any if it discovers security deficiencies. In my case, the webmail service provider migrated the server to a new one, and thus solved the problem.While I suppose AOL is to be commended for its tough line on junk, it is infuriating that blocked mail is not returned to the sender, and it may be some time before the recipient works out that mail is missing.Jack CumminsVocal corruptionBeing very slow using a keyboard, I am very glad of voice-recognition programs, but I have experienced considerable frustration. I used DragonDictate for four years, but found that it began to put in words I had used on previous occasions but were nothing like the word I had just spoken!For the past three years, I have been using Dragon NaturallySpeaking 5, but have found an increasing tendency to render instructions and punctuation as text. Scansoft has given advice which has kept it just about usable, but doesn't cure the problem.A weakness of NaturallySpeaking is that when correcting, there is no way of distinguishing between instructions and text. With DragonDictate, you put an instruction in brackets. Do other users have similar problems, and does ViaVoice also suffer from such corruption?David Smith
A part-time musician with an interest in websites about violent sex murdered a teacher to satisfy his "macabre" fantasies, a court heard yesterday.Graham Coutts then hid the body of 31-year-old Jane Longhurst in a storage unit and visited "his trophy" regularly.He only moved the body when it began to smell and set fire to the remains in a wood in West Sussex, Lewes crown court, was told.In his opening speech John Kelsey-Fry, prosecuting, claimed Mr Coutts, 35, strangled Miss Longhurst with some tights in March last year.He said: "The crown alleges that having killed her and had his way with her, he did not dispose of her body but rather kept her somewhere known only to him for 11 days before moving her body to a storage unit hired in a false name."Mr Kelsey-Fry said Mr Coutts left the body at the storage unit for almost a month and visited it every few days until he was forced to move it.The prosecutor told the court Miss Longhurst had been an "attractive, talented and much-loved young lady". She worked as a music teacher at Uplands school, a special needs school in Brighton, and lived with her 34-year-old partner, Malcolm Sentance, in the seaside town.Both were accomplished violinists who played for the Brighton Youth Orchestra. Miss Longhurst had recently suggested that they get married and they had planned to go travelling and then set up home in Bath.Mr Kelsey-Fry said that on the day of the killing - which he said was March 14 - Miss Longhurst was on a routine day off. She was reported missing at midnight and a police search launched.Her body was found on April 19, when a member of the public saw something on fire in woods near Wiggonholt Common, Pulborough, near Arundel. The body was identified as that of Miss Longhurst by dental records.After Miss Longhurst's body was found, staff at the Big Yellow Storage Company (BYSC) in Brighton became suspicious.Mr Kelsey-Fry said that on March 25 a man calling himself Paul Kelly had called asking for a storage unit as quickly as possible. Later that day he arrived with a white box sealed with tape, claiming he had recently split from his girlfriend and wanted to store his personal belongings.The man was allowed direct access to the storage unit and was later given the go-ahead to enter the building out of hours using a pin number.Police viewed CCTV footage showing Mr Kelly's coming and goings and, said Mr Kelsey-Fry, realised the man was Mr Coutts. When officers opened Mr Coutts' unit they found Miss Longhurst's mobile phone and purse, a blood-stained rope and a shirt stained with her blood and Mr Coutts' semen.Mr Kelsey-Fry said the only reason Mr Coutts would have taken such a risk was to make several visits to fulfil fantasies concerning strangled women.Two of Mr Coutts' former girlfriends would give evidence that he enjoyed asphyxial sex and often used a pair of tights as a ligature, said Mr Kelsey-Fry. One claims he asked her to let him carry on until she passed out, but she refused.The prosecution said the defendant was a frequent viewer of violent pornography on the internet. Experts had investigated the hard-drives of two computers found at his home, and found that sites such as "Necrobabes", "Violent pleasure", and "Deathbyasphyxia" had been visited.Pictures and video clips of women being strangled and stripped naked were also found, Mr Kelsey-Fry said."There is an obvious parallel between the images he chose to access on his computer and the scene that confronted him whenever he visited the BYSC."The crown suggests that the murder of Jane Longhurst was a manifestation of the defendant's fixation with helpless and strangled women."He acted out for real on the unfortunate Jane Longhurst the fantasies on his computer, the strangling, killing and raping of her. He subsequently kept and visited his trophy until the smell forced him to dispose of the body."The prosecutor said only Mr Coutts knew where he had kept the body after the killing and before moving it to the storage unit.Mr Sentance told the jury of his desperate search for Miss Longhurst. "In those weeks I did not sleep. I had no idea whether she was alive or dead, or if she was even in a shed being tortured."Mr Coutts, of Hove, denies murder.The trial continues.
Bill blockerTry to open an image that includes a banknote in Adobe Photoshop CS and it may not let you. The program includes secret anti-counterfeiting code that blocks images of new $20 bills and banknotes in euros. Some users report they can load such images but cannot print them. The anti-counterfeiting code was developed by the Central Bank Counterfeit Deterrence Group, run by a consortium of 27 central banks, and is apparently triggered by secret cues in recent banknotes. It is thought that the code is also included in other recent professional graphics packages such as Ulead's PhotoImpact XL. Governments are reportedly considering making the use of the code mandatory, and there is no reason why similar code could not be built into printers and photocopiers. In the UK, it is a criminal offence for any person to reproduce "on any substance whatsoever, and whether or not on the correct scale", any part of any Bank of England banknote, according to a guidance note from the Bank of England.http://rulesforuse.orgAny ID-ersThe problem of positively identifying people online is threatening the development of e-government services as councils look for a lead from central government. A report from the local government IT management society SocITM states that more than half of the councils want a national authentication standard, possibly in the form of a national identity card, to put the UK on a par with the rest of Europe. Alan Mather, head of e-delivery at the Office of the e-Envoy, said that authentication could be based on post code and house number, council tax number, or benefit number, but added that a standard needs to be agreed across the country rather than at the local level.www.socitm.gov.uk/Public/surveys/IT+Trends.htmHoley WordMicrosoft Word's forms protection password system has been shown to be totally insecure by a posting on the   SecurityFocus Bugtraq newsgroup. The password allows users read-only access to all or part of a document. As the posting shows, by saving the protected document in HTML and using a plain text viewer to display it, the encrypted password can be found and removed. After re-opening the document, changes can be made and the original password re-inserted to hide the alteration. Microsoft accepts that the exploit is possible but argues that the password protection feature was never intended to give foolproof protection.www.securityfocus.comFTSE failuresA review of the home pages of the FTSE-100 companies' websites shows that a third are below standard. The Interactive Bureau has surveyed the leading UK companies' sites each year for the past three years, ranking them on their ability to meet the needs of investors, potential employees and the media. The survey shows that nine of the bottom 25 companies have not touched their sites in three years, and that 13 of the 44 companies who have redesigned their sites have made things worse. The top site is Shell and the bottom site is Foreign &amp; Colonial, a newcomer to the FTSE-100.www.iablondon.com/newsitem.cfmNon-eventingIBM is deferring adoption of the latest proposed web services standard from the WS-Interoperability Organisation. Fellow members Microsoft, BEA Systems and Tibco Software have developed the WS-Eventing specification, which sets out how real-world events - such as the shipping of an order or a printer running out of paper - can be signalled between web services. IBM, which took no part in the development, does not feel the system will scale to cover larger deployments or its grid technologies. Instead, the company will persist in developing its own proprietary MQ-Series messaging, but hopes eventually to converge with WS-Eventing.www.webservices.org/index.phpData accessibleThe watered-down "snooper's charter", an adjunct to the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, became law last week. This gives officers in hundreds of state organisations formal access to communications data: this includes telephone billing data, email and website logs, and mobile phone location information, although not the contents of communications. The police and security services already have formal access. This change affects other bodies with specific crime-fighting responsibilities, such as the NHS Counter Fraud and Security Management Service. The Home Office has argued that many organisations previously gained informal access, and these regulations outline when and how data is released.www.homeoffice.gov.uk/crimpol/crimreduc/regulation
Good news this week from the front line of electronic criminal justice. Police officers at Rugby police station, Warwickshire, no longer have to re-key information about suspects in custody when they prepare cases against them.The country's first paperless custody suite, made possible by interfacing two stand-alone systems, is supposed to reduce errors and speed up the workings of the police and courts. Police forces across the country are due to have the system by April next year.However, in the wake of the Soham murder case and continuing revelations about shortcomings in home office IT projects, ministers are impatient for faster progress. In a surprise decision last month, the first criminal justice IT tsar, Jo Wright, was replaced after completing her initial two-year contract.The &#163;1.2bn programme to join up criminal justice IT is a crucial part of the government's fight against crime and fear of crime. Targets include reducing the high number of court hearings delayed because paperwork or a witness fails to turn up, and enabling victims of crime to track the   progress of investigations online.Replacing paperwork with electronic communications is also supposed to put more officers on the beat. "A good, user-friendly IT solution means officers spend less time in the back room filling out forms and more time patrolling in our communities and tackling crime," Hazel Blears, the home office minister, said this week.Joining up the custody and case preparation systems is the first step towards sharing electronic case files across a secure email network, which is due to cover the whole country this spring. Because something like 80% of the information needed for a prosecution is collected first by police, integrating their systems with those of courts, prisons and other services is a priority.In practice, however, joining up criminal justice may turn out to be more difficult than the government's parallel effort to computerise the NHS. Healthcare data can almost always be organised in an individual patient's records. Information about crimes has no such natural structure.Another complication is the large number of organisations involved in the process. Apart from three central bodies - Home Office, Department for Constitutional Affairs and Crown   Prosecution Service - there are 53 autonomous police forces, each responsible for its own IT strategy. The government's solution is to create local criminal justice communities, of which Warwickshire is a pioneer.The &#163;69m case and custody systems at Rugby was developed for the Police Information Technology Organisation (Pito). The custody programme manages the processes for handling suspects taken into custody, capturing essential data and leading custody sergeants through correct   procedures. The case preparation programme helps manage the process of building case files, removing the need for re-keying when they are sent to the Crown Prosecution Service.According to the Home Office, the integrated system will minimise data entry errors by sharing case file information and ensure that custody procedures comply with the law, as well as improving the quality of prosecution cases by ensuring that procedures are followed correctly.Electronic case files will also allow   courts to update the Police National Computer (PNC) in real time with convictions. The PNC is currently updated manually, by individual police forces. This can take weeks - a shortcoming exposed at the Soham murder trial. Further inefficiencies are likely to be revealed at the Bichard inquiry into the police checks carried out on murderer Ian Huntley.The Home Office is considering proposals to "flag" on the PNC intelligence held by local forces, such as the allegations of sexual assault collected (and later deleted) against Huntley. However, civil liberties organisations are concerned about the implications for privacy, especially if private IT contractors have access to unfounded police intelligence.From next month, the man charged with turning plans for joined-up IT into reality will be John Suffolk, a veteran IT manager who was formerly managing director at Britannia Building Society.His appointment was announced just before Christmas as a replacement to Wright, a former IBM executive. She had been keen to stay on, but the Home Office said it needed a permanent post that had to be filled by open competition.Ministers were quick to pay tribute to Wright's achievements in setting up the criminal justice IT programme. Criminal justice minister, Baroness Scotland, said the programme "has established a strong reputation for innovation and energy, and is on the point of completing the implementation of secure email to the CJS community, a goal that has eluded the CJS for many years."On behalf of the whole National Criminal Justice Board, I salute what Jo Wright has achieved."However, ministers are impatient for the new systems to start producing "business benefits" in time for the next election. Suffolk's previous big IT challenge was pushing through a &#163;50m technology refresh, including a customer relationship management system in an organisation of 3,500 people. That took three years. The prime minister and home secretary may not be so patient.
Forget shareware, open source and proprietary software: the differences are evaporating through the merging of business methods. Increasingly, this year, software buyers will get the chance to try software before committing money. However, in the special case of open source software, most of its authors don't even expect to be paid.As a result of the shifts in broadband takeup, software delivery patterns and trial versions, the playing field will now be slightly more level. When every software developer can make trial products available online, each has a fair chance of capturing the buyer's interest. Decisions about what to buy will owe less to the distribution mechanisms and more to the inherent quality of the product and the nature of the support infrastructure.And support is where the differences will show up most markedly. The proprietary software giants have massive marketing budgets and a preference for "do-it-yourself" or "paid for" support. The open source movement, as the name suggests, shares its source code so that individual programmers can come up with improvements and fixes. The share ware community normally comprises small businesses whose members are devoted to their products, yet still expect a reasonable return from selling and supporting them.Support, then, can be a differentiator. Shareware authors tend to be very responsive: open source authors may or may not be. They are under no commercial pressure, and are more likely to prioritise things that interest them. Conventional software companies will automate their support as much as possible, and can be unresponsive if human contact is required.Whether software can do the job, only experience can tell. Word of mouth is the best recommendation - providing you can trust the source. Online discussion groups and weblogs are other sources of reasonable information.In terms of contracts, some developers have no idea who is looking at their software until contact is made. Others will not allow anyone to use it until they have registered at least some key details. The former typifies the open source community while the latter is often adopted by the mainstream publishers. Shareware authors range between.David Boventer, executive director of the European Shareware Confer  ence, believes the boundaries between the different kinds of software are continuously moving and are therefore blurred. He says: "Proprietary software vendors suddenly announce 60-day trials of their wares. The open source movement charges for some of its software. Shareware developers are, in the main, averse to opening their source code to outside scrutiny, while Microsoft now makes   some of its source available."Not surprisingly, he sees shareware as a fair way of distributing software. And he believes that "some shareware companies with two staff are producing better software than that produced by companies with 300 staff."He sees the open source movement as a kind of anarchy. "The software and patches that are developed and then given away still require energy   from the developers. And this energy is not rewarded in a conventional sense. Yet distributors like Red Hat are in there, making money on the back of this essentially free effort."Boventer fears a backlash from the open source programmers as they see a profitable industry growing around their free efforts. He believes their idealism is evaporating, which does not bode well for fixes, products and upgrades. Slightly tongue-in-cheek, he likens the open source movement to a religious sect in which the leaders became rich at the expense of the followers.Gary Howorka, senior vice president of advanced technologies at e-commerce provider Digital River, has a broader view than most. His company has helped more than 34,000 organisations outsource their online sales. He believes that all business to consumer software sales will eventually move to what he calls the trialware model, in which software is both protected and activated according to the rules set down by the publisher. "We can test drive cars and try on clothes. It seems silly not to let people try out software," he says.He also thinks that much business software will go the same way but "it will never happen with companies like SAP, who have complex software that requires significant implementation effort".Some people believe the open source movement is unstoppable and that it will finally liberate software buyers from the shackles of companies such as Microsoft and, as a side effect, wipe out shareware developers. However, the open source business model suggests this is unlikely to happen.Howorka believes that open source is a great way to evolve software, but that "eventually it has to be monetised. Perhaps open source is the ultimate incubator." But with regard to the voluntary nature of open source development, he concludes: "Mainstream customers just don't want to live in an unpredictable world."&#183;David Tebbut distributes the Brainstorm ideas processor as sharewarewww.brainstormsw.com
Mobile gamingHandheld for SonyThe next 12 months will be very busy for mobile gamers. Due at the end of the year is Sony's debut handheld console, the PSP, while the Tapwave Zodiac, a Palm-based PDA optimised for gaming, is also expected. The CES (Consumer Electronics Show) in Las Vegas last week threw up yet another mobile console in the guise of the Gametrac.Due in the UK in the early summer, the futuristic-looking device features a 2.8in LCD screen, an eight-way D-pad, left and right triggers and a quartet of face buttons. It can double as a mobile phone, is controlled by Microsoft's Windows CE.Net operating system and features an ARM9 400Mhz processor.Users can either play one of the Gametrac's specially created games on their own or compete against others using Bluetooth or GPRS. The games, which the company promises will be "among the most innovative and interactive the industry has ever seen", are installed on the Gametrac via an MMC/ SD card or downloaded over mobile phone networks. The Gametrac also features an integrated MP3 player, video player and digital camera. There's no news yet on pricing.www.gametrac.comMP3 playersStylish rivalCES threw up a hard disk-based personal MP3 player that just might have Apple execs looking over their shoulders. Significantly thinner than its iPod rival, and arguably even more stylish, the iAudio M3 is compatible with a comprehensive range of audio formats, features an FM radio and boasts a 20 Gigabyte hard disk. It is expected in the UK later in the year for around &#163;250.It also delivered competition for the Apple iPod mini announced last week. Aiwa's HZ-WS2000 houses a one-inch hard drive that can store 2GB (36 hours of tunes). Even though that is half the storage capacity of its Apple rival, the Aiwa player is significantly thinner.The show's big news for iPod owners came from Ten technologies who displayed the naviPlay - a Bluetooth wireless adaptor that allows third-generation iPod owners to ditch their earphone cords. Its transmitter plugs into the iPod while its adaptor can connect with any type of headphones or speakers. The naviPlay will debut in the US in the spring. There's no price for the adaptor yet.There was no sign of Sony's promised hard disk audio player at its stand. Instead, the company unveiled the latest version of its MiniDisc system, which will allow users who buy one of the new generation MD recorders to squeeze more than 30 hours of MP3 standard music on a &#163;5 1GB disc. The first of the players, the MZ-NH1, is set   to go on sale in the UK in the spring, retailing for around &#163;300.www.aiwa.comwww.tentechnology.comwww.sony.com/news/cesGadgetsSpot watchesThe show saw Microsoft's Spot (Smart Personal Object Technology) watches finally reach US stores. The watches, which are made by a number of companies including Fossil and Suunto, tune in to FM radio frequencies to receive snippets of information such as the weather, share prices and sports news. Prices start at $129.95 (&#163;70), although users have to pay an extra $9.95 per month (or $59 a year) to access the service. Spot   watches are expected to arrive in the UK in the summer.Virtual keyboardAlso hitting US stores this week is a $99 virtual keyboard for PDAs from Ibiz. It consists of a cigarette lighter-sized transmitter that connects the PDA and then projects the image of a full-sized keyboard on to any flat surface. The user hits the virtual keys on the table to type.Mini cameraFor those who want to capture each moment of their life, Deja View is offering its Camwear 100 mini camera. This clips to a pair of glasses and is permanently recording, so it captures everything your eyes see. The downside is its limited storage. It only keeps the last 30 seconds and can only store up to half an hour of footage. It is on sale in the US in March for around $400.Philips also debuted the latest incarnation of its key chain USB storage devices with integrated cameras. The Key019 can capture two-mega pixel images and take MPeg4 video footage.http://direct.msn.comwww.ibizpda.cowww.mydejaview.comwww.philips.co.ukwww.mydejaview.comHome entertainmentStreaming rangeCES was awash with a range of home entertainment network products that wirelessly stream video, audio and image files from a PC in one room to a   TV/home entertainment system in another. The highest profile launch came from Microsoft, which will deliver a device called the Media Extender later in the year. The $129 box only works with PCs that feature the company's Media Center XP operating system. A kit with the same functionality for Xbox owners is also on the cards.Piping hotAmong the best of the rival units is the Actiontec Digital Media Player. This not only accesses audio, video and image files, it also pipes internet radio stations to a TV and enables its owners to watch streamed video and view websites on their set. The device, which uses the 802.11b format, ships to US retailers next month for $169.95 (&#163;92).Trump cardDenon debuted an elegant home networking system based around its NS-S100 Multimedia server. This features two 160GB hard disks, one for day-to-day use, the other for back-up, and personal video and audio recording and streaming facilities. The system's trump card is that it can output four separate DVD-quality signals over a wired Ethernet connection to slave devices and then on to screens throughout a home. A US launch is planned for this year, with the system expected in the UK in 2005.Web TVPhilips displayed one of the first TVs that can be incorporated into a wireless network. The Streamium TV is a 23in LCD model that features 802.11g wireless technology for accessing content from both a networked PC and the web.Gibson's jukeboxGibson Audio reinvented the jukebox as a networked product in the guise of its Wurlitzer Jukebox, above. Sporting a design influenced by the famous 50s Jukeboxes, the product features a CD player and a hard disk with space for more than 1,000 CDs. It can connect to a wireless network to enable the owner to download music or view album artwork or track listing. It goes on sale in the spring in the US for $2,000 (&#163;1,083).www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/mediacenterwww.actiontec.comwww.philips.co.ukwww.denon.comwww.actiontec.comBritish companiesA handful of British companies braved the transatlantic crossing to parade their devices. Mission showed the ViSound, a mirror that incorporates a 4.3in LCD screen and NXT's surface sound speaker technology. It is expected later in the year. Pelham Sloane displayed the PS1500 - a desktop PC integrated into a 15in screen, which is already on sale in the UK. Cambridge Audio unveiled the &#163;200 Azur 640T - a joint digital radio/FM hi-fi radio tuner, while its sister company Mordaunt-Short showed off its 400 series home cinema speaker package. High-end audiovisual specialist Myryad took the wraps off its new MX series of hi-fi and video separates.www.mission.co.ukwww.pelhamsloane.comwww.cambridge-audio.co.ukwww.mordaunt-short.co.ukwww.myryad.co.ukwww.pelhamsloane.comwww.cambridge-audio.co.ukwww.mordaunt-short.co.ukwww.myryad.co.ukStat of the week:  Wap catches upTexting is all the rage but Wap, after an embarrassing start, is catching up fast. Total Wap pages viewed in the UK during November reached 947m, according to the Mobile Data Association, an increase of 50m on October, when 1.8bn text messages were sent.
The first thing you notice about the home of the future - somewhat incongrously built between two giant inflatable tents in front of the Las Vegas Convention Center - is that it has no toilet paper next to the loo.As you ponder this, all around the small, high-tech house the Consumer Electronics Show is raging. And it really does rage: four days of full-on gadget frenzy at the largest consumer tech show in the world. The statistics churned out by the press office don't quite do the event justice: enough gadgets to fill 1,000 articulated trucks, more than 100,000 attendees, 2,000 exhibitors.It's not until you roam the show floors for an hour or two that you appreciate the scale. Whole walls of flat-panel plasma displays. More digital music players than you can shake a stick at. Everything else is here, too, from custom-made pianos that play themselves, worth thousands, to lie detector software for $20 a throw. One hangar-sized hall is devoted just to gadgetry for the car.Amid this gigantic fair, therefore, the little home of the future has an important role. It is the organisers' attempt to humanise the event, bring it down to a human scale, and show how the technology might interact with our lives.And there's no toilet paper. Why? According to the brochure, it is because the appliance isn't your standard Shanks effort: it is topped by a Drake Toilet and Washlet S300 seat, one that can wash and dry you all on its own, "to help you create the ambiance of a spa in your own private retreat". See&lt;A HREF="http://www.totousa.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.totousa.comfor details.The second thing you notice, once   the loo arrangements have been worked out, is that the home of the future is really going to cost a lot. The toilet seat alone costs $1,200 (&#163;650), and that's only the first room in this bungalow.Of course, this might be an overly practical consideration for what has always, traditionally, been as much fantasy as those 1950s advertisements suggesting we would all have our own rocket ships by 2000.Homes of the future have long been trotted out by tech companies keen to show off their wares, and bridge the gulf between brochure and reality. And the houses - while often leapt on by TV news hungry for a funny geeky item - have always seemed destined to remain floating in the future. They are normally filled with what the trade calls "vapourware" - technology long promised, but rarely delivered to shops.This might be about to change, however. If there was one consistent theme from CES this year, it was that much of the promise of these show homes is being delivered right now. This is still a home of the future, but this time the future is only around six months away.The first positive sign came the night before the show opened last week, when Microsoft chairman Bill Gates delivered his now traditional pre-show keynote address in the Las Vegas Hilton theatre. At the heart of his presentation was Microsoft's Media Center operating system - a souped-up version of Windows XP that has additional features to handle digital music, movies and photographs.Some pundits had tipped Media Center to join the great vapourware graveyard. As it turned out, Gates spoke only of adding more compo nents to the technology to make it useful to consumers.Media Center is all about convergence, the big buzzword in consumer electronics today. Convergence is the gradual coming together of the TV, stereo, computer and internet, so that all your home gadgets are linked, from sitting room to kitchen, bedroom to - yes - bathroom.Gates wants the PC - running Windows, naturally - to lie at the heart of the all-in-one systems. Media Center is the system that makes this possible.Microsoft had already produced the Media Center operating system, a variant of Windows XP, which files all your photos, music and video and lets you access it all via a set of large-type menus suitable for reading from a sofa a few feet from the screen. What was missing was the technology to take this media away from the PC without plugging a PC directly into your television set. And it was this missing link that Gates delivered at   CES. A Media Center Extender will bridge the gap between PC and TV, do the job wirelessly, and cost little more than a digital set-top box today.During his speech, Gates spoke of a new period where "reality is driving the expectation" in consumer electronics, after a time when "people got ahead of themselves &#91;in&#93; the way they thought all the pieces would come together."Now those things are really being delivered ... through solid products that stand the test of the marketplace," he told his audience. Microsoft's aim, he said, was to deliver "seamless computing" between devices. "All the places where software can run, we want to make sure that we do the best we can to make that connect up, and to make it seamless."An emerging class of connected devices will be the new generation of handheld devices - a little like Apple's iPod, but with a video screen on the front - which will synch with the Media Center, and let you take films   and TV programmes on the road.Creative, makers of an array of MP3 players and other portable gadgets, was showing off the first such Media Center compatible device at CES, and other manufacturers are likely to follow.This computer-centric path is, unsurprisingly, favoured by companies such as Microsoft, Dell, Intel (which announced its own set-top digital hub) and Apple. But the choice of computer at the heart of the home network is not an uncontroversial one. Sony - as a company better known for its consumer electronics than its computers - unveiled a vision of the future that had the television at its centre."In the narrowband age, the PC was the champion," Kunitake Ando, Sony's president, said in his keynote speech to the show. "But now television, the champion of the non-PC world, is about to be reborn as the centre of broadband entertainment."To achieve this, Sony is   working on a Linux-based platform for its gadgets and a series of open platforms and standards. The PlayStation games console is also well positioned to become the company's version of a home hub. It will be an important tool in the company's attempt to make sure Microsoft does not win the same stanglehold over the age of convergence as it did over the age of computing.One area of consensus, however, is emerging over the issue of protecting copyright in an era when everything will be reduced to bits and bytes. Once, the pioneers of online file-sharing had imagined computer manufacturers would refuse to have their machines shackled by systems that restricted the copying and sharing of files.But if there was ever any doubt that this would happen unchallenged, that was shattered at CES. Hardware manufacturer HP took the toughest line, with the company's chairman, Carly Fiorina, promising that the company's hardware would, by the end of this year, be shipping with digital rights management (anti-piracy) measures in place. "We are proud to take a stand against piracy," she told the CES crowd. "In the past we have had Moore's law. Now we have KaZaA's law that states our sense of right and wrong doesn't evolve as quickly as our technology."Just because we can steal music doesn't mean it is right. Just because we can steal intellectual property doesn't mean it is right. It is illegal, and it is wrong." Fiorina brought several big-name recording stars on stage to support her message, including U2 guitarist The Edge, rap producer Dr Dre and singer Sheryl Crow.The company also announced its own home hub, its support for Microsoft's Media Extender technology, and a licensed version of the iPod, the digital music player made by Apple. The last announcement was a major surprise, because Apple had never previously licensed its iPod technology, and HP has previously been a key partner for Microsoft.The deal means Apple will manufacture a customised version of the iPod for HP, while HP will include Apple's iTunes software - and its links to Apple's iTunes music store - on its PCs from this summer.Perhaps the deal will bring better music to the home of the future because, for now, it appears the future doesn't come with a very good soundtrack as standard.Having turned my back on that loo, walking down the hallway to the "grand room" - the sitting room to us - they were playing an orchestral version of My Perfect Love.But suddenly the muzak was overwhelmed by a roar from a video clip being shown on a Media Center PC, and in response, a shriek of delight from a woman sitting in a large leather chair in front of the TV (flat, plasma screened, of course).Ron Persner, who works for Microsoft, was helpfully showing off another company's product - the "Butt Kicker subwoofer" - which, according to the brochure, "produces a powerful and musically accurate 'shaking' sensation, letting you 'feel' low frequency sound without having to turn up the volume". The woman in the chair confirmed to all that the effect was "awesome", yet another must-have gadget from this expensive dream world.
Over the past five years, the auction siteeBayhas grown into a global marketplace that gives buyers access to millions of sale items and sellers access to millions of potential buyers. Despite its size, it is still pretty easy for first-timers to find items, bid on them and even run auctions. But though you can dive in straightaway, it is better to lurk for a while to see how things work. Read the eBay help sections, which explain the different auctions the site runs and offer tips on their search tools (pretty essential when around 10m items are listed). The eBay home page links to auctions that are about to close. Watch a few and you will see things can get pretty frantic as an auction comes to an end.When you find something you want, try to figure out what it is really worth. Look on the site for similar items. Before you bid, check the seller's ratings from past customers. Check the payment methods they accept. Many now use PayPal, which is owned by eBay and is safe and easy to use. Some sellers accept credit cards directly, but make sure there is a secure way to send your card details. Look at shipping details, too. Delivery charges are sometimes inflated by unscrupulous sellers. Once you've decided what you want to pay, stick to it. Don't get carried away and bid more than you can afford.Even if they have done their research and adopted a careful bidding strategy, first-timers will often lose out to a sniper. Many eBay types now use "sniping software" that lets them come in at the last second and win with a bid only fractionally higher   than the previous offer. This is a sign that, these days, when you visit eBay, you are accessing an increasingly complex system and interacting with a community of users, many with years of experience of buying and selling on the site.To succeed, you need both technical smarts and people skills, says David A Karp, author of eBay Hacks. The book features tips on everything from code that exploits eBay's Application Program Interface (API) to social engineering aimed at the buyers and sellers you encounter on the site. Karp says that eBay likes the book, even though some of its technical hacks go close to breaking the site rules. He suggests the following tips for people keen to compete with the pros.Use the tools on your My eBay page, but if you get serious, augment them with a little code. For example, you can save your favourite searches and run them automatically. Ebay will send an email alerting you when a match turns up. The problem, says Karp, is that the site only sends out one email alert a day, so you may miss something. He has developed asearch robot, which runs automated searches as often as you like. If something you want comes up, you can know about it within the hour.Track ongoing auctions to get a sense of prices and general demand. Again, My eBay lets you do this, though Karp says it limits the number of auctions you can track, doesn't let you watch closed auctions to see if items are put back on sale and does not let you track auctions while not logged on to eBay. Hence he has created a more powerful auction tracker   - again the code is available via the ebayhacks site.Manipulate the Buy It Now feature. Sellers can include a Buy It Now option - this lets buyers bypass the auction and get the item straightaway - usually for a slightly higher price. Inexperienced sellers often set the Buy It Now option too low, says Karp, so you can find bargains. Conversely,   sometimes the price is too high, but you can never be sure someone won't pay it. But if you place a small bid, this wipes out the Buy It Now option, so the auction will proceed as normal.Don't get involved in bidding wars. Instead, use eBay's proxy bidding feature. This lets you set an amount you are willing to pay. The site will then increase your bids as necessary, to win the auction. It won't go up to your limit, unless it has to. It will just do what it takes to win.Use sniping software - everyone else does. You can snipe manually but you need to be online just as an auction ends. Use an automatic sniping program instead, says Karp. He favoursweSnipe, which has been around for a while and is reliable, but it does charge 1% of the final sale price. Though eBay frowns on sniping, says Karp, it knows that it would face a user revolt if it tried to stop it. He estimates that one in three auctions are sniped.Practise expectation management. Obviously you want to sell your item effectively, but don't oversell. If you do, the buyer may end up disappointed when they get it and you will have to deal with refunds, returns and bad feedback. Sellers should also practise expectation management on themselves. Don't assume you are going to make pots of cash. Unless you take it very seriously, you won't. But you may make enough to fund your hobby (as Karp does with his toy train collection). And, if you do eBay right, you should meet some interesting people and have a lot of fun.
Wander through a Harrah's casino and you might notice something unusual. Hundreds of the moms and pops feeding quarters into the slot machines appear to be attached to their illuminated one-armed bandit or video poker partner by some sort of umbilical cord. It is, in fact, the only visible sign of one of the most successful computer-based loyalty schemes ever seen.The Total Rewards scheme has not only transformed Harrah's fortunes - it's now America's biggest casino operator - it has made the chain one of the 10 best places to work in IT in the US, according to ComputerWorld magazine surveys. Last month, it won an IT award from Ziff Davis's CIO Insight magazine, and many more will follow.Indeed, the scheme is well on the way to becoming a classic business school story to illustrate the transformational use of information technology. This is entirely appropriate because the man most responsible - 43-year-old president and chief executive officer Gary Loveman - was, until he joined Harrah's in 1998, an associate professor of business administration at Harvard, where he taught MBA courses. It's a great example of business school theory working in real life.Harrah's favourite gamblers do not, of course, attach themselves to their slot machines. The curly black cord is attached to the thing they really don't want to lose: their Total Rewards loyalty card. When they sit at the machine, they insert their magnetic stripe card in the slot so they can earn points on their spending, just as though they were in a supermarket. The points can bring them a stream of "comps" - small complimentary gifts, such as meals and free hotel rooms - or they can save up for the big ones.According to Harrah's public relations, Total Rewards II members can travel in a private jet to the destination of their choice, ride a float in a Mardi Gras parade in New Orleans, or have a horse race named after them. They can even get a gambling holiday that includes visits to three of Harrah's casino's - Las Vegas, Lake Tahoe and New Orleans - in six days.The Harrah's gambler may see a darkly seductive world of flashing lights, revolving cherries and lucky 7s, but the IT department has a completely different view of the casino floor. Those slot machines are actually a string of dedicated PCs attached to an Ethernet network, collecting data that eventually gets pumped into a giant database in   Memphis. Plug in your card and Harrah's knows who you are, your average bet, how much you spent gambling and when you spent it. It knows how many slot machines or gaming tables you used, which of Harrah's two dozen casinos you visited, how often you visited them and how far you travelled to get there.Then there's the good bit. Take the data from more than 25 million gamblers, analyse it and you can profile your customers. Within a few minutes of a Total Rewards member starting to play, you can get a pretty good idea of the probable total future value of that customer. At the very least, you can identify the people who are likely to be worth the most, and target them with special offers.Harrah's now has about 90 market segments that it can target with the sort of direct mail it thinks will work - and direct feedback from the slots as to whether it worked or not.This process has helped boost Harrah's share of its customers'   gaming budgets from 36% in 1998 to 43% in 2002, and last year, the company said "revenues from customers who carry a Total Rewards card have increased 9% year on year".Having spotted the cords while staying at Harrah's as a paying (non-gambling) customer, I took a cab to a pleasant office block on the outskirts of Las Vegas, to talk to Heath Daughtrey, from Harrah's IT department."It's a beautiful system," says Daughtrey, "because it's a feedback loop. The customer is incentivised to have a card: it governs what comps they get, and how they are rewarded for what they play. It's often thought that it's potentially intrusive, but its &#91;use is&#93; self-reinforcing."This doesn't have so much to do with gambling as with customer service, and Daughtrey says Harrah's looks at retailing and financial services companies for examples of "best practice and intellectual talent. At the end of the day, what we do is about understanding the desires of   our customers, and creating the experiences that our patrons respond to. We're using what we call our decision science tools to better understand our customers and to inform how we market to them. An analyst put it something like this: 'Harrah's is a technology-enabled marketing company that happens to be in the casino industry'."Daughtrey says the key decision, taken in the 90s, was to have a centralised database using what were then called IBM AS/400s, and which is now fronted by Tibco application integration software. "There were enormous investments made in that central customer repository - what we call our patron database - but it has been paid back many times."Because Harrah's was dispersed across the country - Daughtrey says "50% of the American population lives within a three-hour driving distance of one of our casinos" - but with a centralised database, all patrons were Harrah's patrons regardless of the name or location of   their nearest outlet. When it launched Total Rewards, "its success was that it was a national loyalty program with a national distribution footprint", says Daughtrey.There are plans to expand overseas, and Harrah's is also launching on the web. "It will be a subscription-based online gaming system, which I don't think has been done before," says Daughtrey. Harrah's announced last year that it was working with Gala Group to open casinos in the UK, depending on what happens to British gaming regulations.In the future, data mining and more new technologies are expected to make more impact on the way casinos work. For example, Daughtrey points out that you don't necessarily increase your "coin-in" by installing more machines, but sometimes by taking some away.It's also clear that more could be done with slots. "We have more than 42,000 slot machines and you can think of them as point-of-sale devices. We could use these to market to customers beyond the gaming experience," says Daughtrey. He's talking in terms of sending real-time messages to gamblers about things like "comps", or that they have just been upgraded from, say, a platinum to a diamond customer. (Gold is where you start.)But a modern slot machine is not much different from an ATM, so it could be used as a banking terminal. And rather than taking money out and then feeding it back in, the cash could simply be transferred from the gambler's account to Harrah's.Daughtrey says "coinless wagering" is a major initiative, and "there are numerous benefits associated with it from an operations perspective". However, the company is using focus groups to find out where coinless gambling is attractive and where it isn't. "Having it for all denomination machines does not make sense," he says.Probably the most exciting thing that happens in a casino is when one of the really big slots pays out. I was in a Las Vegas casino - not Harrah's - when someone won $250,000 on a machine the size of a car. Lights flashed, buzzers buzzed, cowboys whooped, and there was the almost irresistible sound of tons of coins cascading on to the floor. I didn't stop to count, but attendants were shovelling them into buckets.Well, perhaps that was yesterday's industry. Tomorrow's is being driven by the numbers that can be zapped across a network and crunched in an enterprise data warehouse in a different state, or even a different country.
Call of DutyMforma&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;This ambitious conversion of the PC second world war shooter seeks to replicate the original's squad-based format, rather than transforming the experience into a 2D platformer, as we have seen with the Splinter Cell series. And, unless you are particularly fussy about visuals, it works extremely well.Before each hit and run mission (all based on genuine second world war scenarios), you must select three differently skilled soldiers. You then guide them through the war zone giving simple commands, and exploiting skills such as sniping and setting explosives. It is intense stuff,   and while the tactical element is simplified, Call of Duty represents an important progression for the mobile shoot-'em-up.It is available on Vodafone Live! and T-Mobile portals. More to follow.Ancient EmpiresMacrospace, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;If you want proof that mobile gaming   has progressed dramatically over the past 12 months, download this excellent role-playing game from Macrospace.  It is a mission-based adventure, following the good king Galamar and his troops, battling the forces of   Valadorn, the monarch's evil twin brother.No points for plot originality, but the turn-based gameplay, is classic Final Fantasy with a hint of GameBoy Advance bestseller Advance Wars.Each allied unit has contrasting strengths and weaknesses, and they must work collectively to defeat the enemy monsters. Further depth comes from your ability to occupy castles and townhouses, which produce gold and heal your troops. Misty-eyed fans of Japanese RPGs from the early 90s will be in their element. And with more than eight hours of gameplay, it is no mean challenge, either.
Microsoft has reversed its decision to sever support for its Windows 98 operating system from Friday.The software giant said it was prompted to make a u-turn after it emerged that some developing countries where Windows 98 is still widely used, including Kazakhstan, Ivory Coast and Slovenia, were not aware of the deadline.Microsoft's rethink means that users of Windows 98 and Windows 98 SE will now be supported until June 30 2006, until which time the company will offer paid phone support and review security threats to determine whether it will provide customers with security patches.About 20% of all Windows-based computers still run Windows 95 or 98, according to International Data Corporation, a technology market research firm. Support for Windows 95 ended on December 31 2001.A Microsoft spokesman, Matt Pilla, said: 
"While we've done an excellent job communicating our life cycle policy for most of our products, we have found that we could use more time to communicate those guidelines in a handful of smaller markets."Microsoft's move is also likely to be a reaction to the threat of losing customers who switch to the freely available Linux operating system.The technology news website ZDNet UK quotes Lars Ahlgren, a senior marketing manager at Microsoft, as saying that Microsoft is hoping that by extending support for its older operating systems, customers will stick with the company's products in future."The more they are used to working one way, the more &#91;it is&#93; likely they will want to continue working that way, so it plays to our advantage," Mr Ahlgren is quoted as saying.In October 2002 Microsoft extended the period of support for new products from four years to seven years.
"The company that manages the Internet's core directory  and has been criticized for trying to take undue advantage of its position  has been hired to perform a similar role in the developing system for radio-frequency identification tags on consumer products," reportsAP."VeriSign was selected as the directory manager by EPCglobal, a venture formed to administer the radio-frequency tagging network that is expected to begin replacing bar codes as product identifiers over the rest of the decade."
"The findings of the first World Internet Project report present an image of the average Netizen that contrasts with the stereotype of the loner 'geek' who spends hours of his free time on the Internet and rarely engages with the real world," reportsReuters."Instead, the typical Internet user is an avid reader of books and spends more time engaged in social activities than the non-user, it says. And, television viewing is down among some Internet users by as much as five hours per week compared with Net abstainers, the study added."
Microsoft is starting to get a bit more serious about the threat of Linux. It has put a page ofThe Factsabout TCO (Total Cost of Ownership) online to support its latestadvertising campaign. And asCNetalso reports, it is expected to give away "a new version of Services for Unix (SFU), a collection of tools that help Windows systems to work with installations based on the Unix operating system and its open-source derivative, Linux."Comment: I always thought SFU stood for something else --Simon Fraser University, in Vancouver, BC.
Kodak, the world's largest photography company, is to stop producing traditional 35mm cameras because of the rise of digital technology, it announced yesterday.The company took its decision as digital cameras outsold film cameras in the US for the first time last year.There were 12.5m digital cameras sold, compared with only 12.1m film cameras, according to the US-based Photo Marketing Association.Bernard Masson, president of Kodak's digital and film imaging systems division, said: "Kodak will remain committed to manufacturing and marketing the world's highest quality film."We will focus our film investments on opportunities that provide faster and attractive returns, while reducing investments where we   see unsatisfactory returns."The firm will stop selling 35mm cameras in western Europe and the US from the end of the year, but will continue production in Asia, Latin America and eastern Europe, where demand is still growing.It will continue to produce 35mm disposable cameras, which remain popular in Europe and the US.Kodak also announced yesterday it was halting production of Advanced Photo System, or APS, cameras, which take photographs in three alternative shapes.The APS format was launched in 1996 to rekindle interest in consumer photography but has failed to live up to expectations.Digital cameras have made huge advances since they emerged in the 90s. Prices have fallen to below &#163;100, while the quality of the pictures has improved.
Oracle boss Larry Ellison, one of the world's richest men, has married for the fourth time, reportsReuters. The lovely bride is 35-year-old romance novelist Melanie Craft, who has a home sitehere. The couple have been an item since 1996.
A ban is not the answer to concerns about the use of the latest mobile phone technology in the murky world of child pornography, said a leading internet consultant in response to the headteacher who forbade his pupils to use video phones in school.Headteacher Tony McCourt of St Aidan's secondary school in Ashbrooke, Sunderland, today has prohibited the use of mobile phones with cameras at school for fear that images may be used on the internet by paedophiles.His action comes after yesterday's publication of a report by John Carr, internet consultant for children's charity NCH, that a rise in child pornography can be attributed to the increasing use of the internet.When asked his response to St Aidan's ban, Mr Carr said about the new generation of mobile phones: "The charity believes that both children and adults need to be better educated about their use, and that a blanket ban is not the answer."Mobile telephones with cameras will increasingly become a reality and we need to work to find practical solutions."Mr McCourt said there was no concrete evidence that images of his pupils had been used for nefarious purposes by pornographers. He told BBC Radio Newcastle: "We want to prevent the unexpected happening. It's not a draconian measure, we just feel it is common sense."Mr McCourt said the popularity of sending picture messages to other mobile users was hard to fight among his pupils, particularly as it was being promoted by the England football captain David Beckham.A spokesperson for Vodafone, the network whose campaigns feature Beckham, said: "We support the judicious use of mobile phones. If the teacher thinks the best way to control the use of mobile phones in his school is to ban them, then we're not going to turn around and say that's wrong."
The Calder Valley in West Yorkshire is famous for being the poet Ted Hughes's birthplace, having an outstanding annual writing conference and being a slightly eccentric area with an ex-hippie-commune feel about it. Now one of the valley's several market towns, Hebden Bridge, is set to become known for pioneering technology developments in the world of broadband.This is because the Hebden Bridge community has set up Britain's first cooperative internet service provider (ISP). There are some local ISPs around Britain already, but this co-op version, funded almost entirely without government money, could threaten the very core of BT's future communications business and provide a shining light for like-minded people throughout the country.The difference between Hebden Bridge's co-op and other local ISPs is that it will provide an even cheaper broadband service, in addition to locally generated news and information. And with a newly installed wireless system, this West Yorkshire community could ultimately bypass the traditional phone system entirely, allowing villagers to phone each other without using the BT network at all. And it's all done on a non-profit basis so that the savings for the co-op members are as high as possible.This kind of ground-breaking telecommunication model has put a spotlight on the town. "It shows the power of community," says Clive Mayhew-Begg, the CEO and founder of My-Zones Europe Ltd, the technology provider for the project. "It's back to the whole concept of cooperative buying and proves that you don't need to be an AOL to get the best price in the marketplace."You can be a group of local people and get the best prices and also have the local value-added aspect, which is really important," he adds. Mayhew-Begg believes as many as 200 similar communities in the UK could soon follow the Hebden Bridge model.It was just a year ago that the wheels were inadvertently set in motion for the co-op ISP to become reality. A number of people were eager to sign up for broadband, but were prevented by BT, which only upgrades local telephone exchanges if take-up of the service can be guaranteed. In the case of Hebden Bridge that meant 500 connections, which for a small rural community is too high.So Mark Harrison, an IT consultant who has lived in the town for many years, and some fellow home-workers formed an action group to lobby BT to change its policy. Harrison and his net-savvy group of residents were frustrated with the slowness of their dial-up internet connections and he feared that without broadband the thriving small business community in the area might begin to disperse and hurt the micro economy.The group lobbied hard but admit they were surprised when in May BT lowered the upgrade trigger to 300 connections. "Our jaws dropped slightly when we realised that the pressure we had put on BT had worked," says Harrison. This meant that broadband was now available to all 10,000 phone lines in the Hebden Bridge area.However, the action group felt this victory was not enough. Instead of disbanding, they decided to go a step further and take control of their own broadband, and Britain's first cooperative ISP was born.The project was set up using an initial &#163;70 from co-op shares (&#163;1 per member), a &#163;600 grant from the town council, a donation of &#163;5,000-worth of broadband and wireless equipment from the technology supplier MyZones and lots of help from Harrison and others, the latter estimated to be worth as much as &#163;40,000.Now, seven months after the creation of 3-C (Calder Connect Co-operative), it is providing service to 80 members in Hebden Bridge for &#163;15 to &#163;20 a month, depending on whether members want a fixed-line connection or a (cheaper) wireless connection to broadband.Today the co-op has 320 members, 200 of them from neighbouring Mytholmroyd. It expects the whole town to sign up for 3-C once BT upgrades Mytholmroyd's telephone exchange in February. The co-op aims to have 1,000 broadband users by the end of 2004, many of them using wireless hotspot technology (Wi-Fi) to share 2-megabit bandwidth connections. Harrison, 3-C's chairman, thinks that through word-of-mouth and locally printed flyers locals up and down the Calder Valley will choose 3-C over other, commercial ISPs.The savings for members - as much as &#163;10 per month cheaper than BT Openworld broadband - will also mean that a higher percentage of low income homes will be able to afford the service than in other areas of the country. "Through the power of the co-op we want to get into people's homes that wouldn't normally have this kind of high-speed connection to the web, so we can raise people's skills and raise the threshold of who is able to get the service," says Harrison.There is now a huge buzz around Hebden Bridge as it discovers the power of its own community, says Harrison. Even Stephen Timms, the e-commerce minister, sent a message of support to the recent day of wireless broadband demonstrations in the town."The real value for the consumer is that the co-op will develop value-added services that you will never get from BT," says MyZones' Mayhew-Begg. "It's a value proposition. It's a threat to BT and the commercial ISPs and it's an evolution of the net because it enables a different level of services than if they were just bought individually off commercial suppliers."But not everyone believes co-op ISPs are the way forward. "I see what they are doing in Hebden Bridge as positive because it is good for the community, but I don't see it as sustainable," says Jane Moch, ICT/broadband development manager for the Northamptonshire Partnership, which is bringing broadband to rural communities in that county through public/private partnerships."Community broadband networks start out because telecommunication companies are not interested or not able to drive services into an area," says Moch. "If you drive forward by developing a community broadband network, you end up being a telecommunications company - and by becoming a telco you take on all the overhead and the business burdens and the commercial needs of a telco and so it is quite likely to fall apart."There have been some high-profile failures of community ISPs, such as Invisible Networks in Cambridgeshire. Invisible, headed by Chris Nuttall, the man behind internet pioneer Pipex, became insolvent in October. But Harrison says the co-op approach in the Calder Valley should prevent the kind of difficulties experienced by for-profit ISPs."The co-op buys the wholesale broadband from BT, and My Zones does the backed provision of service and the authentication of users," says Harrison. "We have also built in a chunk of money for staff and the co-op will likely have two employees."Harrison says 3-C will tap into government funding schemes, such as West Yorkshire Social Enterprise, and believes customer support issues can be dealt with through a local co-op volunteer programme. "Most of this has been built through volunteer time and social energy," he says. "It's possible because this is a bit of an eccentric valley. Hebden Bridge is the only place I know that has a Christmas party for people who work from home."Harrison's can-do approach includes thinking big about how 3-C can earn money consulting for other communities wanting to set up co-operative ISPs. "Even though this is happening in a small valley in rural West Yorkshire, potentially it could be replicated throughout local communities in the UK," he says.The Hebden Bridge project is helping to fulfil the government's Broadband Britain strategy and provides an example of why the new super-regulator Ofcom is looking very closely at BT's wholesale pricing, making sure the operator is not stifling demand.And what is BT's view of the initiative? "There are a whole range of different initiatives happening," says a spokesman, "and from BT's point of view they all increase the visibility of broadband in the market. They are just one of 200-plus ISPs that retail our wholesale product."
Demand for child pornography on the internet has led to an increase in sex abuse cases, it was claimed today.Children's charity NCH - formerly National Children's Homes - said there was evidence that the 1,500% rise in child pornography cases since 1988 would be reflected in more children being abused to produce the pictures."The scale of the problem has changed beyond recognition in just over a decade," said NCH's internet consultant John Carr."The increased demand has made child pornography into big business and the consequences for children in all parts of the world are horrifying."549 people were charged or cautioned with child pornography offences in 2001 compared to just 35 in 1988, the charity said.The figures for 2002 are expected to rise even higher with the impact of Operation Ore, the police investigation into 6,500 Britons alleged to have used credit cards to download child pornography from a Texas-based website.To date, 54 children in England and Wales have been taken into care as a result of the investigation.Despite the attempts to clamp down on child pornography users through credit card details, peer-to-peer file-sharing software such as KaZaA, Morpheus and Grokster now allows images to be accessed anonymously and for free.Police told the Guardian in November that the scale of peer-to-peer traffic in illegal images of children dwarved almost any other paedophile network they had encountered.NCH said the internet had also increased the volume of child sex abuse pictures in the hands of individual paedophiles and it was now common for suspects to be arrested with tens of thousands of images on their computers.In 2003, one man in Lincolnshire was found with 450,000 images and another in New York had 1,000,000.NCH today warned that the trade would become more widespread and difficult to combat with the use of mobile phones that can access the internet.Child welfare professionals are worried that paedophiles will use the third generation mobile technology to access child sex sites, take pictures of sex with children and trade in images of abuse. Prepaid phones cannot be traced as there is no record of who owns the handset.There is also a risk that children could be groomed for abuse while accessing chat rooms by mobile phone without parental supervision."With the old, fixed internet, one of the cornerstones was encouraging parents to supervise what their children did," Mr Carr said."That is far more difficult if children can get access to the internet from anywhere by mobile phone."Only Hutchison 3G has so far launched the new phones in the UK, but all the other mobile phone companies plan to roll them out over the coming year.A spokesman for O2, which, alongside other UK mobile operators, is developing technology to bar any inappropriate web content on a child's mobile phone, said the company had launched a safety and awareness campaign for children and parents."We can do our bit educating parents but they have got to be aware of the downside - there has to be some degree of responsibility on the part of parents or guardians," he said.Peter Spindler, head of Scotland Yard's paedophile unit, said the police recognised such new phones were another way of accessing, storing and transmitting indecent images of children but warned against overreacting.NCH called for more government funding for child pornography investigations.It said that many paedophiles acknowledged that exposure to child sex images fuelled their fantasies and played an important part in leading them to commit physical sexual offences against children.
When billionaires such as Pierre Omidyar, the founder of eBay, start to invest millions of dollars in websites based around a quirky 60s psychology experiment, it is time to pay attention. US social psychologist Stanley Milgram first tried his now famous Six Degrees of Separation experiment in 1961, but he could never have foreseen a day when a medium called the internet would enable it to be proved on a daily basis - but that is exactly what is happening.In what's become known as online social networking, sites help users to meet like-minded people by getting friends to invite friends and discover other friends with similar interests and backgrounds. Early versions of these sites were purely for dating and socialising, but have rapidly evolved into online hubs where users can contact networks of peers for information on     products and services.While most of these sites have seen steady organic growth, in the past six months they have also attracted the attention of Silicon Valley's Sand Hill Road venture capital community. Online social networks Friendster.com and Tribe.net have in recent weeks between them won investment of nearly $20m (11m).One of the longest running social networks is British-born. Everyone's Connected was founded by six friends in February 2002, and it is a testimony to online social networking that it has never had a formal launch but was recommended by the six co-founders to a few of their friends. Through word of mouth, it now has 115,000 members, with around 6m pages a month, and is     growing at 25% a quarter.Fred Murphy, one of its co-founders, says it was initially thought of as a dating site, but quickly moved away from that. "It's now a community of people you know and people they know," he says. "It overlaps a great deal with your life offline. You might find that people you half-know from a conversation at a dinner party will be in your online network of friends' friends or vice-versa."The fear that Everyone's Connected is just a bunch of guys with a smart application but a weak business plan is allayed by their claim that the site currently breaks even just from banner advertising. Last month, too, digital agency DNA made a strategic investment in the business. Chris Perry, managing director of DNA, believes that Everyone's Connected gives his company     proximity to consumers. "We see this area as a significant development in terms of the evolution of online relationships and the commercial opportunities around that," he explains. "It will help us and our clients to understand how we can develop potential relationships with consumers and sell to them in this social environment."Perry also thinks the service can be effectively licensed by Everyone's Connected for many sectors including charities, book clubs and even old school reunion sites such as Friends Reunited. Steve Pankhurst, who founded Friends Reunited, isn't worried about being superseded by a social networking site. He has had conversations with Everyone's Connected about offering its service, but has decided to run the service inhouse to his 10m-strong database of consumers in the near future. "I've been intrigued by the six degrees of separation idea because, from the day we founded the site, I could see the worth of having one place online with all your contacts."Pankhurst is less certain about the large sums of money being bandied about and the premise on which the figures are staked. Friendster.com, a free trial service, is already being valued at more than $50m by Silicon Valley venture capitalists. "They're going through the same mistakes made before &#91;during the dotcom boom&#93; by pumping money into something without a proven business plan."This is what is so interesting about the involvement not just of venture capitalists, but traditional newspaper groups including the Knight Ridder and the Washington Post Company, which last month each took a stake, via their respective digital divisions, in Tribe.net, a six-month-old start-up with 82,000 members.That investment has been taken with the express belief that online social networks could be the future of traditional classified advertising. The thought is that younger, web-savvy consumers who are not regular newspaper readers will use these networks to research commercial products and services for which "small ads" are traditionally used.The chief executive of Tribe, Mark Pincus, says he and his two co-founders envisioned the site as a classified marketplace, focusing on what he calls private party transactions or person-to-person classifieds as against the traditional business-to-consumer which newspapers carry. Pincus points to the early success of eBay with person-to-person transactions as the tip of the iceberg. "There's huge opportunity. The local private party classifieds market has just started to grow."Knight Ridder Digital says its decision to take a stake was aided by proprietary research, which showed that as many as one in two Americans have made a person-to-person transaction in the past year. Ross Settles, vice-president of strategic marketing at Knight Ridder Digital, says the company realised that people were making these small-ticket transactions not on a price basis but on the basis of personal trust and security that a social network of friends and their friends can offer compared to a newspaper ad from a total stranger. "We believe we can augment our existing classified marketplace and it gives us an understanding of consumer behaviour."He is less clear about how online social networking person-to-person classifieds will be integrated into Knight Ridder's existing classified model. "We're still watching this space. We might for instance have classified ads from traditional advertisers integrated into relevant Tribe discussion groups."Everyone's Connected sees person-to-person classified ads as part of the mix and the site has just launched what it calls a "Two Link Times" newspaper, where users can see all ads from friends within two links from themselves.But this is still early days for online social networking and Everyone's Connected and Tribe might find the same problem that has haunted many a media-focused web business - how to get consumers' heads round to the idea of paying.Pincus accepts it will be a challenge to get consumers who join for fun and dating to see the site as a marketplace. But, he says, even the big guys didn't start out big. "Ebay didn't start that way. Craig's List took seven years to become a list. It's not easy but it's do-able. The number one thing you need to transact with strangers is trust, which is why online social networks work."&#183;Yinka Adegoke is deputy editor of New Media Age
Children who buy the latest mobile phones with internet access are to be barred from using adult services in an attempt to shield them from pornography and gambling and protect them from paedophiles, the Guardian has learned.The new regulations, agreed by the six largest mobile phone operators in the UK, Orange, O2, T-Mobile, Virgin, Vodaphone and 3, will stop them entering chatrooms, porn sites and gambling services. The move follows pressure from child protection charities for the industry to prevent the spread of internet paedophile activity.The code of practice means that the companies must ensure a customer is over 18 before allowing them to buy a phone with unlimited access to the internet. The regulations will come into force later this year. Processes for dealing with illegal content, including child pornography, will be agreed with the police by the end of 2004.FiltersRob Borthwick, public policy executive of Vodaphone, said: "Our aim is to ensure there are safeguards in place before there's a mass market in phones with internet access. All our mobiles will be fitted with filters to block adult content, including pornography, gambling and chatrooms. You will have to verify that you are 18 or over in order to get them lifted."Because of the legal rules governing contracts, children can usually only buy mobile phones that work with pre-paid vouchers. But this has not limited the purchase of handsets by young people.Almost 60% of secondary school pupils and 20% of primary school pupils now own a handset. The new generation of phones, which allow users to access the internet, send emails and take photographs, is swiftly gaining popularity.A spokeswoman for Virgin mobile said the industry wanted to prevent paedophiles from using the phones to groom children for abuse, as they do in internet chatrooms.The move has been welcomed by the charity NCH Action for Children, which today published a report warning of the dangers posed by mobile phones with internet access. "With the integration of the internet and mobile phone services, the days of handsets being sold to anyone without proof of their age and identity cannot continue," said the charity's internet adviser, John Carr.Rachel O'Connell, director of the Cyberspace Research Unit at the University of Central Lancashire, said the measures should significantly reduce the risk of paedophiles in chatrooms encouraging children to use the new phones to take and send on suggestive photos of themselves or their friends. "This also reduces the risk of abduction, as a photo could show where a child is," said Ms O'Connell, a member of the Home Office taskforce on internet child protection.Last year Phillip Bugler, a married male nurse, was jailed for four years for having unlawful sex with a teenage girl he had met in a chatroom. The girl had dialled the chatroom on her mobile. Her parents said they had supervised her computer use but had no idea she was using her mobile in such a way.Further anxiety about the use of the new technology has been caused by the experience of Japan, where use of the new 3G phones is widespread, particularly among teenagers.ProstitutionA quarter of Japan's 75 million mobile phone users are expected to be using 3G by early next year. Industry experts say that more than 90% of child prostitution cases involved the use of internet-equipped mobile phones. Japanese parents are also concerned about online dating. Though intended for adults, dating sites have quickly become a cover for paedophilia and child prostitution. In March last year, an internet-crime watchdog reported that 22% of Japanese girls and 18% of boys aged 15-18 had accessed such sites using mobile phones. Alarmingly, more than 40% of the girls said they had met face-to-face with men they had chatted with online.Police statistics show that about half of all crimes related to online dating involved child prostitution, with girls in their early teens among the victims.The police found, to widespread horror, that more than 90% of the crimes had been initiated by the girls themselves. In a practice euphemistically known as enjo kosai, or "compensated dating", the victims offer sexual services in exchange for money or gifts. "I want to try real sex. I'm bored with playing with myself. Somebody with lots of yen please make me feel good," wrote one girl's solicitation. "Awaiting messages from high school girls short of pocket money," wrote a male visitor to a dating site.As the Japanese authorities struggle to monitor dating sites, recent advances in mobile phone technology promise to make it even easier for children to view pornography, and for men to prey on under-age girls. A similar trajectory is anticipated in Britain where the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) has warned that with the development of mobile internet services the police would need more resources to keep up with internet paedophiles.Stuart Hyde, Acpo spokesman on combating child abuse on the internet and assistant chief constable of West Midlands police, called for the government to fund regional centres dedicated to investigating internet paedophiles. "As we move from the web to internet mobiles, we must have a permanent national team dedicated to tackling internet child abuse and more regional resources otherwise we risk losing the initiative."Currently only three of the 43 police forces in England and Wales specialise in such investigations - Greater Manchester, the West Midlands and the Metropolitan police.
"One of the first products to come out of [Intel's consumer] effort will be the Entertainment PC, or EPC, a fully-fledged Windows XP Media Center PC that more closely resembles a VCR. There is no keyboard, and people operate it with a remote control. Instead of having its own screen, it sits on top of a television set. Ideally, consumers will use these as a vault for storing music, viewing pictures or video, or recording TV programs just as a TiVo box does," reportsCNet."Intel designed the machine but is licensing it to PC makers."Comment: presumably this will be something like the UK-designed Media Center PCs from companies such asHugh Symons Computing Solutions....
"Ronald L. Rivest, the R in the public key encryption system RSA, which he helped invent, and Silvio Micali, whose honors include the 1993 Gdel Prize in theoretical computer science, founded Peppercoin (www.peppercoin.com) and introduced it commercially in December. Peppercoin hopes to reduce online merchants' transaction costs substantially, particularly the number of credit card charges they pay."The New York Times[free reg req'd] has the story.
You only have until "10:00 PM Eastern Standard Time (GMT-5) on Monday, January 12" to nominate your favourite blog for thefourth annual Web Log Awards.
Last week saw the annual Macworld exhibition, held this year in San Francisco. As usual, its highlight was the keynote address by Steve Jobs, Apple's mercurial CEO. Macworld is part trade-show and part revivalist meeting, because Apple users (of whom this columnist is one) tend to be passionate about their view of computing.The Jobs speech is therefore a strange event - somewhere between the sermon on the mount and Henry V's speech before Agincourt. He comes on dressed in jeans and a black turtleneck and spends two hours explaining to the faithful his vision of the future and Apple's role in it.This year, his theme was digital music and video. The main product release at the show was a miniature version of Apple's delectable iPod MP3 player. (Jobs also announced a high-end server machine which marks Apple's foray into territory hitherto occupied by boring old outfits like Sun, IBM and HP, but this was a sideshow compared with the multimedia stuff.)To geeks who slaver over new hardware, this looked like pretty thin gruel, but the strategy implicit in Jobs's speech is very interesting. Basically, he is betting the company on making it easy for users to create, manipulate and publish digital content.Why is this interesting?Lots of reasons. First, Jobs has a good track record as a visionary. He was the driving force, for example, behind the Apple Macintosh (launched 20 years ago this year and still the most innovative personal computer the industry has produced).Second, Apple is in the same relative position now as it was in 1986-7, when it became clear that the business world preferred the grey, pedestrian angularity of the IBM PC architecture to the chic, designer-friendly Mac with its bit-mapped screen, resizable windows and mouse-driven interface.Then, Apple was marginalised in the corporate market but saved by the arrival of desktop publishing software and the laser printer, for which the Mac was a perfect tool - which explains why even today the design and art departments of most companies are stuffed with Apple kit.Time moves on, and the corporate world is still almost as suspicious of Apple Macs as it was in 1986. But technological advances in the consumer electronics market have opened up a huge new   opportunity which Jobs has spotted and is in pole position to exploit.The key shift is that consumers are now in a position to generate or acquire lots of digital content, and they want to do things with it without having to acquire a PhD in computer science. Ripping CDs into MP3 files is now commonplace - as is file-sharing and CD-burning. Digital cameras (both standalone and integrated into mobile phones) are producing terabytes of digital imagery every day. Ditto digital camcorders.These changes are transforming 'ordinary' people from being passive consumers of multi-media content (CDs, videos, DVDs) into active producers of content which they want to manipulate and share.Under Jobs, Apple's strategy has been to provide tools that make it easy to do all this. Consequently, all Macs come with iTunes (for ripping, mixing and burning CDs), iPhoto (for   managing digital photographs), iMovie (for editing home movies) and iDVD (for authoring DVDs).Want to make a home movie? Just do the filming, then hook up the camera to a Mac. IMovie grabs the video and chops it into separate sequences which can then be drag-and-dropped into a linear film. It provides tools for DIY captioning, transitions and adding music and stills (from your iTunes and iPhoto libraries, naturally) and then lets you write the edited film onto DVD. Any fool can do it (believe me, I know).It's desktop multimedia and Steve Jobs thinks it's the future. Which explains why, at the moment, Apple is the only outfit doing it right.
"HP's blockbuster deal with Apple will have one exciting side effect, I discovered today. The company will be working with Apple to add support for Microsoft's superior Windows Media Audio (WMA) format to the iPod by mid-year. You heard it here first," writes Paul Thurrott in his dailyWinInfonewsletter.Second update: According toWired, HP isnotgoing to do WMA for its version of the iPod, but the actual quote says: "We're not going to be supporting WMA for now." This appears to leave open the possibility that it might do so in the future.Update: According to a Microsoft press release,here, more than 500 different devices support WMA, and sales of WMA devices now total more than 4 million. WMA is also used by most music download services. Adding WMA capabilities would therefore give users a wider choice of download services and a much wider choice of compatible add-ons, including DVD players.
With his huge personal wealth and ultra-successful company, there probably isn't much that keeps Bill Gates awake at nights. But right now there is an issue that may occasionally jolt him awake in the wee small hours, and that is that Microsoft desperately needs a hit.While the company is all-pervasive in the PC software market, when it has experimented with other form factors or tried to migrate its software on to other platforms it has seriously underperformed. The last two years have seen a string of Microsoft innovations yet none have really chimed with the technology-buying public.Take Smart Displays, LCD monitors that can moonlight as web tablets when they are plucked from their base station. Launched in a blaze of hype two years ago, Microsoft was so unsuccessful at attracting manufacturers to build the monitors that it recently pulled the plug on the project.Then there's Tablet PCs, another product from 2002. They might have sold reasonably well, but any pretence that they would be the template for the product to replace the laptop seems quite laughable. The jury is also out on Microsoft's Smartphone operating system - now re-christened Windows Mobile - which hasn't taken the market share some analysts were predicting it would.Nevertheless it was an upbeat Gates who delivered his keynote speech to the faithful at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas this week. Gates spent much of his speech highlighting three new(ish) products he hopes will prove that Microsoft really can cut it away from the PC.The bad news for Microsoft is that, at least from a European perspective, the jury is out on all three.CES 2004 saw the debut in the stores of Microsoft's first foray into the wristwatch market. Its Smart Personal Object Technology (Spot) watches can be customized by their owners to receive snippets of information, like news or weather sent via spare FM capacity not used by radio stations.But while they might sell well in the US, the watches are far too gimmicky for a European market that generally values the look and feel of a timepiece over its functionality. Even if Europeans were prepared to cough up 130 for the watch itself, they are unlikely to want to pay the 5.40 a month to access the services, especially when much of the information Spot pulls in is already available on their mobile phone. Microsoft hasn't set a date for a European launch for Spot but it is rumoured to be early summer.Another key innovation for Microsoft is the Portable Media Centre, carry anywhere audiovisual devices that feature a large screen, a 20-60 gigabyte hard disk and video/audio playing software. Microsoft believes that when the product launches in the summer, users will cherish the way in which they can access at least 20 of their favourite movies with the flick of a switch.Once again it is hard to see this type of device, which analysts call a personal video player, really shifting in the way that hard disk audio players like Apple's iPod have. Do users really want to trade their dinky audio iPod for a larger device just so that they can watch a few minutes of their favourite TV programme on the Tube? Probably not, and ironically for Microsoft, very few PC users have movies stored on their hard disk that aren't illegal versions of the films they have downloaded using systems KaZaa.It speaks volumes that Apple is supposed to have been working on a video version of iPod, yet chose to bring a smaller audio player to market this week rather than a product to challenge Microsoft. Sony too has been slow off the mark in this area. It has a personal video player on sale in Japan, but surprised consumer electronics analysts by not unveiling versions for the US and European markets at CES.So perhaps Microsoft's best hope of a hit is the enhanced version of its Media Centre PCs it announced on Wednesday. Launched in the US over a year ago, Media Centre PCs are stuffed with entertainment applications such as a TV tuner and hard disk-based video recording software, all controlled by a dedicated interface operated by a remote control handset.Initial sales proved very disappointing, though the second-generation model that came onto the market in the autumn has apparently sold four times as many as its predecessor. Still four times a very low figure is still a small amount.What Microsoft needs is a compelling reason for consumers to upgrade to Media Centre PCs, and on Wednesday it may have delivered it. Gates unveiled the Media Centre Extender, a device designed to connect to a TV and which ferries the cool content stored on a PC  to the living room entertainment system over a wired or wireless network. Several manufacturers, including Dell and HP, have lined up to make the box, which will go on sale in late summer and retail for just 65. Microsoft also announced LCD televisions with the extender built in and a Media Centre Extenders kit for X-box games console owners.Microsoft deserves praise for the simple way in which the device can be set up and operated. Yet will they tempt PC buying punters into upgrading? Despite a flood of similar devices from consumer electronics and PC makers, there doesn't appear to be a huge amount of hard evidence that consumers are keen to access their content in the living room as well as on their PC. The concept of a media server hosting all a consumer's media content that can be piped to screens and speakers throughout a home will surely establish itself in the long run. That moment could still be many years away, but then Microsoft has pretty deep pockets.
Despite a slump in console purchases during the festive period, the games industry was rewarded with bumper software sales last year, worth 1.26bn in the UK alone, and is now gearing up for new challenges in 2004.The drive for greater "mainstreaming" of games occurred in the latter part of 2003 and looks set to continue with force, particularly in mobile and handheld gaming. This will be aided in no small part by Sony's new handheld, the PlayStation Portable (PSP), which should have a worldwide release this November. In an interview with playstation.com, Chris Deering, the  president of Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, extolled the virtues of what has been dubbed the "walkman of the 21st century", claiming that its video-quality game technology, MP3 player, memory stick and numerous other features will make it "a very handy thing to have and something which will be very fashionable to be seen with".The UK will also see two new trade and consumer gaming shows this year. The first is Games Stars Live and comes in the wake of ITV's Game Stars TV show last year, the first ever televised computer games awards ceremony. The Live event, which is being sponsored by Capital FM and the videogame retailer Game, will take place in September at the ExCel exhibition centre in Docklands and will showcase the Christmas 2004 gaming line-up alongside other lifestyle attractions and entertainment.Although hardcore gamers may balk at the idea of their hobby being "popped"-up in such a way, it is indicative of the growing trend to draw attention to games as a mainstream entertainment form. Scott Dodkins, chairman of the Entertainment &amp; Leisure Software Publishers Association (Elspa), says: "The time was right to introduce a high profile consumer event in the UK, with enough clout to attract visitors from all over the country."Alongside Game Stars Live, Elspa will be running its own show, the European Games Network, which is set to have more of an emphasis on the trade and development side of the games industry and will focus on presentations, conferences and workshops. The EGN/Game Stars show will be going head-to-head against the long running European Computer Trade Show, traditionally held at Earl's Court and which, for the past two years, featured Sony's consumer-oriented PlayStation Experience. But since marketing money is limited, 2004 is shaping up to be a battleground between the old and new shows.Of course, there would not even be an industry without the games and 2004 will definitely be the year of the big sequel with Doom 3, Half-Life 2, Thief 3, Deus Ex Invisible War, Halo 2 and Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow all scheduled to appear. These titles are an interesting indication in themselves of the drive towards a more mainstream perspective. Four of these titles come from successful PC franchises and their sequels have been multi-platform, while two of the aforementioned do not have a number in their title (Deus Ex and Splinter Cell) , which suggests that they are intended not to alienate people who have not played the previous games.On a more somber note, with 23 European studios shutting down last year (including Lost Toys, Mucky Foot and Computer Artworks in the UK), it has been a rather rocky time, particularly for smaller developers. The emphasis on giving games a higher profile, new platforms and trade shows could certainly provide some buoyancy this year and perhaps reverse the trend. It would be nice if 2004 gave home-grown talent the opportunities and enthusiasm it needs to flourish.Official UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Need for Speed Underground (PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - 39.992) The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run (PS2, Xbox, GC) VU Games - 37.993) Medal of Honor: Rising Sun (PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - 37.994)	Fifa 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, PL) Electronic Arts - 34.995)	LOTR: Return of the King (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA) Electronic Arts - 34.996) The Sims: Bustin' Out (Ps2, Xbox, GC, GBA) Electronic Arts - 37.997)Grand Theft Auto III: Double Pack (XB, PS2) Take 2 - 39.998)	True Crime: Streets of LA (PS2, Xbox, GC) Activision - 37.999) Norton Internet Security 2004 (PC) Symantec - 29.9910)	Tony Hawk's Underground
