Two momentous events in the past week: the clothes retailer TK Maxx admitted that millions of credit card details were stolen through its systems; and EMI decided that people might be prepared to pay more for less encryption (and better quality) on the music they buy online. Are those trends heading in opposite directions? Was it TK Maxx that had the right idea, in encrypting customers' card details? Or is it EMI, unlocking the shackles - although at a price - on the files that are its lifeblood, and offering better-quality sound than you would usually find on, say, a file-sharing network?The odd thing about credit card details is that although they're meant to be incredibly secret, the reality is that they're not. A few weeks ago I met a security expert who once stumbled across a criminals' site, which they used to check whether a stolen card had been reported or compromised. Yes, he was a security expert, but human too: "You cannot believe," he said, "how difficult it was - how incredibly difficult - not to type my own credit card number in there to check."Because he knew that his number would be added to the database if he checked it. Stolen numbers cost about 25p online. They're a commodity.TK Maxx helped, unfortunately: normally, all the details in a database were encrypted, such as the credit card number, the address, the customer name. But there was a period during a transaction when those details were decrypted - and that was when the Trojan program planted by the criminals captured them. Quite a haul: 45.7m credit and debit card details. There are 750m credit cards circulating in the US, and about 75m in the UK, so the TK Maxx heist nabbed perhaps 5% of the available details. But you don't have to shop at TK Maxx to have your card details ripped off. In the past year, both my wife and I have had card info used for faked purchases - in my case, buying credit from the PartyGaming website.Encryption in databases can't, in the end, offer complete protection for card details. TK Maxx could have devised a system whereby once you gave it your credit card number and other details, nobody would ever see them unencrypted again. You'd run the numbers through a hashing algorithm and store them; when someone gave their card number (perhaps by keying it into a phone or keyboard), it would be hashed and compared with the stored hash. If they match, it's a valid number.But the real problem is the same one that EMI has encountered and which Steve Jobs pointed out in the completely different context of music back in February with hisThoughts on Music. Protection is pointless if what you're trying to protect is freely available elsewhere. Why wrap online music in digital rights software (which essentially encrypts it) if you sell CDs from which anyone can rip that same content? Similarly with credit cards: we talk to people on the phone, and they could be writing down those numbers instead of keying them into the transaction database. The site you make your purchase from could be phishing. What you have to hope is that it's not your turn today.However, I think the solutions to these similar problems lie in different directions. EMI is trying to make us less likely to offer tracks to illicit file-sharing networks by offering a greater sense of ownership in the music you buy. If you spend 99p on a song, you're less likely to want to spread it to all and sundry. It's a gamble that I think will pay off.For credit cards, I think the answer is more numbers - fake ones, to frustrate the hackers. Fill databases of valuable customer information with rubbish, to let the valuable names hide among the cruft. It's far harder to steal a usable number when only one in a hundred is real than when all of them are. The answer there isn't better, but worse quality. We can do that digitally too, you know.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have an eMachines PC and I have not been able to find anywhere in the specification whether the USB ports are 1.1 or 2.0. Will a USB 2.0 pen drive work with a USB 1.1 port? Lewis GriffinThe USB information is available in the Device Manager and via the System Information accessory program.Right-click on My Computer, select Properties, and go to the Hardware tab. Click on Device Manager in the top window, then click the plus sign at the bottom where it says Universal Serial Bus controllers. Any USB 2 ports will probably be labelled USB 2 Enhanced Host Controller.However, the simplest way to find a USB 2 port is to plug in a USB 2 thumb drive: Windows will tell you.If it isn't a USB 2 port, the device should still work, but only at the much slower USB 1.1 speed.
I have done a Restore on my PC and find I now have this toolbar from my service provider, and I can't get an answer from Orange. This sort of thing really angers me, and if I didn't have a contract, would be enough to make me switch. Richard Heckstall-SmithOrange has an article in its knowledge base called: How to uninstall the Orange search toolbar. You can find it by searching Google for "Article ID: kb3247" or clickinghere. Do the removal with only one browser window open, and reboot your PC afterwards.
Is it more or less secure to run two virus protection programs simultaneously? John CansickIt's generally a bad idea to run two anti-virus programs at the same time. These programs generally work at a low level, and some of them do not follow standard programming approaches. (Nor do virus writers, of course.) This can lead to conflicts between the two programs, causing crashes, as well as slowing down your PC. You can still perform double-checks by using a site such asTrend Micro's HouseCall.
I want to upgrade the memory in my Aries 5000 PC. How do I find out what type it is? Nick OngeriIn theory it should tell you in the hardware manual, if there is one. However, theCrucial web sitehas a Memory Advisor Tool and a system scanner that guarantees to tell you. It doesn't list Aries, but it has worked for me. Obviously you could then buy the memory from another site, but you probably won't.
Google's just opened access toMy Maps- a simple way for people to build their own stuff on top of Google Maps.Basically you can add placeholders, text, pictures and video on to the screen, or draw lines and areas. The maps you create can be private or public, and if you have Google Earth installed, you can view it in 3D too. Basic mashups for dummies stuff.It's not alone in the market -Ask Cityis just one example - but it is dead easy to use. I've already started mucking about with it a little, and hopefully will get a chance to play more later. Tell us what you think, or maybe even suggest some mapping projects that we could pitch in with.
US game blog, Kotaku, hascompared the opening four month sales figuresfor a range of recent consoles. The resulting chart shows Wii at the top, then the original Xbox(!). PS3 has the second lowest opening performance after Xbox 360.It's interesting, but all this chart really says is 'no sane industry watcher draws any conclusions from the opening four months'. Take the Xbox sales figure, massively bloated by the availability of Halo - at first you think 'Blimey, PS3 has been out-performed by Microsoft's original anvil of a machine'. But then, looking at Kotaku's second, more comprehensive chart, you see that Xbox actually did better than PS2 in its first few months - and Xbox categorically didn't go on to shift 115 million units.To put things into even better perspective, Dreamcast out-launched PS2. I remember seizing on this fact while working on DC-UK magazine. How I laughed as I was clearing my desk barely a year later.Anyway, interesting viewing and perhaps of some small comfort to Sony as it contemplates the 80% plummet in UK PS3 sales after that record-breaking opening two days.
The following correction was made on Thursday April 5 2007In the article below a paragraph was missed out explaining who veteran internet engineer Richard Bennett was. This has now been corrected.In a much celebrated remark, a senior Bush administration aide told journalist Ron Suskind: "When we act, we create our own reality. And while you're studying that reality, we'll act again, creating other new realities." But with the democratisation of publishing, creating new realities is now a game that everyone can play. Conspiracy theorists have used the web to great effect, with a mini-industry insisting the 9/11 attacks were a US plot. Describing the popularity of such fantasy realities, Alexander Cockburn lamented that "outrage burns in many an American breast, but there's scant outlet for it in the political arena".Where else to turn but the net? Now questions are being asked of one of the most impassioned net-based campaign of all, Save The Internet. Last year, campaigners in the US tried to get Congress to pass pre-emptive legislation needed to protect the internet. But it's a problem many network engineers say doesn't exist. Critics say the campaign generated a reality totally at odds with how the internet works, and the real problems it faces.It's a phenomenon academics have feared for some time, and it challenges one of the most utopian claims made about the internet: that a greater abundance of information leads to greater wisdom. Two economists studying the net found the opposite to be true.Virtual cliques"With the customised access and search capabilities of IT, individuals can arrange to read only news and analysis that align with their preferences," wrote Professors Marshall Van Alstyne and Erik Brynjolfsson inElectronic Communities: Global Village or Cyberbalkans?10 years ago. "Individuals empowered to screen out material that does not conform to their existing preferences may form virtual cliques, insulate themselves from opposing points of view, and reinforce their biases."They noted a tendency for opinions within groups to become polarised. "The effect is not merely a tendency for members to conform to the group average but a radicalisation in which this average moves towards extremes." So what is Net Neutrality, and how come views on it are poles apart? "Thanks to Wikipedia, you can choose between five definitions of Neutrality," rues telecoms lawyer Rhys Williams of Bird and Bird.The neutrality debate typically revolves around fears of abuse of the infrastructure, owned by telecommunications companies, to discriminate against content companies. Fears expressed by one blogger atThe Nationmagazine were typical, predicting "an 'information super highway' for those who pay and a dirt road for those who fail to do so".Campaigners cited remarks made by AT&amp;T chief executive Ed Whitacre, who had apparently threatened to charge large companies more for access. But did he? Google is little help in determining the truth: its search engine returns thousands of blogs which repeat and elaborate on the same story.No one disagrees that America's biggest phone companies are moving into the TV business as rivals to the cable companies. It's an expensive gamble: Verizon has spent $20bn on new fibre infrastructure to deliver 100megabit per second connections into the home. No one disagrees either that today's internet is inadequate for this kind of video service. Verizon and AT&amp;T don't need the bandwidth so much as they need to control the quality of the connection: video is sensitive to delay, and what engineers call "jitter", while email and web pages aren't.But an examination of Whitacre's public statements, without the filter of bloggers, suggests that what he really feared was unbundling. If Google or Yahoo! - both of which wish to enter the internet TV business - had equal access to Verizon's private network, then the business case for new infrastructure investment would vanish. And Verizon would have nothing to show for its multibillion-dollar splurge.The UK's most prominent internet engineer, Professor Jon Crowcroft of Cambridge University, thinks that activists had imagined a bogus demon. "Net Neutrality is a misdirection, a red herring," he says.Save The Internet took full advantage of rational fears, argues veteran internet engineer Richard Bennett, but in doing so, it created "an Intelligent Design for the Left".The gap between fear and reality is even more stark when the technical issues are examined. The Neutrality amendmentsrejected by Congresslast year would have made many of today's private contracts illegal, and outlawed the techniques such as "traffic shaping" that ISPs use to curb bandwidth hogs, says Bennett.Misunderstanding the internetEven worse was the long-term chilling effect. Neutrality would have made designing a better internet much harder, says the man commonly described as the father of the internet.Dr Robert Kahn says that Neutrality legislation poses a fundamental threat to internet research because it misunderstands what the internet really is; it's a network of networks, and experimentation on private networks must be encouraged."The internet has never been neutral," explains Crowcroft. "Without traffic shaping, we won't get the convergence that allows the innovation on TV and online games that we've seen in data and telephony."Last month the Neutrality bandwagon reached Westminster - where it was dismissed in short order. Summing up the consensus at the end of an eForum debate at Millbank, the former Trade Minister Alun Michael described Neutrality as "an answer to problems we don't have, using a philosophy we don't share." And with an echo of Professors Van Alstyne and Brynjolfsson, Michael said the phenomenon reminded him of the Tower of Babel.(The key Neutrality advocates were curiously absent at Westminster: Microsoft has left the campaign, while Google, which declined an invitation to speak to MPs, denied it has distanced itself from the Neutrality cause.)Beyond bloggers' echo chamber, campaigners are realising that the attention paid to Neutrality merely strengthened the hand of the large telcos they fear. Whitacre's ambitious company SBC achieved a merger with AT&amp;T two years ago, that he personally thought would be impossible, and succeeded in passing dozens of video franchising bills at State level completely unchallenged, all while attention was focused on Neutrality. SBC is now AT&amp;T. Van Alstyne and Brynjolfsson's warning now looks prophetic."This voluntary Balkanisation and the loss of shared experiences and values may be harmful to the structure of democratic societies," they wrote. "[We should have] no illusions that a greater sense of community will inexorably result."And the public senses it, too. Last year, the University of South Carolina's annual study of Americans found that the number of people believing the net gives people more say in government declined - and for the first time more people disagreed with the idea the net empowers people.Politicians, beware.&#183;Contact Andrew Orlowski atbadpress.net&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Is your personal computer a member of an international crime syndicate? Before you laugh, consider this: computer security experts believe that at least 10% of home PCs have been recruited into robot networks, or "botnets," under the control of criminals. Botnets are assembled through the distribution of a computer virus over the internet. If the virus finds its way on to your PC - through a downloaded file, say, or a spam email - it secretly installs a few lines of software code on to your hard drive. The hidden program allows your machine to be manipulated by a distant computer.It's long been possible, of course, to control networked PCs from other computers by using popular "remote access" programs like GoToMyPC or LapLink. The crooks who run botnets take this useful capability and twist it to their own nefarious purposes. They turn innocent PCs into remote-controlled zombies.A single botnet can include tens of thousands of computers, and the malicious networks are proliferating rapidly. Vint Cerf, one of the inventors of the internet and now a top Google executive, told the World Economic Forum in February that botnets have become a "pandemic". He estimated that more than 100m PCs have already been infected. Another speaker at the forum, New York Times technology writer John Markoff, added: "It's as bad as you can imagine - it puts the whole internet at risk."Most botnets today are used to distribute spam. A spammer can instruct a mob of hijacked computers to pump out millions of messages simultaneously, and because the messages are sent through the email programs of ordinary citizens, they often slip past spam filters. Botnets are believed to be responsible for at least 80% of all spam.Botnets can be put to far darker purposes as well. The program installed by a botnet virus can, for instance, search a PC's hard drive and monitor its user's keystrokes, gathering private data and sending it back over the internet to its master. In 2006, a network security professional intercepted a large file created by a botnet and examined its contents. He found that it contained sensitive financial information, including credit card numbers and passwords for bank accounts, that had been collected from nearly a thousand infected PCs.Beyond their money-making potential, botnets can also be programmed to wreak havoc on the net itself. A botnet's master can instruct his army of rogue PCs to inundate a commercial or government website with information requests in a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack. Unable to handle the spike in traffic, the site's server often crashes, sometimes bringing down an entire data centre with it. In May 2006, the American blog-publishing firm Six Apart found itself the victim of a DDoS assault by an especially aggressive botnet. Within minutes, the company's servers had crashed, causing the blogs of 10m customers to disappear.The attack, Six Apart discovered, was not aimed at itself but rather at one of its customers, an Israeli firm named Blue Security which had earned the wrath of the web's outlaws by selling a spam-blocking service. The botnet assault went on for days, damaging many other companies and sites. Finally, after two weeks, Blue Security surrendered. "We cannot take the responsibility for an ever-escalating cyber war," its executives said in a statement. The company went out of business that same day.When the internet was originally constructed, it was designed to help researchers collaborate on projects. It was built as an open, largely unregulated system, reflecting an assumption that the people using it would be trustworthy. The network's openness is its greatest strength. But it has also become its greatest vulnerability.The operators of botnets don't just exploit the trust built into the structure of the internet. They exploit the trust of all of us who connect our PCs to it. So far, botnets have been a nuisance. As they become more sophisticated and more widespread, they will be able to do much greater damage. Their ultimate victim may be the internet's openness.&#183;Nicholas Carr's next book will be called The Big Switch. He blogs atroughtype.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
On meeting Mark Anders, the temptation to say, "Let's skip the introductions" is almost irresistible - for he's the senior principal scientist at Adobe Systems, where he's in charge of making Flash "a great platform for building the next generation of rich internet applications".Yes, Flash - that technology that only a few years ago was regularly hated, principally because of corporate websites that would blow half the budget on a fancy animation on the opening page - with an apologetic link saying "Skip Intro" - that would take you to the useful stuff. It's the product that led usability expert Jakob Nielsen to dub it "99% Bad" in anOctober 2000 article: "It makes bad design more likely, it breaks with the Web's fundamental interaction style, and it consumes resources that would be better spent enhancing a site's core value."Anders responds: "Developers loved it, though. It was always very effective for advertising, and over time people used it for new and unique experiences."And everyone has now joined the developers in loving Flash - even if they don't know it. YouTube uses Flash. The photo site Flickr uses Flash.Google's finance pagesgenerate stock graphs built in Flash. Newspaper websites use Flash to illustrate complex timelines or subjects. It's everywhere.So is the difference simply that the spread of broadband made Flash more acceptable, by cutting the delays while files load? Or have people worked out how to do more with it, and so enhance the web in ways they didn't before?Incredibly compact"Flash always had some acceptability," says Anders. "It's incredibly compact for what it does. But if you compare something like Flash with, say, Java - which is a very robust technology - how often do you see Java being used?"Flash has the advantage for the developer that the file created is self contained, and doesn't rely on the browser it's viewed in. As the software designer Jacek Artymiak puts it, Flash "is, in a way, the PDF of interactive multimedia. Both formats are so popular because, for the end user, the efforts that go into achieving the desired results are minimal."How has Flash thrived? "It's a combination of broadband and in the number of people being comfortable with it," says Anders. Flash is the new publishing tool of the century, he argues: "We have let more people publish - whether it's blogging or having a MySpace page, or uploading to YouTube."The Flash Player browser plugin may be the single most widely installed piece of software - and it's cross-platform. The reasons are historical: during the browser wars, Netscape hurried to include the plugin; Microsoft caught up, and Flash was included with Internet Explorer 5 and onwards. Now it has become the standard for streaming video. As Tom Green, professor of interactive multimedia at Humber College in Toronto, notes, the development of video in Flash has been rapid - almost from a standing start in 2000 - to dominance. "Adobe can claim that the Flash Player is on 97.3% of all of the internet-enabled computers in use today. Microsoft's Windows Media Player is on 83% of computers, QuickTime is on about 66%, and Real is hovering at 56%."Part of the reason is ubiquity; but Flash also offers advantages to the end user, and to the content provider. To the first, it offers security: there have barely been any security flaws in the Flash player; the only one outstanding atSecuniais rated "less critical" and has been patched. To content providers, meanwhile, Flash is a one-way medium: you don't find file-sharing networks full of videos or songs ripped from Flash files.Anders see his task as making it easier for people to create and integrate Flash into everything - not just web pages, but also desktop applications or mixtures of the two. To that end, he is trying to improve the quality of the tools available to develop Flash output.He knows why tools matter. In 2004 he joined Macromedia, which had made Flash a known name, having spent nearly 10 years at Microsoft, where he had been the lead designer on the ASP.NET platform. (Adobe bought Macromedia in 2005.) He had noticed that "one of the things that contributed to development for Windows was Visual Basic [the simple programming language]. Even people who weren't developers, just business people with a problem, could do Visual Basic."What Flash needed was an equivalent. That was hard, because it was initially designed as an animation tool, not for programming. "We added behaviours, then a scripting engine, and then it became a full-blown application. Flash didn't really have a developer focus. It always had a creative focus. But I joined to help develop the messaging and tools." Or, as he put it on hisblog: "My prime motivation for joining Macromedia was that I saw a tremendous opportunity to help make building these rich internet apps easier for people like me."Beyond the browserWinning developer confidence matters right now. Microsoft has its eyes on squashing or at least dulling Flash through its Windows Presentation Foundation Everywhere (WPF/E) technology, which uses a form of XML and can be scripted with Javascript: it is cross-platform and works through browser plugins, theoretically creating Flash-like applications that can show video, vector graphics and animations. It's a subset of theWindows Presentation Foundationthat Microsoft wants to be used to build applications that sit as easily on the web as the desktop - or both.Macromedia's, and now Adobe's, response has been Flex, an XML-based system that makes writing Flash applications similar to writing in a programming language. The next step beyond that is a project called Apollo: "The Apollo project is a cross-platform environment that allows developers to build applications that run outside the browser, using HTML, Flash and PDF to build a desktop app." Who wants to do that? "Well, take Google Finance: it gives you a rich interactive chart which is done in Flash. We can imagine using the desktop for things you could take offline."But again, who wants that? "A lot of government agencies use PDF for filling applications - or, say, a mortgage application. We can gather data through a Flash application, and then 'print' to a PDF that you can print or send out. A lot of our customers are telling us that sometimes they want to go beyond the browser, and offline. So with YouTube, you might want to be able to download the video."The fact is, says Anders, that times are changing. "It used to be that everyone wrote Windows applications. Then they moved to the web. People want to write desktop apps which are easy to deploy."But not necessarily in a computer. In December, Anders said: "If you look at what Microsoft is doing with WPF, they say it's really about rich internet applications but actually, I don't think it is, because I think rich internet applications are not about Windows only. I think the internet is about a multitude of machines and you do not always know what they are." For, as he points out to me, "We're on 100m mobile phones. In Japan, DoCoMo has a huge business using Flash."As if 98% of the world's personal computers weren't enough. If you're Mark Anders, that's not enough.Curriculum vitaeAge:47Education:BA in computer science, New York UniversityCareer: 1995Joined Microsoft, where he mainly worked with ASP.NET2004Joined Macromedia, which was later bought by Adobe. Led the Flex builder teamFamily:Married, to Rosemary; they have two parrotsBlog:andersblog.com
Not unless you believe that all adult material should be consigned to an interweb ghetto, because it's not going to be. Last week Icann, the organisation that oversees the allocation of top-level domains (TLD) online, decided not to go ahead with creating .xxx for the adult industry - mostly on the grounds that it was unworkable and would lead to Icann being dragged into content regulation, which is outside its remit.The arguments for creating the .xxx TLD centre around making it easy for parents to block access to porn websites. The opposition to the proposal threw together some unlikely allies. The conservative American Family Research Council opposed the move, as did the Bush administration.And of course the adult industry didn't want to be forced into a virtual red light district, not least because it could require them to change their web addresses. Responsible adult-industry businesses also feared having to share the domain with the more grubby end of the porn spectrum.Those in favour argue that it would force the porn industry to clean up its act. It was suggested, for example, that being granted a .xxx TLD could include the requirement not to include malware on porn websites.The ICM Registry, which supported .xxx, claims the move would safeguard children. Last week its president, Stuart Lawley, said it was "extremely disappointed" and vowed to pursue the matter. So despite Icann's ruling, you can bet that the naked fat lady has yet to sing on this issue.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The arrival of the three dimensional web - in which participants have their own on-screen avatars - is dismissed by some as a nine month wonder that will fade away once the novelty has worn off. But that hasn't stopped a fresh surge of development that is taking virtual worlds to wider audiences. One of the most interesting new arrivals is Kaneva, a kind of 3D MySpace. Instead of reproducing an entire world complete with houses, shops and casinos etc (as Second Life does), Kaneva simply offers members a flashy apartment of their own where they can bring friends, watch videos, play music, chat endlessly or teleport themselves instantly to someone else's apartment. You need to run Windows with a good graphics card to participate in the beta trial.Asia already has a hugely successful virtual world in Cyworld of Korea, which is now expanding globally, but it has just been joined by a rival from China called HiPiHi with the ambitious aim to "create a perfect society - a shared and fair world which will finally embrace the various cultures of the real world". Other contenders include Whyville (an educational space for youngsters), There.com, the highly successful Habbo from Finland and the Swedish Entropia Universe. The new Sony PS3 also has a virtual world dimension. The unspoken drawback of these emerging worlds is that they will be incompatible - you can't move from one to the other.Meanwhile Second Life (SL), the most advanced, has not been sitting still. When I wrote about it in July it had 330,000 members. Nine months later it has well over 5m and rising strongly. Critics have rightly pointed out that the 5m figure includes inactive users. A more realistic figure would be the million or so unique visitors in the latest month.In recent weeks Linden Lab, owner of SL, has introduced 3D sound, which fades as the person you are talking to moves into the distance. It has plans to enable users to set up their own websites within SL. In theory this could let people access their MySpace or Bebo social spaces from within SL, thereby removing the temptation to shift to upstarts such as Kaneva. Bebo doesn't think that virtual worlds are suited to this kind of social networking. Bebo thinks that this is the year when networks will establish a presence on mobile phones, as it did last week with Orange. SL has proved particularly popular with women. Robin Harper, SL's vice president for community development, says that while women are a little over 40% of registrations they account for around 50% of activity, partly because it is attractive, she says, to women who stay at home during the day.Corporations are still piling into virtual worlds even though the attention generated by early adoption has ceased to give them cheap publicity. They are attracted because they are live economies with real transactions going on. They can be used to sell virtual goods, such as Adidas trainers, or virtual versions of actual cars, or simply to create brand awareness in the real world. Some, such as IBM, are using them as serious business tools by holding international management conferences, thereby eliminating the need to worsen global warming by flying executives all over the world to a place they can meet.Optimists within SL even nurture hopes that the Linden dollar (the in-house currency that is convertible into real dollars) could eventually become a micropayments system for the internet as a whole. There are regular rumours that some of the giant corporations may launch virtual worlds themselves, either as 3D intranets, or to produce a more stable experience than SL has so far managed to achieve.Virtual worlds reached some kind of milestone last week when they held their first annual conference - although, curiously, it was located in New York, not in a 3D simulation. They need time before they gain the courage of their own convictions.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Sure, we've all heard thecrazy talkof EverQuest's GDP outstripping that of most civilised nations, but theWSJthrew even more brain bending, econo-philosophical curveballs at us last week when their intrepid reporter announced that a virtual currency's inflation was outstripping that of real world Yuan. The QQ is money for the hundreds of millions of people who use Tencent's services, an organisation which created the funds for its internet community, and a few weeks ago it became money for real trade too.According to the article, the biggest kickstart came when other online worlds in this online world-fanatical country began accepting the QQ for purchases in their digital environments:The coins appeal as a safer, more practical way to conduct small online purchases, because credit cards aren't yet commonplace in China.At informal online currency marketplaces, thousands of users helped turn the QQ coins back into cash by selling them at a discount that varies based on the laws of supply and demand. Traders began jumping into the QQ coin market as an opportunity to make a quick yuan off of currency speculation.State-run media reported that some online shoppers began using QQ coins to buy real-world items such as CDs and makeup. So-called QQ Girls started accepting the coins as payment for intimate private chats online. Gamblers caught wind, too, and started using the currency to get around China's anti-gambling laws, converting wins in online mahjong and card games back into cash. Dozens of third-party trading posts sprouted up to ease transactions, turning the QQ coin into a kind of parallel currency.A parallel currency with an inflation rate of 70%.Western nations have had such opportunities to trade cash between online environments in the past (theGaming Open Market, for example, allowed players to transfer Ultima Platinum pieces for Linden bucks or EQ gold for a short time), but most of these endeavours have been offered through third-parties (one notable exception: Project Entropiaofferedvirtual money-real world credit cards).We haven't yet made the leap of faith that Eastern countries (think Cyworld's dotori inKorea) have. Perhaps our proportionate playing populations allow us to keep feet firmly planted in physical Earth, with its own make-believe money (a pound of sterling? Where?) and bartering items (can anyone say "Rewards Points"?).
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Can the internet be truly neutral?Net Neutrality is dividing opinion. For some it is a cause worth fighting for, but others claim it's a red herring that's impeding progress. Andrew Orlowski investigates.Label leads way with DRM-free musicEMI's move to release its catalogue without music protection has been welcomed, but critics claim Apple still has a lock-in. Bobbie Johnson reports.New study casts doubt on Ordnance Survey's copyright controlFree Our Data: Lawyers claim mapping databases do not enjoy copyright protection.Cute is fine for some, but violence is foreverKeith Stuart: Last week, Rockstar tried to break the internet. It released a new trailer for GTA IV, accruing millions of hits and turning my broadband connection into data treacle.GadgetsSony Ericsson W880i | Panasonic SDR-S10 | BT RevealShould I really give a XXXX about the .xxx domain?Not unless you believe that all adult material should be consigned to an interweb ghetto, because it's not going to be, says Kate Bevan.Did you look like a complete fool on Sunday?Alas not. I was certainly amused by some of the new products that appeared, particularly Think Geek's WiiHelm, but I wasn't remotely persuaded to take it seriously, writes Jack Schofield.3D or not 3D - that is the questionVictor Keegan: Corporations are still piling into virtual worlds even though the attention generated by early adoption has ceased to give them cheap publicity.Read me firstBotnets - a hidden menace that threatens future of the internet, says Nick Carr.TechnobileWake up and smell the coffee, Flavia, or your company could land itself in hot water, says Wendy M Grossman.'Flash is the new publishing tool of the century'Once the most hated technology online, Flash has become one of the most loved. Charles Arthur meets Mark Anders, the scientist taking it to the next level.Is there any way to keep credit card details safe?Charles Arthur: The site you make your purchase from could be phishing. What you have to hope is that it's not your turn today.Google joins the technology push into sub-Saharan AfricaOut of the ashes of civil war, Rwanda aims to rebuild itself as an information economy. Danny Bradbury reports.The fire fight moves onlineIt's official: you can now contact the Fire &amp; Rescue Services on the web. Not to report an emergency, but to conduct non-urgent business such as applying for a licence to store fireworks.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit theAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesThe Beeb goes mobile | Denmark scoops gong | Hard-fought gamers | Google takes note | DIY GSM | Googling on the go | Sinking piratesLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
The long weekend awaits - planning any gaming? Maybe getting or spending some time with your PS3? Playing the last great PS2 game, God of War 2? Maybe digging out the DS? For me it will be a bit of 360 - Shivering Isles, PES 6 - and my new favourite PSP game, Pirates. What are your Easter gaming plans?
Sony Ericsson W880iThey might be hugely popular and work brilliantly as music players, but the styling of Sony Ericsson's Walkman phones has always left a little to be desired. The W950i was step in the right direction and now we have the best design so far in the guise of the W880i ultra-slim chocolate bar phone. It is certainly eye candy, with its striking black and orange finish and rubberised rear. The music player is excellent quality and the phone comes bundled with a 1GB M2 card. However, the skinny design means that the phone's speakers are tinny and underpowered. And the jury is out on the phone's usability. Sony Ericsson's interface is certainly easy to use, but the small buttons will trouble those with larger fingers. The other disappointment is that the 2 megapixel camera isn't one of Sony Ericsson's finest and there's no flash or autofocus. This is a neat little phone and it's likely to be popular, but Sony Ericsson will deliver better handsets this year.sonyericsson.comPanasonic SDR-S10Until now, memory card-based camcorders have tended to be small and rather gimmicky. Panasonic hopes to change all that with the debut of the SDR-S10. This shoots good quality MPeg2 video to SD cards (it comes bundled with a 2GB card), but looks and feels like a traditional digital video cassette-type camcorder. The fact that it uses cards does give it several advantages over taped-based rivals - the most useful of which is that it isn't too worried by a splash of water and that it has a very quick start up time. Sadly, the camcorder isn't very intuitive to use. The button-based menu system is fiddly and I suspect that users will do little more than point and shoot video. The video quality is on the whole pretty good. Colours are solid, definition is fine and the moving images are generally steady. What is disappointing is the still image option. The camera only snaps VGA standard pictures and the way in which you take them - depressing the shoot button with your thumb - makes for sometimes blurry shots. Overall the S10, which retails for around &pound;330, has lots going for it, but I wouldn't trade it for a DVD-based camcorder just yet.panasonic.co.ukBT RevealDECT (Digitally Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications) phones are seldom something to get excited about, but the BT Reveal goes some way to buck that trend, sporting a glassy black finish on both the handset and the stand. When off duty, the phone masquerades as a minimalist timepiece, the time appearing on the back of the handset. This same space displays the caller's name, allowing you to decide whether to answer, or make use of the built-in answering machine. A blue glow from the handset alerts you to any new messages. There is a Sim card reader, so you can shortcut the process of entering your contacts by simply transferring those on your mobile phone, and enough space for 255 names. The phone, which sells for about &pound;100, can also send and receive text messages, although there's only room for 30 messages in the inbox. It's unfortunate that when you pick up the handset, the side with the keypad is so unattractive, harking back to the eighties. It's slightly incongruous compared to the futuristic front.shop.bt.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Amid the online buzz about Google's push into Africa at the end of March, few people realised the scope of its plans. Google, which partnered with the governments of Kenya and Rwanda to offer them its Google Apps, is playing a long waiting game on the continent.Anyone can download Google Apps for free, but Google has engineers on the ground in the two countries helping the institutions to offer the applications under their own domain names, as it did for millions of university students in Egypt last December. Under these separate deals, its first in sub-Saharan Africa, it will also provide guaranteed service and support to the institutions. In Rwanda, 20,000 users across three universities and some government departments will get to use services like Google's Mail and Calendar.This Rwanda is a world away from the Rwanda of 13 years ago. The 1994 civil war razed its infrastructure and decimated its population. Around 1m people were murdered, and twice that many fled the country. The small, land-locked country, in which nine out of 10 people subsist through agriculture, started its long, painful journey into the 21st century with a huge handicap.Instead of following the traditional routes of economic development, the Government decided to try and leapfrog large parts of industrialisation altogether and turn itself into an information economy. In 2000, it launched a concerted 20-year umbrella plan to develop its ICT sector as part of a wider Vision 2020 initiative that officials hope will quadruple its GDP.Rwanda is training its own people while bringing in outside experts to help on a series of ambitious projects. Eight people from the team responsible for the Malaysian internet super-corridor have been bought in to help with the plan.Developing portalsIn its dash to catch up with the West, Rwanda's shopping basket - and wallet - seems bottomless. It relies heavily on funds from the UN and from European countries. For example, the Rwandan IT Authority (RITA) is wholly sponsored by the Swedish government.ICT projects seem to litter officials' desks. The Dutch are paying for a fibre optic backbone that will be in place by 2008. Local government portals have been developed, along with a chain of community internet centres. And then there's the national DVB-H network."We converted the TV and radio networks from analogue to digital and implemented terrestrial internet broadcast services," says Peter Fullarton, interim director of RITA. He got the $2m (&pound;1m) for the first phase of the $7m project during an impromptu meeting, when the president signed over the cash to get things moving. "48 days later, we turned on phase one."Fullarton also claims to have slashed internet connectivity costs by 70% by using a transponder from Intelsat at wholesale prices, and using state-of-the-art equipment to compress the data. Co-ownership of an Earth station in Sweden gives Rwanda a direct link into the European backbone, he says.This means that he can sell internet access to places like Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Tanzania for $1,300 per megabit, as opposed to traditional costs of around $4,200. Developments such as these are catalysing the economy; by this summer, a large American company will be piloting outsourced software development in Rwanda.During its frenetic rush to catch up, Rwanda ran into the arms of MIT's Nicholas Negroponte and his One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) initiative. President Paul Kagame signed up to OLPC in January and the country is due to take delivery of its first laptops any day now.Not everyone is happy about the decision, which Kegame made in conjunction with the ministries of education, and science and technology. Fullarton, charged with fuelling the growth of the Rwandan ICT economy, was not directly involved."The device is relatively expensive. It's not the $100 laptop that people believe it to be," says Fullarton, who also frets that there aren't enough networks in rural Rwanda to support the initiative.The idea behind the laptop, each of which will ship with 1GB of Flash memory, is that a wireless mesh network will enable children to share each other's storage, says Negroponte, founder of the project. "The mesh network is made for a place like Rwanda," he says, adding that he has partners working on $10 DVD and hard drives. "And it was always to cost more than $100 at launch, with the $100 price being approximately two years later."Still, Fullarton is pushing the development of an indigenous PC vendor, privately-funded Emara. With just 10 employees, the company has small beginnings. It will assemble components shipped to it by Swedish design firm JDL Humantech, which is hoping that its design for a low-powered, developing world-friendly PC will also sell in other places including Latin America.African beach head"The typical first customer in most of the countries we're dealing with is the education or public sector," says JDL's director of marketing development Johan Holmberg, who expects the computers to retail at $350. Off-the-shelf computers in Rwanda currently cost $1,000-$1,200 thanks to complicated supply chains. He hopes to cut his prices using a low margin, high-value model.Holmberg hopes that Rwanda - the first market for the firm's design - might ship 3-4,000 units per year, but wants volume shipments of 200,000 units in 12-18 months through markets like Ethopia, Ghana, and some countries in Asia and Latin America. He claims to be negotiating with partners in 50 countries. In the meantime, Emara is gearing up to sell the assembled PC to neighbouring markets.As Rwanda and its partners bustle into the 21st century, Google (also a sponsor of the OLPC initiative) is watching and waiting. Francoise Brougher, global director of strategy and business operations, is eager to see the rollout of last-mile infrastructure in sub-Saharan Africa so that it can bring its network-based computing model to the wider public there. She is hoping to roll out Google Apps to many more users in Rwanda and Kenya before the end of the year.Google provided the Google Apps services to Rwanda free of charge because it wants to create the demand for more internet services. But use the word "donation" and Brougher sounds offended. "It's an investment," she retorts.Rwanda and Kenya are the company's beachhead into Africa. Eventually, it wants to be in every country in sub-Saharan Africa, which holds over 10% of the world's population and which will top a billion by 2025."We have two objectives: the first is to go across all the countries in sub-Saharan Africa," says Brougher.This raises questions about Google's approach to difficult political regimes. Google's mission is to make information free and universally accessible, yet it has already complied with the Chinese government's censorship requirements."We are going to have a case-by-case analysis of the situation before we go in," says Brougher. "I will call my colleague in policy." Clearly, she has some difficult conversations ahead of her.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"It is by riding a bicycle that you learn the contours of a country best, since you have to sweat up the hills and coast down them. Thus you remember them as they actually are, while in a motor car only a high hill impresses you, and you have no such accurate remembrance of country you have driven through as you gain by riding a bicycle."I've often thought this, and may have said as much. So it's almost annoying to find the idea put into words already. And by Ernest Hemingway, too - not even a noted cyclist. And while we're at it, Ernesto, that first sentence has a nice swing, but the second is a bit clumsy, flabby even; not one of your best, old man.Hemingway is entirely right, though. There is no finer way of seeing the countryside than by bike. Hiking is fine for rambling types, although I submit that going downhill is a lot more comfortable on a bicycle than on foot (not to mention, quicker). But only the most intrepid and athletic of walkers covers the kind of distance that allows you not only to admire views but to see real changes in landscape.A typical weekend ride for me takes me out over the chalk escarpment of the North Downs, then up and over the "Greensand Ridge" of the High Weald, and beyond to the rolling, clay-based Kentish Weald. Each geological zone has its characteristic flora, which even a botany-illiterate like me can hardly fail to notice and appreciate. You know, for instance, that you have arrived in a subtly different ecology when you ride up Brasted Chart to Toy's Hill and past the Scots pines and rhododendrons that seem to flourish on the more acidic, sandy soil.And perhaps that finer register suggests something that Hemingway's aper&ccedil;u does not pick up. It is not only that the bicycle rider gains a greater feel for landscape than the motorist, but he or she can also retain something of the walker's close observation. On a bike, you are not sealed in an air- conditioned, sound-systematised box; you are moving more slowly, seeing more, hearing and smelling your ambient surroundings. You have not lost that degree of intimacy with the field and hedgerow.Before I get too rhapsodic, it must be admitted that a ride in the country-side is not necessarily a rural idyll. The creeping suburbanisation of many "greenfield" sites increasingly means that too many country lanes have become rat runs. The only way to enjoy your ride in pristine conditions - and to see much fauna as well as flora - is to set off very early, before people stir themselves for their trips to the DIY store, the golf course, or the car-boot sale.And speaking of wildlife, what hits your nostrils is less likely to be the scent of a fox than the putrifying cadaver of a badger. Roadkill accounts for all too many of the sightings of birds and mammals. On the other hand, we could dine handsomely most Sundays if I remembered to carry a rucksack for all the pheasants you see, freshly culled by the roadside before any fee-paying businessman has had a chance to fire off a volley (incidentally, distributing about 75,000 metric tonnes of lead around the country every year)."Et in Arcadia ego" goes the saying: death may stalk here, it's true, but for a city-dweller, these rural rides are also a lifeline, a breath of fresh air, an organic connection. We have a long weekend and a good forecast - what better excuse do you need to go learn some contours?&#183;Matt Seaton's essay in BBC Radio 3's New Nature Writing series will be broadcast on April 10 at 11pm.Bike docDear Matt,I read in the Guardian yesterday that cyclists inhale three times as much pollution as pedestrians, which is rather alarming news. What can I do about it? Should I avoid main roads, as Leo Hickman suggests? Should I wear a mask? Or should I just stop using my bike at rush-hour altogether?Eileen Leahy, Manchester, via emailOf course, if you can alter your route without inconvenience and use quieter roads, then that's a good idea. But it isn't always an option.So, a mask? My experience is that they are hot and uncomfortable to wear, and only work if they fit very closely. In addition, the masks with activated charcoal filters are the only ones worth bothering with, and these need regular changing. In sum, more faff than it's worth.Stop cycling? You would still have to commute, and if you drove instead, you would be worse off: the levels of pollutants inside cars are higher than in the air cyclists breathe. You would also lose the health benefits of cycling, which far outweigh any harm done by pollution.&#183;Please send your cycling queries tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
MiniDV has a lot to offerI read Jack Schofield's article predicting the decline of MiniDV with interest (Don't look now, March 29). He is right, of course, MiniDV is in decline but I'd suggest this trend is not being driven by consumer demand so much as the obsession manufacturers have with storage formats.MiniDV still offers by some margin the best cost-performance of any of today's affordable systems, and it gives you something important that you don't get with HDD options - a reliable master copy.HDD and mini DVD have some convenience on their side, but this is of little consequence to the average camcorder user who doesn't spend hours making multiple edits/copies on a PC. Home video is still about plugging the camcorder into the TV.John DunnLondon&middot;Nothing eats up hard disk space as fast as digital video. With a miniDV camera, you effectively get a tape streamer for backup storage at a very cost effective price. People buying HDD cameras find themselves rapidly forced into buying more storage solutions or suffering hard disk clogging on their PCs.4GB DVDs are not really sufficient for archiving once you get into home editing. You also didn't mention that compressed video (as stored on mini DVD, HDD, etc) is much less easy to edit: miniDV wins here.Torsten LoulandBelgiumPrints of darknessLinda Jones hit a sore spot when writing about combined printer scanners (Technobile, March 29). I have an HP Photosmart 3210 (smart it isn't). It expects me to squint at its pathetically small screen when I've got a beautiful 17inch one attached to my computer. It expects me to push images from its multitude of knobs to somewhere pre-defined on my computer when what I want to do is pull it from the many different programs for inserting into text files, image files, Powerpoint and Photoshop locations. If I try using TWAIN from these programs the scanner scans before I can change the definition, colour, size etc, so I am forced to scan everything twice - once at HP's settings and once at mine. Complaining to HP's helplines produces little advice except uninstall and reinstall, to no effect. Are there other makes of Ethernet enabled photo printers that are better and are really TWAIN friendly?Donald HawthornNottinghamEno did it firstRe: Stars compose new ways to use music (March 29). Pete Townshend may have thought about this 20 years ago, but 12 years ago Brian Eno was actually doing it. He used Koan Pro software and released "generative" music. The Koan software allows evolutionary music to be composed, with a free player. Play the music and it evolves in a different way each time, with the amount of variation controllable. Because the music is a programmed seed that grows as it plays, the music can be adapted, altered or collaborated on by others too, which seems to be an informal version of what Townshend is now doing. Seehere.Tim SheppardBristolYes, Opera can doChris Rigby writes that he is using Safari because it "can pretend to be Internet Explorer for this site", and says he'd go back Opera like a shot if it had that feature (Letters, March 29). Well, good news Chris, Opera has this functionality built in. look at the menu: "Tools&gt;Quick preferences&gt;Edit site preferences ...", then click the Network tab. At the bottom of that screen you'll see "Browser Identification", where you can set the User-Agent (ie pretend to be another browser) on a per-site basis.Mario MentiLondonCorrectionRe: Where on Earth? (Letters, March 29). I did email you last week, but this was not my letter. Mine referred to the higher resolution images of UK rural areas available onlocal.live.comcompared to Google Earth.David WerePembrokeshire&#183;Send your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, and please include your address and telephone number
I want my tea. OK, you may not have read that correctly. I want MY tea.I realise that anyone complaining about the facilities in an airline club is already a spoiled, elitist brat. None the less, I am Arthur Dent and I want my tea.Until a couple of months ago, you could arrive in the airline club for US Airways at Gatwick and find a ready supply of hot water. The clubs in the US have long had some user-hostile machines made by a company called Flavia (flavia.net). You can hardly go near these without stumbling across some confused newcomer who has to be taught how to use them.Those models make many varieties of coffee and also hot chocolate. You push various buttons, insert a filter pack, place a cup underneath the spout and close the little door. (Is the sight of a hot beverage being made so awful it has to happen out of sight?) It generates what I assume is some type of coffee. But - and this is key - if you push the button marked "more choices" eventually you get to "hot water". You have to make tea in silly little cups and pour it into the insulated mug you have brought empty through security, and you have to suffer those little sterilised milk packs; but still, you can get hot water.It turns out that this is only because the US regards tea as a nonessential beverage. This is not the case in Britain, and so the Gatwick club has a slightly different Flavia model. This one makes tea. In two sizes, even. But it makes THEIR tea. Here are the choices: English Breakfast, Earl Grey and Japanese Green. I am a plebeian. I like Brooke Bond PG Tips. And since the US is generally bereft of such delicacies, I usually carry some.So here's the problem with the Gatwick machines: they have no hot water. Or, more precisely, they do, but won't give it to you unless you let them flavour it with their own filter pack first. There is no plain hot water. People who like to drink instant soup (aaah, protein and salt) are also out of luck.You can try to fool the machine by pushing "tea or coffee" and just closing the door. But the machine is simply too cunning - it knows the filter slot is empty, and when you close the door it cancels the process. You can't have plain hot water. Who knows what you might do with it?To be fair, since airline club staff are paid to keep the valuable customers happy, my mug was cheerfully filled in a hidden location. But that's not the point. The point is to give people hot water, and they can make what they want with it. Constrain their choices to give yourself customer lock-in, and eventually someone will take an axe to your machine.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's official: you can now contact the Fire &amp; Rescue Services on the web. Not to report an emergency - "get out, stay out, dial 999" is still the advice - but to conduct non-urgent business such as applying for a licence to store fireworks.Visitors tofire.gov.ukcan find their local fire and rescue service and take a 15-minute test to see if they have "the potential to be a successful firefighter". (Clue: the test is more interested in people skills than in physical strength or lung capacity.) People worried that their children may be pyromaniacs can arrange a visit from a fire adviser.Fire Gateway, built at a cost of &pound;2.2m for the Department for Communities and Local Government, is notable for other reasons. It was launched last month a year behind schedule, and 15 months after the deadline under which all government services had to be available online.It appears a bizarre addition to the government's inventory at a time when policy is to cut 2,500 .gov.uk sites back to two all-purpose portals - Directgov for citizens and Businesslink for businesses. Especially as every fire authority in England already has its own website.The site's creators say it serves a valuable purpose. "It creates a central area for the public to access information 24/7 and, for the first time, provides a secure network on a national basis making it easier to communicate securely between the 46 fire authorities in England," said IT contractor Parity. One reason for the secure network is to exchange information with organisations dealing with social services and crime - people who start fires and are most at risk of being harmed by them are generally known to other agencies. A one-stop portal will also help landlords and event organisers comply with new regulations, making them responsible for fire precautions.Nonetheless, the portal does appear a throwback to the heroic age of e-government targets, in which teams of civil servants and contractors beavered away to "e-enable" every conceivable function of government regardless of evidence that people would use it.Fire Gateway's delayed launch appears to have been caused by political rather than technical difficulties. Its gestation coincided with a long-running row over government plans to rationalise the number of fire stations and control rooms. Whether it will lead to a rationalisation in the number of individual fire service websites remains to be seen.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Alas not. I was certainly amused by some of the new products that appeared, particularly Think Geek's WiiHelm, but I wasn't remotely persuaded to take it seriously. Still, there were more than enough things happening to confirm that April Fool's Day spoofs are developing into one of the web's best annual events.Urgo, which collects links, already has approaching 700 for 2007.Google led the way with theGoogle TiSP beta. The press release says: "The Toilet Internet Service Provider (TiSP) project is a self-installed, ad-supported online service that will be offered entirely free to any consumer with a Wi-Fi capable PC and a toilet connected to a local municipal sewage system." As the installation guide showed, you dropped the wire into your toilet. Then Google's "patented GFlush system ... sends the weighted cable surfing through the plumbing system to one of the thousands of TiSP Access Nodes."Nasa also got into the act, by using a sporting image of astronauts as its Astronomy Picture of the Day. The caption explained that "a historic first Space Quidditch match came to a spectacular conclusion last night as astronaut Michael Lopez-Alegria caught the Golden Snitch to give the Americans a hard fought victory over the Russians".One site that fooled quite a few people wasTattooyourtoddler.com, aimed at children aged two and over. The FAQ included: "Is this legal?" with the reply: "This is still America, isn't it?"World of Warcraft offered players the Tinfoil Hat schematic, combining "tinfoil's powerful mental shielding properties with the excellent counter-hexing effect of troll tears and the outstanding mind-focus powers of one of Azeroth's most precious gems". This was trumped by the WiiHelm, which fits a Wii game controller into a beautiful helmet. "Your head now controls your movements, your feet controls the buttons (with the included foot pedals) and your hands are free to hold your drink and chips," says the site.Think Geek also came up with several other gems, including an 8-bit tie, a Piranhaz radio-controlled laser-equipped battle fish ("Please use with caution when playing in fish tank with live fish"), and SurgeStix inhalable caffeine sticks. ItsLonely Guy Dream Vacation Digital Photo Frameis a work of genius: "The onboard processor digitally mattes yourself into fun situations, and with the people you dream about."Finally, the Staten Island Advance newspaper reported an "exceedingly rare tree, perhaps the only one of its type in the US", and posted avideo reporton YouTube. Yes, it's an updated version of the famous spaghetti tree spoof shown on the BBC's Panorama in 1957.When it's April 1, you can't keep a good idea down.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Disappearing off the map has just got more difficult for criminals in Surrey. The county's police service is one of the first in Britain to use the world's most comprehensive geographical database to direct its officers to crime scenes and other emergencies. Ordnance Survey's MasterMap contains more than 400m features, down to individual front gardens and items of street furniture. This information is now available to Surrey's 999 operators using a computer-aided dispatch system.MasterMap is the most valuable asset of Britain's most commercially successful public agency, Ordnance Survey. Its different layers of data, depicting topographic and artificial features, each uniquely identified, underpin all the agency's maps and are widely used by businesses, government bodies and researchers. Ordnance Survey guards its investment jealously - a little too jealously for the Office of Fair Trading, which in December rapped the mapping agency over the knuckles for restricting access to "unrefined" geographical data.However, Ordnance Survey's ability to control access to MasterMap may not be as absolute as it thinks. According to a new study by government-funded intellectual property lawyers, some users at least have a legal right both to extract items of data and to pass them on to third parties. A study by Charlotte Waelde of the University of Edinburgh's School of Law concludes that a geospatial database does not enjoy copyright protection, as Ordnance Survey claims, but rather is protected by the European Database Directive.The argument is complex, but may have important consequences. Unlike copyright law, which can be used to block the reproduction of almost any part of a creative work - even John Cage's 4'33" of silence - the database directive allows users to copy information, provided that it is not a "substantial" part of a database. The use must also be lawful and "not conflict with the normal exploitation of the database or unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the maker".One user who welcomes the finding is Dr Mike Smith, of Kingston University's School of Earth Sciences and Geography. He says the opinion will mean that academics will no longer have to resort to measures such as reproducing maps only in shrunk-down form. "At the moment the largest practical size we can reproduce is A5, which is almost pointless," he says.Ordnance Survey takes a different view. "We haven't been able to consider the report in detail," said spokesman Scott Sinclair, "but there is absolutely no doubt that intellectual property rights exist in MasterMap - it would be ludicrous to suggest otherwise. In all our topographic information, there is copyright as in artistic works. Therefore use of those works without licence is an infringement."Smith agrees that the database directive should not be read as a free-for-all grab, but says that it could have far-reaching consequences for the Free Data movement. It will also be of interest to the Office of Fair Trading, which last year criticised Ordnance Survey for giving "limited access" to the unrefined information in its databases. The office called for unrefined information to be made more widely available, priced at "no more than full cost recovery including any required rate of return". The government's delayed response to the report is due next month.If anyone does try to exploit the directive to reproduce parts of MasterMap, the big question is how much of a database is "substantial". That could keep lawyers busy for a while - at taxpayers' expense.Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign has a better idea. The best way to realise MasterMap's potential would be to sack the lawyers and make its data free to all. Of course, the taxpayer would have to pick up the costs of keeping this unique national treasure up to date, but we think that's a price worth paying.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The Beeb goes mobileThe BBC is launching a trial project that will allow subscribers to Orange, Vodafone and 3's TV packages to watch BBC One, BBC News 24 and BBC Three streamed to their mobile phones. They will also be able to listen to up to eight digital radio stations.bbc.co.ukDenmark scoops gongDenmark has climbed to the top of 122 countries in the World Economic Forum's annual Global Information Technology Report, ahead of Sweden and Singapore. The US was placed 7th and the UK 9th.weforum.orgHard-fought gamersGames addicts aged eight to 18 get lower grades in US schools, are more likely to get into fights and are more likely to have been diagnosed with an attention deficit problem, according to a survey of more than a thousand youths byHarris Interactive.Google takes noteOnline scrapbook Google Notebook is now available in British English.google.co.uk/notebookDIY GSMPrivate Mobile Networks is selling packaged solutions for people who want to set up small GSM mobile phone networks for up to 250 people.privatemobileoffice.comGoogling on the goGoogle has launched a new version of search for mobile phone users.google.comSinking piratesAs of yesterday, Trading Standards Officers will have new powers and &pound;5m in funding to fight against counterfeit music, movies and games.counterfeit.com
USB 1 or 2?I have an eMachines PC and I have not been able to find anywhere in the specification whether the USB ports are 1.1 or 2.0. Will a USB 2.0 pen drive work with a USB1.1 port?Lewis GriffinJack Schofield replies:The USB information is available in the Device Manager and via the System Information accessory program.Right-click on My Computer, select Properties, and go to the Hardware tab. Click on Device Manager in the top window, then click the plus sign at the bottom where it says Universal Serial Bus controllers. Any USB 2 ports will probably be labelled USB 2 Enhanced Host Controller.However, the simplest way to find a USB 2 port is to plug in a USB 2 thumb drive: Windows will tell you.If it isn't a USB 2 port, the device should still work, but only at the much slower USB 1.1 speed.Orange toolbarI have done a Restore on my PC and find I now have this toolbar from my service provider, and I can't get an answer from Orange. This sort of thing really angers me, and if I didn't have a contract, would be enough to make me switch.Richard Heckstall-SmithJS:Orange has an article in its knowledge base called: How to uninstall the Orange search toolbar. You can find it by searching Google for "Article ID: kb3247" or clickinghere. Do the removal with only one browser window open, and reboot your PC afterwards.Anti-virus clashIs it more or less secure to run two virus protection programs simultaneously?John CansickJS:It's generally a bad idea to run two anti-virus programs at the same time. These programs generally work at a low level, and some of them do not follow standard programming approaches. (Nor do virus writers, of course.) This can lead to conflicts between the two programs, causing crashes, as well as slowing down your PC. You can still perform double-checks by using a site such as Trend Micro's HouseCall.Memory confusionI want to upgrade the memory in my Aries 5000 PC. How do I find out what type it is?Nick OngeriJS:In theory it should tell you in the hardware manual, if there is one. However, theCrucialweb site has a Memory Advisor Tool and a system scanner that guarantees to tell you. It doesn't list Aries, but it has worked for me. Obviously you could then buy the memory from another site, but you probably won't.Backchat&middot;Last week, I mentioned that starting your PC in Safe Mode can mess up your icon layout. Philip Bergman says he uses a "little piece of freeware calledIcon Restore" to save and restore them. James Dingwall usesMidi-Ox's Desktop Restore. He says: "I have found this particularly useful on my laptop as I use different screen resolutions for docked/undocked."&middot;I mentioned Cyberhawk, which is Hips (Host Intrusion Prevention System) software. Steve Stannard says: "I have been using thefree version of Prevxfrom its earliest beta stages. As far as Cyberhawk Basic is concerned, I have had pretty poor experience with it freezing the whole operating system. I never had anything like that problem with Prevx."&middot;Last week I asked if anyone was using the cheap but great-sounding Sonic Impact T-Amp to blast out music from their MP3 player. Eamonn Twomey responded, saying: "I'm really pleased with mine, purchased on eBay for about 30 quid. As long as you do not want ear-splitting volume, it provides wonderfully clear, detailed sound. It's better if your speakers have a high sensitivity (eg 89dB). Mine are Mission 731s."Tom Davis says: "I use my Sonic T-Amp day in day out, both with my Mac laptop and my iPod - it's great. You need a decent power supply and you're also best off using higher attenuation speakers - I use Kef Q Compact speakers with mine - as they need less power. There's also a version of the T-Amp with a restyled box which looks much more stylish. The price is &pound;100+ rather than &pound;30, though!"
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks every week than we have room for in print. So here's what we choselast week's letters and blogs in printfrom..FILE SHARINGAdam Webb (Can filesharers be made to pay? Technology Guardian, March 23 2007) correctly identifies that litigation against filesharers is just one aspect of the BPI's campaign against online copyright infringement. But it is wrong to surmise that litigation has had no deterrence effect on consumers' behaviour. Since the legal actions began global broadband penetration has grown, yet filesharers have migrated from the networks targeted by litigation and illegal uploading has declined. Countries where legal actions have not yet been brought also suffer from the highest levels of online piracy. And a separate consumer study by Jupiter says that 50% of the European filesharers who cut back did so due to fear of legal action. The music industry's objective is to monetise online music consumption in a way that is fair to both rights holders and consumers. But we should not overlook the fact that litigation has been both a vital step in deterring illegal filesharing and in educating consumers that music - like almost everything of value - must be paid for online just as in the physical world. Geoff Taylor, Chief Executive, BPIThere is an issue in the music piracy debate which seems to be perennially ignored - quite simply, the overwhelmingly dominant player in the download market - itunes - only offers downloads at 128kps. This is well below CD quality standard, but consumers who have ipods (ie almost all of us) have no option to change it. How on earth can the music industry expect us to buy music legally when the freely available music on P2P networks is of superior quality? Most torrent files are at least 192kps, which whilst still probably inferior to CD does in my experience makes all the difference between acceptable and unacceptable. The mainstream media gives the music industry far too easy a ride when it comes to reporting such issues (though admittedly the Guardian is better than most). The fact is 15 years after the internet took off the labels are relying on a 3rd party (having done nothing except squabble themselves) to provide a legal option to download, and then only at inferior quality, and tied down by DRM issues. The sole action the labels have taken a lead on is to use lawsuits to criminalise the very people that they rely on. What this tells me is that in 2007 the record labels' business model is still to pretend the internet doesn't exist and offer consumers no choice except to keep buying CDs. Its a complete refusal to engage with the reality of the modern world, whilst all the while attempting to pin their own failings on music buyers by accusing them of theft. Ultimately, music is our species' cultural capital, that has been around for as long as we have. As such it is tailor made for the globally networked community that is the internet. The record label's actions make it pretty clear to me who the real criminals are in this debate. Presumably in a few years time the poor saps that paid for these lo-fi recordings will be offered the chance to re-purchase their entire collection at a decent bit rate and a huge cost. In the meantime I shall continue to break the law using torrent files, and crossing my fingers that the music industry does not chose to make 'an example' of me. Any chance of an informed article on these issues? The current situation is an outrage. Murray Goulden, NottinghamDON'T SING FOR OPERAIn response to Andrew Brown's recent article in the Guardian's Technology supplement on Opera, as an evangelistic user of the application I feel I must object to his premature notions that the browser is on its way out. Mr Brown misrepresents Opera as a purely PC-based piece of software. Opera is also one of the most accomplished browsers in the mobile device and embedded systems market. It is shipped as standard on millions of mobile phones across the world, and is available as a download for most modern Java-supporting handsets. It is also the platform used by Nintendo's DS and Wii videogame consoles for web browsing. Mr Brown makes the very controversial claim that web standards bodies are now largely defunct. I feel I must remind him that without these bodies, the web would be much worse off, especially when it comes to accessibility. AJAX applications are very nice for those who can see and are able-bodied, but few take into consideration the needs of the disabled by providing accessible alternatives to fancy JavaScript and Flash functions. We need organisations such as the W3C to promote accessible design, and Opera is a triumph when it comes to the implementation of their standards. I ask that Mr Brown forgets his selfish needs and impatience for a moment, and consider those who are often left behind and let down by the likes of Google and Yahoo. These are not the organisations that should be considered as the driving forces behind web standards. Finally, Mr Brown lists Flickr and GMail as examples of AJAX sites which "don't work quite right" within Opera. As you may have noticed from my email address, I have written this email using GMail, which functions perfectly in Opera on my machine. I'm also a big fan of Flickr, and despite having run into the odd "you are using an unsupported browser" warning, have proceeded with no difficulty whatsoever. May I suggest that Mr Brown checks that he is using the latest version of Opera? David Edwards, CoventryHere is the real problem, it show the illogical tendencies of companies when dealing with the internet. In real life, would you want a computer manufacturer to make it so that you have to make a special motherboard for each one of your parts? Probably not and this is exactly what Google, Yahoo, etc are promoting with the help of Firefox and IE. They don't support standard and because of them the web has because a mishmash of bad web coding and each corporate site having its own quirks that the browser designers have to cope with. It should not be that way, and I will continue to use Opera, not only because it is the better, more solid browser, but because it supports standards, and in the real world, standards are what holds things together. Hopefully someday all web designers will realise the same thing. P.S. Opera didn't have tabs before everyone else, they had 'pages', Firefox and IE don't even have real tabs, each tab isn't its own window, they are SDI not MDI like Opera. Calvin Kostov (no post town given)I forsook Opera for Safari, which is inferior in every way but one - it has a little trick up its sleeve for troublesome sites: an option which in effect says (or rather whispers) "I can pretend to be internet Explorer for this site". If Opera would deign to adopt this little bit of slumming and thus open up ALL the web, I would return to it like a shot, as it is the best browser around bar none. Chris Rigby, UllculmeJust read your article on Opera and couldn't agree more. Opera has do much potential but their constant excuse when a site fails to render properly (it's not standards compliant) has long ago gotten very old. It baffles me that Opera continues to lead the industry in innovative features that the basic browser remains stuck in their "Standards" hole and THAT is why Opera will never make it mainstream. A novelty browser at best that will drive a sane person over the edge since when it works right it is amazing but when it doesn't (especially on the main stream sites) it just pisses people off...then they hit the uninstall button. Chris Sherrod, Washington DC, USFREE OUR DATA?&gt;&gt; The only organisations which actually value information are those who use it, and it therefore is logical that they should pay for it. However, although I firmly believe the current funding model for the OS is the correct one, I am not going to argue that as currently defined the licensing framework around the crown copyright data the OS manages is fit for purpose. There needs to be a fundamentally new approach to licensing OS data which allows greater access to information, and yes for some types of data and for some types of user this would be without cost to the end user. This could be achieved with minimal impact on the financial performance of OS but could inject a major boost to the UK GI industry.http://www.edparsons.com/?p=442BUYING THE PLAYSTATION 3In response to your article, "You shouldn't have any problems bagging a PS3 - if you want to" you miss represented the quote Howard Stringer said. He was not talking about the PS3 failing financially due to it's price, but failing to out sell the wii because it was a different class of system. He was implying that a Honda Accord will out sell a Mercedes because it's market is for a different level of consumer. Thus the Mercedes will fail to out sell the Accord. If you read his full statement you will see this is what is being stated, not that the PS3 is financially not doing well. The PS3 is actually doing better than the Xbox 360 did in its first 4 months if you look at VG charts total sales from inception. Now admittedly if it plunges for another month that may not be the case, but please don't miss represent to sell an article. Bill Y (no post town given)The PlayStation is great and well worth the price. The only problem right now is a noticeable absence of many titles. But new titles such as Oblivion are showing up and it won't be long until enough great titles are available that the holdouts will purchase. The Blu-ray capability is a bonus. One big complaint is that it doesn't support AVI playback, so if one wants to say connect a large USB drive and put all of ones home videos on it...they must first be converted to MPEG2 or 4. However, Sony could easily fix this with an upgrade to the OS. In addition Sony's PS3 home looks to be very compelling. Resistance and Oblivion are two good games available right now. In short the PS3 won't fail, it may just take a little longer to get past the birthing pains. Brian Hart (no post town given)&gt;&gt; With a console that only did well here [in the US] because of the eBay effect, it seems that Sony may be having a hard time convincing Europe to buy into it's pariah of a console. I don't mean to sound rude, but when the predicted loser of the console wars - the Wii - has outsold your console three times over, the ground might be to great to recover.http://insignificancywithpurpose.blogspot.com/2007/03/more-to-add.htmlTHE BOOK ISN'T DEADI think you're absolutely right that social networking around books is an attractive proposition that is set to grow rapidly. But did you know that as well as Librarything, there is now a wholly independent and completely UK-based site calledwww.booktribes.comIt's been set up by a group of writers and journalists, is chaired by a former Natwest Markets analyst and media start-up specialist (John Sanderson) and has Clare Alexander of agents Gillon Aitken - who is also chair of the Association of Authors' Agents - on the board. Booktribes is still relatively small and new and is being trialled at the moment before a full launch during the summer. We think Librarything has its strengths but we have tried to make our site much more book-lover friendly. Extensive market research told us that in the UK, one of the biggest barriers to finding and buying new books is that people increasingly don't trust publisher or bookshop blurb. We've fashioned our site accordingly. The main aim is to help people find their next read, to offer ways to move outside the 'comfort zone' and to allow users to chat away about what they like and don't like about what they're reading. It has a host of networking features, including a 'recommendations' slot (facilitated by collaborative software) that - based on the choices of users - selects 10 recommended books, once a user has posted 20 books on his or her virtual 'shelf'. The site database has more than 2.5m books supplied by Nielsen Book Data, and there are also sections covering literary news and literary events - the aim is that it becomes an important hub of such information. We plan to derive revenues from the organisation of literary events. Booktribes went live in December, and to date has attracted heading towards 1,000 members, drawn principally from the UK and US, but also Sweden (where we had a very favourable review in Svenska Dagsblat) and most of the English-speaking world. For March, we're on course for 85,000 page impressions at an average view rate of around 11 pages a visit. Traffic has doubled each month. I do hope you have the time to take a look, and maybe next time you touch on this area, might mention this British addition to the web literary scene. One further detail is that one of the founders, Tony Cook (ex- LBC and joint founder of Red Pepper) established some years agowww.abctales.com. This has become one of the most successful websites for aspiring writers and is our sister site (14,000 registered users and 40,000+ stories posted). Backers of abctales include John Bird and Gordon Roddick. David Keighley, Marketing Director Booktribes Ltd, BrightonSITE UNSEEN I could hardly believe my eyes when I looked at the charts in Siteseeing (P.4, March 22). could it really be that so many more young people were interested in the Apple Web site than the Microsoft. It just seemed odd, considering Apple's much smaller market share. Then I twigged. The bars do not compare like with like. They set percentages of one quantity against percentages of another. They tell us nothing at all about how hits on the two web sites compare. We have no idea whether more young people accessed the Apple site: only that a larger percentage of those who did access it were young. This is a misuse of graphics that simply shouldn't have made it to the pages of a technology supplement. If you want to compare shares in two separate quantities, you need two pie charts. Otherwise the graphic is meaningless. Stephen Wells, Wolverhampton [Microsoft receives roughly five times more UK visitors than Apple - Technology Ed.]MORE OF GOOGLE EARTHI think David Lund's problem with Google Earth (Letters &amp; Blogs, March 22nd) is that he doesn't know where to look. In June of last year Google announced that it had high-resolution coverage of over 20% of the Earth's service, and over 33% of the world's houses. So admittedly the chances are his house may not be visible. However, my website Google Sightseeing(http://googlesightseeing.com, previously mentioned in Web Watch 14/04/05) is about taking you to see the weird and wonderful things on Google Earth that are much more interesting than a rooftop. Giant writing, aliens, planes, secret bases and even naked people are all featured. We have many sights that I'm sure David will enjoy, including loads in the UK and a couple in New Zealand. James Turnbull, EdinburghDavid Lund writes what most of us who've tried it must have experienced of the blurry UK mapping of Google Earth. Is this by any chance another example of data waiting to be free? Meanwhile for a much sharper image of most of the UK, and no software to install trywww.flashearth.com(might work for New Zealand too). David Vere, Banbury, OxonMany rural areas in the UK have a much higher resolution in Microsoft's Virtual Earth (not New Zealand, however) David Were, Pembrokeshire
A few mobile releases have caught my eye this month. The biggest, I suppose, is Guitar Hero which will be coming to a handset near you soon, courtesy of Hands-On. I have absolutely no idea how this will work - Java games are not known for their amazing sound and won't it be a little bit embarrassing - let alone socially intrusive - to let rip with Smoke on the Water on the 7.15 commuter train?It would be interesting if they found a way to use real sound clips. But again, Java is a virtual platform with limited access to the phone's other functionality so I'm not sure how that could pan out. "The lifestyle of music is strongly immersed into our everyday culture, and having Guitar Hero on mobile platforms will now allow our dedicated fans the opportunity to passionately feel the music, anytime and anywhere," is all that the improbably named Dusty Welch, head of publishing at RedOctane, will say on the matter.But what of the screenshots above?Well, the one on the left is SCX, a forthcoming slot car racing title based of course on Scalextric (but, no doubt due to some complex licensing issues, can only be called that in Spain, Russia and Mexico). PublisherLemonQuestis promising six-player slot action, as well as the ability to change brake tension or fuel load, as well as choosing the pit-stop strategy.This all sounds more complicated than when I used to play Scalextric (I had the one with the two minis that could do 180 degree turns by skidding fast on corners). Then, it was just a challenge to keep the cars on the track for more than two laps - and there'd always been one bent bit of slot that the car stopped on.Anyway, the isomertic visuals look nice and Super Sprint-esque. One thing though - there seems to be no track construction mode! What an oversight!The second screenshot is of the amazining-looking Come On Baby, "The world's first mobile infant game," declares publisherOzura. The game, I think, has already been released in Singapore, but is getting a global roll-out. It's all based around nappy changing, feeding, etc. The graphics look a bit Cooking Mama (which, incidentally, is also coming to mobile phones in the UK soon). Perhaps it should be bought up by the government and distributed free to teenagers - they might actually pay attention if they learnt about parenthood from their phone.
The British computer hacker who spectacularly cracked the Pentagon system and embarrassed the American defence establishment now faces extradition to the United States, where a prosecutor has said he would like to see him "fry".His lawyers complained yesterday of the "chilling and intimidating threat" made by the US authorities against the man who carried out the "biggest ever military computer hack" - from a room in his girlfriend's aunt's house in Crouch End, north London.Gary McKinnon, 41, yesterday lost his appeal against extradition to stand trial in the US on charges connected with hacking into the Pentagon and Nasa systems. He is accused of stealing computer files, intentionally causing damage to a protected computer, obtaining secrets which might have been "useful to an enemy" and interfering with maritime navigation equipment. He was initially arrested in 2002.Appealing against the decision of the home secretary, John Reid, to grant the extradition request, Mr McKinnon's barrister, Ben Cooper, argued that his client could spend the rest of his life in an American jail. Lord Justice Maurice Kay and Mr Justice Goldring dismissed the challenge but were critical of the US authorities."Mr McKinnon's conduct was intentional and calculated to influence and affect the US government by intimidation and coercion," they said. "As a result of his conduct, damage was caused to computers by impairing their integrity, availability and operation of programmes, systems, information and data on the computers, rendering them unreliable."However, the judges said in their ruling that they were unhappy with the US handling of the case: "We make no secret of the fact that we view with a degree of distaste the way in which the American authorities are alleged to have approached the plea bargain negotiations."Mr Cooper told the court that his client would apply for leave to appeal to the House of Lords in what is seen as a test case on extradition law. Mr McKinnon's lawyers have argued that, as the alleged offences were committed in this country, he should face trial under British law.Jeff Anderson, solicitor for Mr McKinnon, said the American authorities had threatened his client with draconian punishments if he resisted extradition and did not agree to a plea bargain. "The threats made included relaying to Mr McKinnon that New Jersey prosecutors expressed an intention to see Mr McKinnon 'fry'," he said. "This is a reference to capital punishment by the electric chair. This is a chilling and intimidating threat."Mr Anderson added: "The US now intends to prosecute Mr McKinnon as a cyber-terrorist, which would lead to him spending the rest of his life in prison in the US with repatriation to serve his sentence in his home country denied as his punishment for contesting his extradition. "Mr McKinnon, a former systems administrator for a small business, has always maintained that he was motivated solely by curiosity and that what he had done could be classed as investigative journalism. Friends have set up a website (freegary.org.uk) in his support.Born in Glasgow and now living in Bounds Green, north London, Mr McKinnon became fascinated with hacking as a 17-year-old watching the film War Games. He also acquired from his stepfather an interest in UFOs, which became another motivation for his hacking life.How he did it: From computer nerd to most wantedWith homeland security a primary concern after September 11, it is easy to assume that puncturing the protective layers around military computers would have been a Herculean task. So how did Gary McKinnon become a "master hacker"? Very easily, it turns out.From a house in north London, Mr McKinnon - a self-confessed "bumbling computer nerd" - spent hours laboriously testing out the different ways of accessing US computers in his quest to prove that UFOs existed.After discovering the addresses of some computers at the fringes of the military system - in departments such as logistics or support - he found it easy to break in. With a software tool used by IT staff to manage their systems, Mr McKinnon was able to work his way into networks at Nasa and the Pentagon.The biggest loopholes were created by users who failed to follow basic security measures, such as changing their password from the default "password". With such glaring errors leaving the back door wide open to intruders, Mr McKinnon said it was a simple task to remotely control computers on the other side of the world. Choosing to work at times when American staff would be asleep, he would climb inside and hop on to more secure systems that were impenetrable to outsiders but wide open for "trusted" users. By the time he was caught, Mr McKinnon was even leaving messages on the desktops of computers he had hacked into.He has admitted that it was more like the Keystone Cops than a masterpiece of science fiction. "It got a bit silly," he told the Guardian last year. "I suppose it means I'm not a secretive, sophisticated, checking-myself-every-step-of-the-way type of hacker."Bobbie Johnson
Greenpeace has continued its fight with Apple by releasing an updated version of itsGuide to Greener Electronics(PDF). This ranks China's Lenovo first with a spiffing 8/10 with Apple in last place with a humiliating 2.7/10.This is partly the result of a breakdown of communications.Greenpeace spokeswoman Iza Kruszewska told APthat "Apple initially participated in regular conference calls with Greenpeace on the ratings scheme, but didn't change its practices any more than required by law.""Once we launched the'Green my Apple'website, we stopped hearing from Apple altogether," she said.Of course, Apple could easily get a much higher score with little effort and at no cost just by putting dates on some of its committments to adopt certain practices. Why not simply do that?Ranking Apple bottom is great for Greenpeace, because of the publicity it gets, and bad news for Apple. And in any fight between green campaigners and any very rich, multinational mega-corporation, the green campaigners are most likely to win, regardless of the facts.Since Apple computers are now basically just Intel-based PCs knocked out on the same Asian production lines as rival products, there's not likely to be much real difference in their environmental impact. What's different is the spin suppliers put on their committments. Since Apple is far better at spinning than any other company in the electronics business, it's hard to explain why it doesn't apply its talents to Greenpeace. Maybe it's just corporate arrogance and stupidity, but it's not helping Apple's image.Apple could also do much more on take-back. It has already missed the chance to be a leader, like Dell, but in many countries, it's eventually going to be forced into doing more recycling. Sure, it would cost Apple a few bucks to do this sooner rather than later, but it can afford it, and it would be doing the right thing.Incidentally, I notice from Google News that Guardian Unlimited has already run a story on this topic:Not all Apples are green. That's actually a post on ourComment is freeblog by John Sauven. It may not be immediately obvious to all readers of his post that Sauven is,as his profile says, director of Greenpeace.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Google has finally released a version of itsGoogle Desktop search for Mac OS Xusers. It lacks the toolbar and sidebar familiar from the Windows version, but is designed to work with Spotlight and will pick up any settings and plug-ins you already have installed. (Gadgets will be integrated later.)There are some early reviews on the web at sites such asArs TechnicaandTUAW.
After 226 days in prison because he was found guilty of contempt of court, videojournalist and bloggerJosh Wolfis now out of prison.Wolf, if you haven't heard of him before, the story's actually fairly simple. He filmed footage of San Francisco G8 protests, and put it on theIndymediawebsite. The police then looked into an arson that happened during the protest and tried to access his source video - but Wolf said as a journalist he could not hand over the video as it would endanger his sources.The court disagreed, holding him in contempt and ending with him serving the longest sentence ever for a US journalist refused to bow to a court order.On his release, he's saidthe following:Contrary to popular opinion, this legal entanglement which has held me in Federal Prision for the past eight months, has never been about a videotape nor is the investigation about the alleged attempted arson of a San Francisco police vehicle as the government claims. While it is true that I was held in custody for refusing to surrender the tape and that the justification for making a federal case out of this was the police car, things are not always as they appear. The reality is that this investigation is far more pervasive and perverse than a superficial examination will reveal.Wolf's case threw up some important questions, some for journalists (what information is protected) but many of them for bloggers. After all, a lot of argument focused on whether Wolf was even liable to use the legal protections offered to journalists; whether bloggers are able to access these priveleges too was a hot issue.It's a complex case, and I don't pretend to know much about it. But combine this with recent moves in France tomake it illegal for non-journalists to record events, and there's clearly a legal black hole which we have to put some serious thought into.
It wasn't a surprise when the music television channel MTVsnapped upGuitar Hero developers Harmonix after the company, who've also produced music-heavy titles like Frequency and Amplitude, went mega with their rock n' roll fantasy game. Nor is it a surprise that the channel, one step ahead of the curve when it comes to innovating and integrating novel media opportunities, has commissioned Rock Band, a collaborative gaming idea forSpinal Tapwannabes.According toDevelop, the game will go online to offer players the opportunity to find Totally Rawk potential bandmates from around the world. If guitars aren't your thing, you'll have the option of goingKeith Moonby smashing up your drum controller, or Morrissey by swinging your mic (gladiolusnot included).Other products like this are on the cards, but with MTV's backing and Harmonix's development reputation, this is certain to garner a lot of attention throughout its development cycle.I won't say Itoldyouso...
Sonic and Mario in the same game? Is nothing sacred? I spoke to Sega's European President Mike Hayes and Laurent Fischer, European Marketing Director of Nintendo, about icons, Wii and crossing the gaming divide.How did this deal come about and what was the thinking behind it?MH - It was inspired by the Olympics. Sega won the licence to the Olympics a long while ago and after listening to the IOC it was clear they wanted the Olympics to reach out to more people. So we thought rather than just create a simulation why not create something with the characters we have that are popular with kids around the world, like Sonic, Knuckles and Tails. But we are also very close to Nintendo and we thought what about Mario? And as the Olympics is a neutral world, rather than a Sonic or Mario world, we thought it would work. So we spoke to Nintendo. They liked the idea, we shook hands and that's how the whole deal came about. The Olympics is the driving force behind it.LF - The Olympic spirit brings everyone together, including gaming icons like this. And we are really excited to make gamers dreams come true.MH - It also shows how important videogames have come that the IOC wants to use them to drive the Olympics to new audiences.How involved will the IOC be in the development and will it impact on your development?MH - We want to take the basic events in the Olympics and then use the traits of the characters to have fun in the environment. The IOC agreed with us that the game should be fun for all rather than a simulation or serious sports game.How do Sega and Nintendo work together without compromising and releasing a diluted version of the characters?MH - The game is being developed by Sega in Tokyo, so we are taking the lead. But the game has full design co-operation with Nintendo, including an important design role for Shigeru Miyamoto.It has been done before but how does Nintendo feel about handing over development of a Mario game to a partner?LF - We've already had experience of this with appearances in EA games. It's all a question of relevance and what can Mario bring to the game. We think this is beyond expectation and will really create a huge audience for the game. Both Mario and Sonic fans will enjoy the game. We are certain the game will be fun and have a lot of enthusiasm about this exciting project.Back in the day this would have been the equivalent of Sony and Microsoft joining forces - is it a sign of the games industry maturing?MH - This would have been inconceivable a few years ago when Sega was a hardware provider. And fifteen, sixteen years ago Sega and Nintendo used to be locked in combat. This is like Pepsi and Coke or PC and Mac. But the Olympics were the inspiration and now that Sega is a multi-software publisher the time is right for the unthinkable to occur.There is a lot of press about inactive kids, can this game help reverse that trend?MH - The Wii is the perfect home for this game. We are going to use the full feature set to make this a very active and energetic game.How relevant are Sonic and Mario in 2007? Hasn't gaming moved on and grown up?MH - The appeal is across the board. Older gamers will be fascinated by the coming together of two icons will children still love the characters. Nintendo are also brining families back to gaming and a much broader audience will be excited by this game. And don't forget that Super Mario 3 remains the biggest selling game ever and Sonic and Mario games still sell in the millions.LF - New Super Mario Bros has sold fantastically well on the DS while Mario Kart has always done well. Mario is still hugely popular and appeals to people of all ages. Wii and DS are designed to appeal to everyone and we want to entertain everyone. We feel we have made a good start with Wii but there is still a long way to go to make gaming as popular as watching a movie.Why are these aging characters still popular then?MH - Because Sega and Nintendo continue to make great games. We're evolving them on new platforms in new ways but the entertainment appeal remains high.LF - Every single Mario game is different and adds something to the character. People really identify with Mario as an icon and always know they are playing a Mario game whether it is DS or Wii.How are you going to split the publishing, marketing and promotional activities?MH - Sega will publish in Europe and the West while Nintendo will do the same in Japan and Asia. There is a real equitable split. So Sega will lead the marketing push in Europe but with Nintendo's co-operation. With Nintendo, Sega and the Olympics all involved we've really had to create a manageable process to make the game development go smoothly.Can you explain the role of the ISM?MH - They own the rights to the Olympics and really understand the videogame business. They've facilitated a lot of this activity. Historically Olympics videogames have been simulations so they were brave to let us create something different. But the IOC was the inspiration - they are passionate people and have a real vision for the Olympics which really helped us create ideas for the game.While we saw more consolidation of leading gaming characters and brands?MH - I don't think so. Mario and Sonic really work well together, But Sonic and Lara? LF - The key thing is relevance. We are not doing this just because we can but because it makes creative sense.For the game itself won't it just be Sonic winning the 100metres while Mario does well in the shot put?MH - You'd think so wouldn't you? We aren't releasing any details yet but the developers are the kings and we're sure they will balance everything and create a really fun game.Any idea when the Wii will available in the shops in any great quantity?LF - This is a worldwide issue but it is important to understand that this isn't just a production issue. We are on target to have produced 6 million units by the end of March. The things is that the demand level is growing every day. The Wii is so unique and appealing to a wide range of people that demand is growing rather than slowing after launch. We are trying as hard as we can to get more stock and there is huge demand. This isn't a case of us withholding or limiting supply. We are concerned that people can't buy the Wii but the situation is getting better and will improve further over the coming months. I saw a second hand Wii for sale the other day in a shop for more than the standard retail price, so this shows you the demand that is there. And if people want but can't buy the Wii that is a real concern for us. But things will get better.What will be the legacy of this game?MH - We've delivered a gamers dream and achieved what people thought was impossible. I've never seen a response a like this from fans, press and especially retail. Everyone is very very excited and we can't wait to get the game out to everyone.
"Last year popular sites like Olga.net, MxTabs.net and others -- where users post tablature, usually called "guitar tabs," for rock songs -- suspended operations after the music publishing industry threatened them with copyright infringement lawsuits. Under the new initiative, MxTabs, which is owned by MusicNotes, will share an undisclosed portion of advertising revenue with music publishers, who in turn will give a portion to artists," reportsThe New York Times.Irwin Z. Robinson, chief executive of Famous Music, Viacom's music publishing division, said: "This gives us, for the first time, the opportunity to get something that's been given away or stolen for all these years. I'm very positive about it."It's not surprising that the music industry should try this kind of shakedown, given its almost unparalleled reputation for rapacious greed. But I don't think you'll find many guitarists who think the sharing of user-created tabs should be of any concern to the copyright police.
"Sales of the PlayStation 3 have dropped dramatically on the second week of release in the UK, with official Chart Track figures revealing a fall of 82 per cent," reportsGamesIndustry.biz."This week's software charts revealed that sales of the top two PlayStation 3 titles, Resistance: Fall of Man and MotorStorm, had dropped by over 60 per cent."Since Sony failed to sell out the launch allocation in the UK, it seems reasonable to suppose that most of the people who really wanted a PS3 managed to get one. Where sales go now is an interesting question.However, Sony has already demonstrated a way to shift plenty of the things: just give away a free 2,500 flat-screen TV with every console. Come on, Sony, how about it? ;-)
The mass coverage of the EMI/Apple announcement yesterday has led to all sorts of pronouncements from industry experts, analysts, competitors. Reader, my inbox runneth over.Most of it was the usual "look at us!" stuff, but my eyes were particularly drawn to a statement put out by Rudy Tambala, the head of VirginDigital.co.uk, which used some very strong language to attack the deal, and suggested the announcement was tantamount to a stitch-up between Apple and EMI."A 25% price increase for the removal of something that should never have existed in the first place is hard to swallow," he said. "The fact that EMI has failed to consult with any other digital download service suggests that this move is about enabling Apple to up its prices and continue setting pricing for the entire industry."All very fine words, if meant sincerely. Butwhat's this?From VirginDigital.co.uk's "help" pages:Digital Rights Management (DRM) is how those who own the rights to the music you've purchased prevent you from using it illegally.DRM limits your usage of your music in a variety of pre-determined ways; the number of times you can burn a track, the number of players you can copy it to and so on.And it follows up byexplaining that:Music files come in many different shapes and sizes. Right now, all music on Virgin Digital is in Windows Media Audio (WMA) format protected with standard DRM, although we are looking at adding other file formats in the future.Oh yes, I understand there's a logic that everybody has been forced to follow the DRM route, so a price hike to get rid of something that "should never have been there" is hard to swallow. But eMusic and Wippit have still managed to do business, haven't they?Given that Virgin currently sells Windows Media files wrapped "with standard DRM", some customers may find those claims equally difficult to stomach.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
"During a press conference on Monday, Apple chief executive Steve Jobs announced that iTunes will soon begin selling DRM-free music tracks from record label EMI and later fielded questions on the prospect of DRM-free videos, the affect of higher bit-rate tracks on future iPod capacities and more. A full transcript of the Q&amp;A session that followed the formal presentation has beentranscribed by AppleInsider...."
It's been a long time since we last held a Gamesblog games night, so is anyone up for a re-match? I'm thinking GRAW 2 or Gears of War. Any other suggestions? I don't have a PS3 at home yet, which rules out Resistance - a shame as the 40-player games are something else. Oh, no PC either, so we're stuck with 360 really.My ultimate aim this year is to get a Gamesblog clan together. Nothing serious, perhaps a plucky team of underdogs and misfits - like one of those Hollywood triumph-against-the-odds sports movies.But for now, who wants a game and what do you want to play?
Just in case you missed this yesterday, Sega has announced a new NiGHTS title, set for release on Wii in the Autumn. Subtitled 'Journey of Dreams', it's a follow-up to one of the company's finest console titles, NiGHTS Into Dreams, developed by Sonic Team and released in 1996 for the Sega Saturn. The mere mention of the game is enough to send shivers of ecstasy down the spines of Sega nuts, due to its perfect implentation of smooth, atmospheric 3D visuals with scrolling 2D gameplay and a wonderfully affecting story. From the press release:"As a fantasy jester called NiGHTS, players will fly through Nightopia, a rich and vibrant world where dreams come to life. With the innovative Wii Remote, gamers will experience a heightened sense of gliding, spiraling, and looping through seven mystical dream worlds packed with high-flying adventure. Players must find inventive ways to confront the "Nightmarens" from the neighboring dark world of Nightmare using amazing acrobatic skills, freedom of flight, and other special abilities to protect Nightopia. NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is an adventure filled with courage, hope and inspiration that the whole family will enjoy this holiday season."A NiGHTS sequel has been rumoured for years, with several abandoned attempts, one of which - Air NiGHTS - was apparently intended to utilise the tilt mechanism in the Saturn's analogue pad. You got there in the end, Sega. Though we could have done with this on Dreamcast...There's an official websitehere.
The computer game franchise Grand Theft Auto has always courted controversy (outlined intwoarticlesin this month's Wired Magazine), but now it seems the content has rankled the chains of America's finest - the police force of New York City.According toseveral reportsacross the (self-perpetuating) blogosphere,Gotham'sNYC's Police Commissioner is none too pleased that the next instalment bears more than a passing resemblance to the Big Apple. Neglecting of course to recognise the similarities in previous iterations, he explained to theNew York Daily Post,"Grand Theft Auto is set in a mythical city that bears a striking resemblance to New York. It's despicable to glamorize violence in games like these, regardless of how far-fetched the setting may be."But the best quote comes from a well-meaningpolitical spinsterCity Councilman, who claims,Setting Grand Theft Auto in the safest big city in America would be like setting Halo in Disneyland.I wonder if they have any comment on Martin Scorsese's entire back catalogue.You can view the trailer for the forthcoming game atCVG.
So, as seemed widely predicted this morning,EMI and Apple have announced their initiative to make DRM free music available on iTunes.I went to the press conference this lunchtime - held in the staff canteen at EMI's headquarters in Kensington - and saw both EMI boss Eric Nicoli and Apple honcho Steve Jobs reel off the news.The basic thrust is that EMI is making a new version of its tracks available to download, without any DRM and with 256Kbps encoding... for a price.The "first" partners will be iTunes, which will offer the music in 256K AAC for 99p per download; albums will cost the same as they do right now. But you'll still be able to buy DRMd, lower-quality tracks for a lower price - and quite how it will work in practice is yet to be seen, but Jobs didn't seem moved by my questions about how confusing this might be for customers.There was an interesting sidenote for Jobs watchers, in that he read from a piece of paper rather than simply. Anyone who has seen him make a speech before will realise that he's usually incredibly well prepared and knows his script. I suppose it's part of his on-stage charisma... with notes, not so much.So what are your thoughts? Personally, I think we have to see this initially as a story about record labels rather than Apple. It's certainly something that EMI, keen to portray itself as an innovative, was happy to take the initiative on.Jobs, as we saw with his "thoughts on music", is under pressure to act (even if he claims its not Apple's duty to enforce this stuff), but at the same time Apple isn't quite going the whole hog - it's continuing to sell EMI's tracks as 79p downloads with DRM and lower audio quality, as well as the premium product.And that point is certainly a backtrack from previous positions struck by Apple, where we'd heard them blast record labels for being "greedy" by wanting different pricing structures. This time around Jobs said this was a great chance for everyone to get what they wanted (more money for corporates, better product for fans).But Jobs was certainly bullish about the way the industry would fall behind EMI, suggesting that half of all iTunes 5 million-song library would be offered in this manner by the end of 2007. That's more than just EMI, and we'll most likely see plenty of people get behind the move in the near future.Still, a few questions linger. Is this a Trojan horse for a price hike? What will sales be like? And why bother with two versions?
1983. I was 10, football was pre-Premiership interesting and er,Jetpacwas released. I never had a Spectrum - the far superior C64 arrived for me year later - but I remember playing Jetpac with Speccy owning friends. Sure, it was no Ant Attack but it was better than a lot of the garbage available at the time. I think it may have cost 5.50 too, which was the slightly bizarre premium price for computer games at the time.Anyway,Jetpac Refuelledwas released on Xbox Live last week and updates the graphics but retains the rocket building/fuelling action. But the real eye-opener is the inclusion of the original game. Ouch. Nostalgia, aging reflexes, whatever - but the original Jetpac is hard going in 2007. Back in '83 one-hit death was the gaming norm but how many 10 year olds today - pampered by quicksaves, handholding and instance access to cheats - would put up with this? And after a painful session on Jetpac yesterday I'm glad they don't have to. Maybe 30-something gaming vets should get a medal or something? Jetpac Refuelled is still worth downloading though and not just because it is cheap (around 4 quid). But forget the glammed up remake and check out the original. Thankfully they don't make 'em like they used to.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Following on fromour post last night, today's Wall Street Journal says that EMI is going to drop DRM from its online songs:In a major break with the music industry's longstanding antipiracy strategy, EMI Group PLC is set to announce today that it plans to sell significant amounts of its catalog without anticopying software, according to people familiar with the matter.The London music company is to make its announcement at a London news conference featuring Apple Inc. Chief Executive Steve Jobs. EMI is to sell songs without the software -- known as digital rights management -- through Apple's iTunes Store and possibly through other online outlets.The article,EMI to Sell Music Without Anticopying Software, is however behind the WSJ's paywall at present.Selling tracks without DRM might take some of the heat off Apple, which has been pressured by some European countries to "open up" - that is, license - its FairPlay DRM to others. Apple hasn't budged on that one.Anyway, wait another three hours or so...
First of all, thank you. Thanks to the hardened gamers who came out in droves to vote for the panda avatar I'll wear formy 24-hour longvirtual marathonin Second Life. The mad rush of support for this year's digital Relay for Life has been extremely heartening; it's been great to see so many people support the American Cancer Society by submitting their votes onflickrand on theblog! I'm out a whopping13,700 Linden dollars - the equivalent of $52.06(at the exchange rate of 100 Lindens to $0.38) - from this drive alone. Thank you all!Second, against the better attempts by gamesbloggers (who overwhelmingly voted for theSouth Park Sexual Harassment Panda), the winner isPolom Panda, the freaky looking guy with the big purple eyes created by Second Life residentAretis Pollack(part of the Pirate Kitty line of avatars and accessories). Polom beat both theSPSHPand theTiny Pandaby 12 votes. Props go to the other creators,Jenee MartenandChecho Masukami.Now to set to work creating the little tags for for the panda for the 69 people who voted...
BusinessWeek's latest cover story asksIs Google Too Powerful?and gives readers the chance to vote online.Google has become incredibly rich and powerful. As the story says: "If you can believe it, Google's $144 billion market value tops that of Time Warner, Viacom, CBS, ad agency giant Publicis Groupe, and the New York Times Co combined."Google's phenomenal ad machine, in short, has the potential to vaporize the profits of any industry that traffics in bits and bytes and to shift the economics to the advantage of Google, its users, and its cadre of partners. "It's Google's world," shrugs Chris Tolles, vice-president of marketing at Topix Inc., which makes money from running Google ads on its news aggregation site. "We just live in it."The story reckons Google is trying not to seem aloof and arrogant:In its most recent earnings conference call with analysts, Schmidt and other executives mentioned the words "partner" or "partnership" more than 50 times. It may be working to some degree. Some TV networks, such as CBS, and other media outlets have found ways to work with Google. It has also sealed deals with Dell Inc to install Google software on computers and even with sometime rival eBay Inc to run ads on the online marketplace.This looks like a balancing factor, but I can't see that Google has any partnerships at all. Doing a deal with Dell is just business, and Dell would be just as happy to take someone else's money for a toobar. Same with eBay. There's no relationship involved. This is like claiming I have a relationship with Sainsbury's Local because I shop there: true, but not significant in any real sense.
'Get posts and letters, and make friends with speed"; a line from Shakespeare's Henry IV Part 2, but seemingly also a motto for our times, cluttered as they are with an increasing number of ways to enjoy multimedia socialising: from the virtual kingdom of Second Life to the endless tangle of blogs and social networking sites such as MySpace, Facebook and VelvetPuffin. And now there is Twitter.Twitter essentially deals with one question: what are you doing right now? Once you have signed up and built a network of friends, you can find out what everyone is doing at that precise moment, via breaking news alerts for everyone in your social circle, either online or on your mobile. If I were posting on it right now, I would put "writing about Twitter" for example. Actually, my last entry was two days ago, when I noted that I was busy "feeling full of rice". You can update from the web or from your phone, and posts are limited to 140 characters. It's blogging-lite.Twitter's "public timeline" allows you to see what a random selection of fellow Twits are up to around the world: as I write, I see that a user named Aaronte has been "brewing tea, it's going to be delicious". While Spin observes: "People are tired, weary. Worn down. You can see it in the sag, in the eyes."Twitter began in California as an offshoot of podcast-sharing site Odeo, and the man responsible is Evan Williams, who was also founder of the blogging portal Blogger. At just a year old, there are now 100,000 "Twits". Even US presidential hopeful John Edwards is on there (last Twitter: "Sen. Edwards is in San Francisco today and traveling to DC tonight"), and the South by Southwest multimedia festival in Austin, Texas, has named it the best blogging tool.It is a curious truth that in an era when we ignore our fellow passengers on the bus and sidestep conversation with the newsagent, we are compelled to share intimate details with strangers across the world, that we should feel such an engrossing desire to accumulate friends. "Never so few," continued Shakespeare, "and never yet more need."
Dozens of internet users who allegedly goaded a depressed father to hang himself could face criminal charges.Kevin Whitrick, 42, killed himself live on the internet after being incited by chatroom users who initially believed he was play-acting.Police investigating the death of the father of two from Telford, Shropshire, have interviewed many of those logged on to the 'insult' chatroom at the Paltalk.com website at the time of the suicide and have passed a file to the Crown Prosecution Service. Any chatroom visitor who urged Whitrick to hang himself could be guilty of assisting suicide, which carries a jail sentence.Users of the chatroom saw Whitrick climb on to a chair, tie a rope round a ceiling joist and hang himself. Friends say he had been suffering from depression after the breakdown of his marriage and following a serious car crash.
