So, in the immortal words of Rory Cellan-Jones, the BBC's  technology correspondent, coding (ie computer programming) is "the new Latin". This was the headline on hisblog postabout the burgeoning campaign to&nbsp;boost the teaching of computer skills&nbsp;in UK schools.Dedicated readers will recall that it is also a bee in the bonnet ofthis particular columnist. The ICT (information and communications technology) curriculum in our secondary schools has been a national disgrace for as long as I can remember. This is because it effectively&nbsp;conflates ICT with "office skills" and generally winds up training&nbsp;them to use Microsoft Office when what they really need is ICTeducation –that is to say preparation for a world in which Microsoft (and maybe even Google) will be little more than historical curiosities, and PowerPoint presentations will look like Dead Sea scrolls.Rory Cellan-Jones's blog post was prompted by signs that the campaign to rethink ICT education is gathering momentum. It was first given a boost by a report written by two elders of the computer games world, Ian Livingstone and Alex Hope, on the need to transform the UK into "the world's leading talent hub for the video games and visual effects industries". Their report recommended, among other things, that computer science should become part of the national curriculum.The campaign was further boosted by the news that a range of technology and media companies – including Google, Microsoft, Sony, Nintendo, Sega, Electronic Arts, Activision, Talk Talk and the Guardian Media Group – werebacking these recommendations.Thegovernment's responseto all this is long on talk but short on commitment. HMG, it burbles, "recognises that the current ICT programme is insufficiently rigorous and in need of reform" and is "committed to introducing a slimmed-down, more focused and more rigorous curriculum". Quite so, minister. But, it goes on: "In the event of ICT not remaining part of the national curriculum, attention would still need to be given to ensure children could acquire computer science skills. The government would work with the sector to find the best way to achieve this." Translation: "Sorry, techies. ICT is probably going to be dropped (because there's no room for it in our new slimmed-down curriculum) but we'll find a way of sweetening the pill."What's missing from both sides of this campaign is any appreciation of the real significance of introducing children to programming. Messrs Livingstone and Hope take an instrumental view of the matter, which is understandable given their industrial backgrounds. They are concerned that UK universities are not producing graduates with the skills that their industry needs now. They see the decline in students applying to Ucas for places on computer science courses from 16,500 in 2003 to 13,600 last year and fret about its impact on their&nbsp;current businesses.But in a way they're making the same mistake as those who saw ICT as a way of preparing kids for the world of work by training them to use Microsoft Office – ie designing a curriculum by looking into a rear-view mirror. What we ought to be doing is giving the kids the ability to operate in – and perhaps help to create – industries that nobody has even dreamed of yet.What governments don't seem to understand is that software is the nearest thing to magic that we've yet invented. It's pure "thought stuff" – which means that it enables ingenious or gifted people to create wonderful things out of thin air. All you need to change the world is imagination, programming ability and access to a cheap PC. You don't need capital or material resources or adult permission. Tim Berners-Lee and a tiny group of colleagues created the web out of nothing more than vision and programming skill. A gifted teenager named Shawn Fanning created Napster – and spawned the file-sharing revolution – by sitting in his bedroom for six months and writing code. All Mark Zuckerberg needed in order to launch Facebook was a laptop, his precocious programming skills and a thousand bucks borrowed from a friend. And so on – through Amazon and eBay and Google and Blogger and Twitter and YouTube and countless other world-changing ventures built out of computer programs.That's why software is like magic: all you need is ability. And some children, for reasons that are totally and wonderfully mysterious, have an extraordinary aptitude for programming – just as some have a musical, mathematical or artistic gift. If the government excludes computer&nbsp;science from the national curriculum then it will be effectively slamming the door to the future.
Mario 7, Nintendo 3DSMario Kart is a go-kart game with cheerful cartoon weaponry. What sets it apart from myriad kart racing pretenders is its singular and exquisite balance, which makes every race an exercise in perfectly metered tension, requiring a mixture of driving skills and mildly tactical deployment of offensive measures to win. Mario Kart 7 adds a few little twists: new power-ups, including the competitor-swiping Tanooki tail; the ability to glide for short distances, and continue driving underwater; as well as the capacity to customise each kart. It's appallingly addictive and once again at its best when played against frail human adversaries within verbal taunting range.Nintendo, £34.99Professor Layton And The Spectre's Call, Nintendo DSProfessor Layton and colleagues. Photo: PRIn a kind of Professor Layton: Year Zero, the Spectre's Call tells the story of the professor's meeting with soon-to-be apprentice Luke in a sleepy English town that harbours a ghostly building-eating giant. As usual, the way to end the madness is by solving gentle brainteasers along your travels, triggering new portions of the plot to unfold. In short it's the customary winning combination of charming artwork and voice acting, as well as puzzles unlikely to overwork your grey matter.Nintendo, £34.99Tekken Hybrid, PlayStation 3Julia and Yoshimitsu have a straightener. Photo: PRIn the old days Tekken duked it out with Virtua Fighter for the title of world's best fighting game. These days nobody really cares, which will be doubly the case for this HD remake of Tekken Tag Tournament, one of the series' least-loved outings. Battles are tag-based, so you can swap fighters in and out to give them time to recover or perform two-man special moves, but despite its strong competitive leanings there's no facility to play online. Tekken Hybrid comes with a 3D Blu-ray copy of the wholly unanticipated animated film based on the series, in a package that also features a playable demo of Tekken Tag Tournament 2, making this a treat for very few.Namco, £30.99Games newsSony's Personal 3D Viewer. Photo: PRComputer-owning, would-be Renaissance hitmen can now sate their unseemly urges with the release ofAssassin's Creed: Revelationson PC …The accurately namedWorld Of Tanksputs you behind the controls of dozens of real and customisably absurd metal war machines …Puss In Boots, the Shrek spin-off, gives rise to a third-rate console game andNow! That's What I Call Music: Dance And Singadds yet more Christmas party-orientated microphone and Wii-remote waving antics to the annual season of silliness …Finally, for anyone feeling as though living in 2011 ought to be a bit more futuristic, Sony's limited-editionPersonal 3D Viewermight do the trick. Featuring two eye-sized LED screens and surround-sound headphones embedded in a device designed to look like a prop from Star Trek, Sony hopes to seduce a small number of gamers and 3D Blu-ray enthusiasts with this radical eyewear.
I was expecting a lot from this car. You know, burlesque dancers peeling off their corsets, Thierry Henry, Audrey Hepburn in&nbsp;Breakfast At Tiffany's, a&nbsp;flash of Rihanna, Bowie's Space Oddity, Marlon Brando on the waterfront (he could've been a contender, you know). All of that. In short, I was expecting va va voom.And what I've got instead is a low-powered, low-spec, no frills, no thrills version of a car that's beginning to look a bit tired and dated. Serves me right for believingthe advert, I&nbsp;suppose. To be fair, that ad is for the&nbsp;whole Clio range, of which there are more glamorous models.There is one key thing about this car, though: CO2emissions of just 94g/km. Yay! Meaning no tax and noLondon congestion charge. It's actually just the regular diesel Clio, with an "eco kit" fitted – low resistance tyres, a spoiler (spoiler alert! Sorry, too late), the odd tweak to the engine and gearing. This eco kit brings emissions down from 105g/km to just 94 and costs only £250. It&nbsp;seems amazing that you can reduce&nbsp;emissions by more than 10% so easily and so cheaply. Shouldn't eco kits be fitted as standard, to everything? Not just cars, but houses, cows, pets, partners.The good news continues: it's cheap to buy as well as cheap to run. Cheaper than an eco Polo or an eco Corsa. The three-door version is, says Renault, the cheapest sub-100g/km supermini there is. Jesus, I'm now quoting the press release. Sorry.Around town, it's absolutely fine, especially if that town is London, where you can moon at the congestion cameras as you pass (take that, Boris). There's actually probably enough space to do that from the front, although don't if you're driving, it's dangerous. Maybe not from the back, either, where va va legroom is limited.Although not a natural motorway cruiser, again it's perfectly adequate. You're not exactly cocooned in sumptuous luxury. The fascia (a&nbsp;technical term used by us famous motoring journalists to mean the front bit where you put your feet up – though again not if you're driving) is functional (plasticky). But you can console yourself with the knowledge that you're going to be going a very long way without filling up: 950 miles it says here. Sorry, I've done it again. And that's obviously if you go no more than 50mph.Anyway, you get the idea, it's about going further for less, and not killing too many polar bears on the way. It's about saving – on fuel, money, the planet, face. Just don't expect too much va va voom. What the hell isva va voomanyway?Renault Clio EcoPriceFrom £12,450Top speed113mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11 secondsCombined consumption78.4mpgCO2emissions94g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating4/10
Facebook may have its European headquarters in Dublin but the social networking site has wiped a small Irish village off the map because its name is deemed obscene.Effin in County Limerick has been branded "offensive" by Facebook  and is blocked from the site.A native of the village has now started an online battle to get Effin recognised by the site.Anne Marie Kennedy, who works at the University of Limerick, said yesterday that she, along with several more friends, have been trying to insert the village name into the "home" section of their Facebook profiles in recent months. But they have not been successful.Kennedy also tried to set up a Facebook page entitled, "Please get my hometown Effin recognised". But it too was blocked by the social networking site."It came back with an error message saying 'offensive'," she said."I would like to be able to put Effin on my profile page and so would many other Effin people around the world to proudly say that they are from Effin, Co Limerick, but it won't recognise that," she said."It keeps coming up as Effingham, Illinois; Effingham, New Hampshire; and it gives suggestions of other places."It will recognise Limerick but I'm not from Limerick city, I'm from Effin. I'm a proud Effin woman. And I always will be an Effin woman."A spokesperson for Facebook said they would correct the problem so Effin could end up on the site. "From time to time we are alerted to oversights such as this in our mapping system. We will look to correct it to ensure places like Effin can be 'liked' on Facebook."
Infinity Blade IIIt was interesting this week to see even a new Call of Duty iOS game outmuscled on the App Store by a game that hasn't (yet) been seen on a console. Infinity Blade II is the sequel to Chair Entertainment's lucrative action game, and it builds upon the strengths of the first game while adding more depth. The gameplay is still based on a warrior hacking, slashing and casting spells to vanquish a series of foes, while upgrading their stats and acquiring new weapons, armour and items. The graphics look spectacular – particularly on the larger iPad screen – but work has been put into the storyline too, as well as new ways to battle. As it stands, it's excellent, although Chair has some ambitious plans to introduce social features in the not-so-distant future to add another layer of interest.iPhone / iPad, £4.99A Charlie Brown ChristmasLoud Crow's latest book-app is supposedly for children, but we're betting there will be plenty of adults getting a warm nostalgic glow from this festive interactive story starring the Peanuts crew. Not least because the voice of Charlie Brown is exactly how you remember it from the Peanuts (TV) cartoons, courtesy of narration from Peter Robbins. The nice thing about this app is that while there's plenty of tapping and swiping to be done, the interactivity never swamps the story itself. The ability to tap on individual words to hear them read out is great for new readers too. But it's the attention to detail and craft that makes this stand out from the crowd.Android / iPhone / iPadBuscheckerIf you live in London, and regularly ride a bus, then you should not leave home without the Buschecker app. It uses GPS and live data from London's bus countdown service, as well as a Google Map populated with red dots for nearby bus stops. Tapping on a stop brings up a list of the routes that use it, and how long it is until the next buses on those routes reach that stop. The app includes maps for all London bus routes, the option to bookmark the stops you regularly use, and a 'stop alert' to let you know when you're approaching the stop that you need to get off at. Buschecker has been voted the UK's number-one travel app, and it's easy to see why. An iPad version is coming later this month, followed by Android in the first quarter of 2012.Stuart O'ConnoriPhone, £1.99CuppleThere are plenty of apps for sharing your photos with the world (or at least your Facebook and Twitter contacts), but Cupple takes a much more intimate approach. It's a "private sharing application" for couples, with the idea being they can ping photos, messages and share location data between the two of them. And while you can do this with text and picture messages, email and video calls, Cupple does an elegant job of bringing it all together in one app, complete with push notifications for new shares and comments. And we know what you're thinking: this is for mucky photos, yes? Well, some people might use it like that, but we can see parents getting a lot of use out of this for snaps of their children, or just daily happenings and private jokes when apart.iPhone, freeWorld of GooWorld of Goo has been a huge hit on other platforms – including iOS – but thankfully it's made the leap to Android devices with aplomb. The game sees you guiding a bunch of gooey blobs through puzzles, turning them into bridges and other structures as you go. As on iOS, it works beautifully with a touchscreen, as you drag the goo balls into place. The presentation is top-notch too, while the 48 stages have enough of a difficulty curve to keep you challenged, without ever making you want to throw your device at the nearest wall in frustration. It took a while, but we're seeing a faster flow of big games coming to Android at the end of 2011 – a trend that promises to accelerate in 2012. World of Goo deserves to be as big a hit on Android as it has been elsewhere.Android, £1.99 (previously on iPhone/iPad)Mix RadioMix Radio isn't a standalone app, as such: it's a key feature in the Nokia Music app on its new Lumia 800 Windows Phone. Nokia Music also enables you to play the music stored on your handset, buy new downloads as MP3s, and check out nearby gig listings. But it's Mix Radio that's the big draw: it's Nokia's equivalent of personal radio service Pandora, albeit mobile-only. It provides a selection of curated mixes in genres including pop, rock, indie/alternative, rap/hip hop and classical. You can play them as streams, or tap and hold to pin them to the device – storing them for offline play. The Pandora element comes with the Create feature, where you tell Mix Radio who your favourite bands are, and it creates a customised mix based on them and similar artists. The recommendations come from The Echo Nest and in our experience are very good. Mix Radio hasn't been talked up hugely in the Lumia 800's launch, but it's actually one of the phone's biggest selling points.Windows Phone, free (but Nokia Lumia 800 only)
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?This is going to sound bad, but I have a Range Rover with air-conditioned seats. It's literally the best thing that's ever happened. It's warm in winter, cool in summer – perfect. Hot summer's day, you're driving in the car, you've got the air conditioning blasting – but it's not getting everywhere. The small of your back gets sweaty, which is not what you want on long drives, so air-conditioned seats are the best thing ever.When was the last time you used it, and what for?On the way here this morning, to heat my ass.What additional features would you add if you could?There's nothing – they are literally the most perfect thing in the world. But there's other technology that I use an awful lot. I'm a big fan of Twitter as a piece of technology – as a thing, I just think it's brilliant. It really suits me, the idea of throwing jokes out there and just seeing what people think. You get immediate feedback – it very similar, technology-wise, to stand-up.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I find the best way to avoid frustration is to buy what your friend who is good with technology already has. That's the secret. If your mate who's good with phones has the iPhone 4S, get it a week after him and he'll tell you how to use it.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Yeah, there was a DVD recorder I had, that you could use to record to DVD from TV – it was the fiddliest thing in the world. I think Sky+  has absolutely nailed it.  Any other recording device now just seems so: "Oh, I've got to put a thing in, and then do a thing, and then set this up, then put a timer on ..." When you work like I do – I'm out every night – I wouldn't see any television if I couldn't record it.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Follow the herd. Don't read a review and buy the one where they go: "It's not as popular, but it's just as good and it's a little bit cheaper." Do the obvious thing, and don't overthink it. With technology, follow the herd is quite a good move, because you're spending a lot of money on the stuff. There's nothing the matter with following the herd. Everyone else had got an iPhone – yeah, get an iPhone. "I'm going to get an Android phone, it's better." Is it? Looks like a piece of shit. It's got two apps – brilliant.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I like new technology. I don't know how it works, and sometimes it takes me a while to get used to it, but I'm very enthusiastic.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I've got an outdoor TV – it's an Aqualite.  I mean, c'mon, how good's that?Mac or PC, and why?Mac, because I'm not a fucking idiot. Because a computer is more than work. The Mac is more fun; there's something about it, it has a little bit of personality. They're just fabulous.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?Yeah, big fan of DVDs. I like shopping for DVDs, I like going to HMV and going through the rack. I download a lot of films to watch, and rent films from iTunes, which is lovely, but there's something very nice about going to a store and buying something – the immediacy of having it in your hand. The last DVD I bought was probably one of the comedy ones, one of the stand-ups for Christmas. I think it was Peter Kay, because I didn't get to see the live show.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?You've seen Terminator, right? You've seen RoboCop – you know what can go wrong. We can't let this happen. It's why Skynet must not be allowed to flourish … or Microsoft, as I believe they're otherwise known.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Here's the thing – I'm a big fan of Sky+. Imagine if Sky+ did a portable player that you could plug into the front of your Sky box and it downloaded your Sky box to a portable thing, like a laptop. If you've got a good internet connection you can watch your Sky remotely, but if they just had like a DVD thing that you could watch what you had taped at home when you're away. Because I spend my life away from home and the best thing about getting home is when you go, "Oh, I've got my shows taped that I can watch", and you feel like you're at home. If you could take that with you, that would be awesome.•Jimmy Carr Being Funny is available now on DVD
Facebook games maker Zynga plans to raise $1bn (£630m) in its initial public offering, valuing the fledgling internet firm at $7bn.The company behind popular Facebook games Farmville and Mafia Wars said ina regulatory filingon Friday that it intends to sell 115m shares – 14% of its common stock – at up to $10 each.The $7bn price tag will make Zynga the third-largest US gaming firm by market cap, behind World of Warcraft maker Activision Blizzard and Electronic Arts. Activision Blizzard was valued at $14.19bn and Electronic Arts was valued at $7.69bn when the stock markets closed on Thursday.Zynga said it has 54 million active users in 175 countries across the world, many of whom play its range of Facebook games including CastleVille, Empires and Allies and Zynga Poker.Mark Pincus, the Zynga founder and chief executive, will control 36.2% of voting stock after the flotation.
A selection of 14 apps for you today:Paddington BearPaddington Bear's sticky paws are all over the iPhone and iPad with this new book-app from HarperCollins. It includes the ability for parents and children to record their own voice narration for the story, while also taking photos of themselves with Paddington to send to friends.iPhone / iPadTetrisTetris is back for iPhone – this new version replaces the existing edition – with new modes designed for the touchscreen, social features, and a T-Club subscription service that gets people to pay a monthly fee for "bonus lines and T-Coins".iPhoneVodafone GuardianMobile operator Vodafone has launched an Android app for parents worried about their children's usage of a smartphone. They can block calls and messages from specific contacts, while also locking off apps like the camera and web browsing. They can even restrict usage during school hours.AndroidRolling Stone's Beatles album-by-album guideFor shame, Rolling Stone magazine. You've made an iPad app based on Britain's biggest ever band, but not made it available in the UK App Store. US Beatles fans will enjoy the app, which offers articles, photos, celebrity views and (naturally) iTunes integration.iPadTate Guide to Modern Art TermsFlummoxed by the jargon of the modern art world? Tate Gallery wants to help, with its new iOS app that has more than 300 art terms to demystify things.iPhone / iPadKik Messenger for SymbianAs Nokia's last financial results showed, it's still selling a lot of Symbian smartphones around the world. Messaging app Kik has recognised that, and launched its official Symbian client after a short beta period.SymbianFallen RealmsSega and social games network PapayaMobile have teamed up for a new freemium RPG for Android – making its debut on Google-powered devices rather than iOS. The turn-based game gets players to invite friends' characters into their party.AndroidAssassin's Creed RecollectionThe new Assassin's Creed game is something of a curveball, swapping stealthy sneaking for... a "real-time board game". Players unlock artwork and other goodies, while also battling against one another in the multiplayer mode.iPadInertia: Escape VelocityVisually impressive game Inertia: Escape Velocity is a physics-based platformer, and a mobile sequel to award-winning indie game Inertia.iPhone / Android / iPadThe NightworldGlu Mobile's latest freemium game has literary origins, albeit slightly convoluted. It's a stealth action game with a storyline "fully developed through an accompanying novel written by author Jack Blaine of James' Frey's Full Fathom Five".iPhone / iPadNBA: King of the CourtStartup Ogmento is exploring how augmented reality technology can be used for mobile games. NBA: King of the Court is a fully licensed basketball game for iPhone that gets people to challenge one another to rule virtual courts in the real world. If that makes sense.iPhoneNice Bear Naughty BearParents have been creating reward charts to encourage good behaviour from their children for donkey's years, but now there's an app for that, based on the Nice Bear Naughty Bear books.iPhoneTalk2MeTalk2Me turns Windows Phones into walkie-talkies, capable of sending and receiving recorded voice messages between friends at the touch of a (virtual) button.Windows PhoneJudge Dredd vs ZombiesHe is The Law, and he's got a new game for iPhone and iPad with a focus on the undead. This Judge Dredd action game is the work of Fuse Powered, which previously made games based on Jaws and Dawn of the Dead.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCarrier IQ Speaks: Our Software Ignores Your Personal Info - John Paczkowski - Mobile - AllThingsDCarrier IQ boss: "We don't read SMS messages. We see them come in. We see the phone numbers attached to them. But we are not storing, analyzing or otherwise processing the contents of those messages."Apple Stopped Supporting Carrier IQ With iOS 5 &gt;&gt; AllThingsDApple says it will remove Carrier IQ in all other devices in the next software update.European Union Bans Exports to Syria of Systems for Monitoring Web, Phones &gt;&gt; BloombergCanada 'still a BlackBerry nation' &gt;&gt; The Globe and Mail"About eight million Canadians owned a smartphone in September and 35.8% were using a BlackBerry, said comScore on Wednesday." Ahead of the iPhone, and Android.How widely installed are various plugins? &gt;&gt; RIAStatsThe contrast between the installation penetration of Flash and Silverlight is interesting.FOI: why does the Home Office use Word for public replies? &gt;&gt; WhatDoTheyKnowBecause it does.Browse your old tweets &gt;&gt; Twimemachine.com"Use TwimeMachine to easily browse through your old tweets (max 3200). Read what you said ages ago." Depending how often you tweet. But it does show up Twitter's lack of a good archive.Apple's CEO responds to a Siri-us matter &gt;&gt; Blog For ChoiceSo Tim Cook is now doing emails too. He's a bit more talkative but also a bit more formal than Steve Jobs. First Cookmail in the wild?Google+ as a referral source continues downward trend &gt;&gt; Netmarketshare"In November, Google+ social media referrals have dropped again. Facebook now has over 1,000 times the amount of referrals as Google+." For reference, Facebook has about 80 times more users than Google+. Might this mean though that people are using Google+ differently - to discuss within the network, rather than following links, rather as happens on Twitter? (In these stats, Twitter has about eight times as many referrals as Google+ - which is about in line with their respective sizes.Welcome to Emer Coleman &gt;&gt; Government Digital ServiceCongratulations to Emer Coleman, who has been working very hard to get open data happening via the Greater London Authority. It will be fascinating to see how she makes it happen inside central government. Watch out, civil service.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Yey, Friday! Tell us what you're playing tomorrow! For me, it's Battlefield, Uncharted 3 (still haven't finished it) and maybe a spot of Super Mario 3D Land.
The received wisdom is that online shopping would kill off the high street. So the arrival of online auction house eBay in the heart of London's West End yesterday was greeted with bemusement by Christmas shoppers and passers-by."I've never shopped on eBay because I don't know what to do and I'm even more confused now," said Colin Hale, a pensioner who had stumbled upon the store while "killing time" with his wife before their afternoon theatre trip.The internet shopping site began a brief residency in an empty shop in Soho, just a short walk from Oxford Street. Retail experts think the experiment could presage a full-blown assault by the US company on the high street. The "eBay boutique" has no tills – customers instead pay by smartphone, something of a problem for Hale, whose £12 no-frills mobile had no internet access. "I faced a rather bad handicap from the beginning," he said.The "eBay boutique", which is stocked with 350 eBay bestsellers ranging from £12 bottles of Sarah Jessica Parker's Endless perfume to more expensive gifts such as digital cameras and flatscreen TVs, aims to tap into the UK's fast growing love of smartphones.In the store, customers make purchases by zapping what look like Rorschach ink blots on the price tag. The so-called "quick response" code directs the phone's browser to either the payment section of the eBay website or an area where shoppers can browse similar products from other sellers. Stephen Clifford-Wood, who works nearby, was an immediate convert, describing it as "bloody amazing": "I like that it is a halfway house between a regular shop and buying online."eBay hopes to attract shoppers who can't face the crowds on Oxford Street but is staying open only until Monday, spanning what are expected to be the five busiest days for online shopping.Given the internet was supposed to sound a death knell for old fashioned bricks-and-mortar retailing, eBay director Miriam Lahage conceded there was "a little irony" in the website becoming a shopkeeper. "We wanted to bring the excitement of online and mobile to offline because the lines are blurring," she said. "This store offers the buzz of being in central London at Christmas without the stress or queues or having to carry shopping bags home on the bus." Goods bought in store are delivered to the buyer's home.Another curious browser, Nils Rebehm, a self-confessed technology geek using his lunch break to check out the store, questioned the logic: "The beauty of online shopping is you do it on the internet at home. Why go into a shop to buy online and have to wait for delivery anyway?"The eBay range is a hotchpotch of high- and low-end brands. In addition to the main display area there are three smaller rooms, one kitted out as a living room and two bedrooms: a "girlie boudoir" and "bloke's paradise". The former is full of high-heeled shoes, spangly party frocks and handbags.In recent years, mainstream retail brands have embraced selling on eBay. Conlumino analyst Neil Saunders says that despite the high street's current woes it still offers opportunities to internet brands such as eBay, Amazon and Google: "Online retail is growing very fast but the bulk of sales are still through physical stores."
As a Santa's grotto for modern times, Amazon's gigantic warehouse near Milton Keynes is perfectly equipped, although sparkle comes second to scale. Stowed on metal shelves in this 500,000 sq ft hangar is every kind of gift: Zumba Fitness Wii, the George Foreman grilling machine, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, the Aurora Shredder, the Science Fiction Yearbook and, of course, tower blocks of Kindles, the ebook reader that is Amazon's bestselling product ever, was its bestseller last Christmas and will  be again this Christmas. Shorn of the tricks of the high street – the subdued shop lighting, the mood music, the pleasing displays – however, the vast array of goods hoarded in preparation for the festive spending frenzy looks rather like your possessions when you move house: jumbled together in boxes and about as precious as a pile of sticks.One of a growing number of Amazon warehouses –its largest in Europe opened in Scotland last month– the "fulfilment centre" at Marston Gate is deceptively tranquil, a sign that this formidable operation is running smoothly. It is only the conveyor belt dropping parcels into postal bins that betrays just how much Amazon is selling. Thud. Thump. Beat. Orders are dispatched from this enormous building 24/7.On its busiest day last year, 6 December, nicknamed "Cyber Monday", Amazon received 2.3m orders. High-street spending may be moribund but Amazon expected last week to be busier than ever: it launched its second"Black Friday deals week"in the UK – essentially, a massive pre-Christmas sale.The dotcom bookseller launched byJeff Bezosfrom his garage in Seattle in 1994 is quietly taking over the world, and transforming the way we consume. Among 17 new depots opening around the globe are two 950,000 sq ft warehouses in Germany. In Britain, a 700,000 sq ft warehouse opened in Rugeley, Staffordshire, this autumn, 1,000 new jobs are being created at head office in Slough and another warehouse will open nearby next year at the appropriately named Mammoth site. Most dramatically of all, Amazon's new 1m sq ft warehouse in Dunfermline was opened by Alex Salmond last month, creating 750 new permanent jobs and up to 1,500 temporary posts. Salmond also opened its new customer-service centre in Edinburgh, which will create 900 jobs over five years. This "world-leading online retailer," as Salmond put it, is getting a big hand from taxpayers: £6.3m is available to the Dunfermline warehouse in Scottish Enterprise grants while Amazon's three Scottish centres are also being assisted by £4.3m of grants and training awards from Scottish Enterprise, which is funded by the Scottish government.Amazon's enormous expansion programme – in products, such as theKindle Fire tablet, which analysts expect to clock up sales of five million in two months, as well as warehouses – is costly.Global profits fell in the second and third quarters this year, compared with 2010, because of all this investment. Tellingly, however, third-quarter revenues were up by 44% to $10.88bn (£6.9bn), following a second-quarter rise in revenues of 51%, its highest rate of growth in a decade. To grow this fast when you are already this big is a staggering achievement. In comparison, thriving Asda's second quarter sales were up by a measly 0.5% this year.The curved roof of Marston Gate is visible from the M1. The no-frills foyer bears an American stamp – "Rest rooms" are to the left – and there is a nod to Amazon's literary beginnings with conference rooms named after Keats and Chaucer. Arthur Valdez, an enthusiastic American who is Amazon's director of UK operations, guides us around the warehouse. "The yellow totes flow into the pick tower for putaway," he explains. This impenetrable language conceals a simple process: stuff is delivered, unpacked, shelved, picked, repacked and posted to customers. The complexity comes with the enormous scale – and speed – of this operation.Staff at work at Amazon's Marston Gate warehouse. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianStaff dressed in T-shirts and tracksuits unpack inbound goods into yellow "totes" (plastic boxes of the kind you might use to store all your unwanted Amazon purchases in the loft) at a line of 52 stations like those at a supermarket. Other employees "put away" products on shelves, as instructed by Amazon's computers, which randomly allocate free locations. Crucially, apart from the bestselling items collected in great stacks on aisle J (Kindles and grilling machines – no books, as far as I can see) no more than six of any product is stored in the same spot. Goods are deliberately placed alongside very different things to minimise the risk of "pickers" choosing the wrong item – you really can't mistake the Unbearable Lightness of Being for a Russell Hobbs slipstream iron, even at the end of an eight-hour shift in which you have walked nearly 15 miles.The pickers can clock up this daily mileage striding around the warehouse filling their orange tubs with customer orders. Their handheld scanners tell them the quickest route to what they need. Picked items are passed to packers wearing white cotton gloves, which gives them a prim look. They tend to be the newest "temporary associates" because their job is the quickest to learn. Every warehouse worker, a "tier one associate", begins as a temp before trying to graduate to a more permanent position.The packers stick a barcode on their finished parcels, which is read by a machine that then stamps the address label on each package. Finally, as it is whisked towards the giant postal bins (towns have their own bin, with hundreds of parcels heading to, say, Bournemouth or Worcester from Marston Gate every day), the parcel is weighed by a machine. This is the last "quality control" before it leaves the building. If the weighed package does not correspond to the weight of the order, the parcel is removed and checked again.Everything, Valdez says – from how Amazon manages "according to a critical pull time" to how pickers endeavour to meet deadlines "from a consumer-promise perspective" – boils down to an almost pathological determination to post items to consumers as quickly as possible, without mistakes. In this, from my limited personal perspective, Amazon excels: I've ordered dozens of books over the past few years and it has never once made a mistake. Other people I know praise its customer services when things do go wrong.What about flaws in the system – the human beings? Warehouse work is the fruit-picking of the modern era; Marston Gate employs 600 people full-time but its staff swells to 2,000 for the peak Christmas season, which starts now. Many temps must make mistakes; a few staff steal. When I was a student, I worked in a warehouse where pickers would deliberately drop desirable items knowing they would later appear with other damaged goods on sale in the staff shop for 90% off. Amazon doesn't have a staff shop, although it offers a few computers for any employees crazy enough to go internet shopping during breaktime.Valdez explains that the warehouse processes are "simplified … to be able to help support the shortened learning curve of our temporary labour, which is very important to us in the peak season". What about theft? "We get people who try and we control it," says Valdez. What he rather ominously calls the "system" – every item is scanned and logged on computers at every stage – knows who touches what. But people must still nick things? "It happens, like any other place, but we do a very good job of controlling the goods internally and protecting our associates with the loss-prevention team," says Valdez. There are random searches and employees are scanned in the warehouse entrance, all "quite normal for an operational warehouse", as Valdez points out.The dotcom boom of the late 90s created a new generation of companies that appeared to herald a more inclusive form of capitalism with their casually dressed employees and progressive slogans. Now, the winners, from Google to Apple to Amazon, look every bit as ruthless and monopolistic as traditional corporations. In Marston Gate foyer is a stand with leaflets for local tourist attractions, including the nuclear bunker at Kelvedon Hatch. There is something of the bunker about secretive Amazon. It does not publish ebook sales and will only reveal that it has sold more ebooks than hardbacks in the UK this year. It has never released any Kindle sales figures except to say it has sold "millions". Does it need to be so secretive? "I guess every company has their own approach. Ours has been we've shared that kind of information very selectively," says Chris North, Amazon UK's managing director.During my two-hour tour I am not allowed to interview warehouse workers. Apparently it would slow up their "processes" too much. A blue plaque at the Marston Gate entrance proclaims: "Ownership – if you want employees who think and work like owners, they need to be owners." In the US, Amazon recently said it installed air conditioning at some of its east-coast warehouses aftertemperatures reached 102F (39C) inside one this summer and some workers collapsed. The previous winter,employees needed treatment for cold exposureafter they were evacuated during fire alarms. In the UK, an unflattering picture of its warehouse work was painted bya Sunday Times investigationthree years ago, which found staff were set picking and packing quotas one manager described as "ridiculous" and were penalised for taking sick days. None of this was illegal, and when I intercept several "tier-one associates" in the smokers' area outside they are quite happy with their jobs. "It's a good place to work. I've been there for four years so it must be all right," says one employee in the smoking area. "Staff are closely monitored but ..." he shrugs his shoulders. It is good work, as far as warehouse labour goes, he says. "Lots of people always wanted to get in [to work for Amazon] because it was busy and better than other places," says another local man who worked nearby.Amazon's impact on shopping in the UK may be profound but its philosophy seems simply to be to eliminate mistakes and deliver stuff to people as quickly as possible. Having begun as a bookseller, what is its goal now? "To be the place where people can come and find any product they want to buy online," says Valdez simply. North sounds uncomfortable when asked what exactly Amazon is these days. "That sounds like a very philosophical question," he says. "I suppose the answer is different if you are asking about different Amazon businesses and different Amazon customer segments. We are fundamentally in several different businesses."North attributesAmazon's astonishing sales growthto its expansion beyond books and DVDs, having launched baby, sports, home and garden, grocery, pets, toys and health and beauty divisions in the past six years. In short, Amazon sells almost anything that can be stored in a cool concrete warehouse for a long time. It has posted 62% year-on-year worldwide growth in these areas – electronics and general merchandising – compared with 20% growth in books and DVDs sales. "We're particularly excited right now about our shoes business," says North. Amazon's shoes – through its Javari (named after another South American river) standalone site – can be delivered the next day and, if they are unwanted or do not fit, returned post-free.So is Amazon just a gigantic online shop, selling as cheaply as possible?  "I don't think price is enough," argues North. "A great retailer has to have the broadest possible range, keen prices but also you have to have great service." Amazon is stretching the definition of shop in becoming a platform for the sale of all kinds of media services.  It also publishes books, offers web services to companies and IT departments and, of course, produces the Kindle. This gives it control over the price and distribution of ebooks much like a publisher, although North insists they want to work with publishers, not do them out of business altogether, as literary agent Andrew Wylie recently claimed.Amazon is also a retail platform that allows other people to sell products, through its "marketplace". "The third-party offers are a very important part of our proposition," says North. "By inviting third parties to list and sell their products on our site we expand dramatically the total range of products customers can find on Amazon." North reaches for a definition of what Amazon is. "Amazon is a retailer with a particular obsession with starting with customers and working backwards but we're also this platform that allows any one of the two million third-party sellers we work with – who may be anything from an individual with an unwanted gift to an existing retailer – to expand the number of channels they can sell through or customers they can reach."What are the wider implications of Amazon's success? Surely all our online ordering is causing traditional shops to go out of business? North denies this and argues that online and high street have coexisted for 15 years and will continue to do so. "Customers have a choice between a high-street specialist, a generalist, a supermarket, a catalogue retailer, a pure online store and more and more businesses that cross several of those categories. All that competition means the customer wins," he says. "They get access to better prices, a much broader range of products and they have all these retailers competing to offer them the best possible service in terms of the speed of delivery or after sales services. Certainly, we're at a point in the UK economic cycle where times are tough but I absolutely think that the high street and online are going to coexist."North denies that Amazon is becoming a monopolistic monster gobbling up our shopping world, but it sounds as if it aspires to do just that when he talks about his excitement over Amazon's expansion into new lines. "We're very new to a lot of these businesses. I'm excited about what we've accomplished so far, but I think it's really still day one," he says. "We've got a long way to go to really realise our vision of offering our customers every product in the world that they want to buy."
Every life includes significant landmarks: your first kiss, your first job, your first undetected murder. Maybe that's just me. Anyway, last week I experienced a more alarming first: my first unironic conversation with a machine.I was using the new iPhone, the one withSiri, the built-in personal assistant you talk to. You hold down a button and mutter something like "Set the alarm for eight in the morning," or "Remind me to ring Gordon later," and Siri replies, "OK, I'll do that for you," using the voice ofJon Briggs, better known as the voice ofThe Weakest Link. And he sets everything up, just the way you wanted.Siri is a creep – a servile arselick with zero self-respect – but he works annoyingly well. Which is why, last week, I experienced that watershed moment: for the first time, I spoke to a handheld device unironically. Not for a laugh, or an experiment, but because I wanted it to help me.So that's that. I can now expect to be talking to machines for the rest of my life. Today it's Siri. Tomorrow it'll be a talking car. The day after that I'll be trading banter with a wisecracking smoothie carton. By the time I'm 70 I'll be holding heartbreaking conversations with synthesised imitations of people I once knew who have subsequently died. Maybe I'll hear their voices in my head. Maybe that's how it'll be.The present day is no less crazy. We routinely do things that just five years ago would scarcely have made sense to us. We tweet along to reality shows; we share videos of strangers dropping cats in bins; we dance in front of Xboxes that can see us, and judge us, and find us sorely lacking. It's hard to think of a single human function that technology hasn't somehow altered, apart perhaps from burping. That's pretty much all we have left. Just yesterday I read a news story about a new video game installed above urinals to stop patrons getting bored: you control it by sloshing your urine stream left and right. Read that back to yourself and ask if you live in a sane society.When I was making the seriesHow TV Ruined Your Life, we went out and asked members of the public to comment on a new invention we were claiming was real: a mobile phone that allowed you to call through time, so you could speak to people in the past or future. Many people thought it was real: not so much a testament to gullibility, but an indicator of just how magical today's technology has become. We take miracles for granted on a daily basis.Nonetheless, I relish this stuff. I coo over gadgets, take delight in each new miracle app. Like an addict, I check my Twitter timeline the moment I wake up. And often I wonder: is all this really good for me? For us? None of these things have been foisted upon humankind – we've merrily embraced them. But where is it all leading? If technology is a drug – and it does feel like a drug – then what, precisely, are the side-effects?This area – between delight and discomfort – is whereBlack Mirror, my new drama series, is set. The "black mirror" of the title is the one you'll find on every wall, on every desk, in the palm of every hand: the cold, shiny screen of a TV, a monitor, a smartphone. The series was inspired, indirectly, byThe Twilight Zone, Rod Serling's hugely entertaining TV series of the late 50s and early 60s, sometimes incorrectly dismissed as a camp exercise in twist-in-the-tale sci-fi. It was far more than that. Serling, a brilliant writer, created The Twilight Zone because he was tired of having his provocative teleplays about contemporary issues routinely censored in order to appease corporate sponsors. If he wrote about racism in a southern town, he had to fight the network over every line. But if he wrote about racism in a metaphorical, quasi-fictional world – suddenly he could say everything he wanted.The Twilight Zone was sometimes shockingly cruel, far crueller than most TV drama today would dare to be. In one famous episode, the main protagonist, a luckless bookworm, wanders through the rubble following a nuclear holocaust. Discovering he is the last man on Earth, he decides to commit suicide, only to spot the remains of a library nearby just as he lifts the gun to his temple. Suddenly lifted by the realisation that at last he can read all the books he wants, uninterrupted, he gleefully assembles a year's worth of reading. But as he reaches for the first book, his glasses fall off and smash on the floor. He ends the episode weeping and alone.Toby Kebbell in The Entire History of You. Photograph: Giles KeyteIn Serling's day, the atom bomb, civil rights,McCarthyism, psychiatry and the space race were of primary concern. Today he'd be writing about terrorism, the economy, the media, privacy and our relationship with technology. Or trying to, because while present-day TV drama may be subject to less censorship, it also has fewer avenues for exploring ideas. The majority of dramas are long-running returning series or genre pieces – detective stories, period dramas and the like. It's as if there's a constant pressure to reassure a nervous viewer: to say look, it's episode 89, it's got the same faces as last week, in the same precinct, with the same woes. You know you'll like this – because you've already seen it.For me the joy of shows like The Twilight Zone, such asTales of the Unexpected, orHammer House of Horror, or erstwhile "showcase slots" such asPlay for Today, was precisely that you hadn't already seen it. Every week you were plunged into a slightly different world. There was a signature tone to the stories, the same dark chocolate coating – but the filling was always a surprise.That's what we're aiming for with Black Mirror: each episode has a different cast, a different setting, even a different reality. But they're all about the way we live now – and the way we might be living in 10 minutes' time if we're clumsy. And if there's one thing we know about mankind, it's this: we're usually clumsy. And it's no use begging Siri for help. He doesn't understand tearful pleading. Trust me, I've tried.The three episodes of Black Mirror1. The National AnthemSet slap-bang in the present, The National Anthem, starringRory KinnearandLindsay Duncan, recounts what happens when fictional royal Princess Susannah is kidnapped and prime minister Michael Callow is presented with an unusual – and obscene – ransom request. The traditional media finds itself unable to even discuss what the demand is, while the Twittersphere foams with speculation and cruel jokes. As the ransom deadline nears, events start to gain a surreal momentum of their own. This was inspired partly by the kerfuffle over superinjunctions, and partly by the strange out-of-control sensation that takes grip on certain news days – such as the dayGordon Brown was virtually commanded to apologise to Gillian Duffyin front of the rolling news networks. Who  was in charge that day? No one  and everyone.2. Fifteen Million MeritsIn 1984, Apple ran a famous advert that implied the Mac might save mankind from a nightmarish Orwellian future. But what would a nightmarish Orwellian future that ran on Apple software actually look like? Probably a bit like this.Fifteen Million Merits, co-written with my wife Konnie Huq and starring Daniel Kaluuya (The Fades) andJessica Brown-Findlay(Downton Abbey), takes place in a world in which the population is apparently doomed to a life of meaningless toil enlivened only by continual entertainment and distraction courtesy of ominipresent gizmos and screens. So not really sci-fi at all, then. Your sole chance of escape or salvation from this world appears to be a talent contest called Hot Shot, where the judges are played byJulia Davis, the grimeMC Bashy, andRupert Everett.3. The Entire History of YouAnyone who's ever nosed through the Facebook profile of a potential lover will feel right at home here. Today, most of us routinely leave a trail of personal information behind us – from emails to idle thoughts on Facebook, to images of ourselves grinning at parties. Go to a live event and instead of lighters in the air, you'll see the glow of people recording proceedings on their smartphones. This final episode, starringToby KebbellandJodie Whittaker, and written byJesse ArmstrongofPeep Show,Fresh MeatandThe Thick of Itfame, explores the logical outcome of this, something many might consider a fantasy scenario: what if you had a kind of Sky Plus system for your head, so you could rewind and replay memories at will? You'd never forget where you left your keys again, for one thing. And it would be great for winning arguments. But it might not be brilliant news for the health of your relationship. After all, how much do you actually want to know about each other?The first episode of Black Mirror is on 4 December at 9pm on Channel 4.
Iran has banned the first-person shooter game Battlefield 3, news agencies are reporting.According tothe country's FARS agency, the deputy police chief has issued a statement warning stores that they are prohibited from selling, "this illegal game".Authorities have objected to the plot that underpins the single-player campaign, which involves a US military raid on Tehran, targeting the leader of a fictitious terrorist group.The Lebanon Daily Starhas reportedthat shops selling the game have been raided, while others had withdrawn stock before the official ban, predicting the action.However, legitimate copies of the game are not actually available in Iran; EA has no distributors in the country. Titles are regularly pirated, though, and these illicit versions are widely available.The FARS report also suggests that there has been public anger at the game's content:A group of Iranian youths also launched a protest against the game in an internet petition, which has so far attracted around 5000 signatures. "We understand that the story of a videogame is hypothetical... [but] we believe the game is purposely released at a time when the US is pushing the international community into fearing Iran," it says.This is not the first time a first-person shooter has featured in an ideological fracas between Middle Eastern and US interests. In 2003, Californian developer Petrilla Entertainment released a free PC game entitled Quest For Saddam, in which American forces were tasked with hunting down the Iraqi leader.Three years later, a jihadist group re-skinned the game andreleased a new versionentitled Quest for Bush (aka Night of Bush Capturing), in which players had to battle US forces and eventually assassinate the then-president.
UK mobile networks have insisted that they do not install or use Carrier IQ's smartphone diagnostics software, after privacy concerns were raised in the US over its discovery on Android phones and Apple's iPhone there.Carrier IQ has said that its software is installed on more than 141m handsets worldwide, and that its "mobile intelligence" solution "eliminates guesswork by automatically providing accurate, real-time data direct from the source – your customers' handsets". The company claims that it is unique "because we are the only company embedding diagnostic software in millions of subscribers' phones".Concerns were raised earlier this week after a developer, Trevor Eckhart,discoveredthat Carrier IQ's software logs every keystroke that the user makes on the device and can store it. Even transactions made to secure websites were recorded, which could mean that malicious software or use of the Carrier IQ product might be used to monitor someone's use of the device.But Carrier IQ insisted in a statement that its software "does not record your keystrokes, does not provide tracking tools, does not inspect or report on the content of your communications, does not provide real-time data reporting to any customer" and that it does not sell its data to any third parties.It says the software is intended to "better [identify] dropped calls and poor service; problelms that impede a phone's battery life" and improve customer service.Eckhart, who gained access to an unmodified copy of Carrier IQ's software,saidthat "Carrier IQ is able to query any metric from a device.  A metric can be a dropped call because of lack of service. The scope of the word 'metric/ is very broad though, including device type, such as manufacturer and model, available memory and battery life, the type of applications resident on the device, the geographical location of the device, the end user's pressing of keys on the device, usage history of the device, including those that characterise a user's interaction with a device." He said that it had been found on Samsung devices.The company caused a row in late November when it sent a cease-and-desist letter to Eckhart demanding that he stop discussing his findings. But the Electronic Frontier Foundation argued that he had a right to discuss the matter – forcing Carrier IQ into an embarrassing climbdown.It is still unclear precisely what data is collected from Android phones and how it is transmitted. The company'sown publicity material about its product for Android, introduced in September 2010, says that "Carrier IQ's technology measures, aggregates and analyzes the context of user experience across millions of devices that include the device state, application performance, and network conditions to derive key design decisions." At the time it said it was installed on 90m devices, implying that since then it has been installed on another 50m.Vodafone, Orange and O2 told the Guardian on Thursday that they do not install the software in the UK and that to the best of their knowledge it is not shipped in any of the phones they sell. Google has indicated that the software is not included on any of its "flagship" phones – the Google Nexus One, Nexus S, and Galaxy Nexus handsets, which were built as showcases for versions of its Android mobile operating system. Carrier IQsays(PDF) that it is working on a deployment for Vodafone in Portugal.In the US the software appears to be installed in a large number of Android phones, apparently at the request of mobile networks. An HTC spokeswoman told the Guardian that a number of the company's Android phones in the US include it at the request of carriers there, but that no European devices have been affected.The software appears to be installed on all versions Apple's iPhone where it can, with the user's explicit permission, send anonymised diagnostic information back to Apple, for examples when apps crash. However tests by Alasdair Allan, a British programmer, found that it does not have any access to keypad input, and that the data is only sent to Apple. Owners can disable the transmission of data by turning off a setting on the iPhone.Claims that the software is installed on Nokia phones were rebutted by the Finnish company in a statement: "Nokia is aware of inaccurate reports which state that software from Carrier IQ has been found on Nokia devices. Carrier IQ does not ship products for any Nokia devices, so these reports are wrong."In the US, the Verizon network said that it does not use Carrier IQ.
Have your parents forgotten to buy you an advent calendar this year? Fear not, Cambridge-based tech companyZapparhas just released a free augmented reality one. Simply download theMagical Advent Calendarapp from their website, then either view the calendar on your PC screen or print it out. Now, simply point your smartphone camera at it, and watch it burst into luscious animated life. Just don't peek ahead to Christmas eve by re-setting your phone's date.Zappar has developed a proprietary AR platform that's been used on billboards, magazine covers and... bed linen apparently. It can also be employed in games; the poster for the Sherlock Holmes movie featured an AR match-three puzzler, which sprang out when you pointed your handset at it. An advent calendar is a nice way to show off the technology and you can see how it works in the trailer above.
It's a strange sensation, preparing for an interview with Ken Levine. Whereas most interviews with developers in the gaming industry usually revolve around game mechanics and technological innovations, the questions aimed at Irrational's creative director usually involve the story for his new game BioShock Infinite. Levine's last game, you see, used high-end literature as source material and immersed players in a world that posed political, philosophical and social questions, while bombarding the player with bullets and boss battles.BioShock, was one of the best games in the year it was released. In it players took on the role of the only survivor of a plane crash in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean who found himself transported to the undersea city of Rapture. There, they found a society founded on the Objectivist worldview of an industrialist named Andrew Ryan, which had torn itself apart through addiction and madness. BioShock's story was based on Ayn Rand's novel, Atlas Shrugged, but it drew on her philosophies for a lot of its narrative thrust and built a convincing argument against them. In this commentator's opinion, it's the best story told in gaming in the last decade.Levine's newest project, BioShock Infinite has already started tongues wagging in the gaming community. It's the story of an ex-Pinkerton detective named Booker DeWitt and his quest to save a mysterious woman named Elizabeth in a floating city called Columbia. Built as a monument to American superior know-how, Columbia is a city at war with itself, with the left-leaning Vox Populi group squaring off against the nationalist Founder faction. DeWitt and Elizabeth are caught between the two in their attempts to escape the city, as well as the attentions of a terrifying beast called Song Bird.It all sounds impressively tantalising, but as Levine points out, BioShock Infinite's story isn't the only aspect of his game that is bursting with ideas.How close to conclusion is BioShock Infinite's development cycle?All we've said so far is that it's coming out next year.So you can't tell us whether it's been topped and tailed in terms of its plot or its gameplay?(Laughs) No, no, no! We're deep into it, is what I'll say. Very, very deep into it.So when did the ideas and the creative sessions for BioShock Infinite start percolating?Basically around February of 2008. We really struggled for about six months after BioShock to figure out what was next for us as a company. We prototyped a few things and we weren't very happy with a lot of things that we were working on. It was sort of unintuitive to take BioShock and do something really different with it, although that's the most natural thing people think about when they think about a sequel. Once we had the idea for it we became incredibly excited and started running with it.The first thing we came up with was the time period. Then everything followed that – the city in the sky came soon after and then much, much later came the concept of Columbia and the conception of American exceptionalism.When we started, a lot of the artists on the game were reading a book called The Devil in the White City by Erik Larson, which is about the building of the 1893 World Fair in Chicago. They turned me on to that and we became really drawn to that period. I felt that book did a really great job of giving a feel for what was happening in the USA at the time and we drew a lot of inspiration from that.You said in an interview that BioShock is the story of Andrew Ryan, a man who asks, "is a man not entitled to the sweat from his brow". Is there a similar character or central belief system you would say that dominates BioShock Infinite in the same way?You know, there are several characters that exert a massive influence on BioShock Infinite. There's Comstock, who is the leader of the Founders, and Daisy Fitzroy, who is the leader of the Vox Populi rebel movement in the city. We haven't said too much about those two characters yet, though, I think primarily, because a lot of that space is filled up by Booker and Elizabeth. [In BioShock] we didn't have a character who had a personality or spoke and he certainly didn't have someone walking with him with a driving narrative.In Infinite, Booker and Elizabeth are trapped between larger forces. But more than that, they're the catalyst for the growth of the conflict that happens in Columbia. In BioShock, when the player arrives, the party's already over and you're looking at the remnants. In Columbia, it's fairly stable when you arrive. It has a lot of underlying problems that are very easily brought to the surface; you saving Elizabeth from captivity acts as the catalyst that sets everything in motion and causes a lot of the conflict in the city. When the player arrives, the Vox Populi are just a rag-tag band of people and it's your and Elizabeth's actions that put them in a position where they can take on the Founders.Can we go in to any further detail on that?(Laughs) No, but the really important thing here is that BioShock Infinite is a story that's much more dynamic. As you take action you'll see the changes that Booker and Elizabeth bring to the world.There was a hint of that in the demo at E3. As Elizabeth and Booker were walking around Columbia, the Vox Populi were attacking people, and a couple of them hurled insults at the player. Are you saying that if you attack one of them you can strange the structure of a level somewhat?Look, there's content on that level and some of that content would change obviously. There's a part where one of the Vox Populi pushes a guy down the stairs. If you put a bullet in him before that happens, that part would change. The guy won't get pushed down the stairs and you'll end up in a fight with some other members of the Vox Populi.There's also moment where one guy squares up to you and threatens Elizabeth [in the same level] and you put your gun on him and he gives you the finger and walks off. Brilliant voice actor, by the way, who plays that part. It was me!Really? It didn't sound like you.Yeah. They modified my voice.That would be your Hitchcock moment then?That's right! I always make one small appearance.Anyway, you never know exactly how things are going to go in the game. There are a lot of characters in the game that you'll have to walk the line with. They might not be attacking you immediately, but you might be getting set up for something really bad.You won't always know how to react to characters in your environment and I think that's a pretty interesting dynamic that you don't see a lot in shooters. Usually, in shooters, you see someone and you shoot them before they shoot you.It's a dynamic we had in BioShock to some degree with the Big Daddys and Little Sisters. We wanted a scenario where the player would go "okay, how do I approach this?" There's a bit of education you need for that. When we were working on BioShock, the first people we gave a controller to acted the same way any gamer would act when they first saw a Big Daddy in a game: they started shooting at it. We had to very carefully make clear that wasn't the best way to deal with a Big Daddy; the gameplay was all about setting up for that big fight rather than just going in guns blazing.We had to educate people a lot, which is counter-intuitive to the real world because, for example, you don't have to educate people in the real world not to shoot their neighbours … generally. You'd hope. But there are some things that are intuitive in games that are counter-intuitive in real life and vice versa.So do you think a lot of the heavy lifting in BioShock Infinite with regards to that aspect has been done by BioShock?No. I don't think you can ever assume that. People forget; they're not seeing a Big Daddy in the new game so they won't immediately make that connection. I think for some of the hardcore fans – if they're really tuned in to what we're doing with the previews – maybe that would be true. But as a developer you can never count on that.American hegemony is a driving theme in BioShock Infinite. Is there much of an overlap with that and the objectivism that informed the world in BioShock?I don't think I agree with that. Objectivism wasn't necessarily attached to the United States in any particular way except that Ayn Rand happened to live there and it matched, as close as it could at the time, her principles and her philosophy. She was very unhappy with a lot of things, though – the New Deal for example is something she found utterly repulsive.I think all philosophies, when they're taken to an extreme and are embraced by people who have shut out reality because it contradicts their beliefs, pose a very significant threat. It becomes a case where you're not sure who's running the show here. Is it the philosophy or the world? You see it in a lot of systems. Take the Stalinist system, for example: when reality didn't contort to fit with a worldview, that meant reality had to change. People had to be taken out of pictures and history rewritten to block them out completely.In some ways BioShock Infinite seems weirdly prescient. The Founders almost sound like the Tea Party politicians in the States with the Vox Populi taking the part of the Occupy movement.I think as a very amateur student of history, though, you understand that these sorts of movements are very common. There have been dozens and dozens of these kinds of movements over the course of history. I mean, look at the turn of the century. In 1894, anarchists assassinated a French president. The US president McKinley was assassinated in 1901. In 1900 the Italian king was assassinated. Then, of course, you have  Archduke Ferdinand assassinated in 1914 and we all know what happened after that.You have these movements throughout history like the hard left Baader-Meinhof group or extreme nationalist like the John Birch Society or the Know Nothings in the 1800s. You have nationalist verses internationalist as a theme come up over and over again and I'm not surprise, given the current economic climate, that it's happening again now. Hopefully it won't get as extreme as what happens in Infinite. But the roots are there in any sort of crisis where people try to express their anger at a situation.Given that the driving force behind Columbia in BioShock Infinite is American nationalism, how would a faction like the Vox Populi rise up? Wouldn't they have been ultra-nationalists to begin with?Well, generally, when you have a push towards one extreme, that's going to have an affect on people that aren't part of that extreme. You'll create a situation where there are affluent native-borns who will start saying that they're what you have to be to have a real place in society. Naturally, those people who aren't like that will start getting frustrated.In Columbia, when you arrive, a lot of those seeds are there. Booker and Elizabeth accelerate the conflict with their actions. I'm not going to go into too much detail about that, though. But take a look at one example in the form of the Baader-Meinhof group in Germany. That started off as a student protest against the Shah of Iran visiting West Berlin where one of the students was killed by the authorities. Then the students reacted, then the government reacted and one reaction provokes another and suddenly everyone's initial positions have become obscured. It almost becomes like a pendulum affect.Did you plan BioShock Infinite and BioShock to be a way to examine the flaws in belief systems and political movements?I think we're really fascinated by unintended consequences and good intentions that go haywire. You see that on a small scale in the demo where she tries to use her powers to revive a horse the results are catastrophic. Even the best intentions can have horrible results. I think that's a key theme in the franchise really.Andrew Ryan had this great idea right? A man's entitled to the sweat from his brow – who would argue with that? But then you take that idea and extend it and you wind up in Rapture. What I tried to do, having read Ayn Rand, was to create Galt's Gulch and stick real people in it. Rand populated Galt's Gulch with perfect people. Of course they all got on and their philosophy worked perfectly because only one person was setting the rules – her! I wanted to look at a scenario where nature set the rules and people's personalities set the rules and I think in that instance, you'd end up with something that looks more like Rapture. The more utopian you get and the more you follow a particular ideology, which can't bend to reality, the more fragile a social system becomes.So are your games an indictment of dogmatically held beliefs?I wouldn't say they're an indictment. I think BioShock and BioShock Infinite are more a reflection of my own ambivalence about people's certainties. I don't feel very certain about a lot of things – particularly in the political spectrum. The older I get the less I know and the less certainty I have. I think these characters such as Booker and Elizabeth and even Jack in the first BioShock are avatars of my own certainty in that they're people who are stuck in the middle of these very rigid elements and they become crushed. They can't really turn to either side and they don't really have a place in those systems.And yet they have the biggest impact on the worlds they are thrust into.Well, I think the people who have the biggest impact in societies are people who have the most flexibility.The very nature of science, for example, is flexibility – it's the data that drives you. I think that's why science has had such an impact socially over the last 200 years – by that I mean the scientific method, which welcomes uncertainty and welcomes the unknown.The scientific method is a way of structuring uncertainty in a way that makes it more palatable and understandable. You're telling people something quite counter-intuitive. It's okay to not know. It's better not to know than to think you do know and you're wrong. That's why the scientific method is, way more than any particular discovery in science, the most important scientific discovery because it gave the framework on how to pursue questions.Take that away and everything collapses.
Poor Apple. Liberal America's favourite tech giant is feeling the heat after reports that Siri, the voice recognition software for the iPhone 4S, seems to be operating on Bible Belt family values.Siri's moral compass started to crystallise earlier this week when severalbloggers noted a reluctancein the voice recognition software to talk about reproductive health services. Asked to find an abortion clinic in Manhattan, for example, Siri's answer is: "Sorry, I couldn't find any abortion clinics."Ask Siri where you can obtain emergency contraception, and she comes back with a definition – a definition anyone asking for emergency contraception is presumably fully aware of. Siri is, on the other hand, quite happy to findescort agenciesfor horny iPhone users oradvise them where to dump a dead body.Nancy Keenan, president ofNaral Pro-Choice America Foundation, sent a letter to Tim Cook, Apple's CEO, asking him to ensure that Siri gets her act together and starts providing accurate information about reproductive health options."News reports have documented that, in some instances, Siri responded to a question concerning where to find abortion providers by directing an individual to anti-choice organizations known as 'crisis pregnancy centers' (CPCs)," wrote Keenan."Anti-choice groups created CPCs to look like comprehensive health clinics, but many do not provide women with accurate pregnancy-related information. Ultimately, many of these centers can be harmful and do nothing to help women locate the services they requested from Siri."The news soon became the stuff of late-night comedy routines.As Stephen Colbert noted, the idea that there are no abortion clinics in Manhattan is ridiculous. "Really? In New York? I think they've got one at the top of the Empire State building. The line is ridiculous," said Colbert.The real reason Siri can't find abortion clinics is because she doesn't want to, said Colbert."Siri is clearly an arch-conservative woman," he said. Reports that Siri can't understand people who speak English with a "foreign" accent – English or Scottish, for example – just proves her rightwing credentials, said Colbert."The Republicans still can't decide who to really get behind, and Siri is such a strong conservative voice – maybe she should run for president?" he suggested.Apple, needless to say, doesn't quite see it this way."Our customers want to use Siri to find out all types of information, and while it can find a lot, it doesn't always find what you want," Natalie Kerris, a spokeswoman for Apple told The New York Times. "These are not intentional omissions meant to offend anyone. It simply means that as we bring Siri from beta to a final product, we find places where we can do better, and we will in the coming weeks."This isn't the first time Apple has run into trouble with liberal America. In March, the firm pulled an app that offered"freedom from homosexuality through the power of Jesus"after a torrent of complaints.Nor is this Apple's first Siri slip-up. The name has caused much hilarity in Georgia, where it's a synonym for the – ahem – male appendage, and in Japan, where siri means "ass". Perhaps that explains Siri's bum rap.
It's time to replace my home-built PC. Can you point me towards suitable motherboards and processors for general purpose home computing, please? I'm mainly using it for productivity suite stuff, desktop publishing, and watching DVDs. I'm not into heavy gaming, but I want it to be reasonably future-proof. Do I have to worry about how much Ram and how big a hard disk it will support?Stuart BannermanAlmost any mainstream PC should be able to do what you want, so it really depends how much you want to spend. In general, you should pick your most demanding program and then run some web searches to find out what level of chip and/or graphics card works best. This is important if you run heavyweight design or movie editing software, or the latest games. However, desktop publishing is not challenging by today's standards, and even a very low-end system should be able to play a DVD smoothly.Unless you have a particular reason for buying something different, today's standard hardware option is an Intel Core iX processor with 8GB of memory and 64-bit Microsoft Windows Home Premium. This year's third-generation Core iX chips, codenamed Sandy Bridge, come in three main versions. Core i3 is the cheapest but lacks TurboBoost, while Core i7 is the fastest but also the most expensive. For your purposes, it's not worth the extra cost.The Core i5 is the "just right" option, so my first choice would be the top-of-the-range 3.3GHz Core i5-2500K with integrated HD 3000 graphics. Any of the 95-Watt i5 desktop range would do the job, but these have HD 2000 graphics, and not all support Intel's VT virtualisation technology for Windows 7's XP Mode. (There are also 65W U and 45W UM versions designed for laptops. They're slower but they run cooler and provide better battery life.)If you go for a Sandy Bridge chip, then you can look for a motherboard with either an Intel H61 or Z68 chip set. The Z68 is the best, but it has features you probably don't need. These include the ability to overclock the processor (attractive to gamers) and support for solid state disk drives (SSDs). This gives you a wide choice of standard motherboards, including Asus and Gigabyte models.From the future-proofing point of view, you should choose a motherboard with USB 3.0 and HDMI ports, and probably with UEFI built in.UEFI, the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface, was originally developed by Intel, and will replace the PC BIOS input/output system that first appeared in the IBM PC in 1981. (SeeLearn How UEFI Will Replace Your PC's BIOS.) Microsoft is writing Windows 8 for UEFI and provides illustrated instructions forInstalling Windows 7 on UEFI based computers.Most motherboards now seem to have two slots for memory modules, so you can get 8GB by installing two 4GB chips. It might be overkill, but Ram is so cheap nowadays that it's not worth installing 4GB. If your desktop publishing involves handling very large files, it might even be worth going up to 16GB, but 8GB memory modules are relatively expensive.You don't need to worry about hard drive size because Windows 7 can support up to 16TB with the default 4K cluster size, or 250TB with 64K clusters. However, it might be worth choosing a motherboard that supports SATA revision 3.SATA (Serial Advanced Technology Attachment) has replaced the old parallel ATA interface as a way of connecting hard drives to the motherboard. SATA 2 is common, and supports a maximum throughput of 3Gbps. SATA 3 doubles that to 6Gbps, which is 600MBps. Given the size of today's hard drives, anything that speeds up file transfers (including backups) is useful.I suggest you build your PC without a graphics card, to see if the Core chip's HD graphics can handle your workloads. You won't need a dedicated graphics card for playing movies, and I suspect you won't need one for desktop publishing, but you might need one for games. If so, it's a simple matter to install one later (assuming you didn't skimp on the power supply). However, you may need a mid-range card to see a worthwhile improvement.The graphics card business is pretty much a two-horse race: Nvidia vs ATI, or GeForce vs Radeon. You can see how they perform by checkingVideo Card Benchmarksor, for portable PCs, Notebookcheck'sLaptop Video Graphics Cards – Benchmark List. If you have a very demanding program to run, it's worth searching the web to see if other users find a particular card works well.Nothing in the computer business can be future-proof because all the different technologies are constantly being developed. Smaller, faster, and cheaper versions of the Sandy Bay chips will appear next year under the codename Ivy Bridge, but they won't make your system obsolete. Intel's high-speed Thunderbolt is another innovation to watch. It's expensive compared to USB 3.0 and there are very few peripherals to exploit the extra speed (10Gbps instead of 6Gbps), but if it is successful, you'll be able to add it via a plug-in expansion card. Kinect for Windows will appear, providing body- and gesture-control (and encouraging voice control), but if you fancy that, you'll be able to add it.Windows 8 will also arrive next year, bringing a high-touch Metro user interface that is conceptually familiar from Windows Phones such as the Nokia Lumia 800. However, it is being written to use fewer resources (phones and tablets typically have 1GB or even 512MB of Ram, rather than 4GB or 8GB) and should run better than Windows 7 on your home-built PC. In Windows 8, the familiar Windows 7 desktop appears when you run a Windows 7 or XP program, and while the Aero styling may change, there is zero chance of that going away. It's used by more than a billion people – and almost every company on the planet – to run millions of different applications.Building your own PC is a good idea if you know what you want, but it might not be cheaper than buying and configuring a system online. When you've decided on your specification, check a couple of the sites that supply Barebones and Shuttle computers and, perhaps, Dell to see how they compare on price. But if you enjoy assembling PCs, don't let me put you off. Michael Dell and thousands of people in less well served parts of the PC world from Afghanistan to Zanzibar have used the idea to start successful businesses.
Call of Duty: Elite has been a controversial concept since its announcement earlier this year. The social connectivity service, which provides game data, stats analysis and community features for CoD players, originally attracted derision for apparently looking to charge gamers for social features that other publishers provide for nothing.Then, of course, it became clear that the Elite service would offer two tiers: much of the stats and social content would be free, while competitions and video elements would be part of a premium subscription, along with free access to all the subsequent DLC.Then, when Modern Warfare 3 launched, Elite collapsed. The developer of the service, Beachhead Studios, found its infrastructure couldn't cope with the massive demand. Now, things are running much more smoothly, with millions of users and growing range of Groups and competitions to engage in.So what has Activision learned from the rocky launch of this experimental project, and what is left to achieve? When will we see the promised mobile app, or the version of Elite for PC gamers? In an exclusive interview on Wednesday night, we put these questions to Daniel Suarez, Activision's vice president of production. Here's what he had to say.So one million premium subscribers in week one. Were you expecting that?When we were planning the service we knew it was going to be large and popular. If you look at the growth of subscription services like Netflix and Hulu, it took them some considerable time to get to a million users. Another thing we have to look at is there's actually over 5 million subscribers to the free version and that number is rising significantly every day. But yes, it has exceeded our expectations!It wasn't the smoothest of launches, was it?We've definitely had growing pains! But over the last couple of weeks the service has gotten back on its feet and we've started unlocking specific features again. Issues have been popping up within the community but we've been addressing them as they've arisen; we've been reading what people are saying on Twitter and Facebook – we've got to make sure they're having the best experience possible, and we know that in the first couple of weeks they weren't.What have been the key problems then?There were issues with age-gating, people under the age of 18 weren't able to get in on certain platforms[In the US, the age rating system works differently, and the game can be sold to minors]; there have been issues with opening accounts. Part of it was the the number of people coming in, certain features were being stress-tested by their sheer popularity. But we're evolving, we're getting everything fixed as quickly as possible. We've extended premium subscriptions by a month, and we'll be looking at ways to keep the community with us and enjoying the service.But, if you knoew the service was going to be popular, why did it fall down so quickly? Have you carried out a post-mortem of that first week?Sure, we've talked about it. There were a couple of fundamental problems to do with gating. One was to do with the registration process and the other was actually logging in and using the service. The analogy I use is going in to a football stadium – there's a bottleneck getting into the parking lot, then there's another actually going through the turnstiles into the game. There was a huge tidal wave of people registering after the launch of MW3, it started at midnight in Australia when the game first went on sale, then it went through eastern Europe, into central Europe, UK, then onto east coast US, mid-west, west coast … we were seeing hundreds of thousands if not millions of people filling in their registrations at one time, and that crippled the service. That was addressed within 48 hours.The other big problem was an infrastructure issue in terms how the database within the actual service was serving up content to individuals. We've been working on that since the week of launch. What we did first was allow only premium users into the service so we could swallow the numbers and test it. But the week before last we dropped all of that prioritisation so anybody can get into the service.Now, with several million people using the service, there are some remaining issues. Some people can't link up to Facebook properly, we're reaching out to them via Twitter and our customer support people. We're deploying patch updates to the service pretty much every 48 hours.So now that Elite is up and functioning, are you seeing trends developing? Are there areas of the service that are pulling in the biggest numbers?Absolutely. The career summary page is definitely the most popular. The trend that we're seeing is that people will play MW3 for a while, then go into Elite to see how they've performed in each game; they'll look at the heatmaps, they'll look at their stats with a specific gun. Another key element is the Groups and Clan functionality. We've seen over 150,000 clans generated, and many more are being added every day. That's an area of Elite that will see more features coming online in the next 30 days, to give clans more things to do overall. We're going to be launching clan-specific Operations soon.And are things coming along on the Elite mobile app? How does it work?Well it's not the full experience that you get on the web; we've included a range of features that make most sense for mobile. Your career summary page is there, you can look at recent matches, at heat maps; there's a challenge tracker, so you can look at all the challenges that exist within your specific career and see how close you are to finishing certain tasks. The feature that will probably get used the most is Create a Class. You'll be able to create new classes on the Tube or in the park, change your load-outs, then push that to the game so the next time you log in that new load-out will be there ready for you to accept and play.Do you have a rough ETA on when we can see it?It's coming really soon! We'd hoped to release at the end of November, but we're going to hold on to it for just a little while longer so we can get some stability issues ironed out. I know it's the most asked for thing on Twitter.So … tomorrow? Next week?It'll be out shortly, I won't say it's tomorrow, I won't say it's next week. We have iOS and Android applications, they're ready to roll, they're done, but we want to make sure that we don't introduce any instability into the overall service.And how about a version of Elite for the PC edition of MW3 – is that going to happen? There's been some confusion …Let me clarify. The rationale behind not offering stats-tracking on the PC for Elite is just that the way the server infrastructure tracks stats on the PC isn't as reliable as what we have on the consoles – they're a locked environment, the PC is not. We have to maintain a level of legitimacy and authenticity with the stats that are being tracked – we're running tournaments and competitions and they require accurate stats. In a PC environment, those can get hacked and altered. But we're working with the teams at Sledgehammer and Infinity Ward to ensure there's an opportunity to PC gamers the Elite experience.So let's look forward six months. How do you think Elite will have changes people's experience of Modern Warfare?That's a great question. When we set out to make Elite, we wanted to change the way players experienced Call of Duty, and to give them new ways to engage with it.The game has become something of a social and cultural phenomenon, it's somewhere people hang out with their friends – we wanted Elite to be an extension of that. So the Connect pillar is there to help people find players who are like them. I can now use my Facebook list to find players, I can play against people at work; I play poker with a group of buddies every Saturday night – well now I can meet up with those guys in Call of Duty and compare stats. I don't want to compare myself against the several million other players – that's not a fun stat for me to see! I want to compare myself against the people I went to school with, or my team here at Activision. I can create those groups in Elite.How do you see Elite developing from here on? I'd like to see the service tracking my performance over a longer period – like a sort of fitness app, so I can see how I've improved and which areas need work. Is that an aim for you?Well, there are charts that show your progress with specific weapons and game modes specifically. There is a trajectory over time to show how your kill/death ration and accuracy are improving over time with specific weapons. In terms of giving the user a diagnosis of their performance on an individual level, at this point in time it's definitely a  wishlist feature. I'm not saying we'll deliver it any time soon.But right now, for premium subscribers, we've made five-minute videos of every weapon in the game, outlining every core feature, including which game modes are best for that weapon, and which are the best attachments for the type of player you are. We've done that for the maps, too, giving you a strategic understanding: where to go if you're a sniper, where the highest areas of engagement are if you like to run and gun. We're really trying to instruct gamers on different styles of play.How about DLC – when can we expect the first drop?The announcement is coming very soon. It'll be … the PR guys are shouting at me, "don't say when!"
Twitter has hired Google's director of YouTube display advertising, Bruce Daisley, as its first UK sales director.Daisley has run Google's display advertising business in the UK for over three years and joins as Twitter boosts its European operation in London and Dublin.Twitter's European boss, Tony Wang, announced the appointment of Daisleyin a tweet on Thursday morning. The San Francisco-based social network is also hiring inbusiness developmentand asales marketing managerbased in London.Daisley joined Google in September 2008 from Emap, the publisher behind Retail Week and Broadcast, where he was digital sales director. He will start at Twitter in the new year.Twitter launched its first UK-targeted advertising products in September, since when it has worked with about 20 well-known brands including BT, Shell UK and Sainsbury's.The company has also looked to benefit from its users' appetite for news, with a Top News feature with a headline and link to a news provider. The BBC and Huffington Post UK have both featured as a top result in a search for "phone hacking".
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamExclusive: comedy of errors led to false 'water-pump hack' report &gt;&gt; Wired.com"Cyberwar watchers took notice this month when a leaked intelligence memo claimed Russian hackers had remotely destroyed a water pump at an Illinois utility. The report spawned dozens of sensational stories characterizing it as the first-ever reported destruction of U.S. infrastructure by a hacker. Some described it as America's very own Stuxnet attack. "Except, it turns out, it wasn't. Within a week of the report's release, DHS bluntly contradicted the memo, saying that it could find no evidence that a hack occurred. In truth, the water pump simply burned out, as pumps are wont to do, and a government-funded intelligence center incorrectly linked the failure to an internet connection from a Russian IP address months earlier." Why a Russian IP address? Because the American contractor accessed it while on holiday in Russia.Apple says Siri's abortion answers are a glitch &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Apple said Wednesday that the apparent inability of Siri, the virtual assistant in the iPhone 4S, to retrieve information about abortion clinics and women's health services in some areas was not intentional or deliberate. "The company attributed the problem to kinks in the product that were still being ironed out. Siri is officially still a beta or test product." HP printers bursting into flames one day, Apple having banned Siri from telling you about abortion clinics the next: large parts of the news cycle have become a succession of not-entirely-checked memes where people would like certain findings to be true because it's shocking.Zittrain in Technology Review: The personal computer is dead"The PC is dead. Rising numbers of mobile, lightweight, cloud-centric devices don't merely represent a change in form factor. Rather, we're seeing an unprecedented shift of power from end users and software developers on the one hand, to operating system vendors on the other--and even those who keep their PCs are being swept along. "This is a little for the better, and much for the worse."Windows Phone 7.5 vs. iOS 5 &gt;&gt; WinsupersitePaul Thurrott: "Windows Phone is prettier than iOS. So aside from the efficiencies of its integrated experiences, it also provides a nicer look a feel, with wonderful typography, especially in those places where you'll be reading a lot of text, like the Mail app. Comparing the Windows Phone Mail app to the one in iOS is like comparing an elegant, photo realistic Dutch master's painting to a child's unwanted crayon scribbling on a wall. Yes, the latter is recognizable, and perhaps even lovable because, admit it, you have that lame, illogical relationship with the multi-billion dollar Cupertino juggernaut. But the Windows Phone version is in fact better looking. And it's more efficient too, with a better design, a superior use of onscreen real estate, and much nicer and easier-to-read fonts. "To be fair, iOS isn't without its charms..." Remember when it was Microsoft that was the multi-billion dollar juggernaut? Happy times. Read the full review, though.At last - Word on the iPad, first look (ok, maybe not) &gt;&gt; Vipad.frWitty.Clarification on measuring mobile experience (PDF) &gt;&gt; CarrierIQ"Carrier IQ would like to clarify some recent press on how our product is used and the information that is gathered from smartphones and mobile devices". It does this, though it doesn't say on which devices its software is installed, or for which carriers. If it's so harmless, tell people.Dell scaling back CES presence &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Dell's presence at the Consumer Electronics Show the past few years has been hard to miss. This year, it may be hard to find. Sources say the company is scaling back its participation in the annual trade show -- drastically." No particular reason given; it has a product - an ultrabook? - to launch, apparently. But the spend is being reined in.Microsoft Tellme is NOT the same as Siri [video] &gt;&gt; techAUSeems that Siri copes with Australian accents a lot better than Microsoft's Tellme. But the point made here is a fair one: Microsoft should quit pretending that Tellme is equal to Siri. Just say you're going to make your own even better, and get on with it. But old habits die hard. (Via @Carniphage.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A choice of 20 apps for you today:Infinity Blade IIOne of the most lucrative iOS games yet ($20 million and counting) gets a sequel, with more depth to the monster-slicing action. The graphics remain eye-popping in their quality, too.iPhone / iPadCall of Duty: Black Ops ZombiesIt might not race to $1bn of revenues quite as fast as the latest Call of Duty console game, but this undead-focused iOS incarnation looks very polished nonetheless. Four-person multiplayer with voice chat is now included too.iPhone / iPadNasa RingtonesNasa has been digging into its archives to create a selection of ringtones for Windows Phone handsets, disseminated through a dedicated app. Tones include Neil Armstrong's famous "One small step…" quote, as well as space shuttle launch sounds.Windows PhoneBreville's Creative KitchenBreville has teamed up with chef Antony Worrall Thompson for an iPad recipes app, with more than 100 recipes, video tutorials and other cooking tips.iPadZen Pinball THDZen Pinball has crossed from iOS to Android with a special "THD" version designed to run on Android tablets with Nvidia's Tegra processor inside. It comes with one free table, and others available to buy via in-app purchase.AndroidVan Gogh's DreamMnestra's new iPad app focuses on the life and work of Vincent Van Gogh, including a catalogue of paintings and video contributions from art historians and artists. Adobe was involved as a partner for the technology side.iPadThe Bard's TaleOne of the most famous RPG franchises gets revived for iOS, although this version is based on a previous console revamp rather than the original games. It promises 20-30 hours of adventuring.iPhone / iPadGhostscapeMicrosoft's latest first-party game for Windows Phone is a spooky paranormal adventure that sees players exploring a haunted house looking for occult artefacts.Windows PhoneTechRadar for BlackBerry PlayBookUK technology site TechRadar has launched a BlackBerry tablet app, working with developer Polar Mobile. News, reviews and forum access are all part of the mix.BlackBerry PlayBookMacUserDennis Publishing has launched an iOS app for its popular Mac magazine, with two years' of back issues accessible. The company is offering annual subscriptions for £29.99 using Apple's Newsstand system.iPhone / iPadBook of HeroesDeveloper Venan Entertainment made the excellent Space Miner for iOS, but it's trying a new genre with Book of Heroes. It's more of a fantasy RPG with more than 75 quests to complete.iPhoneGreen Farm 2Mobile games publisher Gameloft's Green Farm was an attempt to take on Zynga's FarmVille on Facebook and iOS. Now it's got a sequel on the latter platform, with beefed-up graphics and social mechanics.iPhone / iPadToca Hair Salon – Christmas GiftToca Boca's latest app for children is a free reworking of its haircutting app Toca Hair Salon, with Santa Claus and a Christmas Tree sitting in the barber's chair this time round.iPhone / iPadFoodie.fm UKMany social food apps are US-focused, but Foodie.fm is very much a British app, offering personalised recipes and recommendations tied into Tesco's product database. A feed shows what products and recipes friends are liking too.iPhoneJetsetterTravel website Jetsetter has launched an iOS app with a guide to hotels and resorts across the world, with an emphasis on photography – including 360-degree images.iPhone / iPadLast WarKorean publisher Gamevil is trying its hand at the tactical RPG genre with Last War, which sees players taking the role of a military general in World War II.iPhoneWelcome to ScotlandLandmark Press' Welcome to Scotland tourism site now has an iPhone app, with interactive maps, offers from local attractions and hotels, and augmented reality features to identify hotspots and scenery.iPhoneAusten TourBristol firm Interactive Places has launched an iPhone app to provide a walking tour of Bath focusing on Jane Austen, complete with quotes from her letters and books, and period music and paintings. A browse mode means people who aren't in Bath can still enjoy it.iPhoneShuffle PartyAnother Microsoft-published Windows Phone game, this is a more casual game of ten-pin shuffling, with unlockable pucks, pins and tables, and Xbox Live achievements a-plenty.Windows PhoneAmazon SantaAmazon's new wishlist app for iPad is US-only for now. It's designed to help children create their Christmas lists, choosing from more than 500,000 "family-friendly" toys, games, books, music, films and TV shows.iPad
Thursday! Are you already planning for your weekend of games?
Private equity firms Blackstone Group and Bain Capital are preparing a bid for all of Yahoo with Asian partners in a deal that could value the web portal at about $25bn (£16bn), a source told Reuters on Wednesday.The plan follows smaller bids made by consortia including Microsofttabled earlier this weekwhich valued the web portal at just $20bn. The Microsoft bid was the lower of two.The new potential bid by the consortium, which would include China's Alibaba Group and Japan's Softbank Corp, has not been finalised. Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, whose primary interest is in buying back a 40% stake owned by Yahoo, is keeping its options open."Alibaba Group has not made a decision to be part of a whole company bid for Yahoo," Alibaba Group spokesman, John Spelich, said on Wednesday.The potential bid for the whole company would turn up the pressure on Yahoo's board, which had intended only to sell a minority 20% stake in the company.It would also put pressure on Microsoft, which is losing money on its search deal with Yahoo where it powers the site's searches with Bing. The simplest route to making that profitable is to own a sizeable share of Yahoo; alternate owners could slow down its route to profitability.Yahoo's shares, which closed at $15.71 (£10) on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday, gained 6.4% to $16.72 in after-hours trading, valuing the company at more than $20bn. That puts its share price ahead of the bid tabled by a consortium including Microsoft, which in 2008 made an audacious $44.6bn cash-and-shares bid to take over the whole company but was rejected."Alibaba definitely wants to get its stake back from Yahoo, so whatever that can make that happen, they will try for it," said Hong Kong-based JPMorgan analyst Dick Wei, adding that Alibaba may finance the deal by taking on more debt or finding a strategic buyer.Alibaba, run by its founder and billionaire CEO Jack Ma, has ties with some of the world's most prominent private equity funds and a group of investors including Silver Lake purchased a 5% stake worth $1.6bn in early November.A bid for Yahoo at more than $20 per share would mean a deal value of about $25bn based on the 1.24bn shares outstanding, potentially making it the largest leveraged buyout in recent years.Blackstone, Bain and Softbank declined to comment, while Yahoo representatives were not immediately available to comment.Although a bid for all of Yahoo is not yet on the table, the latest twist turns up the heat on Yahoo's board, which has received at least two offers for a minority stake in the company according to people familiar with the matter. One offer came from a consortium of Silver Lake and Microsoft, and another from TPG Capital. Silver Lake, Microsoft and TPG have declined to comment.Meanwhile, private equity firm Thomas H Lee Partners is interested in buying Yahoo's US operations. Providence Equity Partners and Hellman &amp; Friedman are also interested in a potential Yahoo deal. Thomas H Lee, Providence and Hellman &amp; Friedman have declined to comment on the situation.Bain and Blackstone have a track record of teaming up for joint investments. In 2008, in partnership with NBC Universal, they bought the Weather Channel; in 2006 they teamed up for a $6bn buyout of Michaels Stores, the biggest US arts and crafts retailer.Internet pioneer Yahoo has seen its growth stagnate in recent years due to competition from Google and Facebook, and is currently without a permanent CEO as it tries to regain relevance.Yahoo's board fired CEO Carol Bartz in September and started a strategic review, which has been complicated by the different agendas of players with a say in the situation, including its Asian partners, co-founders Jerry Yang and David Filo, the board and shareholders.Yang has been exploring a deal with private equity firms to take the company private, according to sources, in part because that would represent his best chance of remaining involved with the company.
"If you think the last six months of HP has looked funky from the outside, all I can say is that from the inside, it was a roller coaster with faulty brakes and a missing wheel... this disaster could be a case study for business schools for years to come."Are those, you might wonder, the words of the recently-appointed Hewlett-Packard chief executive Meg Whitman? Let's see: it certainly has been a roller coaster there in the past few years.Carly Fiorina forced outin February 2005, and then Mark Hurd takes over, and things seem to settle down - barring a bit ofspying on its own board members- until he gets booted for his relationship with a "greeter" and allegations of expenses fiddling. Then it hires Leo Apotheker from SAP, sticks with him for almost a year but then bins him in favour of Whitman.So anyway, a roller coaster with faulty brakes?But no, they're not Whitman's words - they come from a departing HP staffer who has been watching the company decide that it would sell its own tablets andget rid of its PC division, and thenreverse ferretto say that it would get rid of its own tablets (rough cost: $2bn) and keep selling Microsoft's Windows. Quite the roller coaster, indeed.So now here's Whitman, in aninterview with the French paper Le Figaro(and here'sGoogle Translate's version of the interview).She says, of the future of webOS:We should announce our decision in the next two weeks. This is not an easy decision, because we have a team of 600 people which is in limbo. We need to have another operating system.(She really does say "operating system": in thé original, thé latter sentence is "Nous avons besoin d'avoir un autre système d'exploitation." Wikipedia.frconfirmsthat that's "operating system".)My bet: webOS is toast.What's not clear iswhyWhitman thinks HP needs another operating system - given that it managed to burn so much money on the unsuccessful (so far) purchase of Palm for webOS, followed by the fire sale of the TouchPad, since discontinued. Sure, the TouchPad grabbed market share (how could it not, priced at $99? It was a nice device) - but now it's gone.HP might need a server operating system (and it is working on servers which run on ARM chips, but it's waiting for Microsoft to come up with a server version there; no suggestion that it's going to put webOS on those). But what, apart from smartphones and tablets, is webOSfor?And nobody wants to buy webOS. Nobody can think of a reason for it to exist, when you already have a panoply of competing mobile OSs to choose from (iOS, Android, Amazon's Android, RIM's BBOS, RIM's forthcoming BBX, Samsung's Bada, Windows Phone).Is HTC looking like it needs another OS? It's the only company that might have any interest in trying to break out of the present Android-Windows duopoly in licensed tablet and mobile operating systems, because it's getting squeezed from the top end by Apple and Samsung, and from the bottom end by ZTE and Huawei. However, you'd think that if HTC was making interested sounds, then Whitman would be reflecting that, rather than saying that the team of 600 is in limbo.Meanwhile, key people have been leaving the webOS team. They don't see a future in it, and haven't been given any reason by HP to believe there's one.Sure, there a chance HP will hang on to webOS. After all, it didn't ditch the PC division. Why, Ms Whitman?To separate [the] PC [business] would have cost nearly $1 billion. Then, the impact on our revenues would have been too high. For businesses that purchase our servers, our networks and storage facilities also buy PC. Finally, the HP brand is indisputably linked to our PC.That's true about the revenues - the Personal Systems Group is HP's biggest by revenue (though its worst in profit margin).Yet Whitman still has a hankering after tablets:Internet tablets are mainly used to consume media and e-mails. If you want to use productivity software such as Microsoft, you can't. Our studies show that this is an additional purchase that does not encroach on the PC market. This is an important area that we want to go into.Yes, but you've tried, and it wrecked your balance sheet.  Iloved the HP TouchPad, all those people who bought it cheap love the TouchPad, but it hasn't worked out. Business leaders know when they have to let things go. The roller coaster has hit the buffers.But we're quite prepared to wait a fortnight to have the confirmation. Perhaps HP is big enough to have 600 people beavering away on an OS that might not see the light of day again, on the off-chance that at some future point it will be just the ticket for a range of tablets, perhaps also made by HP. However, with the iPad still steaming ahead, and Windows 8 on tablets coming closer each month, you'd have to question the sense of doing so.And Whitman certainly isn't the sort to pursue follies. Though she knows about buyer's remorse: she was at eBay when it bought Skype for about the same as HP bought Palm for - only to discover later that it hadn't bought some of the essential intellectual property it needed to control Skype. So Skype was sold off. Anyone want a partly-used mobile operating system?
Streaming music service Spotify has launched its ownSpotify Appsplatform, which developers and media partners will be able to use to build apps to run within the company's desktop application.The platform was announced at a press conference in New York that bore all the hallmarks of Apple and Facebook's set-piece keynotes, with chief executive Daniel Ek outlining the news with the help of several partners.Ek said that Spotify apps will bring features such as better recommendations, ticketing and editorial content to the service, with launch partners including the Guardian, Rolling Stone, Billboard, Songkick, Last.fm and TuneWiki.The Guardian's app brings album reviews from the Guardian and the Observer into Spotify's service, building on the two companies' relationship for a series of live gigs in London. You canread more about the app here."Today, we become a totally integrated platform," said Ek. "We're opening up our platform in a way that lets you curate the apps that you want, and really make Spotify yours … This is the beginning of something game-changing for digital music."The new platform makes the rivalry between Spotify and Apple's iTunes even more clear-cut, with Spotify placing its bet on becoming a Facebook-style open platform to compete with the closed (by comparison) iTunes ecosystem.Spotify's UK managing director, Chris Maples, told the Guardian that "We don't go into anything we do thinking 'is this the opposite of what iTunes would do?' But Daniel grew up in the digital world, as did a lot of people in the business. And the digital environment is about sharing and collaboration."The apps will sit within Spotify's desktop client, although Ek said that if successful, the platform may extend to its mobile apps in the future too. The apps will be available to free and paying users of the service, although for now, developers will not be able to charge for them.Developers will have to submit their ideas for apps to Spotify for approval before building and launching them.Rolling Stone's app provides album, song and playlist recommendations from the magazine's staff, while TuneWiki's shows lyrics in real-time as songs play in Spotify. Songkick's app, meanwhile, will scan people's listening histories and suggest gigs they might want to attend.Spotify is also using the apps platform itself, to add new features to the service – starting with a Facebook-style news ticker showing what friends are doing on the service."We have a lot more in the works. But more than anything we really look forward to being surprised by developers," he said. "We believe they're going to deliver amazing new apps within the Spotify platform."Ek did not address the recent criticisms of streaming music payouts to artists during the event, but he did defend the company's business model, in response to a question about whether its payments to music rights holders risk becoming a bigger burden as more people use Spotify."For us, we don't feel that those are onerous terms in any shape or form. We're very happy with how our model is performing," he said. "We are paying out the vast majority of all the revenues, and that's really how we want to keep going."Spotify currently has 10 million active users, with 2.5 million of them paying for the service. It is available in 12 countries, and its users have created more than 500m playlists – a number that has doubled since July 2011.The company has a catalogue of 15m songs, and is adding about 20,000 new tracks a day – although high-profile recent albums from Adele, Coldplay and Snow Patrol have been kept off the service by the artists' management teams."The Spotify revolution is really to make access as an alternative to ownership," said Ek. "We're just three years in, but we've already become the second biggest digital revenue source for all the labels in Europe behind iTunes. And we've paid out more than $150m to the music industry so far."He also summed up Spotify's mission statement with a carefully-crafted soundbite. "The ultimate goal here is to be as ubiquitous as the CD, but with all of the obvious advantages of being digital."
Yahoo has received bids for a stake in the company which value it at $20.6bn (£13bn), less than half the amount offered by Microsoft nearly four years ago.The US internet group's board, which recently parted company with its chief executive Carol Bartz, is looking to sell a 19.9% stake and was considering offers on Wednesday from private equity group Silver Lake Partners, which is working with Microsoft, and TPG Capital.Silver Lake is reportedly willing to pay $16.50 a share, and TPG a dollar more. The lower offer values Yahoo at $20.6bn, just 6% above yesterday's closing share price of $15.70, and well below the $44.6bn cash and stock bid made by Microsoft in February 2008."The offer is disappointing," said Hamilton Faber, an analyst at Atlantic Equities. "Investors who've been buying Yahoo recently were hoping for a significant premium and a takeout of the full company, and this falls short on both counts."By keeping the sell-off to under 20% of its equity, Yahoo's board is able to avoid a shareholder vote on the issue. Silver Lake's proposal would give it four board seats including the choice of chief executive, according to the Wall Street Journal.The buyout group is said to be in talks with Silicon Valley software entrepreneur and venture capitalist Marc Andreessen about taking a role at Yahoo.Earlier this week the once mighty internet group announced profits down by 26% and revenues down 5% for the quarter to the end of September.Yahoo's share price had declined by more than 7% this year by Monday evening, the day before the bids were submitted. In the past five years, the shares have dropped 44% in value as rivals like Google and Facebook have stepped into the limelight.Microsoft is keen to acquire a minority shareholding to protect the 10-year agreement with Yahoo, announced in 2009. The two firms share search technology and advertising revenues in an alliance designed to give Microsoft's Bing search engine a fighting chance against Google, which controls 76% of US search advertising spend.Yahoo's board must now consider whether to sell a stake or invite offers for the company as a whole. Chinese internet trading site Alibaba, in which Yahoo has a 40% holding, is keen on buying back its shares.Alibaba chief executive Jack Ma has so far been rebuffed by the Yahoo board, and is now openly looking for partners to make a bid for the entire company.Private equity firms such as Blackstone and KKR are reported to be interested in teaming up with Alibaba or in making solo approaches.Yahoo also holds a 40% stake in Yahoo Japan, and the venture's majority owner, Softbank, is reported to be keen to take full control. Yahoo may consider selling a part of these stakes in order to return a cash dividend to disappointed shareholders.
Senior executives at EMI will be spending the next few months wrestling with regulatory issues to ensure the company's break up and sale goes through, but for now it's business as usual within the music group, including its digital teams.Joshua Saunders is head of technical and creative in EMI's digital marketing team, and spoke at the Apps World conference in London about the label's apps strategy for its artists."We're still in an experimental period with pricing for music apps," said Saunders. "Maybe somebody will crack the 'iAlbum' concept, but at the moment the consumer appetite doesn't seem to be there for a musical app over five quid."What about Bjork's Biophilia app, which came out earlier this year? "It got incredible PR and is really out-there, it's a very interesting one, but I don't think it sets a precedent going forward."Despite his concerns over price sensitivies around music apps, Saunders said he was very pleased with the performance of Korg'siElectribe Gorillaz EditioniPad music app, which was sold for £13.99 on the App Store earlier this year."I can't reveal numbers, but they were very impressive – much more than we thought," he said. "It smashed our predictions." Meanwhile, EMI also used Adobe's digital publishing tools to make abook-app for Swedish House Mafia, which sold for £6.99."If you want to achieve scale and it's a music app, it either has to be free or under two dollars," he said. "But we are still in an experimental phase. The tipping point is 2014 when more people will be accessing the internet from mobiles than from fixed lines. We have to try lots of different things in the meantime."Hence EMI's decision topartner with The Echo Nestin November 2011 for a series of sandboxes – collections of songs and other content from specific artists for developers to create apps with.Saunders said the response from developers at the recent Music Hack Day in Boston was "very positive", with a London event to come on the weekend of 3-4 December. "We think we've turned a corner for openness and outreach," he said.Saunders also addressed the question of which smartphones and tablets a label like EMI is looking to target, saying he's keeping close tabs on Amazon's Kindle Fire and Windows Phone, while also praising Research In Motion."BlackBerry is very important for an artist like Tinie Tempah, and their BBM Music service is a very good-looking product," he said. Saunders went on to express an interest in how subscription models might work for music apps going forward, as well as pay-per-view."Pay-per-view is a very interesting area, especially within apps," said Saunders. "There have been experiments on Facebook, most recently with Florence and the Machine, but for the iPad experience, having pay-per-view in that for an artist is very interesting."Finally, Saunders was asked about how EMI mitigates the risks of launching apps that could sink without trace on the crowded app stores - a challenge facing every developer and publisher, rather than one resteicted to music."We're trying something with the Professor Green app that's coming out in a few days," he said. "It's a QR code sticker book, like Instagram, that's used over a 12-month period. We'll be engaging people over that time with different touchpoints in different media where you'll see the QR codes."Saunders said that measuring the return on investment in apps depends on what the app is designed to do. Some are pure revenue-generating products, like the Korg/Gorillaz app, while others are more about stimulating a community of fans – where "dwell time" is the key metric – or selling more music."Upsell is the key one, and although we don't get information back from Amazon and iTunes on a cost-per-acquisition basis, we can certainly see how many clicks we're driving," said Saunders, referring to an enduring frustration for labels that they can see how many fans have visited a store like iTunes from an app, but not how many of them have then actually bought something.
Monday was a pretty mundane and overcast day for most of us, but it could turn out to bea turning point for the British games industry. In the morning, trade body UKIE announced theNext Gen Skills campaign, a major initiative calling for fundamental changes to the secondary education system, including the introduction of a computer science course within the national curriculum.Later, by coincidence, the Department of Culture, Media and Sports released thegovernment's responseto theNext Gen reportlaunched by Nesta in February.Overseen by Ian Livingstone, life president of Square Enix, and Alex Hope, MD of Double Negative, this in-depth study highlighted the strengths of the video game and movie special effects industries in the UK, but called for better computer science education to support growth in the future. In its reasonably detailed document on Tuesday, the government conceded that, currently, ICT education in schools is, "insufficiently rigorous and in need of reform".In short, the British games industry argues that it needs talented computer-literate kids for it to remain a major player in the global marketplace – and now we know the government agrees. Currently it seems, ICT courses at schools concentrate mostly on creating Word and Excel documents, not on developing the sorts of creative computing and programming skills required by the games industry – and the wider digital economy."ICT came into the national curriculum in the mid-90s and was probably well-intentioned and quite handy then," says UKIE chairman Andy Payne. "But part of the research that the NESTA report did was to talk to schools, and it came back that children just weren't interested. It was endless tutorials on how to send emails and build PowerPoint presentations – most of which the children knew anyway."As Livingstone has pointed out in the past, this isn't a failure that affects "just" the future of interactive entertainment. Every sector of British industry – from pharmaceuticals to aircraft construction – requires talented programmers, and Britain needs to be producing more if it is to compete economically.We have a bloated financial services sector that has sucked in many of the most talented STEM graduates, but to what real benefit? "All my mates from Cambridge went into finance and look at the mess they made," laughs Payne. "If those skills were put to something creative and scaleable, I'd argue that the UK would be a much, much better place."So now the government understands the problem – the question is, what's going to happen next? Well, getting any sort of response from Westminster is a key achievement in itself. "We've been here before, most notably with theByron report,"says Payne, referencing the 2008 study that looked into the influence and culture of computer games and the internet. "It was a fantastic piece of work from Dr Tanya Byron with great input from the industry, but it's just sat on a shelf somewhere …"Why has the Hope Livingstone report been ostensibly more impactful? The answer is that the game players have brought in some rather powerful friends. "Standing alone, the UK games industry will not be judged alongside the Nissans and Toyotas in terms of the numbers of jobs that politicians need to deliver," says Payne. "We create high-value IP-focused jobs, but we're never going to employ hundreds of thousands of people."So the campaign for computer science in schools needed collaborators, and after the launch of the Nesta report, UKIE started forming a coalition of like-minded partners, beginning with independent game developer organisationTigaas well as skills bodies such asSkillSetande-Skills.After this came support from the Guardian Media Group – which publishes guardian.co.uk, including the Games Blog – theBritish Computing Society(which details the current situation with education and computinghere) andUK Screenamong others. And then the big one – Google.In August, the search engine company's chairman, Eric Schmidt, took to the stage at the Edinburgh International Television Festival and delivereda damning indictment of the British education system. After praising the country for its technological achievements, its role in the invention of photography and television, he accused the nation of "throwing away your great computer heritage" by failing to teach programming in schools:I was flabbergasted to learn that today computer science isn't even taught as standard in UK schools. Your IT curriculum focuses on teaching how to use software, but gives no insight into how it's made.Payne sees that as a key turning point for the issue. Suddenly the Department of Education, the department that will need to be onboard to bring about widescale changes in the education system, was taking notice. Channels of communication were opened and Ian Livingstone apparently found himself with a line in to Michael Gove's special advisor. "We feel the door is not only open," says Payne, "Now somebody's standing there saying come in. That wasn't the case until Eric's impassioned speech."Google has since joined the Next Gen Skills campaign and hosted yesterday's announcement at its London office. One of the biggest tech companies in the world is now onboard, and lobbying beside the games industry. Facebook apparently, is on the verge of joining too.Meanwhile, Schmidt's point about programming literacy is one that Livingstone has been making at conferences and parliamentary meetings throughout the year. Learning IT skills without programming, he says, is like learning to read without learning to write. At the event yesterday, he put it brilliantly:Computing is the lingua franca of the creative and digital industries. Computer science is the new Latin.A key problem is that many in parliament don't get the intricacies of the issue. "I had a one-to-one meeting with David Cameron back in March," says Payne. "I had 10 minutes with him, and he said, 'When I go back to my government, what one thing would you ask me to do?' I said to consider putting computer science as an option in the curriculum. He didn't know the difference between ICT and computing. That rang alarm bells but it explained a few things."But we did find some common ground. He'd just got back from the Baltic conference and was struck by the fact that countries like Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania had all started to see inward investment because their skill sets in technology were quite high – and it's because they've beenteachingthese disciplines."The Nordic countries, too, are stronger in teaching creative coding – that's why we're seeing the likes of Angry Birds and Minecraft coming out of that region. "As David Cameron left the meeting I just tapped my nose and said, 'Prime minster, it's all about the code,' and he repeated it. I like to think that was the start of things."Payne's argument is a compelling one: in the 20th century, the English language itself was a vital business commodity, but in the digital era, code is the king of global communication."It doesn't matter if the product is programmed by a coder in India or China, what matters is the quality," says Payne. "Culturally, we have a massive advantage in terms of creating compelling content whether it runs on smartphone or PlayStation, but we have to have the coding skills to back that up."According to Payne, Google representatives said during the meeting on Monday that the company specifically looks to invest in areas where there are clusters of technical and computing expertise. The UKhasto be one of those.It's strange because, 30 years ago, the country was in the right place as far as education and computing goes. In 1981, the BBC Micro was launched, bringing computing into schools throughout the country.To begin with, there was no Microsoft Office, no PowerPoint, children had to code what they wanted to use. At my school in Cheadle Hulme, we had BBC Micros in the library and an after-school computer club where we punched simple programs into a ZX81. This is how many of the major players in the UK games industry started out. That's largely gone now.Now, many people don't even realise that games are made in Britain – a survey conducted for the Hope Livingstone report showed that less than 10% of those questioned knew that the likes of Grand Theft Auto, Tomb Raider and Batman: Arkham City were developed here. But these are powerful advertisements for computer coding – these are poster boys for the Stem skill sets."The games industry is the sexy part of technology," agrees Payne. "We've got a massive role to play and we need to play that part because we can attract kids into the Stem subjects – we can inspire those kids at all levels, getting inspirational speakers into schools, getting grassroots initiatives going."There's a whole movement of really inspirational teachers who are saying, well, we're not waiting for this, we've just got to get on with it. And they're teaching kids to code with things likeScratch. Change has got to come from the grassroots as well as from above."This is the vital message. Through its response to the Next Gen report the government has acknowledged that more must be done to teach children about computing skills; the government has also acknowledged that it has a role to play in this educational transformation. And, by all accounts Michael Gove is tech-literate – after all, duringhis Royal Society lecturein June he advocated the use of computer games as educational tools.But right now, the Department of Education is engaged in scaling down the national curriculum – it's removing subjects rather than adding them. "We are not sure that computer science will make it on to the national curriculum," says Payne. "But it may well become an option, a subject that children can choose. That's a distinct possibility and we'd be happy with that."And while this process grinds on, ground level action can progress. There's the University of Abertay's highly successful games coding competition,Dare to Be Digital; there's theRaspberry Pi Foundation, a charity set up by coders and engineers (including games veteran David Braben), which has designed a computer that could retail at £20 – their aim is for it to become the next BBC Micro; a computer platform on which programming can be taught in every school.There is the inspiringGames Britanniain Yorkshire, which runs gamejams and workshops at schools throughout the region, and is holding an event next summer, teaching programming to children at theSheffield Magna. There isInteractive Opportunities, co-founded by Ray Maguire, the ex-MD of Sony Computer Entertainment UK, which is seeking to build services linking educators with the videogame industry, and has its own template for school computer clubs. Slowly, quietly, change is being brought about, while government prevaricates."We need to support these initiatives," says Payne. "We need to signpost them and we need to bring them to the attention of the politicians. We have to show that people are getting on with this stuff. And then the government needs to play its part. But I do believe we're at the beginning of something here. I don't think it's going to end."
If you want an external hard drive, best buy it quickly. Prices of hard drives are being pushed up rapidly as manufacturers say that they will only be able to meet two-thirds of demand in this quarter, and shortages will continue into 2012 – and possibly beyond.The constraints have been caused by the deadlyflooding in Thailand, where hundreds of people died as large areas were inundated. Industrial facilities, including those where many of the assemblies for the world's output of hard drives are made, were seriously affected.Prices of hard drives have already begun rising dramatically, and PC makers say they will pass the cost on to consumers. Acer says that the price of its PCs could rise by at least 2-3%. Dell and Asus are also reported to be considering price rises on their PCs.That could create a significant opportunity for manufacturers of solid state drives (SSDs), which rely on Flash memory and have no moving parts. Prices of Flash storage have been dropping steadily; until now the cost of magnetic storage has also been falling, but this marks the first time in the past decade that it has risen.However the more serious problem for PC makers is simply getting enough supplies of magnetic storage hard drives. Suppliers say that their supplies will be 35% short of full demand at around 110-130m units,according to Digitimes, compared to typical quarterly demand of around 180m units for both internal and external drives.That compares to total PC demand of around 90m PCs per quarter, although shipments usually rise in the fourth quarter of the year – meaning there will be greater competition for supplies in the next six months.The cost of a 2.5in 500GB hard drive have risen from $45-50 (£29-£32) before the flooding to $60 now, and could rise to $70 next month, industry sourcestold Digitimesthis week.Hard drive vendors are expected to push up prices even further in the first quarter of 2012, which will drive up the cost of components for PC makers and individual buyers.Seagate, one of the biggest makers of hard drives, has lowered its target for shipments in the quarter to between 41m and 45m units. It could take between nine months and two years for hard drive production to return to normal, industry sources suggested.Acer, the Taiwanese PC maker and the world's fourth biggest in the third quarter, said it expects a 10% to 15% shortage in this quarter, and that the costs would be passed on to buyers. Acer also expects to make a loss for the full year, said company president Jim Wong, with its PC sales falling as much as 10% in the fourth quarter compared to the previous three months.
A selection of 14 apps for you today:Path 2Photo-sharing app Path has relaunched as a "smart journal", which the US startup says is "a re-imagined, re-designed, and simplified Path". That includes a wider focus than just photos and videos: people can now share music, check-ins and even sleep schedules. Meanwhile, an Automatic feature recognises when people are in a new place, and records it automatically.iPhone / AndroidMetroTubeMetroTube is a stylish YouTube app for Windows Phone handsets: a revamped version of existing app LazyTube, which offers a super-slick interface for watching web videos.Windows Phone(spotted byWPCentral)Generation of ChaosHardcore Android gamers may be attracted to Generation of Chaos, a new strategy RPG that promises more than 100 hours of gameplay, and 30-versus-30 battles. That said, they may need to clear some space on their memory cards: the initial 1.6MB download is followed by a massive 1.8GB data download to complete the installation.Android(spotted byAndroid Police)comScore for iPadBusiness analytics firm comScore has launched its first app for iPad, providing touchscreen access to its latest news, data, blog posts and videos. The app is free to download and use.iPadGetTaxiLondoners looking to hail a taxi have several apps to choose from, with the latest being GetTaxi. Notable for supporting several different smartphones from launch, it finds a nearby taxi then sends the user details of the driver and their vehicle. The company behind it says it will have 2,000 taxi drivers signed up by early 2012.iPhone / Android / BlackBerryThe Good Pub Guide 2012Random House's Good Pub Guide has a new app for 2012, offering listings for 5,000 boozeries around the UK, including reviews, addresses and photos, as well as location and social features.iPhoneFuego's River AdventureCrimson App has released an iPad game that takes its cues from Xbox 360's Kinect, detecting a player's movements using the iPad 2's front-facing camera to control the action.iPadexfm for AndroidMusic discovery app Exfm has crossed from iPhone to Android, with its app that provides a feed of music currently causing a buzz on blogs, while also letting people play the songs stored on their handset, and scrobble the listens to Last.fmAndroidFling!Puzzle game Fling! has apparently sold more than one million paid downloads on iOS, but it has now made the leap to Android. It promises 100,000 furball-based puzzles to solve, and 35 difficulty levels to suit all abilities.AndroidAncestry Beta 2As its name makes clear, this Android app for family history site Ancestry.com is very much a work in progress: the company is looking for feedback on how well it's working, in readiness for a final release. Well worth having a play with though.AndroidWar on TerrorDeveloper TerrorBull Games has taken on the task of turning satirical board game War on Terror into an iPhone game, using its original artwork, and adding in a theme song by Jarvis Cocker.iPhoneChanel Stick to the ListFashion brand Chanel has launched an iPad app to show off its product range in time for Christmas, although judging by the app description, its main feature is the ability to fling them around the screen and make them collide.iPadThe History of Rock – Day by DayThe latest app mining the history of rock music comes from Fyre Interactive, and offers a selection of trivia based on the calendar. Charts, births and deaths are also included.iPhoneAppsCube ExplorerWhat if Minecraft wasn't a game, but was instead an apps discovery service? This – sort of – is the idea behind AppsCube Explorer, an iPhone and iPad app from Este Bueno Studio. The idea: it's a representation of the App Store charts as a 3D world: "Push them, illuminate them, view screenshots and descriptions, find out our great deals of the week, and the best free applications, share them on Facebook and Twitter..."iPhone / iPad
It's Wednesday – half way through the week. Are you half-way through any games at the moment?
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Apologies of Zuckerberg: a restrospective &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Of the 25 posts Zuckerberg has published on Facebook's corporate blog in the past five years -- including today's acknowledging a long-term privacy settlement with the FTC -- I count 10 that were written to address complaints. (The rest are his personal celebrations of milestones and new products.)" Yay! We passed our tenth apology!Sharp upward spike in WP7 Facebook users could mean 600,000 new Windows Phones sold in the 2 weeks &gt;&gt; WMPoweruser"The number of users of Microsoft's Facebook Integration in Windows Phone 7 proven to be a pretty accurate measure of how many Windows Phone 7 users are out there, correctly predicting the number at around 5-6 million. "Now the latest data shows a sharply upward spike in the number of users, increasing from 1,000,000 Monthly Active Users on the 11th November to 1,100,000 on the 25/11/11. "If our previously calculated multiple holds true that would correspond to around 600,000 new Windows Phone 7 users, presumably buyers of the Nokia Lumia 800, and HTC Titan, Radar, Samsung Focus S and Focus Flash, although I suspect the massive Nokia push would have the lion share of the numbers. "Of course Android activates more than this in one day, but for Windows Phone it is a pretty big deal, and about 3 times faster than sales in the two weeks preceding." No clue on why the 5-6m number is correct, but clearly an upward spike with the Lumia's sale date.Thoughts on the future of the Win32 platform &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWritingVery thoughtful, starting from what's real and happening now, and working forward logically.A scenario where smartphones take down the PC &gt;&gt; TechPinionsPatrick Moorhead: "It all starts with the end user and making choices. If posed with the question, "if you had to choose between your phone of the PC, which one would you pick?" Sure, most want both, but making them choose makes them prioritize, and most would pick the phone. Why? One reason is that its so personal. People take it in the bed, bathroom, our pocket, on the dinner table. It knows where we are, what we're doing, who we're with, can communicate how we feel, etc. There are even reports that people would rather starve or refrain from sex rather than separate from their phone. Net-net, the phone is more personal and one variable that could, scenario speaking, accelerate the erosion and "take down" of the PC." More that the phone gets more use than the PC, which thus gets replaced less often.Computing power and stockmarkets: Moore and more &gt;&gt; The Economist"Computing power has increased some 600-fold over the past 15 years; 2.6 billion transistors can now be crammed onto a single computer chip. This advancement has facilitated the ability to trade ever-larger volumes of shares. During the 1960s, just under 17 billion shares were traded on the New York Stock Exchange. That amount was surpassed over just four average trading days in September 2011."United Nations hacked - email addresses and passwords leaked &gt;&gt; Naked Security"Passwords and login details belonging to the United Nations have been published on the internet by a hacking group who believe that the UN is guilty of corruption. "The TeaMp0isoN hacking gang has leaked over one hundred usernames, email addresses and passwords that appear to belong to individuals at the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), UNICEF, World Health Organisation (WHO) and other groups."Microsoft Office for the iPad: Should they? Could they? Will they? &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley: "The Daily is reporting via unnamed sources that Microsoft is planning to roll out Office for the iPad in 2012. "I'd be more surprised if the Softies didn't roll out some kind of Office release for the iPad, given they've already done OneNote for the iPhone and are continuing to support for Office on Macs. "No-brainer or not, The Daily's November 29 report stirs up the age-old debate for Microsoft when it comes to all of its software and services. Would it be more profitable and preferable for Microsoft to keep a given product or service a Windows-only offering? Or would Microsoft make more money and attract more users by porting their apps to non-Windows-based platforms?" Or wait for Windows 8 tablets, and do it on that? Yup, that would make more money.My head teacher won't let me teach computing &gt;&gt; Emma Mulqueeny"I am not speaking out of turn here in saying that this is a very common theme and a common argument and it drives me insane and most of the teachers in the group were wearily starting to accept defeat. I have also, to my utter despair, seen members of Young Rewired State fall at the same hurdle, where they have gone into schools and suggested running computing clubs or events, only to be patronised and dismissed. "There are so many counter-arguments to it aren't there? But you know that in fact, these are not the real reasons, if they were Physics would not be taught, nor music, nor high-jumps, back-flips or burpeez - who cares, right?" If people were suggesting not teaching history, or physics, or English, we'd laugh at them. When they suggest not teaching coding, everyone agrees.HP refutes inaccurate claims; clarifies on printer security &gt;&gt; HP"On Tuesday there has been sensational and inaccurate reporting regarding a potential security vulnerability with some HP LaserJet printers. No customer has reported unauthorized access. Speculation regarding potential for devices to catch fire due to a firmware change is false. "HP LaserJet printers have a hardware element called a 'thermal breaker' that is designed to prevent the fuser from overheating or causing a fire. It cannot be overcome by a firmware change or this proposed vulnerability." Spoilsports. Ruining a good scare like that.Apple and Spotify create ripples in the streaming music world &gt;&gt; PCWorld"The arrival of Apple's iCloud and iTunes Match this month, coupled with Spotify's October drop of its invite-only requirement, seem to have shaken the online music world. "All the other online music service players seem to be desperately searching for ways to compete." Included in this article: Napster has been bought (in, take note, an all-stock deal) from Best Buy by Rhapsody (the former Real Networks). Rhapsody has about 800,000 paying subscribers. Napster has... an unknown number. Spotify has about 10m, of whom 2m are paying. Is Napster + Rhapsody bigger than Spotify?UK government frees more data &gt;&gt; WSJ Tech Europe"In his Autumn statement, the UK's Chancellor of the Exchequer gave commitments to open up public sector data in travel, health care, weather and house price data. "George Osborne also announced a new scheme for relief on investments in startup companies. Named the Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme (SEIS), it will be available from 6 April 2012 and will run alongside the existing Enterprise Investment Scheme, but will be targeted at start up companies." This is a good thing.Goodbye to the Guardian's TagBot &gt;&gt; Guardian Developer blogDespite getting a 75% approval rating, "Tagbot was [also] sadly unable to properly respond to 'Why is Jeremy Clarkson?', 'What's the point of Belgium?' and the plaintive 'Does she love me?' - but did get a Goodbot rating for returning pages for 'Is David Cameron a lizard' and 'Robot apocalypse'. "We hope you've enjoyed this beta test - thanks to everyone who used it. We fully expect to feed the lessons into social media services in the future."Video hands-on with Cluzee: not quite a Siri competitor &gt;&gt; Android Central"Point 1: You need to be able to launch a voice app like this quickly. The iPhone 4S has a leg up by allowing you to long-press the home button to launch Siri at any time. Simple, quick. With Cluzee, you need a home screen shortcut, which means having to wake and unlock the phone first. If the app's not yet in memory, it takes several seconds to launch -- an eternity for this sort of thing. It really has to be faster. (And it is, so long as Cluzee remains loaded.) "On to Point 2: Cluzee understood our tests some of the time, but not all of the time. And even in our abbreviated use, it seemed to struggle more than it should. That ties into Point 3: Returning results for local pizza locations took so long we thought the app had hung on us (force closes are not uncommon at this point). And opening applications through Cluzee took too many steps. (Us: "Open Google Maps." Cluzee: "Which application do you want me to open?" Grrrrrr.)" Android Central are biased, though, right?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Samsung is closer to selling its new Galaxy tablet computer in Australia after a court on Wednesday overturned a ruling that favoured Apple's allegations that Samsung had copied its iPad and iPhone.But Samsung will have to wait a few more days before it can begin selling the Galaxy, after Apple indicated it would appeal to the nation's high court. The federal court agreed to keep the injunction in place until Friday while that issue is pending. Samsung might still be able to capitalise on the Christmas shopping season in Australia if it can ultimately win the patent war.The ruling said evidence failed to show the Galaxy tablet infringed Apple's touchscreen patent. Justices said Apple would be unlikely to win if the case went to a trial. It criticised the earlier decision in Apple's favour as "clearly wrong".In October a federal court justice, Annabelle Bennett, granted Apple's request for a temporary injunction against sale of Samsung's Galaxy Tab 10.1 in Australia, preventing the device going on shelves in its current form.Samsung appealed and on Wednesday the court agreed to lift the injunction and allow Galaxy sales to go ahead.Apple in April sued Samsung in the US, alleging the Galaxy's product design, user interface and packaging "slavishly copy" the iPhone and iPad. Samsung responded by filing its own lawsuits that accused Apple of infringing patents of its wireless telecommunications technology.The fight spread to 10 countries – courts in Germany and the Netherlands ruled in favour of Apple, and in her October ruling Justice Bennett of the Australian federal court said she was siding with Apple in part because she felt the company had a sufficient likelihood of winning at trial against Samsung.But a full bench of the federal court ruled that Bennett did not include in her written decision any assessment of the strengths of Apple's case, as she was required to do before granting the injunction. "In our view her decision was clearly wrong and should be set aside," the panel wrote.The justices said they believed Apple was unlikely to succeed at trial because current evidence failed to show that selling the Galaxy in Australia infringed Apple's touchscreen patent.In a statement Samsung said it was pleased with the court's decision and it would soon announce when the Galaxy would be available in Australia."We believe the ruling clearly affirms that Apple's legal claims lack merit," the company said.Apple representatives did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Google celebrates Mark Twain's 176th birthday today with its latest doodle, which depicts a famous scene from The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.The full-width illustration greeting web users logging on to the search engine portrays an episode in the novel in which the protagonist is made to whitewash a fence. Resembling a drawing from a children's story book, the picture appears to show Tom and his friend Ben at various stages of the paintwork job, with the 'e' and half the 'l' of "Google" subjected to their brush.Although the writer's 176th birthday may seem a somewhat arbitrary milestone to mark, he remains a towering figure in American literature whose works enjoy an enduring popularity today.Born on 30 November 1835 in the town of Florida, Missouri, Twain penned Tom Sawyer in 1876 and its sequel, The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, in 1885. The two novels are his most famous works and count among America's best-loved tales.The scene from Tom Sawyer chosen by Google to celebrate the anniversary of his creator's birth sees Tom painting the fence as punishment by Aunt Polly for dirtying his clothes in a fight with a boy from St Louis.Twain is known and loved for his combination of rich humour and sharp social commentary on life along the Mississippi river during the pre-civil war period, and noted for his pioneering use of the vernacular. His treatment of slavery and racism has been the subject of much debate.Other literary subjects who have received the Google doodle treatment include HG Wells, Antoine de Saint-Exupery, Agatha Christie, Jorge Luis Borges and Stanislaw Lem.
Facebook "deceived consumers by telling them they could keep their information on Facebook private, and then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public," US regulators said as they announced a settlement over privacy issues with the social networking giant.Facebook has been repeatedly criticised for changing its policies in ways that disclose more of its 800 million users' personal information without giving them adequate notice. Last year, critics organised a Quit Facebook Day in response to the firm's alleged privacy breaches.The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) said Facebook had made claims about its privacy policies that were "unfair and deceptive, and violated federal law."The FTC said it had reached a proposed settlement with Facebook that would force it to obtain consent before making changes to privacy settings. The firm will also have to undergo an independent audit of its consumer privacy policy every two years for the next 20 years, to make sure it complies with the FTC ruling."Facebook is obligated to keep the promises about privacy that it makes to its hundreds of millions of users," said Jon Leibowitz, the FTC chairman. "Facebook's innovation does not have to come at the expense of consumer privacy. The FTC action will ensure it will not."In a blogpost, Facebook founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg said the company made a "small number of high-profile mistakes.""I founded Facebook on the idea that people want to share and connect with people in their lives, but to do this everyone needs complete control over who they share with at all times," said Zuckerberg."Overall, I think we have a good history of providing transparency and control over who can see your information," he wrote. "I also understand that many people are just naturally sceptical of what it means for hundreds of millions of people to share so much personal information online, especially using any one service," he said.Zuckerberg said the deal was part of a broader push by the government to ensure consumer privacy regulations from other companies, including Google and Twitter. "For Facebook, this means we're making a clear and formal long-term commitment to do the things we've always tried to do and planned to keep doing – giving you tools to control who can see your information and then making sure only those people you intend can see it," he said.Facebook is currently lining up a $100bn floatation that could come as early as next April. The initial public offering (IPO) values Zuckerberg's stake in the firm at $24bn.The FTC said Facebook made eight specific promises that it did not keep.In December 2009, Facebook changed its website so certain information that users may have designated as private – such as their friends list – was made public. They did so without warning or approval in advance.Facebook said that company's apps would have access only to the information that they needed to operate. In fact, the apps could access nearly all of users' personal data – data the apps didn't need, said the FTC.Facebook told users they could restrict sharing of data to limited audiences – for example with Friends Only. In fact, selecting Friends Only did not prevent their information from being shared with third-party applications their friends used.Facebook had a Verified Apps programme, and claimed it certified the security of participating apps. It didn't.Facebook promised users that it would not share their personal information with advertisers. It did.Facebook claimed that when users deactivated or deleted their accounts, their photos and videos would be inaccessible. But Facebook allowed access to the content, even after users had deactivated or deleted their accounts.Facebook claimed that it complied with the US–EU Safe Harbour Framework that governs data transfer between the US and the European Union. It didn't.In future, the firm will be required to obtain consent from its users ahead of making changes that change their privacy settings, and it will be required to prevent anyone from accessing a Facebook user's account 30 days after they have deleted it.
The government has set aside £100m to create high speed internet links in 10 cities across Britain.Cardiff, Belfast, Edinburgh and London will receive support from the fund, chancellor George Osborne announced in his autumn statement, and a competition will decide which six other cities will  join the list.The money will be spent on providing 80 to 100 megabits per second (Mbps) broadband and city-wide high speed mobile connections, most likely through Wi-Fi. Efforts will focus on areas where companies such as Virgin Media and BT would not have built high-speed links without subsidy.City councils will bid for a share of the money, identifying which areas are to be connected, with a particular focus on small to medium-sized enterprises and strategic employment zones to support economic growth.Announcing the fund, Osborne said: "It means creating new superfast digital networks for companies across our country. These do not exist today. See what countries like China or Brazil are building, and you'll also see why we risk falling behind the rest of the world."Our great cities are at the heart of our regional economies. And we will help bring world leading, superfast broadband and Wi-Fi connections to 10 of them – including the capitals of all four nations."The "super-connected cities", one of an array of infrastructure projects announced in the autumn statement, will see £20m allocated in the year to April 2013, £60m spent the following year and the final £20m by April 2015. Companies bidding for a share of the pot will be expected to contribute matching funding.A BT spokesman said: "This is a positive initiative that will help ensure our major cities have the best available super-fast broadband. BT is already upgrading large parts of these cities under its commercial roll out plan and these funds could help us go further."Naomi Climer, vice president at the Institution of Engineering and Technology, Europe's largest engineers' body, also welcomed the money: "This announcement is good news for improving UK business productivity and closing the digital divide. It's a step in the right direction to catch up with the capacity in other countries such as Korea, Singapore and Japan."The urban broadband funding is over and above some £830m already allocated in this parliament and the next for rural broadband. The government wants all 25m British homes, however remote, to have access to a minimum speed of 2Mbps by 2015. Some 90% of homes should be able to get over 24Mbps, enough for several computers to download video simultaneously on a single line.A further £150m was committed by Osborne at the Tory party conference in October to roll out mobile coverage to 99% of the UK, ensuring six million more people would be able to get a signal. Mobile coverage is currently at 95%, although in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, masts only reach 90% of locations.Critics said the money would have been better spent boosting rural broadband."£100m between 10 cities is about £1.50 per person," said Andrew Ferguson, editor of news site ThinkBroadband. "If the government had put the money in rural projects it would have boosted rural businesses. Broadband is already available in cities."• This article was amended on 1 December 2011. The original said 90% of homes should be able to get broadband speeds of up to 24Mbps by 2015. This has been corrected.
Telecoms regulator Ed Richards has accused mobile networks of "holding back innovation and hampering growth" because their threats of litigation mean that the UK will be the last major European economy to hold a 4G auction.Control of the spectrum sell-off, which is meant to deliver the high-speed mobile broadband needed to keep up with the explosion in smartphone use, could be handed back to politicians in the next communications act, Ofcom chief executive Richards told an industry gathering in Brussels on Tuesday."I think some major companies will have to reflect upon whether they have inadvertently jeopardised the benefits of objective, independent regulation in this area by virtue of their willingness to game the system," said Richards."I am sure legislators would be all too willing to accept an argument which returns power in such matters to politicians, in light of the apparent inability of the current model to make timely decisions where the national interest is at stake."Germany's first 4G service was launched by Vodafone in December 2010. The UK will have to wait until at least January 2013 for its first 4G signal; the spectrum was originally meant to be auctioned in 2009.Europe is already lagging the USA and Asia in rolling out 4G, which can serve wider areas at higher speeds than the current 3G systems being used. Three American networks are using the technology, and 26 commercial networks were up and running around the world by August this year, according to trade body the GSA, with 93 expected by the end of 2012.Ofcom is hoping to publish new rules for the auction, which could raise over £3bn for the Treasury, in December. The sell-off is scheduled for the end of 2012. The previous rules are being revised after veiled threats of legal action from O2 and Vodafone, which were concerned that rivals Three and Everything Everywhere were to be given preferential treatment. But Three has complained that Vodafone and O2 were given a special dispensation to keep wavelengths that they were allocated back in the 1980s, rather than seeing them auctioned off in the 4G auction.Each mobile operator has been jockeying for position, concerned that one or more rivals will automatically be allocated greater bandwidth, and so be able to serve more customers at higher speeds.Earlier in the autumn the secretary of state for culture, Olympics, media and sport, Jeremy Hunt, stepped in to knock heads together, and has held a series of meetings with network chief executives. The coming weeks will be crucial in securing a compromise.Speaking on Tuesday, Richards said the current timetable remained unchanged. He added: "It has been very disappointing to witness the extent to which the incumbent mobile operators have chosen to entangle this process in litigation or threats of litigation … But when litigation becomes essentially strategic rather than based on objective grounds, and when it has the effect of holding back innovation and hampering growth, it is legitimate to ask whether the overall legislative framework fully supports the public interest in this increasingly vital area."The original 2009 auction date was delayed by legal battles, political interventions and the change of government, which pushed it to 2011, and then to mid-2012, before its latest postponment to the last quarter of 2012.The current auction rules, which are being scrapped, were designed to guarantee a minimum chunk of spectrum to two of the four operators, Three and Everything Everywhere, which represents the Orange and T-Mobile brands.It is understood that rival network operators have successfully argued no special protection should be afforded to Everything Everywhere, currently the largest player in the UK with a 38% share.
This week Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur speak to Professor Alan Winfield of the University of the West of England, who is exhibiting at theScience Museum's Robotville festival. Professor Winfield is showing off the research he has done into swarm robotics in the Bristol Robotics Laboratory and we ask him about the development of robotic machines.Aleks and Charles also welcome David Norris, CEO ofBlueCavainto the studio.  BlueCava is a tracking technology that makes it possible to identify any device that is connected to the internet – and has potential uses in identification for online banking, child security on the web and targeted advertising. Tracking online raises many privacy issues and the team asks what has changed in people's concepts of privacy that makes BlueCava possible as well as how the technology works.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
In some ways, the Apps World conference in London feels very old-school mobile industry, with its rows of stands devoted to technology companies and an entire strand devoted to the app strategies of mobile operators (insert your own punchline for the latter).The sparks were provided by the entertainment and media companies who are making apps, particularly a panel session on the app opportunities for news, magazine and book publishers. It featured representatives from Guardian News &amp; Media, Mail Online, IPC Media, Future and DK Books.Apps cannibalising printA key question: whether apps are cannibalising these companies' existing print businesses. For now, it seems not."In the seven weeks since [Apple's] Newsstand launched, we have had 80,000 subscribers to our magazines on the platform, with two thirds or maybe three quarters saying 'Yes, you can have my information'," said Paul Hudson, lead app developer at Future."We've hit that against our printed subscriber base, and the crossover is 7%. So 93% haven't subscribed to us before, so we're seeing hardly any cannibalisation."Hudson explained that one reason for this is that Future sells most of its magazines in the UK, but Newsstand is letting it hit a global audience, including countries like South Korea where its iOS magazine apps have been "hugely popular"."We've seen massive uptake in the US," he added. "People at Future have been asking 'How do we crack the US market?' Well, we just did, with millions and millions of downloads. So now how do we go further? It's an amazing opportunity."Steve Wing, head of digital marketing, consumer media at Guardian News and Media, said it's too early to tell exactly what impact The Guardian's new iPad app is having on print sales."From our research, a large proportion of [iPad] people are non-newspaper buying – they're new digital people," he said, while pointing out that access to the iPad app is also being bundled with the newspaper's six and seven-day print subscriptions. "To date, that level of cannibalisation has not been there."James Bromley, managing director at Mail Online, said cannibalisation is more for the future. "I can't see in 15 years time there will be newspapers in the way there are today," he said. "It's pretty naive to believe that this digital future we're at the very beginning of won't have an incredibly dramatic impact on printed media."IPC Media's head of mobile Miles Ross agreed that such cannibalisation is in the "long, long term", but suggested that in the short term, the international audience referred to by Hudson is a huge opportunity for publishers."It's a global market that we don't really have access to currently, so the cannibalisation – if we see it at all – will happen in our local market. The opportunities far outweigh the risks."Advertising strategiesWhat role is advertising playing in the app strategies of these publishers, especially on iPad? The panel agreed that it is still very early days for much beyond standalone sponsorships of the kind seen with Channel 4 in the Guardian app."The big opportunity is rich media, but we are still in the very early days, and not really realising the benefit," said Ross. "The difficulties of putting together a coherent campaign of any scale in that space are still almost prohibitive."Bromley talked about some "enormous" messes still to be sorted out, such as how to deliver adverts to iPad readers when they're not online. He pointed out that for advertising companies like DoubleClick, the idea of cacheing ads offline on a tablet is still a very new concept.He also called for more transparency from publishers about the daily usage of their apps, rather than simply trumpeting how many times those apps had been downloaded."It's down to every premium publisher who's creating apps to publicly declare and make explicit how many people are using their apps on a daily basis," he said."People talk about downloads, which is the same as people talking about monthly figures on websites. Since when did a digital industry start to judge itself on lunar cycles? We know that for 92% of apps, two weeks after the download they aren't being used. Yet the first thing in every presentation when a media owner goes to speak to an advertiser is 'we've got a trillion downloads…'."This, of course, begs an obvious question about usage of the Mail Online app, but Bromley made sure to answer it, saying that its UK-only app has around 104k average daily users, and between 180k and 190k in a week.GNM's Steve Wing didn't give similar stats, but he talked about the opportunities beyond advertising for these kinds of apps, including in-app purchases and e-commerce."Especially on the iPad, when we write reviews and can link through to iTunes and e-books: that will be increasingly important," he said.Mobiles and tabletsThe panel also talked about the perceived differences between news and magazine apps on smartphones and tablets, with Ross characterising IPC's mobile apps as "lean-forward and occasionally-snacking usage, although often frequent". IPC is also looking at ways to link its mobile apps with its magazines using QR codes – something he doesn't see as having much relevance for iPad apps.Wing talked about what The Guardian's research has told him about tablet usage. "The device rarely leaves home: it's not in transit as a mobile device. It's a portable-around-the-house device," he said."Our iPad app is designed to be a finite experience – 'this is what The Guardian thinks today – and while you can follow links and there's a back page with the best of the website, it's not designed to be a live experience. On our mobile internet presence, we have prioritised live. Live scores, blogs, results… It's all about live, and the big spikes in traffic are all around live events, and the way we cover them."Apps versus browserNo mobile conference session would be complete in 2011 without a question about native apps versus HTML5, but the panel were firmly in favour of a hybrid approach."A lot of people now develop in HTML5 and then wrap it to put it into the App Store. I think that's a very sensible approach," said Bromley. Ross said that IPC Media is doing just that, even if for now, it's not releasing the pure HTML5 content as mobile websites rather than native apps.Hudson was even more bullish. "The app developer who does not think HTML5 is awesome is wrong, and quite possibly stupid," he said, before providing some caveats."I'm not saying go and make all your stuff in HTML5. All our apps are native but we embed HTML5 inside them. In the short term, I don't see features like push messaging going to HTML5 though. Geolocation is a bit of a shaky thing in the HTML5 world, and while tilt sensor kinda works in the right device, it's still not as good as native."Justin Moodie, digital publisher at DK Books, warned that for consumers, the notion of apps is here to stay for a while yet, "as the concept of something discrete that lives on a mobile device, and a store they can purchase those discrete bits of software from".He continued: "For consumers, apps are here to stay: little bits of software you buy in a store and which go on your device. The back-end will be HTML5 tomorrow, then HTML9 or something else in the future. But the consumer has no interest in that, and nor should they."Apple and subscriptionsThe panel were notably reticent when asked about the way Apple and its rivals handle subscriptions, in terms of the data they shares with publishers, and the cut they take of the revenues. Bromley and Ross kept quiet, while Wing chose his words carefully."In an ideal world, they would probably share a bit more information, but you have to make a trade," he said, citing the quality of the distribution platform, and the ease of discovery and purchase as key criteria."That's not to say it's not without issues that have been well documented in terms of having a more ongoing relationship with those consumers. I know what I wish for: whether it happens or not remains to be seen."
Last month, Mark O'Connor blogged aboutswapping his MacBook for an iPad and doing his development work in the cloud. Mark is a Linux guy and I'm a PC - I recreated the experiment for developers who spend their days in Visual Studio. Here's how I got on …The experimentMark's experiment and mine differed in that I wasn't tremendously interested on whether I could use an iPad for day-to-day working. The screen is simply too small, and there's no mouse - it would surely drive me mad within hours. My objective therefore was to see whether it was possible to stop running Visual Studio and related bits and bobs locally and use a hosted server in the cloud instead.About six months ago I jumped over to using a MacBook Pro full-time. When I bought it, I assumed that an Intel i7 chip and 8GB RAM would easily allow me to host a large Windows virtual machine (VM). This assumption turned out to be utter tosh. OS X is a horrible virtualisation host. After suffering through the worst three-months in my computing life where I swore I was going to launch the thing out of the window at least four times a day, I eventually upgraded the disk to a Crucial m4 SSD. It was only then that the machine started to perform in a way where it could actually be used. My Mac and I are now quite happy together. (For reference, I was using VMware Fusion throughout and tried Parallels a couple of times. The conclusion I came to was that you cannot virtualise on a Mac without a SATA3 SSD.)That whole palaver though made me think about whether I needed my development kit on my local machine, which is where Mark's experiment resonated. The only place where I don't have broadband internet access is when I'm in the car. The lack of offline capability for development didn't seem a problem.SetupFor the host I chose Rackspace Cloud. The reason why I chose them for this was primarily because it was my money I was spending, I wanted a provider that didn't have any contract tie in. Rackspace and Amazon Web Service's Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) are two providers that don't have tie-ins. You can spin up a server, use it for an hour and delete it and you'll only get billed for that hour. Most of the other virtual private server (VPS) providers - staggeringly - have minimum contract lengths, e.g. spin up a server, and commit to it for a year. (This contract length seems to run against the spirit of cloud hosting to me, but then I'm not having to worry about the economics of providing such a service.)Mark's work only required a 512MB server, which Linode charge out at $19.95 a month. However, Visual Studio is impractical with less than 4GB, and that seriously drives up the cost. Rackspace's charge for a 4GB server is £117+VAT per month plus bandwidth. For comparison, Fasthosts charges £64+VAT per month for a similar server to Rackspace, but with a 12-month contract.The server I used had Windows Server 2008 R2 installed. Although most developers working on the Microsoft stack would use a desktop-class OS for day-to-day work, Windows Server works perfectly well. It's perhaps slightly odd that we don't all develop on Windows Server as a matter of course - after all, that's where the software we build typically runs.There was nothing else special about the setup - just Visual Studio, SQL Server and the other bits and pieces that I needed.ExperienceThis proposition is all about the experience. If it's more painful to use than a local OS, no one is going to do this.(Some of you reading this won't be using a Mac so you can skip this bit. The only RDP client option you have is the one built into Windows. Spoiler: performance from Windows 7 to remote server was perfect - it's like logging in locally. Now, back to the Mac …)I usually use theCoRD RDP client for OS X. The experience of this was good, but not stellar. Typing at speed often led to laggy screen updates. One issue was that the only way I could not get CoRD to stop scaling the screen. When scaling, the text gets too fuzzy to work with properly. In full-screen mode the dock and menu bar was obscured. I could get around this by re-arranging by monitors and moving the dock back to the laptop's own monitor rather than on the external display. The real problem was, as I say, the lagging behind of the UI when working at speed.TheMicrosoft Remote Desktop Connection Client for Mac(another short and snappy name from Microsoft's naming team there) fared worse. Less lag, but I couldn't get this to fill a widescreen display, so I was working in a 4:3 window with a huge amount of real estate wasted.Performance was better onTSclientX. This wasn't laggy, but the full-screen mode was odd in that it rendered the remote machine under the dock. (The OS X menu bar appeared in the correct location, however.)Counterintuitively, the best experience was had by running up a Windows 7 VM locally via VMware Fusion and using the built-in RDP client. This had no lag and was as far as I could perceive - and I'm pretty picky - just the same as running Visual Studio in a local VM. The full-screen mode worked fine. The scaling was correct and the location of the OS X UI widgets was respected. The only thing you don't get is the smoothing on the fonts as this doesn't come down over RDP so the text is not beautifully smoothed.(Indeed, performance is good enough now, but over time Microsoft is looking to make more of itsRemoteFXtechnology. This is designed to stream Aero-class effects over the wire, even over broadband, making remote machines behave more like local machines.)So at this point, I was able to run Visual Studio in a remote machine and get the same experience as if I were running it locally. Looking good.CompilationObviously with an experiment like this you have to do real-world work. I chose a project that I knew was pretty big. I took a one-year-old Windows 7 desktop with 16GB of RAM, an 2.8GHz i5 processor, 2x 500GB SATA drives in a RAID 0 array. Compilation time ("Rebuild All") on the project averaged at 14.3 seconds.On the remote server, with only 4GB of RAM, "Rebuild All" took 14.8 seconds.So we're not gaining compilation speed by moving, but we're not losing either. Although I didn't try this, I wouldn't expect to see much increase in compilation speed with more memory. Compilation is all about the disk I/O, and VPS provision tends to run on the best disk hardware money can buy. (Though really, if you're not usingone of thesein your compilation cycle, you're not really trying. 600,000 IOPS, anyone?)iPad dayI said to myself I was going to try and use an iPad for a day. Yeah, I didn't make the full day. Or indeed a full hour …What I learnt from trying to use an iPad for development in this mode was that I didn't need a laptop. An iPad and a Bluetooth keyboard is probably enough to keep me, or anyone, happy when on the road.I thought it would be the mouse and the screen-size that stopped an iPad being practical. It was actually the RDP. I tried a number of different applications (at a total cost approaching that of running the server for a week) and found them all to be too slow. More to the point, I could not get the keyboard mappings working. Developing without a mouse is one thing, developing without a mouse, function keys, navigation keys or Alt is quite another.ConclusionSo would I do it? I almost would …The fact that on OS X using Windows 7's RDP client yields near perfect performance is as surprising as it is enabling. It boils down to cost being the problem.Windows stuff is much more memory hungry than Linux stuff. We need lots of RAM, and RAM is expensive in the economics of virtualisation; hence we end up paying £70+VAT at a minimum for this sort of solution.What I was looking to do originally was see whether I could remove the overhead of having to cart around a virtualisation host on my laptop. The answer to this is "yes" - I could buy a MacBook Air with less RAM and less horses and work as I do now. I'm also then not dependent on ruining my dev environment if I run over the thing in my car. It's a sensible thing to do in isolation; if it weren't for the price, I'd do it in a heartbeat.But this is the problem with the cloud. Some of it is inherently sensible (hence the staggering growth), but for some of it, like this, the benefits are nebulous.Running a local development environment is not difficult. Developer machines, as mentioned, should be disposable as all code should be regularly migrated to source control and oddities on developer machine config lead to misunderstood production transfers and therefore should be whacked into shape with best speed. Spending £800-odd a year on a server is easy. Spending the same on a developer workstation, plus the cost of the local hardware is hard to justify.But when the price comes down and it's only £20 a month -I'm totally there, dude.Thanks toMatt Fitchettfor the loan of his Bluetooth keyboard for "iPad Day".Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
He's well known as TV's sweariest spin doctor, but how did The Thick Of It's Malcolm Tucker take the App Store by storm?At the Apps World conference in London, Dave Addey – managing director of mobile developerAgant– talked about the branded Malcolm Tucker: The Missing Phone app, which his company made for book publisher Faber.The app adopts the virtual form of Tucker's own iPhone, providing access to his emails, text messages, voicemails and tweets. It was released in December 2010 with a premium price – £3.99."We weren't actually sure this app was going to make it onto the App Store," said Addey. "The language and political satire is pretty close to the knuckle, so throughout the development, we were constantly worrying that it would be rejected by Apple."And it was, but not for the frequent swearing – it was initially rejected because it was called The Missing iPhone. Once the 'i' was dropped, the app sailed through the approvals process."The app didn't have any involvement from the BBC at all, even though it's based on a BBC TV show," said Addey. "The partners involved are predominantly the book publisher, the writers of the show and ourselves as app developers."Addey shared some of the lessons learned from the app. First, the app was never promoted by Apple, apparently because of the language in the app and its 17+ rating. "The people I spoke to [at Apple] had tried it and did like it, so it had caught their attention. They just couldn't promote it… Next time, we'll do it for something less sweary!"Agant also launched an app for QI, which enjoyed an enormous spike from an Apple promotion, and a "higher baseline" of sales afterwards when it was released. "The Tucker app earned back, and a bit more, but it would have done even better if we'd had that promotion," said Addey.Another lesson: "At launch we didn't have a way to stop this story, or more importantly to pace it alongside your everyday life," he said. The app works very well if people have time to play the story, but not so well if people go into a three-hour meeting, then come out to find lots of virtual messages waiting for them.This was solved in an update, with "trigger" messages that had to be listened to in order to drive the story forward.Addey said that the support of The Thick of It's writer Armando Ianucci was crucial to the project, including getting the other writers and cast on board. Faber also threw its weight behind the project, despite the risks posed by the language, the political satire and the use of Apple's local notifications feature."We didn't know if that would be allowed… if it hadn't, that would have been a very expensive experience for us all," said Addey. He admitted that Agant perhaps didn't put as much effort into the launch promotion as it could have done, as a result of the uncertainty over whether it would be approved.Another mistake: releasing The Missing Phone as an Entertainment app. "The Entertainment category is a depressing hinterland of something-booths, badly written soundboards and other tat that seems to sell," said Addey."In retrospect we should have put it into the Books category to give it more chance of staying up in the charts and being found that way," he added, before turning his attention to the timing of the app's launch."We launched at Christmas. I wouldn't do that again," he said. Agant thought this would be a good idea, to get the app in front of people opening their new iPhones and iPod touches at Christmas.However, the company then realised that the App Store closes over Christmas, and the charts are locked over that period. With no promotion from Apple, The Missing Phone was old news by the time those charts opened up again in the new year – including for the journalists who'd spent the weeks before Christmas focusing on their app-of-the-year articles.Addey also rued the fact that Agant didn't put any analytics into the app – something it's changed since, using Google's free analytics API – meaning it doesn't know how people have been using the Tucker app.Agant is taking these lessons and applying them to more mainstream apps, starting with something that is literally more universal."The plan is to tell the story of the Apollo 11 Moon landing which took place over eight days, in real time," said Addey. "You can live through the story as it would have been experienced by the astronauts, using the fantastic audio that NASA has."He paused. "Also it's got a lot less swearing in it!"
Nokia's second coming, if it happens, is some way off. The Finnish giant is pinning its hopes of a return to the smartphone market on the newly arrived Lumia 800.But estimates for Christmas sales of its Jesus phone are dwindling by the day.Last week, US technology investment specialist Pacific Crest revised down its estimates for Lumia sales from 2m to just 500,000 by Christmas. Now even that number looks ambitious.A forecast from market research firm IDC suggests that 520,000 phones using the Windows operating system – made by HTC and Samsung as well as Nokia's Lumia – will ship in Western Europe in the fourth quarter. This compares with 140,000 Windows Phones shipped in the third quarter.The difference of 380,000 can largely be attributed to the Lumia. It has only launched in six countries, and those countries that don't have it are ordering Windows phones at pre-Lumia levels.On current form, the Lumia will barely make Apple blink. The new iPhone 4S, released in October, sold 4m units in is first three days. It would be fairer to make comparisons with previous Nokia handsets, but even here the numbers are underwhelming.Nokia's last big smartphone launch was in October 2010 with the N8, which ran on its by then outmoded Symbian operating system.Before Christmas, the Lumia will be available only in the UK, Germany, France, Spain, Italy and the Netherlands. IDC calculates that in those markets, the N8 shipped 780,000 units by its first Christmas, almost double what the Lumia will achieve.Surprising, given the Lumia is being supported by Nokia's largest ever marketing campaign, with television advertising aplenty and a reported $1bn (£640m) in subsidy from Microsoft as a thank you for using its software. Orange is even giving away an Xbox 360 with every handset.The network operators have said repeatedly that they want it to succeed, because it is their interest, and in the consumer's interest, to have a choice of three big operating systems. Nobody wants to see Apple's iOS and Google's Android become too dominant.The suggestion is that Nokia has kept supplies to retailers deliberately low. The company does not want to see its most premium product discounted in the January sales. A sold out phone is infinitely more desirable than an oversupplied one taking up space in the stock room.The company said last week that Lumia had the best ever first week of Nokia smartphone sales in the UK in recent history. In this country, Windows phone shipments will quadruple from 50,000 last quarter to 200,000 this quarter, according to IDC.Orange is already reporting that some of its stores have sold out, suggesting that for Nokia these first few months are all about heightening demand rather than failing to generate it.A small-scale launch may also be wise at this stage. There have been teething problems with the phone, with some owners – including yours truly – finding the battery drains fast and then won't recharge.Nokia says this is to do with the brain rather than with the hardware, and will issue two software updates.There are bound to be glitches. The phone was produced in a race against time, eight months after Nokia announced it was dumping Symbian in favour of Windows.And Nokia has always said that Lumia's big push will not come until next year, when Microsoft releases a new version of its operating system which the Finnish manufacturer will have had a chance to shape.Marketing will ramp up again in the new year, when the full colour range will be available – only the black model is on sale now, blue will come in December and pink in January.The pre-Christmas season has been about changing the attitudes of opinion formers. Microsoft only introduced its Windows Phone operating system last year, and the shop floor sales people were not evangelising. Many didn't know the product – Microsoft had 0.6% market share in Europe until Lumia's arrival.By Christmas next year, IDC predicts 3m Windows phones will sell per quarter in Western Europe, just under 10% of all smartphone sales.World domination is a long way off. The Lumia in its current form is no Jesus phone. More a prophet, heralding bigger things to come.
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Greedy Stockholders and A $100 Billion IPO Could Hurt Facebook &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"Most people don't get just how long-term Facebook is thinking. Many of its product decisions cause public unrest because Facebook is planning for 3, 5 or 10 years from now, even if that means making people uncomfortable today. Users weren't ready for the news feed when it launched, now it's beloved. Frictionless sharing and Sponsored Stories could be seen as scary re-appropriations of user actions, but social ads and publishing our offline and off-site activity are where the future is headed."Facebook Targeting IPO For Between April and June 2012 &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"The social networking firm is now targeting a time frame of April to June 2012 for an initial public offering, said people familiar with the matter. The company is exploring raising $10 billion in its IPO--what would be one of the largest offerings ever--in a deal that might assign Facebook a $100 billion valuation, a number greater than twice that of such stalwarts as Hewlett-Packard Co. and 3M Co."Startups: you don't have to work more - the VCs won't &gt;&gt; jwzAdvice for startups: "I did make a bunch of money by winning the Netscape Startup Lottery, it's true. So did most of the early engineers. But the people who made 100x as much as the engineers did? I can tell you for a fact that none of them slept under their desk. If you look at a list of financially successful people from the software industry, I'll bet you get a very different view of what kind of sleep habits and office hours are successful than the one presented here. "So if your goal is to enrich the Arringtons of the world while maybe, if you win the lottery, scooping some of the groundscore that they overlooked, then by all means, bust your ass while the bankers and speculators cheer you on. "Instead of that, I recommend that you do what you love because you love doing it. If that means long hours, fantastic. If that means leaving the office by 6pm every day for your underwater basket-weaving class, also fantastic."What It Looks Like Inside Amazon.com &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedBig. Sort of half-empty. Plentiful cardboard. Stuff.China overtakes United States as world's largest smartphone market in Q3 2011 &gt;&gt; Strategy AnalyticsConsumed 23.9m smartphones in Q3; Nokia was the largest supplier (6.8m, 28.5% share) and Samsung second (4.2m, 17.6% share). Contrast with the US, where the leaders in the 23.3m market were HTC (5.6m, 24% share) and Apple (4.8m, 20.6%).A look at Apple's Spot-the-Shopper technology &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"A store employee, Diego Aguirre, demonstrated an internal application running on iPod Touches that, for the last few weeks, has had the ability to show the in-store location of a shopper who has come to pick up a purchase. "An iPhone owner can use the free Apple Store app to shop before entering the store. When she arrives, the app's location feature alerts store workers on their iPhones, and they can find her and bring over her purchases. Sixteen customers used the app's location feature to claim gear at the Palo Alto store on Friday, Mr. Aguirre said." This is fascinating. Imagine if more stores used something like this: Dixons, Currys, Argos. It would be great.Interactive experiments focused on HTML5 &gt;&gt; hakim.seReally excellent fun. Keep and study. Obviously, you'll need an HTML5-capable browser to see them.HTC to tough out slowdown as strategy doubts grow | Reuters"In his first response to a battering from stock markets -- HTC shares are down more than 30% in just nine trading days -- Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung told Reuters on Monday that HTC is not another Nokia, the Finnish mobile firm that experienced a rapid fall from market dominance as nimbler rivals overtook its stolid product line-ups. "'I don't think it's so serious,' he said, noting that even the most conservative guidance is for shipments to increase to 45m units this year, from 25m last year. "'We will focus on the product next year, better and more competitive. Other than new LTE phones for the US market, we have phones for the global market. We will launch some worldwide flagship products. We're confident in them,' said Yung."Editorial: My first days with the Kindle Fire (and my first tablet) &gt;&gt; The Verge ForumsReally good review by a reader at The Verge. The takeaway: the Fire does all the things you might want to do with a tablet, if you don't have any particular apps you want to use on it.20 stunning social media statistics plus infographic &gt;&gt; Jeffbullas's BlogLots of stats, though very US-centric; countries such as South Korea have had fabulously timewasting social networks for absolutely years.Arabic highest growth on Twitter; English expression stabilizes below 40% &gt;&gt; SemiocastMost tweets aren't in English. Then again, the most popular language on Twitter is English.How Amazon Is Making a Sucker Out of Google &gt;&gt; DatamationFascinating: "The Kindle Fire is the cloudiest of cloud tablets. To use the device is to become a user of Amazon's cloud services. Cloud storage is free and unlimited for Kindle Fire users, which means there's no reason to bother with Google's cloud services. "Google would love to get everyone buying things via Google Wallet. But with the Kindle Fire, there's no need for that, either. Amazon already has your credit card, and makes it easy to buy everything on Amazon. The Fire comes with a month of Amazon Prime, too, which should lock you in for life once you try it... "The mobile ad market is already hurting for advertisers. There are far too many companies, including Google, selling space. The Kindle Fire is likely to become yet another major entrant in this crowded market, further lowering prices and sapping Google of ad dollars." The suggestion? Lock Amazon out of Android. But that horse has bolted.The Rise and Fall of Bitcoin &gt;&gt; WiredYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
German patent firm IPCom has ordered HTC to stop sales and distribution of all its smartphones in Germany, saying the Taiwanese firm faces fines if it does not comply."If HTC fails to comply, and continues to sell UMTS-capable devices, IPCom will initiate a so-called 'Zwangsgeldverfahren' under German law, which will result in fines being levied until it complies," IPCom said in a statement.HTC sells around 2m smartphones a year in Germany, according to the research firm IDC. That compares to an expected world total for the company of around 45m this year.IPCom said last week it would enforce an injunctionbased on a Mannheim court decision from February 2009 after HTC, the fourth largest smartphone vendor globally, withdrew its appeal, which was due to be decided this week.HTC said the legal battle would have no impact on its business in Germany because the injunction covered only one HTC handset – which is no longer sold in that country – and it has also modified its implementation of the UMTS standards.But IPCom hit back: "HTC's claim that it is business as usual in Germany is utterly misleading," Bernhard Frohwitter, managing director of IPCom, said in a statement. "Fact is: the patent in question is valid, and the Mannheim ruling of February 2009 covers all HTC 3G devices, since the patent covers a mandatory 3G standard, valid for all devices and networks."The legal challenges, allied to warnings from HTC that it will not grow its revenues this quarter compared to those of a year ago – and so see a quarter-on-quarter fall – have led some investors to lose faith in the company. Its shares have fallen more than 30% in less than two weeks.Its Desire, Sensation and Wildfire models have lost ground to Apple's iPhones and Samsung's Galaxy line-up, prompting calls for a change of tack in a fast-moving and fickle market.In his first response to the battering from stock markets, HTC chief financial officer Winston Yung told Reuters on Monday that the company is not another Nokia. The Finnish mobile firm experienced a rapid fall from market dominance as nimbler rivals overtook its stolid product lineups."I don't think it's so serious," Yung said, noting that even the most conservative guidance is for shipments to increase to 45m units this year, from 25m last year."We will focus on the product next year, better and more competitive. Other than new LTE phones for the US market, we have phones for the global market. We will launch some worldwide flagship products. We're confident in them."But investors are concerned that HTC, one of few Taiwanese firms with a global brand, is not changing radically enough."Its industrial design hasn't changed for almost two years. Unless it launches a really different phone, it's hard to sell the product at a premium price," said Roxy Wong, analyst at Mirae Asset Management in Hong Kong."HTC lacks an edge in branding against Apple and Samsung. It has stronger hardware specs against Apple, but not Samsung. It takes time for a company to enhance branding, so the room left for HTC to improve sales is not much unless it starts cutting prices."Apart from BlackBerry maker Research in Motion, HTC shares are the worst performers among smartphone peers this year, down 62% from a lifetime high in late April, as sales growth has slowed and investors have been spooked by two profit warnings. RIM's shares are down 70% this year."Smartphone market growth is expected to slow down with each passing year, and HTC has to face a resurgent Motorola, Nokia and Sony," said Abhishek Chauhan, principal consultant at ICT Practice of Frost &amp; Sullivan. "So they have a real risk of becoming another RIM or LG, if they don't refresh their product line-up quickly."Concerns heightened last week when HTC cut its revenue forecast for the fourth quarter to no growth, shocking a market used to double- and even triple-digit growth rates. About four times the normal number of HTC shares changed hands on Friday in what was the stock's busiest day for 27 months.Yung said investors have "questions" for the company, but HTC is explaining its strategy and reiterating its confidence, and sees no change in strategy for now.On Monday, HTC shares fell 3.7% to T$471.50 (£10).CEO Peter Chou explained to Reuters in an interview in July that the thinking behind the strategy was "whatever customers prefer, we make sure we have a product for them".That paid off earlier, making HTC a market darling and sending its shares to a record high in April, helping founder Cher Wang top the Forbes rich-list for Taiwan this year.In its first 10 years from its founding in 1997, HTC evolved from a contract manufacturer for brands such as Siemens and Vodafone to a brand in its own right.Its corporate slogan, Quietly Brilliant, reflects a culture of avoiding the limelight – its head office is tucked away at the end of a long driveway in an old industrial suburb of Taipei – yet fostering innovation and speed.It will need that as rivals, too, pick up speed, and will have to do it without their highly regarded innovation chief Horace Luke, who left in April."HTC has an ID problem – customers are struggling to distinguish between their phones," said Geoff Blaber, an analyst at CCS Insight in London.Richard Ko, an analyst at KGI Securities in Taipei, said he expects HTC's quarter-on-quarter shipments to continue declining next quarter, and predicts in the first half of 2012 shipments will fall also from a year ago.A sales assistant at an HTC store in northern Taipei, who asked not to be named, said the brand had won customers as it had been the first to launch an Android phone."But the trend is shifting and now Samsung is catching up," she said. "Actually, if it wasn't because of national pride, Samsung would have outsold HTC in Taiwan by now."Yung gave no details about the models HTC is banking on to wow buyers next year, but noted the company would focus on China – a market HTC has been slow to push into as it has traditionally focused on high-end users, while Chinese sales are driven by low-cost phones.Apple has already launched a low-cost version of its iPhone in China and home-grown rivals ZTE and Huawei Technologies are muscling in with cheaper phones. Samsung and Nokia already dominate smartphone sales there.In a recent report, brokerage firm Macquarie said it expected HTC to focus on superphones, with high resolution screens and fast processors, for the high-end, while offering more stylish mid- and low-end models to non-US markets."We think it's too early to assume such a strategy will work," the broker said, noting for example that the screens HTC wants to use are a technology of fierce rival Samsung.ICT's Chauhan said HTC "has definitely fallen behind the top of the pack", but the margin isn't that big. "The key issue is to get the product strategy right," he said.
It's Tuesday. Check out yesterday'sMario Kart 7 reviewif you missed it!
