Send your comments on this article to: What's the Point? Arts Desk, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Rd, London EC1R 3ER, or arts@guardian.co.uk Letters should arrive by Wednesday. Please include an address and daytime phone number.To consider that the spaces between the sound are the significant forgotten treasure of Radio 4's output tells us only of the perpetrator's inability to engage with human thought, argument and expression. To assemble silences and present them as an example of one's art is the acoustic equivalent of the   child in a corner fishing snot out of his nose, while all around him people are talking, painting, singing, laughing, swimming, etc. All we learn from such work is that the "artist" is not engaging with humanity.Xian VassieBy emailDespite the apparent absurdity of much sound art, the kind of considerations it provokes are refreshing and important. Last March, it was realised that a piece of "anonymous" music was actually by Handel. This music had been known for over 290 years, and yet it was hailed overnight as a masterpiece, merely because its new, high-status label gave rise to the sort of conditioned response that would just as automatically    rubbish Cage. A common reaction to Cage's 4'33" might be that any fool could write a piece of music that never gets started. The fact is, they didn't and Cage did. Questions of value and art need to be continually re-examined.Jon ChambersBirminghamSound art has the potential to be the most rewarding and engrossing of "difficult" art forms. Familiar sounds presented out of their usual contexts engage the listener on different levels because of the demands they make on our memories and imaginations. This applies to all sound art, be it Janet Cardiff's 40 Part Motet or a CD of people shuffling, whispering and farting. Kind of.Peter WyethLeicesterI do appreciate that the series of articles on "difficult" artforms is supposed to be written by journalists who have little knowledge of their respective subjects, but Steve Poole's assessment of sound art raises the question of whether you would really start an equivalent piece on, for example, the current state of modern literature, by trawling around for unpublished manuscripts on the web? While recordings of minute silences and ticking clocks may not be any more boring than, for instance, the gems offered by curators of the Turner prize, Poole might have benefitted from actually listening to the work of a genuinely good sound artist like Ryoji Ikeda. I was relieved to see Poole being moderately positive about some of the sonic art he hurriedly uncovered, but he certainly did not "lose himself in the world of the sound artist", and I for one would prefer that the Guardian publish writing by people who are well informed about this subject.Paul CameronLondonWhat happens when musicians and artists work in that grey area between the two art forms? I wonder if it really is helpful to place some of these musician/artists in the art gallery where they are viewed, considered and evaluated in terms of visual art alone. Perhaps equally unsuitable are music venues where audiences may prefer a greater element of entertainment and bring to a performance a more intuitive reading and understanding. It would seem that the venue and audience could determine how something is read. For example; Dreams of Tall Buildings regularly perform in both art galleries and music venues. I would suggest that the audience's perception of the performance vary from "sound art" to "experimental music" in accordance with the venue. Is it then beneficial to present such cross art forms in a new or at least neutral arena where audiences are encouraged to leave any preconceptions at the door?Matt GoldenWarwick
Thirty countries completed four years of negotiations today by signing a Council of Europe (CoE) convention that gives international law enforcement officers greater powers to coordinate and prosecute computer-assisted crimes.The anti-cybercrime treaty - the first of its kind - covers 26 European countries as well as the United States, Canada, Japan and South Africa.The treaty outlines common definitions of computer-related crimes, defines the methods for criminal investigations and prosecution and establishes methods of international communication between law enforcement officials.The treaty makes it a crime in all signatory nations to attack computer systems, for example by spreading a virus or hacking into a server. Computer-assisted crimes, such as online fraud or the distribution of child pornography, are outlawed. It also lays down rules for online intellectual property rights.Noticeably absent from the treaty is a law against using the internet to incite racial or religious hatred, after the US objected that such a law would contravene its citizens' first amendment rights to free speech.However, the CoE has set up a committee to draft an amendment that makes using computers for racist and xenophobic propaganda an offence. They hope to have that addition ready within a year.Speaking at a press conference in Budapest, Hungary, to launch the convention, the CoE's director of legal affairs, Guy de Vel, said: "Contrary to what has been said in certain circles, we are not going to set up a Big Brother.""The text covers only specific criminal investigations, and certainly does not lend itself to the setting up of an Orwellian-style general electronic surveillance system," he added.The deputy secretary general of the CoE, Christian KrËger, echoed his words: "Cybercrime and cyber-terrorism represent a serious challenge to society as a whole, and this convention provides the first coordinated and international response to this challenge."Seventeen European countries declined to sign the treaty, including Russia, Denmark, Ireland and the Czech Republic.
The Registerbrings news of a new satellite broadband service aimed at small business - perhaps useful for those out of range of ADSL, and not served by one of the cable networks.
Online computer games company Gameplay is on its last legs following the collapse of last-ditch takeover talks.Mark Strachan, Gameplay's chairman, said the group had appointed consultancy firm KPMG to advise on its solvency, and it had received no further takeover offers."The company has been in discussions regarding its future with a number of parties over the summer.  Yesterday discussions with a third party for the purchase of the company were terminated, and the company is not currently in discussions with that or any other party," he said.The only full-time employees at the group are the chief executive, Mark Bernstein, and the finance officer, Ted Bechman.Gameplay has sold most of its assets over the past year and today reported full-year revenues of just £79,000, against consolidated turnover of £44.5m at the half-year mark.Mr Strachan admitted the group could not afford to audit its subsidiaries, resulting in the disastrous revenue figures, which were accompanied by a full-year loss of £197.6m."The directors believe the costs the company would have incurred in auditing the many subsidiaries around Europe which the company no longer control, would be substantial, severely reducing the remaining shareholder funds, and would be of little benefit or interest to shareholders," he said.Gameplay has been driven into the ground by a triple whammy of slow roll-out of next-generation games consoles, excessive expansion and a credit squeeze in the wake of the collapse of the dot.com boom.The group was forced to hold a strategic review in May when the delayed launch of Sony's PlayStation 2 hit sales and strained a balance sheet already overstretched by a risky European expansion programme.According to Mr Strachan, the announcement of a review damaged Gameplay's credibility in the eyes of customers and suppliers, forcing the sale of the group's money-spinning boxed games business.The loss of a cash generating unit then forced the sale of other businesses, leaving Gameplay as a drastically reduced business.Gameplay's investors included BSkyB and high street retailers Dixons, who have written off their investments.
Attending theMacUserawards last night was entertaining, even if the awards themselves were just a little bizarre. It was worth it just to hear the famous voice-over artist from the lottery show and Cilla's Blind Date (I'm told) reading out the lists of nominations - things like the "Cinema 4D XL 7.0 from Maxon" which scooped 3-D software of the year. But I couldn't help think that the hardware of the year prize has been a little devalued since Apple stopped allowing the building of Mac clones - Apple was the only company nominated. They also won innovation of the year (Mac OSX) and technology of the year (the iDVD/Superdrive combo). Um, well done, chaps...
The government is to introduce electronic, telephone and internet voting by next year's May local elections as part of an attempt to improve voter turnout. Local councils have been asked to prepare bids to run experiments.There will also be experiments in postal voting following pilots in which they have increased turnout.The latest experiments reflect growing cross-party concern at the fall in turnout at general, local and byelections, a trend continued at yesterday's Ipswich byelection.The government hopes that the new voting methods, if they can be made secure, will fit modern working patterns and family commitments.Philip Gould, the Labour party pollster and campaign strategist, has also promised a switch of tactics. Mr Gould's remarks are an implicit acceptance that Labour's centre-led election style last year contributed to the lowest turnout since the war.Responsibility for electoral law has been transferred from the Home Office to the Department of Transport and Local Government, headed by Stephen Byers. Mr Byers has been struck by figures showing that the smaller the constituency the larger the turnout. He is not proposing another local government reorganisation to reduce the size of ward levels.Electronic voting, supported by the local government minister, Nick Raynsford, would allow local councils to re-establish the momentum for electoral reform lost due to the general election taking place at the same time as last year's local elections. This meant councils were unable to run pilots.The Local Government Information House is also trying to establish a national electronic register of other forms.The e-pilots - as many as 10 to 15 - will be selected in consultation with the electoral commission, which will also be responsible for evaluating them.Voting in byelections&#183;Leeds Central constituency parliamentary byelection,June 1999(Turnout 19.5%)&#183;Kensington and Chelsea constituency, west London, Nov 1999(29%)&#183;Ceredigion constituency, Dyfed Feb 2000,(47%)&#183;Romsey constituency, Hampshire May 2000,(55%)&#183;Tottenham constituency, north London June 2000,(25%)&#183;Falkirk West constituency, Fife Dec 2000,(36%)
The brave souls who made it to last week's Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas were met by men with guns, sniffer dogs and metal detectors. The appalling events of what Americans call 911 ("nine-eleven") overshadowed the whole affair, and many prominent companies failed to show. Nonetheless, trends did emerge. The most important ones were the move to high-speed wireless networking, and the convergence of the mobile phone and handheld computer markets, reported last week. But, as usual, the most fun was to be had trawling the halls for neat gadgets never seen before, and perhaps never to be seen again.The hit of the show was undoubtedly Handspring's Treo, a small smartphone based on the Palm operating system. Already announced but unavailable, it attracted huge crowds. Of course, this did not stop the overall Best of Show award going to Fujitsu for its very slim notebook PC, the Lifebook P.Comdex's other hits included Microsoft's Windows XP and Xbox games console. XP seemed to be everywhere, that being partly the effect of its distinctive hills-and-clouds desktop backgrounds. The Xbox was launched in the US, not at, but during the show, and the main hall foyer had a large display where visitors could try out the latest games.The biggest miss was   Linux, which has been encouraged by the show organisers and used to occupy its own hall. This year, the so-called Linux Hatchery was about the same size as the Egyptian Technology Pavilion and a lot less interesting. To save time answering what every visitor asked, the Hatchery quickly produced a two-page handout headed Where Has All The Linux Gone? One sentence would have been enough: "How can you afford Comdex if you are losing money and have no viable business plan?"The Koreans, however, looked terrific. The Korean   Pavilion of 67 small stands plus another dozen or so more substantial companies would usually have been buried in another part of town, at the Sands Conference Centre. That wasn't used, so Korea was promoted to the main convention area, where it benefited from the absence of giants such as Dell, Gateway, IBM and Sharp, and the shrunken efforts of other suppliers, such as Iomega.One thing in particular that caught my eye in the Korean Pavilion was a "universal" 10-key system suitable for mobile phones and other handheld devices. The Neopad keys don't carry letters but simple shapes: a diagonal, a dash, four half-circles etc. You can enter text in a wide variety of languages including Arabic and Chinese by entering the elements of the character you want.Other Korean efforts included Edumedia's Speaking Partner, a handheld with built-in speech recognition for language learning; wireless personal organisers from Milletech and Commuworks; SimTech's Tony Buzan-style MindMapper software; Wisebox's Voice Ville voice-control home automation system; and Aiia's Virtual Diet Consultant. This looks like a hi-tech weighing machine and is intended for health clubs. It measures your weight and body fat and   prints out meal plans and an exercise schedule.Korea's industrial giants, Samsung and LG Electronics, showed a wide range of consumer electronics and computing products. These included Samsung's neat Palm-based colour screen SPH-1300 mobile phone, which was launched in the US a month ago at $499. Unlike Handspring's Treo, however, it does not work with the Euro-global GSM system.Samsung also showed a prototype Scurry "virtual keyboard" that lets you touch-type in thin air. It is more hi-tech than the Swedish Senseboard (Online, November 15) that was given the show's Best New Technology award - or will be when it is finished. Finger movements are detected by microelectronics stashed inside rings and while these are wired at the moment, the aim is to use Bluetooth radio links in the final version, due in October 2002.Sony Corporation is also using Bluetooth in a cam corder that is now on sale in Japan, and will reach the US in three months. The Network Handycam connects to a Bluetooth adaptor up to 10m away, which means you can use the camcorder's colour LCD screen to browse the web and send or receive email. Why you would want to do this remains a mystery.But most of the wireless talk at the show was about Wi-Fi wireless Ethernet networking, commonly known by its Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) standards number, 802.11b. I found this particularly useful because, at long last, Comdex (or, to be specific, HereUare Communications Inc) provided wireless internet access via a hub in the press tent. Every home should   have one, and as the number of broadband users grows, an increasing number do.In the halls, however, many companies concentrated on a different version, 802.11a, which is just entering the US market. This is about five times faster than 802.11b, with a theoretical throughput of 54 megabits per second and a real-world speed of about half that. It also supports eight simultaneous channels where 802.11b only supports three.There are problems with 802.11a. It is incompatible with 802.11b, and it is illegal in the UK, because it uses 5GHz frequencies instead of the unlicensed 2.4GHz band used by microwave ovens, remote controlled models and 802.11b. However, you may never care, because yet another standard is on the horizon. During Comdex, the IEEE tentatively agreed a new version, 802.11g, which should achieve the same speed while staying compatible with the current standard. And that is what we want.
Call it callous. Call it tasteless. But as the UN warns that 7.5m Afghans may need humanitarian aid to survive the winter, and the US warns that further casualties can be expected in its war on terrorism, the domestic merchandising machine has gone into overdrive.Americans can sit down to Thanksgiving dinner today dressed in Enduring Freedom baseball caps, Infinite Justice underwear, even "Fuck you Bin Laden" T-shirts - and then play a round of golf with their USA golf balls. Freedom, as they say, must prevail.Still, if you want your very own piece of the war, there are plenty of places you can buy online and, if you're very lucky, have your shopping delivered by Christmas. Here's our top 10.1.US Congress flag: currently $17,500 (£12,400) on auction site eBay.com. This US flag is signed by every member of Congress, Republican and Democrat. On the plus side, payment goes directly to the Twin Towers fund: on the minus side, you're paying the best part of your disposable income for the signature of Gary Condit. But you can always raffle it along with the Christmas hamper.2.Topps Enduring Freedom cards: in the US, dial 1-888-GO TOPPS for a hobby store near you. Bored of answering young children's questions about the ethics of the campaign in Afghanistan? Shut them up with these Enduring Freedom propaganda cards, depicting colourful all-action military hardware, US leaders in dashing poses, each surrounded by a dramatic red, white and blue trim - except card number 19, which is a black and white picture of Osama bin Laden. If you can't be bothered to swap, you can always buy the whole 90-card set on eBay.22.11.2001: You've seen the war footage, now buy the cards3.United we stand t-shirt: currently $9.99 on eBay.A design classic at under 10 bucks, depicting UK and US flags crossed over each other, an American eagle, a bulldog wearing a spiky collar, two fighter planes, and the immortal slogan "shoulder to shoulder". One size fits all (XXXL): God bless the 51st state.4.We prevail t-shirt: $16.99 from BombBinLaden.org.  From a website selling Bin Laden T-shirts, stickers and banners comes this masterpiece of reductive logic. "We prevail," says a legend written over a US flag, "because we're American!" A T-shirt to wear next time the US play Iran at football, perhaps.5.Infinite Justice boxer shorts: $15.99 from cafepress.com.  Among those selling merchandise under the substituted codename "Infinite Justice" is this online store, which either went into production too early or just thought the old name was better. Besides the usual hats, caps, bags and T-shirts on offer are these 100% cotton boxer shorts: the legend advises us to support America and remember September 11, which is just the thing to relax you as you lie back and think of Uncle Sam.6. Anrm -rf /bin/laden T-shirt: $14.99 from ThinkGeek.com.For the geek in your life, a T-shirt bearing the words "rm -rf /bin/laden" - which, as our Guardian Unlimited technical guru explains, is a Unix command telling the computer to delete the file "laden" in the folder "/bin". He tells us: "There is always a folder '/bin', which is probably how it struggled into life as a joke. It's actually even lamer when explained. There are subtleties to do with the '-rf' but they are too tedious to bother explaining." Which is more than you or I need to know, except to wonder why anyone other than Mohammed Atta would have a file on their computer called Laden.7."Fuck you Bin Laden" t-shirt: $15 from Fclothes.com.Something we can all understand, even if we might not want our children to. "Get the FUCK YOU Bin Laden T-shirt!" runs the blurb. "Tell Bin Laden and the world how you feel about him and all his terrorist scumbags just like an American would! Flip him the middle finger and then drop some bombs on his head!" Not the sort of place your granny shops at.8.Enduring Freedom/B-52 key ring: $5 on eBay. The US-led coalition came under fierce press criticism when it was reported that the "proportionate, targeted" military campaign had become carpet-bombing of Taliban front lines using B-52s. Those who don't read such articles can impress their friends with this Enduring Freedom magnet and key ring, depicting a B-52 bomber superimposed on a US flag. At just 2in by 3in, it's the perfect propaganda stocking filler.9.Enduring Freedom golf ball: $4.95 on eBay. For the golfer in your family. Simulate the US military's surgical precision by whacking these eagle-embossed balls all over the course without waiting for the laggers in front to get out of the way: if you can't keep out of the bunkers, though, either your name is Dick or it's time to join the other side. Less than five bucks for a pack of three.10.Enduring Freedom Christmas decoration: $9.99 from TracyTrends. Make Christmas go with a bang this year by hanging this Enduring Freedom ornament on your tree. Printed on one side with photographs of Dubya, Donald Rumsfeld and Colin Powell (remember, exact positions of images may vary) and on the other with a raised fist and an American flag. There's one in the eye for your Christmas-fairy liberals.
Also at MacExpo today... the latest Mac version of highly addictive footie gameChampionship Managerwent on sale this afternoon.
At a time when mobile phones and digital assistants are morphing into each other in looks and performance, it is
   refreshing to welcome a new wireless device that looks like nothing else on earth (except, possibly, an unexploded
   land mine). The Pogo works well and is innovative enough to have a good chance of becoming a must-have device for
   early adopters prepared to pay the initial price of £299 plus internet provider service charges of £8 to £10 a
   month.Pogo's main attraction is full-colour mobile access to the internet at speeds five times faster than normal mobiles.
   This is made possible by its unique compression technique. It squeezes more out of existing GSM (global system for
   mobile communications) technology rather than using GPRS (general packet radio service) - though that may come
   later.The quality of the web pages is very impressive for a device of this size (it has a 3.8 inch screen). I doubt whether
   the early versions of the next third generation phones will be able to beat it. Downloading email from the web was
   also very impressive (one of the best I have come across on a mobile device). However, writing email is constrained
   by the limitations of the touch-screen keyboard.Pogo could become the only diary and contacts book you need to have because records will be kept on the web so any
   authorised person who needs to see your personal details can do so. The web versions and the Pogo versions are
   synchronised when you log on. 
   Pogo also has a built in facility for MP3 (though downloading on the move from the web is not yet on the cards).
   Curiously, the least impressive features were the ones we normally take for granted. Using the Pogo as a phone (it's
   clunky but you get used to it) and for text messaging proved a bit flaky - presumably because we were using a
   pre-production model.At 240g it weighs the same as the new Nokia 9210 - which means it is a little bit too heavy for a normal pocket. The
   9210 has the advantage of a keyboard and other features such as compatibility with Excel and Word but the Nokia is
   much more expensive at £400 and doesn't have MP3. In terms of talktime they are similar (upwards of four hours),
   though the 9210 has much better standby time.Another highly unusual feature of Pogo is that it is made in Britain (in King's Lynn) and Pogo's head office is in
   Clerkenwell, two minutes' walk from the Guardian's London office. With credentials like that we can't do anything
   else but wish it well. It deserves to succeed. 
   It will be available in the new year through an exclusive deal with Carphone Warehouse though, with luck, there may
   be news of pre-Christmas availability on their website
Civilisation IIIPC	&#163;34.99 Firaxis/Infogrames 	****As before, you begin at 4000BC, with little to start with and everything to play for. Competing against the other civilisations, your aim is to develop technologies, nurture communities and expand your empire so that, by 2050, you'll be flying to the stars. The game proceeds with each competitor making their   move consecutively. Fans of real-time strategy games will find the pace slow.However, given the complexity and attention to detail of the latter stages, the chance to weigh up options will be welcomed. None the less, initial impressions are slightly disappointing. Sure, the graphics have been tarted up a bit, but little else seems to have changed.However, start playing and the improvements become apparent. Culture, rather than brute force, is now important for expanding and developing your civilisations - build a library and university and you'll be annexing Philistine backwaters in no time. Elsewhere, combat-enhancing   unique units, national borders and a living map have been added, while the menu system has been streamlined. Unfortunately the style of Civ 3 means the same elements that appeal to the fans will put others off. For example, the extensive micro-management necessary in even the early stages can be overwhelming while those with slower PCs will face delays as opponents make their move.And disappointingly, there is no multiplayer included. Despite this Civilisation 3, with its subtle improvements, is a worthy update.  (GH)Harry Potter and the Philosopher's StonePlayStation	&#163;29.99 Argonaut/EA 	****It seems churlish to criticise something for doing exactly what it says on the box, but Harry Potter the game, like Harry Potter the movie, will divide fans as to how many risks you should take with a famous franchise. While this is easily the best-looking PS1 game of the year, it covers too much ground too lightly to be called a classic. One gamble that does pay    off is in choosing the type of game it wants to be: a full-blown arcade adventure in the style of Nintendo's classic Zelda rather than the platformer most were expecting.Credit is also due for cramming in most of the expected    characters and locations; from Draco Malfoy to Diagon Alley: if it is in the book, it is in the game. Once your wizard training is complete, the story pulls you along at a fair pace from one quest to another - solving puzzles    and performing spells. This stop-start approach works well, ensuring that the pace is never lost in hours of mindless blasting. Certain skills, however (operating your broomstick or a game of Quidditch) take ages to mas  ter and act as mini-games in their own right.  On the downside, many of the levels are painfully short, as if the PS1's limited memory could not cope with any more detail, and made even shorter by the fact that your   hero runs and jumps automatically. The task of cramming in so much story has limited much of the character interaction to mere cameos, and the tasks available quickly become repetitive.In a nutshell, Harry Potter is nowhere on the scale of Zelda. Indeed, if there's more than a few days' worth of enjoyment in here I'll eat my Nimbus 2000. However, it is a good story well told with just enough gameplay to consistently challenge a younger audience. Given the terrible quality of most big-name licences, EA should be applauded for getting this out on time and with such attention to detail. Undoubtedly, they will be rewarded with a massive Christmas hit. (MA)
At MacExpo in London today... the launch of the newiPod, the dinky little portable music machine from Apple. Apple's cool all-white photographs don't do the device justice: in the flesh, it's even dinkier than expected - we'll have a review in Online very soon...
A Pulitzer Prize-winning American writer has claimed to have completed the first short story written entirely online.Robert Olen Butler exposed himself to the scrutiny of three real-time webcams, the main one on his computer screen, one closely trained on the artist at work, and a longer shot of his office.He finished the 4,800-word story, This is Earl Sandt, this week, and during its 20 days of creation, internet viewers were able to watch from "keystroke to keystroke".Butler said the project offered students and aspiring writers the opportunity to share in the "moment-to-moment act of personal intimacy formerly found only behind the veil of private life" that is required to create literary fiction.The project was under the auspices of Florida State University, where Butler is an English professor and teaches creative writing. Each day's writing session is archived on the university's website, so those who missed the live event can still experience the project.Butler began last month by plucking out a random vintage postcard from his collection of hundreds, and using it as a starting point. He argued this would not give him any time to prepare offline.The chosen postcard was a 1913 photograph of a biplane with a torn wing, and the back had handwriting saying, "This is Earl Sandt in his aeroplane ... just before it fell."He joked that one reason for going online was shameless self-promotion, but added more seriously, "It was a way of teaching the subject that has never been tried before."Butler said he had always tried to grapple with the unique problems of teaching creative writing - which he has done for 13 years - with new approaches.He said: "A dancer can watch her mentor move in a rehearsal studio. And a painter can watch their mentor at work, over their shoulder. But what can a writer do?"Butler said he was very happy with the resulting story, and that he was enchanted with the global intimacy of the internet.He said that the project, Inside Creative Writing, had elicited a great response. "Every day that I was writing it, in the last 30 minutes people could email me and ask questions and get involved."He said the internet was still relatively primitive, but that the essentials were there to suggest the imminence of a whole new art form. This, he said, was the case because, "For the first time, the intimate flow of an individual human existence - in all its private  particularity - is accessible to other individuals all over the planet."Butler claims that this is the first time a writer has composed his work on the internet. "It's a bit like that wonderful Monty Python sketch where Thomas Hardy is starting his new novel and it's been commentated on like it's a football match."He has published 11 books, including novels, and won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction for his collection of short stories, A Good Scent from the Mountain, in 1993.Last year, British writer Will Self wrote a novella in public in an art gallery in London, with the words appearing on a screen behind him, with noteworthy observers finding themselves evoked in the text.
The Wall Street Journalreports(subscription) today that a Beijing based start-up has developed a technology that does "everything that the current approved 3G standards do but a fraction of the cost to mobile operators". It promises six times more capacity for voice or data calls using the same amount of spectrum. The company has already pulled in $27m in venture funding from the usual suspects. Sounds familiar? Check out Clerkenwell's own Pogo launched this week and reported in today'sOnline. What Clerkenwell does today . . .
Apple kicked off the London MacExpo this morning with the UK launch of its new digital music player, the iPod.The new device can hold up to 1,000 songs stored in the MP3 format, and download them all from a suitably equipped Mac in seconds, yet is around the same size and weight as a pack of playing cards. It goes on sale today, both at the Business Design Centre in Islington, venue for the MacExpo, and at retailers around the UK and Ireland.The UK unveiling was certainly a fitting start to a show which will also featured the first playing of the newly Apple Mac-remastered Queen classic, Bohemian Rhapsody. Apple is drawing on its traditional roots in the creative businesses to push hard into the emerging area of digital entertainment, set to explode next year as record companies finally start putting their catalogues online.The new device reflects a lot about what Apple is trying to achieve these days. Some of those things are superficial: Apple's long-term commitment to eye-catching industrial design is reflected in the iPod's snow-white front, circular controls and  mirror-metal back.But its very existence also tells us a lot about what Apple is up to. The iPod, designed to work seamlessly with Macs using their now-universal, superfast FireWire port, is intended to be a perk for Mac users - albeit a perk they have to pay £349 for, on top of whatever they have paid for their laptop or desktop computer.IPod, along with the revised iTunes music software available free to Mac users, makes it very, very easy to take your digitised music on the road - you literally just plug in the iPod, and songs and playlists are transferred automatically. Each time you plug iPod in to its host computer to charge up, it will transfer any new songs that have arrived since last time.The number of songs the iPod can hold, along with its design and ease of use, are substantial improvements on what has been in this young market so far. The idea is that Apple users get what Steve Jobs has called in the past "an unfair advantage" - something the Windows world can't have.Apple will not reveal how many devices have already been sold or pre-ordered, although their targets are very modest indeed: they said today the company would "be very happy" with just a 5% share of the worldwide MP3 player market. That's a small share of a very small market, although it would mirror their slice of the PC market. But Apple hopes its sexy new gadget will persuade a lot more Mac users to join in - and maybe even cause a few people to buy a Mac so they can own an iPod.And this could be iPod's most important purpose. For, no matter how cool Apple makes its computers and associated devices, it still has to answer one, simple, age-old question from computer shoppers, both first time and those upgrading: why would anyone buy a Mac, when the rest of the world - or at least 95% of it - is running on Windows?After all, PC users enjoy a far wider array of software and peripherals, and do not have to rely on one company to come up with new hardware. And Windows XP is substantially more user-friendly than its PC ancestors, while the hardware it runs on is often much cheaper.Gadgets like iPod, and software like iTunes, help answer those questions, by bringing the argument of which is best - PC or Mac - on to Apple's home ground: multimedia. The message is that, for many popular office and internet applications, Apple Macs pretty much match their PC counterparts (but let's not talk about games, or bleeding edge internet applications).For things like plug and play digital music and video - those areas Apple is so keen to push as The Future - Mac is best. Time, and sales figures, will tell.
Morepositive reactionto Microsoft's new Office suite for Mac OS X - but I'd love to know what Apple makes of the proposedantitrust dealbetween litigants and Microsoft which could boost the Windows share in schools, which Icommentedon for Guardian Unlimited...
The internet has been getting some bad publicity recently because of its presumed role in helping terrorists perpetrate the September 11 atrocities. In addition to using the internet to communicate, the shadowy network of terrorists supposedly hid encoded information in image and music files. The message is that the internet is complicit in the planning and execution of evil crimes. The implication is that the internet itself is evil - even more than mobile phones, which the terrorists almost   certainly also used.In an attempt to shore up the fight against terrorism, some commentators have called for internet "licenses", for controls on cybercaf&#233;s, and for state control of internet service providers (ISPs) and mobile phone operators.Much of the commentary has focused on the use of encryption technologies, but this is a red herring. There has been no reported evidence that the terrorists actually used encryption. Moreover, the use of encryption is still relatively rare. Fewer than 1% of the billions of emails sent around the world each day are encrypted.I have the popular email encryption program PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) installed on my Apple Powerbook, and it works splendidly with Microsoft Entourage, my email client. Nevertheless, nearly all of the mail I receive and send is unencrypted. I only send encrypted mail at work when it includes client or company confidential material.That is not because I am worried about hackers or business rivals, but because I sometimes send email to the   wrong person (this has happened twice in the last month). That way, if I accidentally send an encrypted email intended for John Elliot at Consult Hyperion to John Elliot at Hitachi Europe, no confidential information will be leaked.If I started sending lots of email to osama@alqaeda.net, then the forces of law and order would be interested in me, whether or not they could read my messages. The fact that it would take all of the computers in existence a billion years (or whatever) to crack the codes and read my encrypted messages would be irrelevant. When the FBI wanted to read the PGP-encrypted email of a suspected mobster in the US, they simply broke in to his office under an appropriate warrant and installed a keyboard sniffer in his PC. The   next time he typed in his pass phrase, they obtained it and read all his mail.So is the internet a boon to criminals and terrorists everywhere? Surely what is sauce for the terrorist goose is sauce for the police gander, so to speak. Just as the internet offers new opportunities for communication among terrorists, so it represents a major step forward for law enforcement. The ability to instantly and inexpensively link law enforcement agencies around the world provides a mechanism for enhanced law enforcement. Used effectively, it outweighs any advantages accorded to terrorists.Having spent the past couple of weeks in the US, it is interesting to note that press reports give the impression that a major factor in the ongoing failure to detect or avert terrorist incidents is the fragmentation and poor communication among various law enforcement agencies. Here is just one example. Some of the Middle Eastern terrorists who were under investigation and were being pursued by US authorities prior to September 11 were, in   fact, already living in the US and using credit cards on a regular basis. A simple internet link between the law enforcement agencies and the banks would have easily found them. Similarly, a link to airlines would have prevented several of the terrorists from boarding aeroplanes on September 11.Given the existence of a global communications network that could easily and cheaply link all law enforcement systems, poor communications is a poor excuse. If law enforcement authorities aren't communicating with one another because they are worried about security, they can always download PGP.Yet another example. A large tool in the war against terrorism is the ability to track, trace and seize terrorist funds. Here the internet could make an immediate differ ence. Just look at how Suspicious Transaction Reports (STRs) are processed. Large US banks typically file STRs on magnetic tape because the Internal Revenue Service can't accept online filings. Smaller banks fill out paper forms (these account for half of the 150,000 STRs filed every year in the US) that are transcribed by hand on to magnetic tape and then submitted to the IRS. Why isn't all of this done using web-based forms and digital signatures, using standards such as SSLv3 that have been around for ages?Newspaper articles railing against the terrorists' supposedly sophisticated use of the internet, encryption technology and hidden messages in digital pictures are not the way forward. Nor are calls for physical and virtual digital passports. Persuading the government, security services and law enforcement agencies to make use of the internet effectively is the way ahead. Trying to control the internet is pointless - trying to use it is a better idea.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
CD warThe Campaign for Digital Rights is compiling a list of CDs that are "known bad" in the sense that they cannot be copied for personal use, or can't be played in computing devices such as PCs and games consoles. The CDR is concentrating on UK releases, but you should also pay Fat Chuck a visit. He is tracking American and worldwide releases of so-called "corrupt CDs".http://uk.eurorights.org/issues/cd/badhttp://fatchucks.com/corruptcds/index.htmlE-liftIn the US, an "elevator statement" is the nugget of an idea that you can get across to a venture capitalist between one or more floors when you happen to corner her in a lift. In the DTI's Elevator Competition, launched with a link on its Beyond Bricks site, would-be internet entrepreneurs are offered 10 minutes. However, they have to start with a 250-word summary to get into a regional heat, then hope to reach the final next June - by which time three other people will have tried the same idea and failed. Beyond Bricks is part of the DTI's &#163;5.5m Internet Mentoring Initiative to encourage the   growth of e-businesses.www.beyondbricks.com/softlaunch/events/elevator.htmlentries@beyondbricks.comAdded newsAlltheweb is a search engine with most of the right ingredients but somehow it has never taken off. Now it has been redesigned again, and it has a new feature: news. It will find things that it only indexed a few minutes or hours ago. Unfortunately it is still not in the same league as Google, and is unlikely to replace Rocket News or Ixquick for those extra searches. But a better logo and a brighter look would help a bit.www.alltheweb.comwww.google.comwww.rocketnews.comwww.ixquick.comLast wordsNow you can send someone an email that won't be delivered until you are dead. Things Unsaid lets you store up to two megabytes of messages for dispatch later - love letters, insults, secrets of your Swiss bank accounts, and so on. How will they know you have gone beyond? Obviously, when you stop paying for the service, which costs a minimum of $29.95 a year, and ignore three days of email reminders. This may be   a service for people with great faith in their bank. However, it can also be used to delay messages until a certain date, and you can simply delete your messages if you want to quit.www.thingsunsaid.comEuroschoolEuropean teachers now have their own portal on the web in eSchoolnet, which is supported by the European Commission. As well as providing access to online training and other resources, the site aims to encourage international collaborative teaching projects, starting with a "pen pal corner".www.eschoolnet.orgNew musicCMN Tours - the initials stand for Contemporary Music Network - is celebrating its first 30 years with a month's "radio broadcasting" over the net, a CD, and a 100-page book. The organisation was established by the Arts Council to take new music to audiences around the UK.www.unknownpublicradio.comGot .Net?Millions of developers have written programs for Windows using Microsoft tools such as Visual Basic. Hardly any have ever tried   to create a web-based XML service for what Microsoft sees as the next generation of distributed systems, called .Net, but anyone can have a go. The GotDotNet website provides a readable guide to what is involved, plus a $400,000 competition, and you don't have to buy or use any Microsoft technology to enter.www.gotdotnet.com/WscontestZappedTwo weeks ago I suggested moving from Safeweb, my anonymiser of choice, to IDzap, because Safeweb's performance had plummeted. It turns out that Safeweb's service provider had gone bankrupt and the traffic was going through its reserve system. Safeweb's free service has now been suspended. There's also Net Hush, which has just been sold as item 1662695225 on eBay.www.safeweb.comwww.idzap.comwww.nethush.comNew &amp; noted&#183;Robbie the Reindeer is ready to help with your Christmas shopping:www.beeb.com/promotions/robbie.jhtml&#183;The OUP is putting its reference books on the web, for a fee:www.oxfordreference.com&#183;A non-profit arts organisation that commissions site specific and temporary works:www.locusplus.org.uk&#183;Los Angeles alternative art magazine:www.picklebird.com&#183;A clip joint with voting:www.Eatmail5000.com&#183;How e-boring are you? Find out at:www.e-consultancy.com/ebore&#183;A blog that may surprise some Trekkies:www.wilwheaton.netSix of the bestPottermaniaOfficial film sitewww.harrypotter.comMugglenetwww.mugglenet.comUnofficial fan clubwww.harrypotterfans.netDaily Prophetwww.dprophet.comPotter Lexiconwww.i2k.com/~svderark/lexiconHP gallerieswww.hpgalleries.com
At a time when mobile phones and digital assistants are morphing into each other in looks and performance, it is refreshing to welcome a new wireless device that looks like nothing else on earth (except, possibly, an unexploded land mine). The Pogo works well and is innovative enough to have a good chance of becoming a must-have device for early adopters prepared to pay the initial price of &#163;299 plus internet provider service charges of &#163;8 to &#163;10 a month.Pogo's main attraction is full-colour mobile access to the internet at speeds five times faster than normal mobiles. This is made possible by its unique compression technique. It squeezes more out of existing GSM (global system for mobile communications) technology rather than using GPRS (general   packet radio service) - though that may come later.The quality of the web pages is very impressive for a device of this size (it has a 3.8 inch screen). I doubt whether the early versions of the next third generation phones will be able to beat it. Downloading email from the web was also very impressive (one of the best I have come across on a mobile device). However, writing email is constrained by the limitations of the touch-screen keyboard.Pogo could become the only diary and contacts book you need to have because records will be kept on the web so any authorised person   who needs to see your personal details can do so. The web versions and the Pogo versions are synchronised when you log on.Pogo also has a built in facility for MP3 (though downloading on the move from the web is not yet on the cards). Curiously, the least impressive features were the ones we normally take for granted. Using the Pogo as a phone (it's clunky but you get used to it) and for text messaging proved a bit flaky - presumably because we were using a pre-production model.At 240g it weighs the same as the new Nokia 9210 - which means it is a little bit too heavy for a normal pocket. The 9210 has the advantage of   a keyboard and other features such as compatibility with Excel and Word but the Nokia is much more expensive at &#163;400 and doesn't have MP3. In terms of talktime they are similar (upwards of four hours), though the 9210 has much better standby time.Another highly unusual feature of Pogo is that it is made in Britain (in King's Lynn) and Pogo's head office is in Clerkenwell, two minutes' walk from the Guardian's London office. With credentials like that we can't do anything else but wish it well. It deserves to succeed.It will be available in the new year through an exclusive deal with Carphone Warehouse though, with luck, there may be news of pre-Christmas availability on their website. Post early for Pogo.www.pogo-tech.com
Being an Apple Mac user can be a lonely business. Round the watercooler at work, talk of the latest and greatest PC     games probably passes you by - they always arrive a little later for Mac users, if at all.Down the pub, earnest     discussions about the speediest makes of processor probably turn you off - you've only one choice of chip, and one     choice of manufacturer (and having picked a Mac in the first place, you probably aren't interested in all this     mumbo-jumbo anyway).Talk of right and left-clicking bemuses you, and wandering round Dixons is pretty unfulfilling     too - Mac users have their own places of retail worship, most of them in warehouses accessed by catalogue, or     Apple's own website atwww.apple.com/uk. But then there are compensations.Mac fans descending on the Business     Design Centre in London over the next few days will get to ogle at easily the coolest looking hardware in all the     computing universe - a shiny new Titanium PowerBook easily wins any train carriage laptop bragathon, both in looks     and power. Macolytes know they can ram the point home by sticking the visually striking new OS X operating system,     or the swirly psychedelic patterns of iTunes, on its broad screen. Even techies can be wowed by the complexity of     the Unix heart beating under OS X's candy-coloured facade, although most Mac users never want to delve that deep.And, of course, on the web any lonely Mac fan can find a vast community of other computer users who have chosen     to confine themselves to this little pocket of the computing universe, and "Think Different", to quote the company's     advertising slogan. Online, the Windows world can be forgotten, and Apple lovers can indulge in their cult-like     obsession with what lies next up the sleeves of polo neck-wearing founder Steve Jobs.My favourite haunt isAs The Apple Turns, a weblog-style site that has faithfully followed the daily shifts in the Mac     culture since 1997, pausing only earlier this year when its author got married, and went on honeymoon. AtAt does a     pretty good job of sifting through the masses of Apple gossip that circulates - particularly ahead of the biannual     MacExpos in the US - spotting which stories are likely to come good (a new iBook earlier this year) and which are red     herrings (like the persistent rumours, complete with "photographs", of a new Palm-style handheld earlier in the     autumn; Apple eventually announced its iPod MP3 player).Another good source of gossip, and well-sourced sneak     previews of new applications, isThinkSecretwhich, like many Apple sites, takes its design     cues from Apple's sleek new OS X interface. As well as the news, there is even a virtual water cooler for you to     gather round with fellow Mac-heads.Covering similar stuff, but with a post-then-comment system just like the     famous Slashdot, isMacSlash. And, if those sites are all a little too much, Dan Hughes has     been running a Macintosh weblog atwww.webintosh.netsince mid-October with some success.Similarly,MyApple   Menuispenses with the bells, whistles and discussion, and gives you lots of news and     links, condensed into a minimalist webpage. But when you want more than news - help with a problem, for instance -     where can you turn?Well, there's a strong Mac community in the UK as well. The Mac EvangeList, a long-running and     incredibly popular Mac mailing list based in the US, has just grown aUK-only offshoot. As the name suggests, EvangeList provides useful ammunition, and     practical advice, for those who use Macs at work, where they maybe have to sell the merits of their favourite     computers versus those of Windows PCs.There's another mailing list community for UK Mac users to which you can     subscribe atwww.lowendmac.com/lists/mac-uk.shtml. Even more specialised, if you look after Macs in an educational     establishment - and education is one of Apple's strongholds - the Mac supporters mailing list athttp://macsupporters.gold.ac.ukcould be the place for you.Again, the list is strong in dealing with technical issues, and     there are also resources for those looking for cheap secondhand Mac kit. And those users living in the south-east     can benefit from actually meeting fellow Mac users in the flesh. TheLondon Mac User Groupmeets in a pub in central London each month, alongside various other events and a newsletter. Finally, no roundup of     Mac fans' websites would be complete without mention of the Greatest Living Mac Fan, Steve Wozniak. For those not     steeped in the history of the colourful machine perched on their desk, Wozniak - the Woz, to all - was the brains     behind the first Applecomputer. Woz isn't with Apple anymore, and now enjoys the life of an eccentric millionaire in     California.But, despite clashes with his co-founder Steve Jobs, he still maintains a personal site largely devoted to     the company his talents helped create, atwww.woz.org.
A team of Chinese businessmen sit down to negotiate an important deal with foreign clients: within five minutes, all     their mobiles are ringing and negotiations are disrupted as they insist on taking their calls. An aeroplane lands at     Shanghai's Pudong airport: as the wheels touch the tarmac, half a dozen mobiles start ringing and there are loud     shouts of "Wei! wei!" (hallo).A man on a bicycle rides through the Old City, steering past the sightseers with one     hand. The other clutches a mobile into which he is shouting furiously. A slow train stops in the mountains of     southern Jiangxi. The station has a foul-smelling toilet, an open sink with a tap and no public phone box. But there is     excellent mobile reception: a call from abroad sounds as if it is being made from next door. China, in case anyone     has not noticed, is mobile mad.There is some dispute as to the exact state of penetration of the potential market. In August the Chinese Ministry of Industry Information claimed that China now surpasses the US in terms of mobile     subscribers with a total of 120.6m. Last month a new survey by Wireless World Forum put the figure rather lower at     97.3m but forecast that this will rise to 111m by the end of the year. This still represents year-on-year growth of     some 42m users, suggesting a phenomenal pace of expansion which, if maintained, should bring China up to the US     total some time next year.The forum says the market is far from saturated: at present it only reaches 9% of the     population, compared to 50-70% across most of western Europe. China's GDP is growing at one of the highest rates     in the world, it points out. Another favourable factor is the high proportion of young people (25% are 14 or under -     more than 300m in all) who are the mobile consumers of the future."Emerging Asian economies have traditionally     shown high level of interest in 'status' goods which indicate a degree of wealth," the forum concludes.Anyone who     has walked the shopping malls of Seoul, Manila or Kuala Lumpur will know what this means. Young Chinese are also     beginning to latch on to the extra mobile services. Last year the average for text messages was less than one per     user per month. This year, the biggest operator, China Mobile, expects its subscribers to send 10bn.In the new     shopping malls of Shanghai and the smaller malls in provincial cities, mobiles have become a fashion accessory.     Handset colour changes are as popular as in Hong Kong, and the youth-focused advertising is almost     indistinguishable.In the 1990s mobiles were associated with business entrepreneurs - usually those at the shady end     of the scale. Now a mobile number is regarded as a necessity by everyone from university professors to taxi     drivers. Some analysts claim that China is capable of 50% penetration, which means (at China's current population)     some 650m individual subscribers. This is probably unrealistic for several decades, since there is a significant     difference between urban and rural income levels - and two-thirds of all Chinese still live or work on the land.Mobiles     are not uncommon in the countryside and many of China's millions of migrant workers buy mobiles so they can call     home to their villages. However, a more conservative calculation would set the 111m current mobile subscribers     against the urban population of 455m, and would factor in the large number of laid-off workers and urban poor who     still find two yuan (20p) for a bus ride too expensive. The potential numbers still make the market extremely     attractive.BDA China, the Beijing-based telecomms consultancy, predicts a total of 370m mobile users by 2005. It     is the same sort of figure, points out managing director Duncan Clark, as the oneprojected by Procter &amp; Gamble for     potential users of consumer goods. "We should not underestimate the propensity of the Chinese - already abundantly     shown in Hong Kong and Taiwan - to consume communications," argues Clark.He cites an enterprising new company in     inland Shanxi province run by former state employees that is targeting farmers with an attractive package: free     handset and no charges for two years. Graham Brown of Wireless World Forum points to the lack of fixed line     deployment as a strong factor for growth.Only one in five Chinese has access to a land line connection. There is a     high take-up of pre-pay facilities, which overcomes difficulties of account payment in a country where most     purchases are still settled in cash. The forum says that by the end of this year, pre-pay will represent 50% of all     subscribers.The 70m subscribers to paging services also constitute a huge pool of customers who may be     persuaded to shift to mobiles. The two big providers, China Mobile and China Unicom, are facing a new challenge from     China Telecom, which offers a cheaper PAS service based on short distance signals in urban areas. Intriguingly, all     three competitors emerged from last year's state carve-up of China Telecom in its previous role as national     monopoly.The big two are experimenting with a variety of cheaper products to attract those deterred by high     connection fees and call charges. China Mobile has abolished the connection fee in cities in some poorer regions of     west or north China. Service provision remains centrally controlled by Beijing, and high quotas and duties have     forced foreign electronics manufacturers to establish a local production base. This will change with China's     accession to the WTO which was formalised 10 days ago at the Doha meeting.Foreign part-ownership of mobile     services will be permitted up to 49% by the year 2005. Similar entry will be allowed to paging and other value-added     services: domestic and international fixed line services will only be liberated to the same extent by the year 2008.     The deregulation scheme is a complicated one that allows foreign interests to penetrate the telecommunications     industry not only step by step but almost province by province.In what might be a new version of the old "treaty     port" system, Beijing, Guangzhou and Shanghai will open first, to be joined in 2003 by 14 other cities before all     geographical restrictions are lifted in 2005. What this means in practice is not yet clear. Clark of BDA China points     out that the timetable for foreign part-ownership is only one part of the equation."We don't yet know how the rules     on foreign investment will be applied. Even more important, we don't know whether new companies will be allowed to     compete with the existing state-owned ones."Yet China would be well advised to prepare for a serious challenge     from abroad as the WTO momentum grows."The main issue," says Clark, "is whether and how China can nurture a     private sector before the foreigners get in." The mobile war will become even more intense. The handset has     replaced matches, kerosene, cigarettes and cotton goods, with which 19th-century western imperialism sought to     conquer the Chinese market. Now China is seen as an even bigger prize. In the words of PY Lai, the president of     Motorola China, "winning China is winning the world".
Snail mail"In the real world, you have witnesses, forensics, DNA profiling and fingerprints," says the National     Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS) spokesperson. "In the digital world, all you've got is data. If that data is being     erased as it's created, you haven't got any equivalent of forensics. Our position is that law enforcement must be     provided with a reasonable minimum." (The net's eyes are watching, Online, November 15).In the real world, I can     post a (hand-written) letter and the recipient can burn/shred it. Will Consignia be required to keep records of every     item it handles - which postbox it was mailed in; CCTV footage of it being mailed; recorded delivery (for which we pay     extra!) ...and, since this alone will not provide evidence of the contents, will every letter be opened and photocopied?     Does this explain why US mail is so painfully slow?David LewinJ.D.Lewin@RL.AC.UKSleep soundThe BBC's     Crimewatch televi sion programme recently asked for people who had received an email from a particular source to     telephone them or the police, saying there was no way to trace the sender of messages from this source. You report     that the new anti-terrorism bill could enable the home secretary to force internet service providers to keep     information on their customers for a year. I shall sleep more soundly with the knowledge that the government is     doing so much to keep me safe.P Mooneypmooney@uklinux.netWhat odds?Attention David Hambling: Are you     serious? Take my advice and stick to journalism. The chances of the two remaining doors being correct remain equal.     They can not be influenced by your initial choice. Both door's probability of being correct improve when the third is     shown to be wrong.Colin HarrisAttention David Hambling: my apologies. Dawned on me you had made the assumption     that the compere knew which door concealed the treasure, in which case your odds would be correct. I assumed he     did not know, in which case my odds would be correct. Your assumption makes for much better viewing. I shall stick     to my day job.Colin Harrischems@safetyconsult.demon.co.ukDouble oddsCancel the email I sent the other day     (Three doors and a prize)! I was wrong, wrong and wrong again. Marilyn Vos Savant is right after all! I wrote a little     computer program that dashed off 10,000 totally unbiased plays of the Monty Hall game and very adequately proved     her correctness. One problem was that the explanation of Vos Savant's result given by David Hambling is not clear,     at least to me!I prefer this one. With three doors, the location of the prize and the possible choice of door yields     nine possibilities, only two of which are logically different, ie, three correct guesses and nine incorrect guesses. The     rules for Monty's door opening are such that if the user then switches choice of door, an incorrect guess will     become correct and vice-versa. A switch therefore results either in six correct guesses out of nine or three     incorrect guesses out of nine. Hence the chance of winning has doubled from one in three to two in three.John     Scanlonjohn.scanlon@care4free.netDreamersIn his article,A dream dies(Online, November 8), Guy Kewney claims     that "nobody in ICL tried to penetrate the American market". I did, selling an ICL 2903, value about £20,000, and     another in Montreal, to a subsidiary of ITT in 1974. Nor were they the only ICL machines in North America at that     time.Richard Sarsonsarson@blueyonder.co.ukThe UN's GatesVictor Keegan misses his own point about Microsoft's     monopoly (Second Sight, November 8). Legislation is quite good at stopping monopolies forming, as in his rum     example. However, it seems helpless when one has not only formed but spread its malign tentacles over the whole     planet. Microsoft should be regulated on a multi-national basis, that is, by the United Nations, in order to regulate     policy. While keeping the code secret is sad but probably inevitable, the UN regulator could put a stop to not just     anti-competitive practice but ensure that old code is kept up to date and available.For many of us, because of     essential legacy code, what we want is a debugged NT4 with added support for USB and Firewire. By changing the     drivers, Microsoft has sabotaged some mission-critical soft ware that the original authors are not able to support.Ken Baldryken@art-science.comThin airSenseboard's Virtual Keyboard (High climbers in Las Vegas, November 16)     made me think of a possibly more popular application - an air guitar that actually plays!Phil Coughlinphil.coughlin@lr.org
Nokia claims it is taking mobile phone messaging into a new era with a phone unveiled in Barcelona earlier this week.Due for launch in late spring 2002, the 7650 is the company's first model to offer multimedia messaging. This enhanced version of SMS lets users send text, audio or images to other suitably equipped phones, or to PCs via email.Low resolution (176x208 pixel) images are created by the phone's built-in digital camera and then displayed on its large colour screen. They can be sent over the GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) mobile phone network with most images taking less than 30 seconds to reach their destination. Nokia estimates they will cost around 60p each per image to send.Images that are sent to non-multimedia messaging phones are stored on a server for the recipient to access at a later date via their PC. The phone can store at least 40 images.Jorma Ollila, Nokia's chairman and chief executive, described the phone and its multimedia messaging system as the start of the shift in mobiles from "hear what I say" to "see what I mean" devices. Nokia promises that half of next year's phones will also have multimedia messaging facilities, and that the feature will be standard across its range by mid 2003.The phone, which uses the Symbian operating system and features Mobile Information Device Profile Java support, also features voice dialling facilities, Bluetooth wireless connectivity and a selection of games. It is expected to retail   for &#163;300-&#163;350.Nokia also unveiled a new phone targeted at the business market. The 6510, which will go on sale early next year for around &#163;200, is smaller and lighter than many previous Nokia models. It is GPRS compatible, features voice dialling and command, and a built-in FM radio.Completing the range is the 5210 - a small mobile that Nokia hopes will appeal to people with an active lifestyle. It features a durable shell to protect the phone against dust and water   splashes and comes with a built-in stopwatch, thermometer and a Wap (wireless application protocol) browser. Nokia hopes it will reach the market early next year for around &#163;200.The company also underlined its commitment to the Bluetooth format with a wireless headset, an in-car kit and a PC card. All three should appear early next year.
What computer do you use?A G4 Powerbook while on tour to finish my studio work, as well as the business side of running my record labelm-nus. I also carry mySony Vaio Z505for the Final Scratch DJ system. I have been carting a laptop around with me since they were as big as kitchen sinks to stay on top of the less glamorous side of DJ-ing_ie, business. I was introduced toCommodore PET'sandCBM'sat my grade school in the early 80s. After getting my ownCommodore Vic 20and getting way too involved with the 80s video game craze, my electronic assimilation was complete.How does Final Scratch work?It is a software system that enables full "analogue" control over digital files. With theFS system, the music you are hearing is coming from the computer as a digital MP3 file, but allows the user to scratch, cue and mix the music file by way of a special FS record on a regular turntable. The computer then uses your physical movements to change the digital file. It is a bridge between the analogue and digital worlds.Do you take samples from the net?All the pioneers of sampling technology - like the Art Of Noise or early rappers - took "found" sounds of records, birds, construction equipment, and turned those sounds into music. Listening in to the net and using that for a new composition could become extremely exciting.Favourite sites?www.harmony-central.comfor new music technology news, http://slashdot.org for general tech news and http://maccentral.macworld.com for Apple news.www.ableton.comis home to a new piece of electronic music software specialised for live performance, which is definitely the most groundbreaking piece of software I've seen for the past decade!Favourite gadgets?I'd like a small contact personal communication device that is worldwide and not tied to any one telecom territory. Something likeBluetooththat doesn't need to be picked up, or answered per se, but is fluid and integrates to us more easily. A Final Scratch unit the size of the newiPodwould be great!Microsoft: saint, sinner or indifferent?Indifferent. I was originally a PC guy who only used Microsoft and ran my whole business on that platform - as well as my studio. I then went the other way, becoming an Apple fanatic, but I have since found a balance and use both platforms now. Also, Final Scratch usesBeOSand we have had audio and net servers runningLinuxandFreeBSD. There is a staggering amount of shareware for electronic music on the Windows platform: this is a good thing for the creative world!Visit:www.plastikman.comDE9: Closer To The Edit is out now on Novamute
On Guardian Unlimited today and tomorrow you can catch up with the latest developments at the MacExpo in London, including the official launch of Apple's new iPod MP3 player and the MacUser awards ceremony tonight.The updates - as well as the latest technology and internet news - will appear atwww.guardian.co.uk/netnews.And today Online is also launching a new service for readers: our own weblog. Onlineblog.com will offer daily updates on the issues Online covers every week - from the latest websites, gadgets and games to the big debates on such issues as online privacy, e-commerce and science.Every day the Online team will highlight the latest tech news from Guardian Unlimited, and pick out the most interesting links from around the world wide web.You will also have the chance to comment on the weblog entries - and tip us off about interesting things you have found on your own travels around the net.Seewww.onlineblog.com
Hanging PCMy computer frequently "hangs", forcing me to reboot. I have just increased the memory from 128MB to     384MB and the system worked so well the first day I thought I had it sorted out. But yesterday it "hung" frequently,     and when working in Word, I got the message that there was insufficient memory to go on working with the file, so I     had no option but to save it and close Word.Javier Vidaljavisol46@hotmail.comJack Schofield replies:It would take     a book to describe all the reasons Windows can "hang". But the main causes are: running out of resources, low-level     applications such as virus checkers, bugs in graphics drivers, and physical problems such as loose chips, cards and     plugs inside the case. The worst problems are usually hardware problems. You can keep track of resources using the     Resource Meter in Start|Programs| Accessories|System Tools. Performance starts to deteriorate when you have     less than 30% free.This can happen quickly if you open a lot of Internet Explorer windows. You can get resources     back by closing down all applications but it may be simpler to reboot. Installing more memory helps in many ways, but     does not provide more resources. To deal with the low-level programs, start by removing all of them, especially the     ones that appear in the System Tray next to the clock. Go to Start|Run, type msconfig in the box and click OK. Go to     the far right tab, Startup, and untick anything that is not essential. You must keep ScanRegistry and System Tray.     Restart your computer for the new settings to take effect. If any programs remain in the Systray, right-click or run     them to find out how they can be turned off. Ones you really want can be re-added later, one at a time. You can also     try running the System File Checker (type sfc in the Run box) and the registry cleaner, RegClean (seewww.createwindow.com/wininfo/regclean.htm).If your PC still hangs, press Ctrl-Alt-Del from time to time to bring     up the Task List to check which programs are running. The problem may be a background program that has been     loaded later, eg to read an Adobe Acrobat file in Internet Explorer. If your PC still hangs, try upgrading to the latest     graphics driver available from the supplier's website; or if that doesn't work, switch to 800 by 600 graphics in 256     colours using the graphics driver in Windows. If your PC still hangs, there are three last ditch options: (a) re-install     Windows over the top of your current installation. This will keep your data and settings but may not fix the problem;     (b) back-up and reformat your hard drive then reinstall Windows from scratch; (c) upgrade to Windows XP.Up to XPI     wish to upgrade from Windows 95 to Windows XP, but it looks as if Windows 98 is needed for this upgrade.C P YoungJS:You cannot buy an upgrade from Windows 95 to Windows XP, you have to pay the full price. Even if an upgrade     were supported, you would be better off doing a clean installation. The two systems have little in common, and most     Windows 95 machines are not powerful enough to run XP. The minimum hardware requirement is a 233MHz processor,     64MB of memory, and 1.5GB of free disk space. However, a reasonable target is a 450MHz Pentium II or better,     128MB or more memory and 2GB of free disk space. Also, check the hardware compatibility list atwww.microsoft.com.Backchat&#183;When Windows wouldn't remember Richard Waddington's internet password, I     sent him to a feature on the Windows Annoyances website, which was promptly re-organised so not everyone could     find it. The original address works for me, but if it does not work for you, trywww.annoyances.org/exec/show/article04-004&#183;On the subject of protecting folders,William Allensays: "In Windows Explorer, right-click each folder concerned, click Properties, and in     the General Tab, check the box next to Read Only. You can continue to create files and delete files in the folder as     normal, but if you accidentally move the folder in Windows Explorer, you get an extra warning box asking if you really     want to."
As far as punishments go, this isn't one. Microsoft's latest proposed deal in its ongoing antitrust battle with the US government and hundreds of individual companies stands to not only let off the software giant cheaply, but help it gain yet another monopoly in the process.As reported today, Microsoft has cut a deal to dismiss more than 100 private antitrust cases brought against it. The company's punishment for violating two sections of the Sherman Antitrust Act? $500m of secondhand hardware for schools in disadvantaged areas, and a similar amount in software and backup.$1bn might sound like a lot, but for two things. First, this is 
Microsoft: the corporation that has built enormous profits through what the courts have found to be a string of anti-competitive, monopolistic moves.In mid-October, Microsoft announced first quarter gross profits of $1.28bn, despite all that was going wrong in the technology - and American - economy. A few whoopsies in their investments cost them $1.2bn - otherwise they would have beaten the $2.2bn profit they made in the same three-month period last year.That is not all. Because the deal includes Microsoft's own software - copies of which can be run off at negligible cost - the actual charge Microsoft will have to make to its accounts as a result of the deal is just $550m.If the settlement is agreed upon, they will make this charge in the next set of accounts, which were already expected to yield bumper figures because of the launch of the new Windows XP operating system and Xbox video games console. With sales climbing to between $7.1bn and $7.3bn in this three-month period, investors will find the settlement pill very heavily sugared.And, lest you be in much doubt about the nature of this punishment, let us look at where this money will go. The cash will be spent in approximately 14% of American schools, buying secondhand computers. Then Microsoft will donate large amounts of software to run on those machines.Yet, at the moment, education is one of the few areas where the otherwise ubiquitous Windows operating system is getting a run for its money. For years, Apple has regarded schools as one of its strongholds: the company lies in second place behind Dell with around 23% of the elementary and high school market, according to market research company IDC. Apple also enjoys the largest installed base of any manufacturer in schools - never places to quickly swap their ageing hardware. This compares with Apple's share of under 5% of the PC market overall.Microsoft was quick last night to say that its money need not be used to buy 
Windows-running PCs - schools could go out and buy Apple Macs with Bill's bills.But what was left unsaid was that the second part of the deal - the free software so cheap for Microsoft to provide, yet of such huge value to impoverished schools - will only be really worthwhile to schools if they buy 
Windows-running PCs.And even if every school were to buy only Apple Macs with the money, and then gorge themselves only on Microsoft's relatively thin offering for the MacOS, it would be of little consequence to Microsoft. By making what is, in essence, a charitable donation of $500m, and by doling out some complimentary CDs and services, Microsoft gets out of potentially far more expensive litigation, and also scores a massive propaganda coup (handing vast sums of money to charitable causes is something that multi-billionaire Bill Gates has been doing for years).Roger Kay, an analyst with IDC, has called the settlement "a huge victory" for Microsoft. The settlement does nothing to curtail Microsoft's behaviour, while giving Microsoft an edge over competitors by working its software into more schools, he said. "It's amazing to me how favourable this is to Microsoft," Kay said.Today it appears that, in being punished for unlawfully grabbing a monopoly and then ruthlessly exploiting it, Microsoft's stranglehold on the PC industry has actually been tightened.&#183;Neil McIntosh is deputy editor of Online
AOL in the UK has decided togive upmaking new versions of its proprietary software for Apple Mac users. The company was working on a version of its browser for the new OSX system, but has apparently abandoned that effort to concentrate on Windows software. They say they would have to rebuild the software from the ground up for the new system, but it's all a little odd, given AOL in the US has managed the change themselves...
Usability guru Jakob Nielsen has co-written a new book, which should be reaching UK shops about now.Homepage Usability
There'stremendous newsfor those of us irritated by the music industry's heavy-handed attempts to prevent music piracy. Technology incorporated into Natalie Imbruglia's latest CD has provoked a storm of protest. The technology inserts flaws into the data on the CD, which means that the more sensitive CD players in computers will not be able to play the disk - although ordinary hi-fi machines should be OK. The trouble is, they're not - and now Imbruglia's record label is having to issue replacement CDs, and have a rethink. Perhaps they will consider, next time, the users who have a perfectly legitimate desire to play CDs in their machines as they work, or who want (again, within the law) to make an MP3 copy for their own use. And the chaps over atNTKhave made a few interesting points too...
The push for profitability leads to another internet service disappearing:CNET reportsthat SafeWeb, which provided a useful anonymous web surfing tool, has closed its ad-supported service for consumers.
Good newsfor those of us who lust after one of the powerful new PocketPCs, but fear that they won't synch with our Apple Macs - MacCentral reports that new software will allow Mac users to connect PocketPCs up via the USB port. It is ready now in classic, OS9 flavour, and soon in OSX form.
Via Dave Birch andDavid Weinberger: Has the Taliban fallen for a Nuclear Parody? According toThe Daily Rotten, the instructions for building nuclear weapons found in the deserted Taliban headquarters actually are a parody from The Annals of Improbable Research. The parody has been circulating on the net since the 1980s and was written in 1979. The Daily Rotten says: &gt; To find these joke atomic bomb plans, do a web search for "The device &gt; basically works" and look for mentions of "Let's Build an Atomic Bomb!". &gt; It gives us pause and joy to know the Taliban are wasting their time &gt; downloading what amounts to joke mail and spending time trying to &gt; discern the facts therein.
Danny O'Brienwrites in today's Sunday Times about free, wireless internet networks being set up in New York. They're the bane of telecoms companies, who obviously want to make money by getting everyone to buy their own high-speed internet links. But these shared networks, acts of high-tech charity, are great for those who can't afford their own connection, or who have had their lives disrupted by September 11. All this echos an interesting column by Pat Kane published on September 13 in Online, on thewireless idealists. See also Sean Dodson's piece in Online onfree wireless networks, published way back in October 2000.
Is there something in the water supply at Queen Anne's Gate, headquarters of the Ministry of the Interior, aka the Home Office?I ask because in recent times every occupant of the post of Home Secretary has been subject to paranoid delusions, especially in matters related to the internet.Jack Straw was certifiable on the subject by the time he was carted off to the Foreign Office, but before that happened he had pushed through the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa), an odious statute that gave sweeping - and effectively unsupervised - powers to the authorities to snoop on the email communications and online activities of UK subjects. (I was going to say 'citizens', but that would, of course, be constitutionally inaccurate.)Ripa, remember, is the law that empowers the Home Secretary to require an internet service provider to feed a copy of every packet that flows through its servers to a special monitoring centre at MI5 headquarters in London.And for those with the temerity to think that encrypting email is a way of keeping the Home Secretary out of their inboxes, Ripa is the statute that compels them to hand over the decryption keys to Inspector Knacker or face two years in the slammer.It also has a neat provision that can get you five years' imprisonment should you inform your spouse why Knacker is dragging you off to the station for failing to provide said keys.Having bequeathed Ripa to the nation, Straw was replaced by D Blunkett, who was already a grade A control freak before he started drinking the water at Queen Anne's Gate. Blunkett pondered Ripa and decided that it had two serious defects.The first was that it limited the exercise of his snooping powers to certain classes of investigation - detection of terrorism, serious crime, national security or the economic well-being of the UK, for example.The second was that it only enabled real-time monitoring of communications, whereas what control freaks really desire is the accumulation of surveillance data that can then be trawled through retrospectively.This kind of 'data warehousing' was what the spooks wanted at the time Ripa was going through Parliament, but the Home Office judged that even New Labour MPs might gag at such an Orwellian twist and denounced rumours about warehousing as the ravings of conspiracy theorists.But guess what? Clause 102 of Blunkett's new anti-terrorism legislation contains measures enabling him to compel ISPs to stockpile  all their logs of customer activities. And the  Guardian has now established that the archived data will be available not just for anti-terrorist investigations, but also for tax collection and public health &amp; safety purposes.According to the Foundation for Information Policy Research, the 'traffic data' that Blunkett wants to accumulate and monitor constitutes 'a near complete map of private life: who everyone talks to &#91;by email and phone&#93;, where everyone goes &#91;mobile phone location co-ordinates&#93;, and what everyone reads online &#91;websites browsed&#93;.'Current mobile phones track location to a few hundred metres while the phone is switched on &#91;not merely when a call is made&#93;, and third-generation phones will pinpoint location to a few metres.'Blunkett's proposals amount to infringement of basic civil liberties and human rights on a truly Orwellian scale. And the obscene thing is that they are being railroaded through under cover of a 'war' to defend the values of liberal democracy against the depredations of terrorism.Welcome to the National Security state.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
If you are stuck in a lift or waiting for a bus, you might want to send a  few text messages or type up an essay, but without a keyboard, there is no easy way to do it. But soon, there could be.At least two companies are working on "virtual keyboards" that let you touch type keys that aren't there, and both showed prototypes at this week's Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas.A small Swedish company, Senseboard Technologies AB, attracted most  attention with a system based on pressure-sensitive pads.To use the Senseboard, you put a band around each palm and type in midair as though you had a real keyboard. The pads pick up your finger movements and gesture-recognition software converts them into the letters you are virtually typing.The prototype was impressive enough to win the best new technology  category in the annual best of show awards, and Senseboard hopes to have products on the US market in about six months. The target price is about $150 (£105).Curiously, another virtual keyboard system - a much more versatile one - went almost unnoticed. Scurry, developed by a wearable computer project team at the Samsung Institute of Technology in Korea, is intended to work as a wristband and a set of rings that slide over the user's knuckles.Finger movements are then picked up by a nanotechnology-based motion detection system known as Mems, and translated into characters, mouse movements or joystick actions on a screen.Samsung's researchers say that when Scurry reaches the shops, about a year from now, the finger rings will be connected using Bluetooth radio chips.However, at the moment, the system is wired together.But another Korean company at the show had a much simpler and in some respects cleverer idea.Neopad has developed a keyboarding system that can be used to enter text in most languages with only 10 keys. In other words, it can be used with the numeric keypad on a mobile phone.But the Neopad keyboard does not use letters. Instead, each key stands for a different shape. You type letters usually by using two keys to indicate the shape of the letter you want. For example, pressing n and - produces an A.Neopad claims the system can be used to enter Korean, Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Hebrew, Russian and similar languages as well as English and other European texts.Eventually it should enable manufacturers to produce global products that work anywhere in the world instead of spending lots of money customising them for separate countries.Today, of course, many people have already developed a new way of typing on very small keyboards: instead of using 10 fingers, they use two thumbs.And manufacturers are developing keyboards more suitable for that  technique. Perhaps the best example is the ThumBoard from Seiko  Instruments of Japan.The ThumBoard has a conventional qwerty key layout and works only with handhelds that use the Palm operating system, including the Handspring range.
Remember when Sega ruled in the computer games industry? Such is the dominance now of the Sony PlayStation that there is an assumption it was always that way. Sony's success is proof that the baton can change hands.That will be Microsoft's hope after yesterday's launch of the much anticipated Xbox console to an eager US public. Hundreds queued in New York's Times Square to buy the $299 console and get it signed by Bill Gates.It is not all about technical superiority. The Nintendo 64 was in some respects further advanced than the PlayStation but failed to catch on in any numbers. Sega's Dreamcast was even more of a disaster. The console, which gave players access to the internet and the ability to play people online on the other side of the world, has ended up in the bargain buckets at Woolies.When you are aiming at teenagers the key is to have the marketing nous and spend to make the product cool and to produce the right range of games. Microsoft certainly doesn't lack the marketing bucks. The console has also been designed with aesthetics in mind and Microsoft knows a thing or two about tying up exclusive deals, which should help it with games suppliers.Sony has sold enough PlayStation 2s to seem unassailable. The company was smart enough to get the upgraded console out and into enough homes before the Microsoft launch. But that   doesn't mean Xbox will not put it under real pressure.The one certainty seems to be that the games market is back on an upswing after a couple of years in the doldrums. Nintendo's latest assault, the GameCube, is set for US launch on Sunday. That spells nothing but good news for the likes of our very own Lara Croft maker, Eidos. If previous cycles are anything to go by, the industry is looking at four to five years of strong growth.Cable switchAfter years of giving the impression that the only thing it knew how to grow was debt, Telewest finally appears to be picking up momentum.Britain's second biggest cable operator has been preaching the mantra of "Triple Play" for longer than many of its investors probably care to remember, but yesterday's quarterly figures showed that there may something in the hype after all.Telewest appears at last to have found a way to communicate to customers the benefits of buying telephone, high-speed internet and television from a single supplier. An impressive 68% of Telewest customers now take two or more of the three services. The average monthly spend of those taking the whole package is a healthy &#163;75.Its new high-speed, always-on internet service has exceeded analyst expectations, attracting 70,000 customers and driving demand for other services.Operationally the company is performing much better and marketing has improved immeasurably. Losses have fallen for the third successive quarter and management insists Telewest is fully funded to break even. Competitive pressure is abating, with BSkyB's decision to raise prices giving Telewest leeway to do the same. The migration of analogue customers to digital is progressing well.Yet Telewest's management cannot afford to let momentum stall. That &#163;5bn debt pile leaves little room for manoeuvre. Maintaining subscriber growth rates in a difficult economic environment will not be easy.Customer service still needs to be improved. Chief executive Adam Singer says he is "customer obsessed" but by the end of the installation process many customers simply end up depressed.Resolve that one and the Triple Players could really start to fly.Harsh truthIf anything remained of Allen Yurko's reputation after his reign at Invensys - 23,000 job losses, a handful of profit warnings and a scorching of the share price - then the smouldering remains were firmly stamped on yesterday.Rick Haythornthwaite did not spare his predecessor's blushes as he ran through an inventory of failure at what was a successful controls system manufacturer called Siebe before its fatal merger with the conglomerate BTR.It seems that the problems included "production and project blackspots", "excessive restructuring," a "lack of customer focus," an "overly complex structure", "execution weakness in project management", and "failure to tackle underlying issues", to name but a few.With this catalogue of disaster came big interim losses and a slashing of the dividend, yet the share price jumped almost 40% yesterday as investors concluded they were at last getting the real story.However, we are still waiting for Mr Haythornthwaite's blueprint for success.
Henry Blodget, the Wall Street analyst who shot to fame during the dot.com boom and provoked a backlash from small investors when the bubble burst, is to leave Merrill Lynch under the firm's voluntary redundancy programme.The decision by the telegenic 35-year-old to bow out - and perhaps more tellingly the firm's acceptance of his application - reflect the reversal in the fortunes of the so-called new economy.He is set for a pay-off of at least $2m on top of a salary deal last year of more than $7m, although he intends to remain in the internet world, writing a book for Random House about the bubble he helped to inflate."It's been surreal - both on the way up and the way down," he told Reuters. "My personal experience has been very different than the experience of this cartoon character that's been created called Henry Blodget. "An aspiring journalist before he joined Wall Street, Mr Blodget earned a following among America's army of retail investors three years ago after his seemingly ludicrous prediction that Amazon.com's shares would more than double to $400. In the event his forecast proved too cautious.The bullish stance by the then junior analyst at CIBC Oppenheimer won him the job of Merrill's internet analyst then held by Jonathan Cohen, who had been pessimistic about the online bookseller's prospects. Mr Blodget's numerous television appearances also helped him become a hot property. Credit Suisse First Boston was rumoured to have offered him a $7m signing-on deal which he turned down.But, his star status - he was dubbed Elvis and King Blodget - was tarnished last year after dot.com companies started to go out of business. Merrill also agreed to pay $400,000 compensation to an investor, Debasas Kanjilal, who claimed Mr Blodget's buy recommendation on internet company Infospace had been influenced by the Wall Street firm's aim to win business from the company.Mr Blodget said little about his decision to take up Merrill's offer of voluntary redundancy, which has been extended to its 60,000-plus staff worldwide, other than telling the New York Times that "it just seemed like a good time to pursue the next thing"."One of the things that happened at the end of the bubble is people forgot what the downside was, and that's why a lot of people got hurt," he said. "If you go back to any period of time whenever markets have crashed, it is a messy affair."In October 1999, he warned that only three-quarters of existing internet companies would survive and that between seven and 10 companies might end up dominating the sector.He is the only high-profile Merrill Lynch employee to have admitted taking up the firm's redundancy offer, which is expected to result in 10,000 job cuts.Merrill said Mr Blodget's decision to leave had been entirely his own and rejected accusations that his recommendations had turned sour."He's decided that he's done all that he wanted to do in research and is going finish his book before going to the buy-side &#91;to be an investor&#93;," a Merrill spokeswoman said. "Mr Blodget's integrity is beyond reproach."She said the settlement this year had involved Mr Blodget's name being dropped from the suit. The firm settled to avoid the cost of the litigation.The tipsAOLRated a buy in March 1999 with a target of $110. Now part of Time Warner and trading at $37 a shareYahooPrice target of $225. Trading yesterday at $15Amazon.comPredicted to hit $400 when at $240. Trading yesterday at $9 (equivalent to $105 when adjusted for share splits)Pets.comTipped after opening at $11 on flotation. Failed in November 2000EtoysJoined market in May 1999 at $20 a share. FailedEbay$175 target in February 2000 when at $134. Trading yesterday at $60
Manx gets 3GBritain's first 3G (third generation) mobile phone will be in action when Manx Telephone's pioneering trial on the Isle of Man goes live shortly.Other telecommunications companies - who are desperate to get a return on the &#163;22.5bn they spent getting 3G licences - will be watching the Isle of Man very closely (though, ironically, Manx Telephone got its 3G licence for nothing to encourage speedy exploitation).The kit consists of a surprisingly lightweight NEC phone with internet access and a flip-open screen that can send and receive colour video clips of up to 20 or 30 seconds and    enable users to play multi-role games such as Quake around the island.The phone can be hooked up to a miniature video screen (which looks like a PalmPilot) with built-in camera for those interested either in seeing each other while they phone or videoconferencing. Even  tually the screen and camera will be merged into the phone. The island hopes that its e-commerce ambitions will be given a boost by becoming a laboratory for 3G applications.Third generation mobile phones can - in theory - transfer data at 384 kilobits (compared with 9.6 kilobits for a standard phone) but are not expected to reach that speed at first. People who have used them say the quality of video clips is surprisingly good.Mobile phones in the Isle of Man can search for the strongest signal rather than be locked into one service provider (though they have to pay roaming rates for the privilege). Some services on the British mainland use their phones for rescue operations.TriumphThe fizz may have gone out of the mobile market but the models themselves continue to improve. The new Trium Eclipse from Mitsubishi looks like a phone, rather than a PDA, but manages a colour screen with an impressive 12 to 13 lines of text. My model didn't have the GPRS (24-hour-always-on-to-the-web) facility which will be available shortly for BT Cellnet subscribers, but at least Wap looks better on a big colour screen after the usual delays.Google's mobile search engine worked well and reading email is more practical on the big screen - though visibility varies a lot depending on the light source. It comes with regular features such as texting and an infrared port plus a variety of (loud) ring  tones and games including ten-pin bowling plus a morning alarm signal that would awaken the dead. The size of the screen even makes a mobile diary feasible - though this one isn't intuitive.It is lightish (at 110g) considering what it does and the manufacturer claims three hours of talk time or 180 hours on standby. The expected price is &#163;149 with contract.www.trium.net
The Tablet PC was the most interesting thing at the Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas for the second year running - and it could be another year before anyone can buy one. Last year, Microsoft chairman Bill Gates showed a "concept" version of the device. This year he showed a range of prototypes from a number of manufacturers, led by Compaq and Toshiba. Now Microsoft is working with software suppliers such as Adobe, Autodesk and Groove Networks to develop applications.Acer had one of the most interesting tablets. The TM-100 starts off as a conventional slimline notebook PC. However, the screen rotates on a central hinge and can be folded back over the keyboard to convert it into a Tablet PC. But Acer is not going to wait for the Tablet PC version of Windows XP to run it, and will launch the machine with another operating system in the spring. Other companies planning to make Tablet PCs include Fujitsu, NEC and Tatung.Success will depend on whether users like the idea of working with Microsoft's "digital ink" system. This captures handwriting on the screen, while running a handwriting recognition in the background. This means you can manipulate text in "ink" in the same ways as word processed text.This is an example of what Microsoft calls "natural computing". According to Leland Rockoff, director of worldwide marketing and planning for the Tablet PC, this means "you don't have to learn how to use a PC - it just does what you want it to do in the most natural way possible."Tablet PCs could appeal to people who can't type, but touch typists are likely to find the lack of a keyboard frustrating. That's already happening with palmtop computers, and Senseboard Technologies AB has a solution: you just type as though there is a keyboard under your fingers, even though there isn't. It sounds crazy, and it looks bizarre, but Senseboard's Virtual Keyboard takes a different approach to touch typing. It consists of a couple of sensors that wrap round the hands and work out which keys you would be pressing if there were any.Other interesting devices included several "reference designs" developed by chip manufacturers to show hardware suppliers the kinds of things they could do. Two of them, Intel and Via Technologies, showed Tablet PC reference designs that will enable PC manufacturers to enter the market quickly, if it ever takes off.Intel also showed a reference design called Hannacroix: a PC that can provide surround sound of the sort you might want with a home cinema. You could either use the Hannacroix to play DVD   movies or to control a home entertainment system.In fact, Hannacroix could be used to connect to a wide range of equipment. It includes numerous USB 2.0 serial ports, three 1394a ports, Wi-Fi (802.11b) and Bluetooth wireless links, two Ethernet network ports, and Home Gateway's HPNA sys tem to allow networking over home phone lines.But the prize for the oddest looking system, if only there were one, would go to the Geode Origami Portable Mobile Communicator, a chip manufacturer National Semiconductor. The Origami is described as "the industry's first device to combine eight consumer electronics products in one flexible unit." It unfolds in various ways to work as a digital camera, video camcorder, phone, wireless videoconferencing   system, personal digital assistant, MP3 audio player, web browser and email terminal. The Origami runs the embedded version of Microsoft's Windows XP operating system.While NatSemi reckons multifunction "convergence" designs will be popular, the Origami is quite bulky: it measures 7.5 by 4 by 1.5 inches and weighs about 10 ounces. Many buyers could well prefer two smaller devices: perhaps a smart phone such as Handspring's Treo or a PocketPC-based device with a separate camera.www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/tabletpcwww.senseboard.com/products.htmdeveloper.intel.com/design/motherbd/cvwww.national.com/news/item/0,1735,702,00.html
Here's aninterestingremake of a Microsoft poster site in London... Online was later sent "before" and "after" pictures, which you can seehere, for a day or two at least.
Computer game fans in New York queued up outside a brand new, flagship Toys "R" Us store in Times Square last night, waiting for Microsoft to order the official launch of its new games console, Xbox.Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, made the first sale himself at midnight last night to a 20-year-old New Yorker who had waited 16 hours for the honour. Mr Gates circulated through the crowd, autographing boxes of the $299 (£208) console."We were going out and talking to the gamers about what they want," Mr Gates said, to a roomful of buyers who waited in line - some all night - to be the first to get their hands on one of the 1,000 consoles shipped to the store.Jimmy Keethe, a teenager from New Jersey, raved about NFL Fever 2002, one of 15 games available for the Xbox."It's got great graphics. You can actually see the football players sweat," he said.Mr Gates said as many as 30 games will be available for the holiday season, but he hyped up the console's launch by warning that demand for the consoles may outpace supply."Tonight we think we brought a lot of Xboxes here, and tonight is probably the only night for a long, long time where everyone can get an Xbox," he said.Microsoft expects to make and sell 1.5m consoles by the end of the year, but Mr Gates said that because of consumer demand "we expect to be in pretty short supply".Xbox, which is the only games console with a built-in hard drive and a plug for high-speed Internet access, officially goes on sale this morning at 10,000 retailers across the US. Over the holiday season, Xbox will be aiming to outsell Nintendo's Game Cube - which retails for $100 less than Xbox and launches on Sunday - and Sony's reigning Playstation 2."I can't believe I got one," said Christian Santana, 19, who took the subway from Brooklyn today to get a wristband after hearing promotions about the midnight launch on the radio. Santana, a hardcore gamer, said that last year he had to wait until January - three months after the launch date - to get his hands on PlayStation2.Xbox will not be available for sale in the UK until March, although the company is running a number of public events around the country to give anxious gamers an opportunity to try out the system now. The company will install machines at Nutopia in Covent Garden, central London, for people to play during weekends from Saturday until December 16. There will also be weekend showings in Birmingham (November 24-25), Manchester (December 1-2) and Glasgow (December 8-9).Amazon.co.uk has said it will take pre-orders for Xbox, which will retail in the UK for £299. That price tag makes the system about £91 more expensive to buy in the UK.
How to sneak the silverware from FifaPro Evolution SoccerPS2 &#163;44.99KonamiRating: *****FIFA 2002PS2 &#163;44.99EA SportsRating: *****Forget Liverpool vs Man Utd - the biggest footie clash is on the PlayStation 2. Defending the goal to the right we have EA Sports' best-selling Fifa series. Full of polish, bona fide player names and popstar intro sequences, the Fifa games have always been the punter's choice. To the left we have Konami's Pro Evolution - the latest in the acclaimed International Superstar Soccer series.It promises to be a tight game. Fifa attacks from the kick-off and takes an early lead. Its authentic team and player names, with Motty on the mike, making mincemeat of Pro Evo's limited selection and grating commentary. The early dominance continues as Fifa shows off its new passing system. Unlike before, where a team-mate was always reached, there is now a more realistic through-ball option that allows for passes into space. Unfortunately for Fifa this improvement can't mask deeper failings as Pro Evo equalises before half time; its player likenesses and graphical prowess outshining an unusually under-par visual performance from Fifa.The second half is one-way traffic as Pro Evo scores quickly. The sharper control and plethora of control options allow for a more measured, and realistic, build-up. Despite a laudable slowing of pace, Fifa is still susceptible to unrealistic 5-5 scorelines, with even midfield journeymen able to dribble past defenders. Pro Evolution seals victory with a couple of late goals as the depth of the tactical options and single-player Master League becomes apparent. Fifa nabs a late consolation, as the lack of club-sides haunts Pro Evo once more, but there was only one winner here.Pro Evolution Soccer is by far the greatest footie game the world has ever seen.Greg HowsonA tennis game set to match the real thingTennis Masters SeriesPC &#163;29.99MicroidsRating: *****It has been many years since I was so comprehensively thrashed at a game of tennis, especially at the rookie level.The object of Tennis Masters Series is to play a year-long season as an unseeded challenger along with 65 other pros, in an attempt to make the top eight and qualify for the finale, the Tennis Masters Cup. Each pro has individual attitudes, tactics and skills: tournaments include Indian Wells, Monte Carlo, Montreal and Paris.Choose your game plan, from being a power hitter, a baseliner or a net rusher, with three types of serve - flat, slice or topspin. Matches are played on three court surfaces - hard, clay and carpet - and at different times - noon, 5pm and at night, with the lighting and shadows changing accordingly.The players' court craft is excellent. They conform to the number one tactical rule I learnt: always hit to the open court and keep your opponent on the run, although the occasional attempt at wrong-footing is fine.The graphics are also excellent, with the court settings realistic even down to the adverts courtside, the skylines and the scuff marks on the clay.The crowd applauds, whistles or jeers as appropriate, but if you are having a bad day at the office, it is a simple matter to switch them off.The game boasts that its artificial intelligence simulates the players true reactions, but the constant displays of anger from one top player would surely prove his undoing. And I found it difficult to direct the angle and power of my groundstrokes, so I felt I was simply reacting as my opponent dictated the points. Somewhat unrealistically, highly ranked opponents did not miss a first serve and consistently hit deep, unplayable groundstrokes to both corners of the court.The post-match ritual handshaking with the left hands jarred. But on the whole, Tennis Master Series is addictive and, fortunately for exponents of the real game, not a skill that can be picked up overnight.Elizabeth Minter&#183;Elizabeth Minter was a professional tennis player from 1982 to 1990.It's time to hit the wrong side of the roadBurnoutPS2 &#163;39.99Criterion/AcclaimRating: *****Ah, the roar of oncoming traffic. This isn't just any old driving game, it's a dangerous-driving game. Burnout drops you and three computer-controlled opponents - or a friend - into circuits teeming with traffic. To win, you'll need to use your boost facility. But you only get the boost meter maxed out by driving like a maniac - zooming up the wrong side of the road, power-sliding recklessly around junctions, and buzzing traffic with near-misses. If you crash, you lose boost energy and valuable time.Burnout executes this concept, with its roots in coin-op Thrill Drive and PC game Midtown Madness, with head-melting velocity and great visual elan. The racing environments are solid and stylish, with long laps punctuated by ruthlessly spread-out checkpoints. The vehicles, from superminis to pick-up trucks and buses, all boast handling of an appropriately unrealistic responsiveness. The AI of the civilian vehicles is scarily good - drive up the wrong side of the road and they'll flash their lights in panic and then, most likely, veer just the way you are steering to avoid them; at other points, the developers have evilly choreographed dense crossroad traffic, which you can learn to sneak through.The inevitable crashes are treated with slo-mo glee, much motion blur and camera zooming, helping to convey an entertaining sense of weight and smash.Criterion are obviously so in love with their central concept that not much attention has been lavished on the presentation. It feels rough around the edges, with dull menus, unoptimised loading times and limited options. But the game's central, arcade thrill is enough. For those turned off by the petrol-head structure of Gran Turismo 3, Burnout has triumphantly put the fun back into driving.Steven Poole
Anti-terrorism measures announced this week by the home secretary, David Blunkett, will dramatically increase the amount of information internet service providers can keep on their customers, the Home Office has admitted.Part 11 of the emergency anti-terrorism, crime and security bill, announced on Tuesday, will allow internet service providers (ISPs) to keep a year's worth of information on their customers' internet activity. Two reasons are given: safeguarding national security, and the prevention and detection of crime.Most ISPs currently retain such data on emails for, at most, three months. Others delete it immediately, or within days. None of the ISPs interviewed by the Guardian say they store data on general web-browsing against individual accounts.Yet the Home Office says the bill is likely to allow the collection and storage of detailed information about web-browsing as well as email, subject to a planned voluntary code.That would be an extension of monitoring likely to outrage civil liberties groups and spark protests from internet industry organisations.Blunkett's bill would not oblige ISPs to hoard web browsing informa  tion - yet. But clause 102 allows the home secretary to force traffic data retention if he feels the voluntary code is failing to work. He would force compulsory retention through a statutory instrument, a relatively easy procedure compared with getting a bill through parliament.Under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers (RIP) Act, passed last year, police and other state investigators such as the Inland Revenue already have the ability to seize traffic data (see panel). This is effectively self-regulated, as it requires only the say-so of a police superintendent or equivalent rank to gather the data.Seizures can be justified by minor crimes, tax evasion or health and safety inquiries, despite Mr Blunkett suggesting in an article for Tribune, a leftwing weekly newspaper, that the extensions to ISPs' powers to retain data were only designed to fight terrorism.Today, applications for content data - listening to someone's phone calls, reading the content of their emails or seeing the pages they download - have to be passed by the home secretary. They are only allowed for serious crime, threats to national security and safeguarding national well-being.The police see the proposed change as removing an anomaly. Under current data protection laws, personal information must be deleted when it is of no further use to the business. The police can only see traffic data while it exists - and at ISPs, this is not for very long, particularly for websites visited.Phone companies have a legitimate business reason for keeping traffic data: they use it to calculate customers' bills. BT retains it for seven years for its 28m UK fixed lines.But ISPs do not charge by the email, and so do not need to keep the information that long. AOL says it retains email traffic data for three months, Freeserve for 90 days. Claranet, an ISP that has campaigned for protection of its customers' data, retains it for just a fortnight, although it is now increasing this in preparation for the proposed laws.The secretary-general of the Internet Service Providers Association, Nicholas Lansman, says the cost of a year's worth of traffic data retention could soar into the millions for some ISPs, should they choose - or be forced to - take up their proposed new rights.As for web-browsing, Freeserve says it retains individualised data for its own chatrooms aimed at children, but that it retains only anonymous, aggregated data on its customers' general web-browsing. AOL retains only aggregated data.Claranet does not keep even this much, and is shocked by the idea of retaining personalised logs. Steve Rawlinson, the company's chief technology officer, says keeping such logs would mean "a complete reorganisation of our network", and could lead to ISPs moving abroad to protect customers' privacy."It's extremely intrusive, and I think we would be very unhappy," he says.The National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS), which produces intelligence for UK law enforcement authorities, has been asking for standardisation between phone and internet traffic retention for more than a year.According to a document written by the NCIS deputy director-general Roger Gaspar in August 2000 (later leaked to the Observer), police forces, Customs and Excise, MI5 and MI6 would like all communications traffic data retained for seven years.The NCIS now says the leaked document does not represent the organisation's view, but adds that the case for internet traffic data retention has strengthened since September 11."In the real world, you have witnesses, forensics, DNA profiling and fingerprints," says the spokesperson. "In the digital world, all you've got is data. If that data is being erased as it's created, you haven't got any equivalent of forensics. Our position is that law enforcement must be provided with a reasonable minimum."Some think that law enforcement already has access to plenty of data. The RIP Act gives them some of the strongest powers in the industrialised world to tap communications.Roger Bingham, spokesman for Liberty, the civil rights group, says: "In terms of exceptional circumstances, we can see how it might be reasonable to retain data a little longer, on the basis that police can get information on specific people where there is a clear and reasonable suspicion."As a safeguard, we think the police should seek a judicial warrant for reasonable suspicion of terrorist activity."This is somewhat different to what is proposed - keeping everyone's data, then granting access for minor crimes on the strength of a police-issued warrant. Technically minded MPs, although supportive of the fight against terrorism, have doubts.Richard Allan, the Liberal Democrat's IT spokesman, says: "I find it very difficult to see what point there is to it, in terms of catching anyone doing anything."He calls for more work on targeting individuals, pointing out that any serious criminal would use anonymous library or web-caf&#233; terminals.And Brian White, a backbench Labour MP who chairs the IT industry-parliament liaison group Eurim, worries that this legislation will not be technically practicable. "I have some concerns that we won't repeat the problems we had with the RIP Act," he says.The bill's voluntary code puts the onus on ISPs, and the two largest ISPs in the country are not keen to participate. David Melville, company secretary of Freeserve (with 18% of the UK's web-users), says the ISP could extend retention of email traffic data from 90 days to a year, without much technical difficulty.But that's not the point. "I'm slightly worried that a period of retention beyond 90 days means me knowing a little bit more than I need to know," he says. "I think there's a creeping sense of worry about whether the response is proportional."Freeserve's traffic goes through UK servers. But all AOL traffic, with 17% of UK subscribers, goes through servers in Virginia.Caspar Bowden, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, an IT think-tank, says this means UK users may be hit by the strict USA Act. "If you're a British subscriber to AOL, your data could be raided by the FBI," he warns.Bowden says the USA Act, passed late last month, means the US has overtaken the UK in the strength of its abilities to bug the internet. The act allows law enforcement agencies to collect both traffic and content data, and for the data to be passed to nearly any government department.However, Clare Gilbert, AOL Europe's senior vice-president for public policy and regulatory affairs, says she would be very surprised if the USA Act affected UK users, as AOL knows which country its traffic streams comes from, even if it does all flow through Virginia.But she says that UK law enforcement authorities have to obtain an international warrant to get access to UK-held AOL accounts. "It's an additional hoop. We make that process as painless as possible," she says.Gilbert sees little need to extend AOL's retention of email traffic data beyond three months. "We've been working with the police since we established in the UK in 1996."Where we're dealing with police who are efficient in their duties, it works," she says. "There's never been an instance where the process in place has not worked. We question the need to force or allow ISPs to keep data for a year - it doesn't really make sense."Gilbert says an alternative is data preservation: law enforcement authorities express interest in named individuals, and ISPs retain their account data until a warrant is produced. "It's much easier to preserve specific data than randomly keep vast amounts. You're talking about billions and billions of IP addresses over a 12-month period."Yet this is what UK ISPs will soon to be allowed to do - with the pressure of compulsion if the home secretary decides they don't volunteer enough.&#183;The bill is published in PDF format at:www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm200102/cmbills/049/2002049.htmComments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Just in case you have spent the past few weeks chasing unicorns or using your magical breadknife to fight for the forces of light in a parallel universe where the Dark Lord of Fantasia Nonsensica is threatening to bring down an eternity of gloom, doom and no butter for your sandwiches, here's some news just in: tomorrow sees the nationwide cinema release of Harry Potter And The Philosopher's Stone.It will be followed next month by The Fellowship Of The Ring, the first of three Lord Of The Rings' flicks from New Zealand-born director Peter Jackson. In short, fantasy fiction, the genre of wizards, elves, dragons, heroic derring-do and genuinely badass baddies (none of your post-modern ambiguity here) has gone mainstream.Me, and I will undoubtedly regret writing this when I next meet my snootier metropolitan friends, I can hardly wait. Hence my visits to the official Harry Potter movie site atharrypotter.warnerbros.co.ukand the Lord Of The Rings site atwww.lordoftherings.net.Although the Lord Of The Rings site is chock full of trailers and the like (which make it slow), there will be plenty of JRR Tolkien fanatics out there perusing every detail. This really shouldn't    come as any surprise because fantasy fans were among the first to share thoughts on their mutual obsessions via the internet. It might also be added that anyone versed in the absurd intricacies of role-playing game Dungeons And Dragons - go todirectory.google.com/Top/Games/Roleplaying/Systems/Dungeons_and_Dragons/for copious links.Mind you, Tolkien, a man who regarded most of the major inventions of the 20th century, and quite a few from the 19th century, with deep suspicion and was decidedly perturbed when the hippies latched onto his books, would probably have been horrified by the web. Nevertheless, he might have made an exception for The Tolkien Society (www.tolkiensociety.org) with its scholarly approach to Middle Earth.Here, you'll find a bibliography, news and links to such destinations as The Elvish Linguistic Fellowship,www.elvish.org, a site devoted to the "study of the invented languages of JRR Tolkien". For more proof that people really care about it all. Check out Erik Davis's trawl through the world of JRR fanatics in a recent issue of Wired,www.wired.com/wired/archive/9.10/lotr.html.But in taking fantasy seriously, fans may be helping to protect free speech. Novels by the likes of Tolkien and Potter creator JK Rowling (www.bloomsburymagazine.com/harrypotter) are viewed with deep suspicion in some quarters because they supposedly encourage impressionable young people to retreat from reality into a fantasy world.Well, yes, but that's rather the point and, wouldn't you just know it, the &#252;ber-muggles of the Christian right are among those most vociferously opposed to Potter and co. So much so that American Booksellers For Freedom Of Expression has organised kidSPEAK!,www.mugglesforharrypotter.org, to track attempted censorship. To see what publishers and film distributors are up against, visit the hilarious and terrifying Christian Analysis Of American Culture,www.capalert.com, with its shrill promise that: "Our investigation standards are the teachings and expectations of Jesus Christ and are thus Rock-solid, never changing with the slippery tides of modern morality."Of course, the other objection to fantasy, that it's ludicrous, sub-Arthurian tosh that ought not to be let anywhere near a decent bookshelf, is harder to counter. Frankly, there's a lot of truth in such a view - and that remark incidentally comes from someone who writes regularly for the sci-fi press.Which is why the Discworld novels of Terry Pratchett are such a delight.Mercilessly poking fun at the conventions of fantasy via characters such as Rincewind the cowardly wizard and geriatric adventurer Cohen The Barbarian, Pratchett's books are outright hilarious. Perhaps the best Pratchett site is The L-Space Web (named for the author's curiously plausible theory that books warp the space-time continuum and that all libraries are thus linked) atwww.co.uk.lspace.org. There's also an official site atwww.terrypratchettbooks.com.As for finding other fantasy destinations, start at US sci-fi magazine Locus, www. locusmag.com , for links to authors ranging from established favourite and dragon enthusiast Anne McCaffrey (www.annemccaffrey.org) to rising star Robin Hobb (robinhobbonline.com/megan/index.html). You'll also find links to publishers such as Orbit (www.orbitbooks.co.uk) and Voyager (www.fireandwater.com/genres/sf.asp). Meanwhile, for bibliographies, check out the admirable Internet Speculative Fiction Database at the SF Site,www.sfsite.com. And, if the kids are driving you up the wall while they wait for the next Potter opus, point them to the spooky Dark Materials trilogy by Philip Pullman (www.randomhouse.com/features/pullman) or the all-too-often overlooked novels of Alan Garner (members.ozemail.com.au/~xenophon/index.html).But whatever you do, if you find yourself drawn to the Science Fiction Romance site,www.sfronline.com, with its promise to explain the nuances of a sub-genre that appears to weld Mills &amp; Boon with the fantastic, do seek help. Immediately.
A Scottish software company has found itself at the forefront of a groundbreaking experiment in interactive TV launched in Manhattan last week.Ayrshire-based Community People built the online elements of a revolutionary cable TV programme, Urban Bedtime Stories, which allowed New Yorkers to participate in its fictional, loosely scripted plot. More than 100 viewers logged on to participate in the live drama as it was transmitted last Monday.As they gathered in the project's chatroom to discuss the narrative unfolding before them, members of the audience were not only addressed directly from their television sets but also had the chance to influence how the show progressed.Beth Carey, a former IT expert turned computer artist, was behind what is thought to be the world's first attempt to synchronise a live TV drama with internet communications. She described the programme as "a new look at what we mean by interactive"."People call the web interactive but it's not," she says. "Clicking on a link is no different than turning a page. The essence of interactivity is human-to-human communication, and that's what we're trying to reach for, for people to actually participate one-to-  one and become characters in the show."The way Urban Bedtime Stories works is straightforward. The viewer sits at home with a television and an internet connection, the actors stand poised before the cameras in a one-room set containing props including a computer logged-on to the show's chatroom. As the heroine Betty X - played by performance artist Amy Shapiro - soothes the woes of a troubled populace with a modern fairy tale, she interacts with the chatroom audience as the context allows, addressing them directly by name as the tale unfolds."The response from the audience has been tremendous," says Carey. "Even during the early dry runs, the test audience was soon clamouring for Betty's attention. And after the show a lot of them stayed online to keep the discussion going. It's not just a television programme - we're building a community."No less enthusiastic is Jim Sproat, director of Community People. He is convinced that Carey's efforts illustrate the potential that interactive technology holds for everything, from making government approachable to facilitating distance learning."The industry is in its infancy and we have work to do to make the process run more slickly, but the Manhattan experiment goes to show that there is a hell of a lot that can be achieved," he says. "We could run MPs' surgeries, medical consultations and lectures or national debates."Urban Bedtime Stories was born out of Carey's postgraduate degree in computer art, the thesis for which examined performance art's long history of finding ways to make the viewer participate. A year ago she tried a webcast of the concept, but the 20- to 30-second time delays and low quality made the theory difficult to execute. Consequently, she has spent the past year working to prise airtime from Manhattan Cable.From this experience has arisen Carey's manifesto for interactive TV. In the new improved medium, she argues, traditional dramatic structure should be rejected and scripts, if used, should act only as guides for improvised dialogues designed to involve the users/viewers as characters themselves. According to the digital impresario, if a 21st century show works on the one-to-many broadcast model, it is time to abandon it and start over."We sometimes forget that fun is one of the coolest aspects of technology. People love to communicate and they love to chat," she says. "The internet is a highly social thing, and it needs all of us to make it become all it can be."This is undoubtedly a bold artistic stance, but not one that should be dismissed out of hand. Professional interest in the project has begun to escalate in America since last week's broadcast, and there is no shortage of excitement over the potential Carey's concept has demonstrated."People have tried interactive discussions and quiz shows before," says Mamoon-ah Yaqub of Virtual Media Partners, the digital television consultants currently backing Carey. "But nobody has ever managed to pull off a drama. We're looking at this as the first of many, the spark that starts the interactive television explosion."Whatever the theoretical potential demonstrated by her show, Carey has a long way to go yet. The example provided by the broadcast is currently being considered by several major television companies, but there is a long way to go before the concept goes into production as a fully fledged weekly series.Carey may well have created an epoch-making moment in broadcasting history that will go on to dominate the small screen. Just as easily, it could be another technological fad."We're just sticking a toe in the water here," she says. "We have no idea where this is going to end up. Anything could happen from Betty X becoming a national celebrity, to nothing at all."
Some things promise much then fail to deliver, while others come up with the goods but turn out to be pointless. Once in a while, something comes along that fills a need and actually works.Unified messaging (UM) is one example. It could turn your phone into a full-time secretary. The world is buckling under the weight of communications devices. The market for services in which faxes, emails and voice messages are collected and delivered to one place is tipped by Ovum Research to grow from&#163;1.3bn in 2002 to &#163;6.9 bn by 2006.It is a rapidly expanding market, and set to be riding high on that wave is the Slough-based Call Sciences, (www.callsciences.co.uk) currently offering subscribers a UM personal assistant that   manages voice, email and fax communications, vets calls and doesn't take the day off. Capable of organising contacts and available 24 hours a day, this digital flunkey is yours for &#163;2.99 a month."In the past unified messaging earned a bad name for failing to deliver a coherent service that people wanted," says Piers Mummery, Call Sciences' managing director. "Now, the technology has emerged from its troubled adolescence with a proposition that makes sense."Cool? Unified messaging is the telecom industry's answer to hand-tooled snakeskin boots; a piece of technological trickery that's smarter than a red convertible with cream leather upholstery.Subscribers are given a single number to which they direct all communications. When someone phones, they are greeted by a voice that   informs them whose service they have reached and asks them to hold while the system routes the call to the last number it reached you on. If that is not answered, the voice offers callers the option to hold while a second number is checked or leave a message.The service can be configured to transfer communicants to particular numbers at specific times, ring at several locations simultaneously or take the caller's name before forwarding their call, allowing the subscriber to either accept contact or   banish them to voicemail. A blacklist can be set up to vet regular irritations and calls may be forwarded to more than 120 countries at no extra cost to the end-user.The number will also receive faxes, which can be routed to a stand-alone fax machine, forwarded as an email attachment or read online. The system, which is configured via a secure online interface or a touchtone phone, notifies the user by email or SMS when messages arrive. Multiple faxes may be received concurrently; even while a voice call is underway.No handy internet connection? Users can have emails   and faxes read to them over the phone. Courtesy of the system's voice recognition technology, they can reply to, delete or forward these messages.An upgraded package costing &#163;5.99 a month offers optional services such as a free 0800 number through which to configure their system and listen to messages. Other extras include personal speed dial codes, audio conferencing facilities and distribution lists for voice and fax message distribution.Amongst a selection of improvements to be revealed will be the ability to synchronise the personal assistant's online address book and diary   with personal information managers such as Outlook and configure the service to contact you with appointment reminders.IDC predicts that the revenues of UM companies such as Call Sciences are set to grow by an average of 60% annually over the next four years.Royal London Insurance last week decided to equip 1,200 customer service representatives with the service. But while the big contracts are welcome, it is among small businesses and busy, tech-savvy individuals that the company hopes to find its natural market.UM alternativesDigital Mail(www.digitalmail.com): Free call forwarding and fax package. Dull but functional.JFax(www.jfax.co.uk): Free service offering fax to email. Can send voice messages as attachments but does not offer call forwarding.Messagepoint(www.messagepoint.com): Fax and voice forwarding services for &#163;10 set-up and &#163;10 a month.Vivao(www.vivao.com): Another freebie offering fax and voice message box plus email to voice. Monthly &#163;4.99 upgrade buys the ability to send SMS messages and faxes online.Yac(www.yac.com): Excellent free service that forwards calls to a pre-defined number and accepts faxes. Allows users to set up blacklists of unwanted callers.
DIY mooviesSometimes a website comes along that just blinds you with its creative brilliance.Fjallfil.comis one of those sites. Take one cow. Add music, some dance moves and vocals, and build your own rock video (in one of three genres) or a workout video (with Fonda moves). Then sit back and marvel at the work that has gone into this brilliant waste of time. It requires the latest version ofShockwave, but it really is worth installing the software for this one.Juice upDo you ever feel guilty about all your power-guzzling gadgets? The video on standby, the computer whirring away at all hours, not to mention the fridge, freezer, lights and all the other things casually left on? Well, nownpowerand Greenpeace are offering whatGuardian columnist Polly Toynbeehas described as "easy virtue just one quick phone call away": wind-generated power to consumers.Npower will build a windfarm atNorth Hoyle, with the hope being that enough consumers will sign up to persuade them to build more. The 'leccy still arrives through a plug: the difference is, you're not melting a glacier to stock up on ice cubes. And you can sign up online, too.Bargain huntwww.clearance-comet.co.uk, the high-street electronics chain, has just launched an auction site to sell off its unused returns, ex-display and damaged stock. The site has auctions on a range of goods, from TVs to camcorders, starting at just &#163;1, with all the items sporting a one-year guarantee. When Online visited this week, the range of goods on offer was small and the bidding was quite high. Still, it looked like there might be some savings on big-ticket items such as camcorders. But it's worth noting the prices at discount online electronics retailers before bidding - Comet's normal "in store" price is less of a guide if the likes ofUnbeatable.co.ukare selling the same thing much cheaper - as new.Weekly thriftIndeed, the price you pay at auctions can be a curious thing, as new research from two US academics has shown. Their findings, reported in last week'sEconomist, show that items at that daddy of auction sites, eBay, fetched 2% more if they were sold at a weekend, rather than during the working week. Chuck Wood and Robert Kauffman also discovered that pictures, already known to be worth a thousand words, were also worth a few more pounds (or dollars): 5.7%, on average, was added by a snap of the item under the hammer. And a vendor with a high trust rating from other eBay users made 6.8% more than those with low ratings.Art for allSince its launch last year,Easyarthas made it simple to decorate your walls with something a little better than old Athena posters: visit their site, pick a classic art print, choose a frame, and you're off. Now they have redesigned their website in an effort to make it easier to navigate, and are offering 10% off until the end of the month (quote NEWEASYSITE when prompted at the checkout). You can even get photographs of your own turned into a Warhol-esque print.Cold turkeyThe British Turkey Information Service(no, really) says the "post millennium family" is most likely to feel daunted by the prospect of Christmas dinner, as opposed to the more experienced older hands who presumably know their giblets from their turkey breasts. Reaching out to the convenience generation, they've launched a website full of tips, trivia, recipes and jolly handy defrosting and roasting calculators which might - just might - save you from Boxing Day belly ache - or bellyaching, for that matter.Beat about...If you feel watching President Bush junior giving a speech is like watching a child wobbling on a bike - everyone's wincing because they're convinced he's going to fall off - you might appreciateBushgrammar.com. It's a website devoted to spotting, and correcting, the countless "Bushisms" coming out of the White House every week.Gems include, "Africa is a nation which suffers from incredible disease" and the memorable, "Redefining the role of the United States from enablers to keep the peace to enablers to keep the peace from peacekeepers is going to be an assignment." You can even get favourite quotes put on a mug or T-shirt. There have been fewer additions of late - is this an attempt to rally behind Bush post September 11, or is he getting better?New &amp; noted&#183;TUC showcase for unions:www.learningservices.org.uk&#183;Routeplanners for your handheld:www.palmtop.nl&#183;Search TV by keyword:www.bloomberg.com/tvSix of the best: Weblog buildingLet us blogwww.blogger.comGet some feedback&lt;A HREF="http://"www.tecknik.net/blogback/Live newswww.moreover.comAdd a hit counterwww.thecounter.comJoin the listhttp://gblogs.threadnaught.net/How popular are you?www.marketleap.com/publinkpop/
How has the Chesney Hawkes website helped you to revitalise your music career?It has given me an easily-accessible channel that has allowed me to communicate directly with the fans. Without the internet I would have needed to rely upon a wide range of people in order to gain the same level of exposure. So, in that way, it has helped bring me closer to my fans, and has helped me to stay focused on actually making music.Do you think that the internet is changing the relationship between performers and their fans?I am certainly able to reach the fans on a more personal level now. By having a message board and a chatroom on my website, people that are interested in my music and career have developed a community that enables them to interact with each other, and with me. This level of intimacy between a performer and his fans would have been impossible 10 years ago.Do you feel that the ability to build one-to-one relationships with fans via the web will allow artists to have more control over their careers?I don't necessarily think that having a one to one relationship with my fans over the internet will give me more control over my career. But I do believe it can give me an ability to cater to their needs more. I can get instant feedback from them, so that I know what they want - and don't want!How can the internet help budding artists to further their careers?There are plenty of websites that are dedicated to finding great unsigned artists, likewww.makeastar.com. These sites give new artists an opportunity to be heard.Do you think that MP3 downloads will ever replace traditional music sales?I hope not, but I can't see any other way really. I think that the future of the music business lies somewhere in the digital realm. I can't see it taking over in the near future, but it will eventually, there's no stopping it.What computer do you use at home?My groovy little PC, Arnold, a computer built for me by a friend. I decided to have exactly what I wanted, so he's made to measure. Arnold was born in 1999.Which websites do you visit most often / which are your favourite sites?My favourite site is Neil Finn's atwww.nilfun.com. He is one of my favourite artists, but that's not the only reason I visit. It really is a piece of art.www.makestar.comis a great place to find interesting new unsigned artists.www.blowmeuptom.comis the website of my favourite talk radio DJ in Los Angeles.Which gadgets do you always have with you?My own personal batphone (A Nokia 3330 with the Benny Hill theme tune as my ringtone) and a Sony digital camera, which is broken at the moment. I have a nine-week-old son called Casey, so if I am not talking about him, then I am taking his photo.&#183;Chesney Hawkes' single Stay Away Baby Jane will be released on December 31, followed by an album in the new year.
A new netIn addition to the Tele-immersion project and other high-end applications, Internet2 and Janet are, and soon Geant will be, playing host to a multitude of less glamourous but more pervasive projects.A few days ago, primary teachers, psychologists and public school administrators participated in a virtual panel discussion between the University of Tel Aviv, Queen's University in Belfast, Texas A&amp;M Health Sciences Center in Houston, and West Chester University in Pennsylvania. The topic focused on stress, trauma, and continuing the educational process, and how to help students and teachers cope with the world crisis.Educators benefited from the experience of world-class psychologists through high-speed videoconferencing - something that would have been impossible two years ago. These people would never have been able to tap into this kind of a resource via the commercial internet.As the Internet2 connectors continue to extend into rural areas, such events will become    commonplace. It is another facet of the service that brings the extraordinary into the daily lives of the public.Greg PalmerUniversity of Pennsylvaniagpalmer@magpi.netBundle of joyTony Evans might have been horrified to find that his new Ford came with "bundled" wheels, engine and stereo.However, he was free to replace the stereo with a minidisc player, put on alloys or a nice, shiny gear knob, and sell the originals without risk of prosecution. He was able to test-drive it, and compare it with similar models from the same (and other) manufacturers. After purchase he didn't merely have a licence for him (and him alone) to drive it on roads specified by Ford, using petrol produced by Ford, in the car still owned by Ford. He would have been obliged to honour such a contract after signifying agreement by opening the car door.Now that would have been an abuse of monopoly.Paul Mooneypmooney2@ntlworld.comLast chance?Guy Kewney's article (A dream dies, Online, November 8) correctly identifies the LEO range as a lost chance to extend British dominance in mainframes. But not the last chance. That was thrown away by the ICL management around 1972 with their decision to wind down the ICT 1900 range and build new hardware - the 2900 - and develop a new operating system eventually called VME.VME took 10 years to reach commercial levels of reliability and performance - time ICL did not have. The late 70s and early 80s saw an accelerating haemorrhage of customers away from ICL.The eventual success was too late, the fatal Fujitsu embrace leading inevitably to a full takeover. But it is unfair to blame ICL management alone. The merger forced by Tony Benn in 1968 between ICT and EELM was foolish.Left to the market, ICT could have flourished and EELM, with its System 4 (an IBM/RCA rip-off) and poor sales, would deservedly died. Without Tony Benn's intervention we might still have a British mainframe computer industry today.Dick Jukesrjukes@globalnet.co.uk&#183;Thank you for Guy Kewney's piece "on the 50th anniversary of the first commercial mainframe."We are generally not very good as a nation in exploiting our inventions or celebrating our successes. So, it was refreshing that on this very special occasion, the City of London took the lead. The Jubilee conference (Nov 5 and 6) was opened by the Lord Mayor, and participants came from all over the world. LEO needed much more than the resources of an off-shoot of a catering company to hold its own as the technology    burgeoned year by year. With imaginative support from British industry and governments the results might have been very different.David CaminerManager, LEO Systemsdavid@caminer.fsnet.co.ukSee the needI am pleased Giles Heron and I agree (Feedback, November 8) on the need for videophone and reunification of the local loop. But he is the one not getting it on the rest.I am talking about a need  today for quality videophone services good enough for everyone to turn to. I have nothing against IP as the technology if it will do the job properly. But we can't rely on a  laissez faire approach through the present set-up of impoverished telcos, battered ISPs, fragmented networks and confused customers.The bulk of the population has neither the equipment nor the links. Only 39% of UK homes are on the internet and the number is declining; and the only broadband half of them have any prospect of getting is BT ADSL. None of the other local loop networks is configured for public service two-way broadband operation; and many of the high-speed internet access systems they support are contention-based and could never handle the traffic that countrywide videophone service would generate. We have no cheap customer cameras of sufficient quality; no standardised videophone    interfaces; and so on. Unified management and technical direction is essential to create a nationwide capability.The telecoms industry has allowed computing to seize the high ground of communication. The situation following September 11 imposes both an obligation and an opportunity on telecoms to counter attack.John Harperberry@pavilion.co.ukLetters:online.feedback@guardian.co.uk&#183;Please include a full postal address and telephone number. Short letters stand a better chance of being published.
