Our creative economy currently operates within a system that was established in 1701, when theStatute of Anneintroduced in the very first copyright.That legislation, the first of its kind in the world, was propelled into practice because Gutenberg's printing press revolutionised the concept of ownership and intellectual property.Now we live in a digital world, where creativity can be infinitely replicated. Artists, writers, musicians and others are struggling to cope with the new challenges this brings to their livelihoods, as people download their output for free, with little fear of consequence.Government and business have struggled to cope in this new era, but beyond theattempts at regulationand the high-profile lawsuits, how has the web transformedour beliefsabout ownership?This fortnight, I try to condense this enormous issue into 900 words for The Observer'sUntangling the Webcolumn. You can expect a whole lot more on theUntangling the Web blog, where I document my research process.And if you're in London on Monday 31 October, join The Guardian's Tech Weekly team for theirIntellectual Property debatewithEd Vaizey MP(Minister for Culture, Communications and Creative Industries) andProf Ian Hargreaves(author of the government-commissionedIntellectual Property and Growth Report, 2011), the last their live events in the firstTech City Talksseries.Keep an eye onthe eventbrite pagefor details.If you would like to comment on this topic, add your thoughts below, emailaleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.ukor catch me@alekskon Twitter.
YouTube has launched its movie rental service in the UK with thousands of blockbusters including The Dark Knight and Reservoir Dogs.Film fans in the UK can now rent new releases for £3.49 and older titles for between £2.49 and £3.49from YouTube.The move puts the Google-owned site in direct competition with Amazon's LoveFilm, which claims some 1.6 million customers in the UK and Europe. LoveFilm makes new releases available to non-members for between £2.49 and £3.49 a film.Viewers will be given a 30-day window to watch their film on YouTube, and 48 hours once they have started viewing it.YouTube has signed UK-specific deals with Hollywood film companies including Sony Pictures, Warner Bros, Universal and Lionsgate. The website has also signed deals with Revolver Entertainment, the British studio behind Talihina Sky: The story of Kings of Leon, and Metrodome.The UK becomes only the third market where YouTube has launched its movie rental business, after the US and Canada.YouTubelaunched its US video-on-demand service in Mayas part of its shift away from short, low-quality clips that made the site so popular. YouTube is by far the busiest video website online, with more than 100 million unique monthly viewers, according to figuresreleased by web metrics firm Nielsenin June.The launch of the UK movie rental service follows longstanding deals with broadcasters, including Channel 4 and Channel 5, who make their programmes available on the site.Patrick Walker, senior director of content partnerships for YouTube in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said: "We're happy to be working with partners of all sizes to bring more content to YouTube users."In addition to clips, user-created and long-form TV content our British users know and love, now movie lovers can find full-length feature films on YouTube in the UK."•To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".•To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Here's your weekend reading onWho Will Build the Future Digital Economy?: the debate onMonday 10 Octoberabout the current state of the UK's digital skills, and the steps the government and others are taking to support the next generation of technology worker bees.A-Level IT curriculum needs urgent review to prevent future skills gap- Computer WeeklyChairman of Google condemns British Education system- The GuardianEric Schmidt challenges teachers: "Get with the program"- GigaOMIEEE boss urges a reform to engineering in education- TechEyeEd Vaizey calls for BBC backing on computer sciences- TechEyeUK computer grads have 'lowest employment rate'- PCR OnlineUK tech industry says ICT curriculum failing- PCR OnlineWilletts announces new school IT curriculum (15 Sept 2011)- Financial TimesBCS welcomes move by David Willetts to transform ICT school curriculum- British Computing SocietyCreating a web literate planet- CommonspaceScholar examines links between Stanford, Silicon Valley- University of StanfordHistory of Stanford Pt 3: The rise of Silicon Valley (Stanford University)- University of StanfordComputing at School, in partnership with BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT- Computing at SchoolIf you have anything to say about the UK's digital skills, or what the UK's Stanford Solution should be, please add your comments below.The recommendedTwitterhashtag for this event is#TWTC1.Seeour Eventbrite pagefor more information on how to attend the debate on Monday 10 October, and how to sign up for the others talks in the series.
BT and TalkTalk have been granted permission to appeal against their failed legal challenge to the Digital Economy Act, which is central to the government's attempts to curb illegal downloading.The decision means that there will now be a hearing at the court of appeal – likely to be in the new year – which means that the government's plans to send thousands of warning letters to alleged illegal downloaders will probably be pushed back by about six months.The government had planned to start sending the letters in the first half of next year, but it will now have to hold off until the challenge by Britain's two largest ISPs is resolved.Lord Justice Lewison granted BT and TalkTalk leave to appeal the DEA on four grounds. Both companies have raised concerns about how the legislation works alongside EU directives on technical standards, authorisation, e-commerce, as well as privacy and electronic communications.The hearing will be heard by three judges, one of whom must have EU experience – which the ISPs privately believe may help their cause."We are pleased to have been granted permission to appeal the high court judgment," said BT. "We now expect that the hearing will take place as soon as possible."Today's ruling was effectively the last throw of the dice for the two ISPs after judge Sir Richard Buxton turned down thelast attempt in June.
This week Apple quietly released into the UK and Europe an adapter that allows you to connect a standard micro-USB connector to the 30-pin adapter found on the base of the iPod, iPhone and iPad. Now, I know what you're thinking:the Guardian is so in love with Apple that they'll even publish an article about an adapter. I had a moment of reflection on the topic myself. However, this article is about solving an engineering problem, and that's what makes it interesting. Not the company that made it.It costs £8…or as my dad likes to say "How much?!"So, OK, these things are going for£8 on the Apple store. But much as you can buythird-party USB-to-Apple cables for 1p plus deliveryvia various vendors on Amazon Marketplace, it won't be long before £8 buys you enough of these things to fill a good sized cereal bowl.The Common European ChargerThe introduction of this adapter in Europe (note that it's currently not available in the US) comes about from a voluntary agreement that Apple and other phone manufacturers made to move away from proprietary power adapters for phones and move to a common model. (Read anotice related to the agreement). Like all things that include the concept of "bureaucracy" and "voluntary" in close proximity, you can read into this a desire by the manufacturers to control the game, rather than passing control over to the lawmakers.The standard implemented in the common External Power Supply (EPS) was based on the micro-USB adapter that was common across most of the other parties. The format of this adapter is a problem for Apple, but not a problem for the others (notably including Motorola, Samsung, Nokia and RIM), as they either already used it or didn't have anything particularly from stopping them using it apart from design changes and modification to the supply line.The 30-pin adapter and its part in the downfall of Apple's competitorsThe iPod was originally conceived to augment the value of the Mac proposition over the PC. Although MP3 players were starting to gain some ground at the time of the introduction of the iPod, one major problem that the PC side of the market had was that transferring files over to a device over USB 1.1 was interminably slow. FireWire, originally intended to be a disk subsystem bus and hence very fast, could operate at up to 400Mb/s. Given that FireWire was a Mac thing, and given that the iPod was supposed to complement the Mac, the first iPods had a FireWire adapter only.As time moved on and the product evolved, USB 2.0 came out, able (in theory) to run at 480 MB/s, faster than FireWire. Importantly, Macs started to support this USB standard. (And vice-versa – FireWire was happening on the PC as well.) Secondly, Apple decided to open up the iPod to the PC market as well. Thus they needed to be able to build one device that could connect over FireWire or USB.The solution was the 30-pin adapter, which like many things Apple was a happy accident that got parlayed into something quite special.(A quick bit of background on the adapter itself. At the beginning you had separate USB data and FireWire data pins, and their associated power pins. You also have analogue left and right audio out and left and right audio in. Over time, composite video was added. There are also some pins that indicate the type of device connected, and as always in these things you have pins that aren't used.)With the 30-pin adapter, Apple was able to control access into its world. By registering and protecting the design they could license companies to produce adapters for it. With nothing else on the market to touch the iPod, Apple used this to build an ecosystem. Customers wanted to plug their iPod into their stereos and so companies like Sony, Panasonic and Denon produced. Then the iPhone was released with the same 30-pin dock and (as is the rule at Apple) "it just worked". By keeping the design of the bottom of these units similar and compatible over time, a dock for an iPod v1 in theory will still work with an iPhone 4S. (Your mileage may vary on this, as the pin-out specification has not remained as static as one might like.)But when you look at an Android phone, you can't expect that, because the design is not controlled or coordinated. OK, every Android phone you buy today probably has a micro-USB adapter; but they're not in the same place, and the physical shape of the units differs, so you can't just plug them into a dock unit as you can with an iPod/iPhone. If you're Sony or Panasonic or whoever looking to build a portable music player dock into your stereo systems, the obvious market to hit is the iPod/iPhone market by implementing a 30-pin adapter. This arrangement works very well for Apple as it nudges buyers towards their products. (It also makes money by licensing access - the "made for iPod" mark isn't just a stamp.)Apple's dilemmaThe advantage the 30-pin adapter gives Apple is somewhat at odds with its voluntary undertaking over the European common charger. Also, the 30-pin adapter and the contours of the bottom of the of the devices themselves are so ingrained into Apple's design philosophy and (more importantly) supply chain that swapping out the adapter may well be horrendous.In addition, there are no similar rules on common chargers outside the EU (yet), so removing the 30-pin adapter in Europe would create huge headaches in managing production of these devices, because it would split the product line. Plus, although Apple cultivates an image of being indifferent to anyone who's not them, it's not in the business of deliberately ruining relationships with those who design add-on products as part of device ecosystem.So the micro-USB-to-30-pin adapter lets Apple keep its bargain with the EU, while not having to add huge costs to production. A side-effect of the agreement is that device manufacturers do not have to give away chargers with their phones (on the assumption that the customer will already have one that he or she can use, because everyone's using micr-USB, aren't they?).That's a whole load of copper, plastic, carbon, weight and cost that can simply be subtracted - or, in Apple's case, replaced with a tiny micro-USB-to-30-pin adapter that costs probably less than a penny to make, whilst maintaining the cost of the device. No one is really going to expect Apple to reduce the cost of iPhones by £15 just because you no longer get an adapter; the device price just isn't that elastic. (OK: no one who knows about supply chains, manufacturing costs, operating profit and total quality management is going to expect it. Everyone else, expect away, and don't forget to keep watch for the flying pigs.)So: by using an adapter, Apple can preserve its existing designs worldwide, its existing supply chain, protect its ecosystem partners' profits, drive people away from competitors and save a vast amount of cost, without lowering their prices, and thus push up profit. It also make some feel-good capital in Europe by doing the right thing by the EU, and staves off potential bureaucratic control.In those terms, this adapter is looking like some very, very smart thinking.Yes, but what's the benefit for consumers?I recently had to buy a spare iPad power adapter. It cost me £30. I didn't want to spend £30 on one, I would much rather have used one of the myriad generic 30-pin to USB adapters and one of the bazillion micro-USB cables I seem to have acquired over the years. Even if I paid £8 for an adapter, I'd still be £22 up. Yes, it's another thing to lose, but on balance, standardising the power input as per the common European charger is a massive win. Here's the remarkable thing: Apple makes more profit, but I save money in the long term if I need to buy a replacement, and the world uses fewer resources (because you don't need a charger with its copper and plastic and cores). It's a sort of financial wizardry. (Obviously, it applies to all the mobile phone companies, since they don't have to give out chargers either. So if you're going to criticise Apple when the price isn't lower, be sure check their prices - carefully comparing European and US prices - too.)I like this sort of money-for-nothing stuff. Maybe next week I'll try my hand at securitising mortgages.iTunes Wireless SyncOne final thought about this: if you ignore the charging side of the issue, the 30-pin adapter is starting to look anachronistic. With iOS 5, iPhones can be synced wirelessly. If I were to buy a normal stereo today, I'd expect it to have Wi-Fi [dream on - Ed.], so I'd expect the two to play nicely over Wi-Fi and never need to plug it in.So, really all I need from my iPhone in the long term is a micro-USB adapter for charging. In conclusion then, this adapter helps Apple out over the next couple of years – but after that, I'd like a micro-USB port soldered onto the motherboard. Please.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
• Find the video in your camera roll and open it.• Press the Send button (bottom left of the screen).• Choose Email Video.• If the video is too long, you will see "Video is too long: would you like to select a smaller clip from this video to email?".• In this case, press OK and select part of the video to upload. You can upload as many parts as you like, but you need to restart this process for each one.• Press the Email button, and the iPhone will compress your video.• Enteryour.videos@guardian.co.ukin the To: field, and press Send.• If possible, do not leave the connection area until sending is complete. This may take several minutes, depending on the capacity of your connection.
Amid the cavernous stands pushing traditional RPGs and robot combat games at this year's Tokyo Game Show, one booth stood out. Painted in brash primary colours and surrounded by comfy seats for two-player sessions, this was the domain of US indie studio The Behemoth. Famed for its groundbreaking cross-over indie hit Alien Hominid and gloriously ridiculous hack-n-slash romp, Castle Crashers, Behemoth is one of the founding fathers of the digital download game scene.On show at TGS was the studio's third title,BattleBlock Theater,a 2D co-op platformer, which oozes the same kind of frenzied comic book charm as its predecessors. Due out on XBLA early next year, it revolves around two explorers who are shipwrecked on a mysterious island; seeking shelter in a theatre they discover that they're now captives of an evil race of hyper-intelligent cats who make the duo leap and fight their way through a series of deadly stages. It's sort of Planet of the Apes meets The Running Man, with some Vaudeville comedy thrown in for good measure.At the start of the game, players can choose from a range of special weapons including darts, boomerangs, grenades and dodge balls, all of which have specific uses in the game world, and can also double up as handy exploration items (for example, lobbed into a wall, darts become handy platforms for reaching new areas). From here, it's on to the levels themselves, each constructed out of deviously placed blocks.There are, of course, traps everywhere, as well as certain blocks that can be moved or exploded. At times, players can pick up wings that let them hover across the screen, via repeated button presses. All the time, you are being attacked by cats in dark sunglasses.Each stage has a number of gems to be collected – these can be exchanged to release unlucky prisoners of the cats. The level design is based around co-op action, so that two players help each other to progress. It's possible to fling your partner across chasms, or help them up onto higher blocks. But there is also a competitive elements – there are more rewards for players who collect the most gems, so the characters can also sneakily assault each other, sabotaging as well as aiding progress. As you progress, you unlock new headshapes and items for your characters, and apparently there are over 200 designs available.I played several levels at TGS and abolsutely loved the dynamic; stages are fast, testing and cleverly designed, with plenty of sections that require a decent amount of thought to attain all the available gems. And the interplay of cooperation and competition is fascinating – often you've got to help each other uncover a well-hidden gem, but then it becomes a violent free-for-all to actually pocket the thing.The handdrawn graphical style – as usual for Behemoth – is just lovely. During the show, production coordinator Ian Moreno was telling me that the studio's visuals have gained a passionate following in Japan, and fans there are extremely knowledgeable about the team's artist, Dan Paladin, and his inspirations.It looks like there will also be a 16-player online mode, as well as a single-player campaign and a whole bunch of mini-games. There's been no word of a PSN or smartphone version, but they're surely following. And brilliantly, Behemoth is also producing its own range of capsule toys for the title.Anyway, here's Ian demoing Battleblock Theater to Game Reactor magazine at TGS...You can alsoview several videosat the game's official website.Battleblock Theater is released on Xbox Live Arcade next year.
London Unfurled for iPadBook publisher Pan Macmillan has a capital new iPad book-app for sale: London Unfurled. It's based on artist Matteo Pericoli's 37-foot-long pen'n'ink drawings along the north and south banks of the Thames. The app lets people swipe along the river, zooming in for more detail while sending favourite views to friends. Iain Sinclair and Will Self are also on board with audio guides, alongside Pericoli himself.iPadDark MeadowThe latest showcase game for iOS, following in the footsteps of Infinity Blade and Shadowgun, is Dark Meadow. Using the Unreal 3 game engine, it offers eye-poppingly impressive graphics along with a mix of sword'n'crossbow fantasy combat.iPhone / iPadRecipicsRecipics offers a different spin on the cooking-app genre, encouraging its users to take photos of recipes in magazines, books and websites, to be called up whenever required. Recipes can also be shared with friends via Facebook, Twitter and email.iPhone / AndroidAir PenguinGamevil's iOS hit Air Penguin has made the leap onto Android as a free title, keeping its addictive ice-cap-jumping gameplay and cute characters.AndroidMail on Sunday CrosswordAssociated Northcliffe Digital has launched its latest apps for the Mail on Sunday brand, based on the games that appear in the paper itself. The Crossword app is free to download with 10 puzzles included, and will charge via in-app payment for packs of 10, 50 and 100 additional ones. Also new areMail on Sunday CodecrackerandMail on Sunday Sudoku.iPhone / iPadIsle of Tune HDIsle of Tune HD is billed as "the world's only music-making town-planning construction game", which sounds about right. It involves building a city through instruments and melodies, tying into the existing online version of the game to see other people's islands.iPadLet's Golf 2 HDIt's fair to say BlackBerry PlayBook owners are keen for some more decent games to be released for RIM's tablet. Gameloft's Let's Golf 2 HD comes with a good reputation from other platforms, promising 108 holes of well-tuned cartoon golf.BlackBerry PlayBookQFolioOn a more serious note, QFolio is a BlackBerry PlayBook app from NASDAQ which lets people create a portfolio of stocks then track prices, activity and a customised heat map.BlackBerry PlayBookSubaru Frankfurt 2011Fuji Heavy Industries has launched an iPad app to tie in with the Frankfurt Motor Show, focusing on the latest Subaru cars including the XV and BRZ Prologue. Curiously, it's only available for the iPad 2.iPadiTalk Smurf"Ever wish you could have a Smurf in your pocket?" asks the App Store description for this new app from FrogDogMedia. Maybe don't answer that. But yes, this takes the genre popularised by Talking Tom Cat and applies it to Clumsy the Smurf, tapping, tickling and talking back.iPhoneJaws RevengeiOS game Jaws Revenge is high concept in action: it's Jaws, but you play the shark. Complete with upgrades: "Bigger teeth, tougher skin..."iPhone / iPadKLM TripShakeAt last! An app for people who don't want to plan travel, but would rather shake their iPhone to pick a random destination! We only marvel at why it took this long for someone – KLM – to come up with the idea...iPhone
The launch date is approaching, the online multiplayer beta is attracting thousands of gamers and the expectations are sky high:Battlefield 3is coming. And while many have pointed to glitches and bugs still present in the beta code (there remains a baffling inability among gamers to differentiate between the words 'beta' and 'demo'), EA Dice is confident it can have everything ironed out for launch at the end of the month.Yesterday, EA ran a preview event in London, showing off four single-player missions and a bunch of new multiplayer maps. We'll have more on that later. We also grabbed a few minutes with the game's producer Patrick Liu, who answered a selection of reader questions, as well as some points about that controversial beta.Here's what he had to say...How do you feel about the beta so far?It's taught us a lot. Our primary intentions have been to test the backend. As we said at the beginning, we have six times the number of players we had with Bad Company 2, we have record high concurrent users compared to anything we've done before. And we know it works. In previous games, like Bad Company and 1943, we've had serious problems with the backend, it's just been overloaded – this time it hasn't been a problem.So the purpose of the beta has been entirely about testing the infrastructure?Yeah, we just wanted to know it wouldn't crash and burn at launch. It was horrible with Battlefield 1943 – it sold ten times the numbers we thought it would, and it was down for three or four days which is really bad. We don't want to go through that again.Has anything surprised you about the way people are playing?We've seen a couple of things with the gadgets, but not as much as we expect – but that's mainly down to the map we're showing – the Paris map – it doesn't have any vehicles, it's much more linear; I think we'll see a lot more emergent gameplay with the big, open conquest maps.What made you decide to run the beta with that map? Some people have said that it's a shame you chose a level without vehicles…Yeah, I think there's been a misunderstanding of the term 'beta test'! We ran the alpha tests with a rush map and we wanted to have some sort of reference so we could compare results – so we needed to have more-or-less the same map. But we do understand the concerns that we didn't show a conquest map, but we have demoed Caspian Border, and we did run a conquest map as a limited PC-only test.Our readers have asked about knifing in BF3 – is it correct that it takes two stabs to kill someone with the quick knife?That's true in a sense. We've put another layer into the knife mechanic. Knifing in Battlefield has never been a one hit kill, but if you manage to sneak behind someone it's now a one hit kill – and you then get the dog tags. It's a lot harder!Have you ever thought of including a flight tutorial in the game to help people get to grips with the aircraft?We'veconsideredit! There will be tips to show you what buttons to use, but it's really about trial and error, and leaning by failing! You will crash a few times before you learn how to fly the jets. I have to admit, there is a steep learning curve. Once you know how to use a jet, it's very, very dangerous. It's been a long balancing process and we always need to provide tools to counter the aircraft. The philosophy is similar to rock, paper, scissors – everything needs to be countered. With jets, it's very har, but I know we've managed it with some of the gadgets and with the anti-aircraft missiles.Will there be a strong clan infrastructure, complete with clan vs clan matches?Yes. Right now we have the platoons in there, and one of the benefits of having Battlelog is that we can develop and update that element – and we will. We'll change it according to feedback and we can react much faster to what people want.You've kept the story under wraps so far, do you feel it's doing different things that other military shooters?Yes, I do think we're doing things slightly differently. It's another balancing act, you've got to think of the messaging you want to get across. It's an American game in a sense, but we're based in Sweden – that in itself is a challenge. But we do want to do something different with the narrative.A lot of our readers are huge fans of Bad Company – has that series been put to bed for a while so you can concentrate on Battlefield?Well, we haven't killed Bad Company! But we can only make so many games. Be patient – there might be something else coming up…So you are actively working on other things?We always have a couple of projects going on – some of them die, but some are more fruitful. We don't have any plans to make Battlefield an annual title – we want to make it ourselves we don't want anyone else doing it! And no studio can make an annual franchise by themselves – well, the sports titles can but they're a very different breed.And how about Battlefield 1943, which I loved. Is there a chance of Dice bringing out another digital download title?Certainly, that kind of downloadable game is something we're very keen on. Battelefield 1943 was kind of a disruptive game when it came out; there weren't really any other shooters – XBLA games were very different then. Nowadays there are a lot of big triple A games on Arcade – I'd like to believe we started that trend. I like the whole idea of transforming something as complex as Battlefield into something much more accessible with only very small tweaks to the gameplay mechanics… I could talk about Battlefield 1943 all day, that was my baby!So what's going on in the office right now? Are you still in the midst of crunch?I think we're over the peak, that's for sure. There's a still a lot of work to do. And the launch is just the start really. We'll then be releasing more content, tweaking and balancing the game – we have a team dedicated to servicing the game after launch.Have any Battlefield 3 multiplayer maps emerged as team favourites?There are a bunch of them, but what's funny is that we're making the Back to Karkand map pack with all the old BF2 maps and even Wake Island – again! – and people are gravitating towards those once more. It's nostalgia, they're just so familiar. And I love Wake Island! There are a couple of basic map layouts, basic structures that usually work. There are maps that live on, that we just keep re-making over and over again – we do that for a reason: because they're so good. Just looking at Strike at Karkand, thinking of how many hours have been spent on that map – we've seen the statistics, we know it's popular. We've had to analyse //why// it's so good… so we can make it all over again!The modding community played quite an important role in the early popularity of Battelfield, creating several high-profile offshoots, including Desert Combat, of course. Have you looked into supporting that community with BF3?We've investigated it, but we don't currently have any plans for it – we have no tools that'll be ready for launch. We do recognise the modding community, it's just that it's such a huge undertaking to make a toolset like that – it's like making another game. But we'll see.Finally, do you have any idea what EA's expectations are for Battlefield, in terms of sales figures?(Pause) I know the figures…[At this point a PR person politely informs me that EA aren't discussing expectations for the title.]But, okay, is there a blackboard on a wall somewhere at Dice HQ with a figure on it representing the number of units you want to sell?(Laughs) No, it's not something we talk about!Battlefield 3 is released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 28 October.
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWith time running short, Steve Jobs managed his farewells &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"In February, Steven P. Jobs had learned that, after years of fighting cancer, his time was becoming shorter. He quietly told a few acquaintances, and they, in turn, whispered to others. And so a pilgrimage began. "The calls trickled in at first. Just a few, then dozens, and in recent weeks, a nearly endless stream of people who wanted a few moments to say goodbye, according to people close to Mr. Jobs. Most were intercepted by his wife, Laurene. She would apologetically explain that he was too tired to receive many visitors. In his final weeks, he became so weak that it was hard for him to walk up the stairs of his own home anymore, she confided to one caller." "Some asked if they might try again tomorrow. Sorry, she replied. He had only so much energy for farewells." In the end, none of us will ever have the chance to properly say the goodbyes we might truly wish to.Meltemi is real - Nokia's skunkworks Linux &gt;&gt; The Register"Sources tell us that Nokia is developing a Linux-based replacement for its S40 phones, called Meltemi. The news was leaked, accurately, by the Wall Street Journal last week. Now we can confirm it. "The codename turned up in an internal communication we saw in April, referring to opportunities for redundant Meego staff "in the Meltemi organisation". We inferred that was a Windows project. It isn't. "The thinking is that a Linux-based replacement for S40 will allow developers to tap into proven development tools - and Qt." Targeting the installed base, apparently, rather than its future. Meanwhile, smartphones make more than 25% of sales worldwide and the figure is rising every quarter.Acer plans 15-inch ultrabooks using fibreglass cases &gt;&gt; Digitimes"Acer plans to launch a 15-inch ultrabook model in early 2012 built using fibreglass cases supplied by Mitac Precision Technology. Asustek Computer is expected to follow suit, also adopting fiber glass cases from MPT, according to industry sources. "Acer originally planned to release the 15-inch model in the fourth quarter but decided to delay the launch to 2012 due to unfavourable market conditions, noted the sources, noting that the fibreglass cases will help bring down unit costs. "The price of fibreglass cases will be US$5-10 less than those made of aluminum alloy and US$20 cheaper for a whole ultrabook, the sources estimated." Sounds like they're expecting slim margins.Open Source Projects &gt;&gt; Twitter DevelopersInteresting list, and plenty more on GitHub.RIM, maker of BlackBerry, debates its target market for PlayBook tablet &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"As Research In Motion Ltd. executives prepared early this year for the launch of their first tablet, the PlayBook, one big question loomed: Who was the device for? "Some executives, like RIM's technical visionary and co-chief executive Mike Lazaridis, saw the gadget as an extension of the BlackBerry, long favored by corporations and business people. Others were pushing for more focus on ordinary consumers, people eager for games, music and movies, according to executives close to the company. "'There's an internal war going on around the marketing message. Even the guys at the top don't agree,' one executive close to the company said at the time." The first ad agency' tag line was "Go Pro". They got fired. (Link may require subscription.)Sony Ericsson's Strategy: Get Smart - WSJ.comThe m00p malware investigation - was justice done? &gt;&gt; Naked Security"Detective Constable Bob Burls of the UK's Police Central e-Crime Unit (PCeU) and F-Secure's Mikko Hyppönen took centre stage at the Virus Bulletin conference in Barcelona to describe how the computer-crime fighting authorities and anti-virus industry worked together on one such investigation. "'Operation Kennet' was the UK police's codename for a probe into the m00p virus-writing group - a cybercrime gang that operated from 2004 until 2006, recruiting compromised computers into an IRC-controlled botnet." Fascinating case, as much as anything for how the people involved were discovered logged into the relevant servers when the police arrested them.Steve Jobs: Arab-American, Buddhist, Psychedelic Drug User, and Capitalist World-Changer &gt;&gt; Informed Comment"Like Barack Obama, Jobs was the son of a Muslim. "[His mother] Simpson, young and unmarried, gave Jobs up for adoption, but she and Jandali later wed and gave Jobs a sister. He never appears to have met his father a political scientist who later went into the casino business, but he did get to know his biological sister Mona. That is, Jobs's childhood was wrought up with a) Muslim immigration to the United States and b) the sexual revolution, both phenomena of the 1950s that accelerated in subsequent decades. Of course, these two parts of his heritage had only an indirect impact on him. "His adoptive parents were Paul Jobs and Clara Hagopian Jobs (his adoptive mother would therefore be of Armenian heritage.)" Classic American story, basically.Steve Jobs: Photo Booth 2005 &gt;&gt; FacebookHilarious set of photos from 2005 when Jobs was testing out a set of photo filters in Mike Matas's office at Apple.Consultation on the Public Data Corporation &gt;&gt; Ernestmarples.comAnother consultation on data from Ordnance Survey, Met Office and Land Registry. Soooo.. Q Didn't this already happen? "This is much more important than the postcode consultation that Ernest Marples asked you to respond to last time. Because as well as postcode data, it includes maps, gazettes, boundaries, weather observations and predictions, land ownership records, and more besides." "With the exception of postcode data and a few other watered-down Ordnance Survey products, all of this data is currently only available for a fee, despite being collected by these organisations as part of their public task." Q So what *should* be happening? "Ernest thinks that the raw data held by the Public Data Corporation and its constituents is public data, and should be made available to all, for free, for any purpose." As they put it: "Please respond now! Time runs out on 27th October 2011. It's just like the Mayan apocalypse, but for open data."Call routing scam costs telcos $150m a year &gt;&gt; The Register"Fraudulent call termination is costing operators huge amounts of money, though the victims are often unaware they've been tricked. The elaborate scam involves routing international calls onto local numbers, then using promotional offers offered by local telcos to connect the call without handing over the termination fee. UK outfit Revector, which has detected this swindle in 50 countries over the past two years, puts the revenue loss at $150m annually and points to one European operator who was losing more than a million dollars a month." Very complex, but valuable.two minutes with steve &gt;&gt; sippey.comOn the Wednesday afternoon before the Monday keynote we were to present in the theater on Apple's campus to Steve, Scott Forstall and Phil Schiller; they'd have the final word on whether we'd make it to the big stage at Moscone. The wait outside the theater was torture, the walk down the aisle was nerve wracking, and the two minute demo we gave went by in a blur. I'm pretty sure I rushed it. "But Steve smiled. He said he liked it, that we had done a great job. And then gave us advice. Move a line up, emphasize this particular point, fix that button on the app. Coming from him it was all obvious stuff -- we felt foolish for not seeing those flaws earlier. ... And on that Monday the whole thing went off without a hitch." See it:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LtRunIKuxfw. How would you have done?Steve Jobs didn't... &gt;&gt; AsymcoInteresting analysis of what Steve Jobs did and didn't do in running businesses.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Dark Souls day! From Software's brutal action RPG is set to rip your weekend apart – check out Steve Boxer's reviewhere. Also out today are id's Mad Max racer shooter,Rage, and the latest in 2K's excellent basketball series, NBA 2K 12. Forget the outside world this weekend – it's cold and cruel out there anyway.
The official Steve Jobs biography will be released on 24 October after being rushed forward because of the Apple co-founder's death.The authorised biography Steve Jobs is written by Walter Isaacson, the former managing editor of Time magazine. Customer pre-purchases have already made it the number one bestseller at Amazon. Publishing house Simon &amp; Schuster had originally planned to release it on 21 November.Isaacson has told how Jobs, in pain and too weak to climb stairs a few weeks before his death, wanted his children to understand why he wasn't always there for them. "I wanted my kids to know me," Isaacson quoted Jobs as saying in their final interview at Jobs' home in Palo Alto, California. "I wasn't always there for them and I wanted them to know why and to understand what I did."Isaacson said he visited Jobs for the last time a few weeks ago and found him curled up in some pain in a downstairs bedroom. Jobs had moved there because he was too weak to go up and down stairs "but his mind was still sharp and his humour vibrant", Isaacson writes in an essay that will be published in Time magazine's 17 October edition.Jobs died on Wednesday at the age of 56 after suffering a rare form of pancreatic cancer.Simon &amp; Schuster's synopsis says the book is based on more than 40 interviews with Jobs conducted over two years – as well as interviews with more than a hundred family members, friends, adversaries, competitors, and colleagues. "Although Jobs co-operated with this book, he asked for no control over what was written nor even the right to read it before it was published. He put nothing off-limits. He encouraged the people he knew to speak honestly. And Jobs speaks candidly, sometimes brutally so, about the people he worked with and competed against."Jobs could drive those around him to fury and despair. But his personality and products were interrelated, just as Apple's hardware and software tended to be, as if part of an integrated system. His tale is instructive and cautionary, filled with lessons about innovation, character, leadership and values."Another publisher,Bluewater Productions, has said it is rushing out a special edition e-book of its forthcoming comic book on Jobs.The 32-page comic titled Steve Jobs: Founder of Apple is initially being sold on the NOOK and Kindle readers. The print edition is due for release at the end of October, with a portion of the profits from both issues going to the American Cancer Society.
The bunches of flowers began arriving outside Apple stores as morning broke around the world: a potent symbol of the extraordinary outpouring of emotion that greeted the death of Steve Jobs, the co-founder of Apple Inc. His death was announced by his family late in the afternoon on the Californian west coast where he lived most of his life."It's a dark day in Silicon Valley," Matt Drance, a former Apple employee, remarked in an email. Anyone who thought that technologists couldn't be moved to tears would soon realise, from the tributes on Twitter and Facebook, that Jobs, who died at 56 from cancer which he had held at bay for eight years, had inspired the strongest feelings.In Beijing a steady stream of mourners and admirers made their way to lay flowers and light candles at the Apple Store. One corner of the ground floor had been turned into a shrine of sorts with photographs of Steve Jobs, bouquets and messages: "You have enriched our lives. Thank you for changing the world," said one in English. "Go in peace. We love you," said another.It seemed as though there wasn't anyone who hadn't somehow been touched by his work. The tributes came from everywhere.President Obama called him visionaryand said "he exemplified the spirit of American ingenuity" and that "he transformed our lives, redefined entire industries, and achieved one of the rarest feats in human history: he changed the way each of us sees the world."Bill Gates, his longtime rival but also friend – born, like Jobs, in 1955 – said that "the world rarely sees someone who has had the profound impact Steve has had, the effects of which will be felt for many generations to come … I will miss Steve immensely."The fact is that for multiple businesses – computing, film, music, mobile telephony and most recently mobile computing – Jobs overturned the existing order. Again and again he refused to go along with the conventional wisdom, and introduced his own instead. He lived his life by the instruction he gave in a commencement address to Stanford graduates: "Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice," urging them to keep innocently seeking the new: "Stay hungry. Stay foolish."Jobs, though, came across as anything but foolish. He was often described as a tyrant able to throw a "reality distortion field" around his immediate area, to make people believe anything that he told them. The reality was simpler, but harder for technologists used to comparing numbers to understand. Jobs was a brilliant negotiator who had the rare ability to visualise exactly what other people – whether singly across a table or by the thousand in an auditorium or by the million in homes and businesses – wanted. He could frame a price negotiation or a product launch to get the maximum benefit at the minimum risk.The single occasion on which he did this best was in 1996, when he had recently rejoined Apple (the company he co-founded in 1976) – which was on its knees. The management had lost a billion dollars in the previous 12 months. Jobs knew that it was 90 days from bankruptcy. So he flew north to Redmond to see Gates at Microsoft – which was infringing a number of Apple patents. He needed investment, but being confrontational would just make Gates, then richest man in the world, obstinate – and Apple would have to turn the lights out.Jobs instead turned the discussion into one where the two companies had a common purpose, in computing: "Bill," he told his old friend and rival, "between us, we own 100% of the desktop!" Gates wasn't fooled – he knew that Microsoft had 95% and Apple 5% – but even so was won over. Microsoft bought $150m of non-voting stock; Apple was saved. Gates observed afterwards: "That guy is so amazing. He is a master at selling," recounts Alan Deutschman in his book The Second Coming of Steve Jobs. (Had Microsoft held on to the stock, it would today be worth 130 times more than Gates paid, or $19bn – about a tenth of Microsoft's present market value.)Jobs could be ruthless. He fired people who let information slip before an event and spoiled the surprise. He was unforgiving of failure: when Apple's first effort at a "cloud" service MobileMe suffered flaws in its early weeks he called the team together into a hall and excoriated them for half an hour. Chuq von Rospach, who worked at the company until 2009 (though not on that project), characterised it as: "Imagine Steve walking up and down the corridors with a flamethrower, stopping people at random and saying 'Do you work on MobileMe? How about you?'"Yet for all the claims of tyrannical behaviour, Jobs also kept staff fiercely loyal. Former employees speak of their devotion to their company with something approaching amazement; they sound almost surprised at how hard they worked and how demanding Jobs was. Yet thestaff at the top of the companyhave stayed almost unchanged since he returned there at the end of 1996, taking over the reins in 1997. Tim Cook, now chief executive; Phil Schiller, head of marketing; Jonathan Ive, head of design. The core of Apple's functionality flows from them.His beginnings were inauspicious. Jobs was the adopted child of a university lecturer and a student (he was a quarter Syrian) raised by working parents who could barely scrape together the money to send him to college. When he did go to Reed College he soon dropped out, but stayed behind and studied calligraphy and typography – which would later feed into the products whose design he would oversee in microscopic detail.The first time he overturned the way the world worked was in 1984. In 1979, three years after setting up Apple with Steve Wozniak, Jobs had visited Xerox's Palo Alto Research Centre in California and saw its experimental system which used "windows" and a "mouse" – an insane idea at a time when all other computers (including Apple's) communicated via blinking cursors into which you fed obscure commands such as CP: A: B:, rather than by manipulating virtual objects on a screen."It wasn't complete," he told Wired magazine later. "It wasn't quite right. But within 10 minutes, it was obvious that every computer in the world would work this way someday. And you could argue about the number of years it would take, and you could argue about who would be the winners and the losers, but I don't think you could argue that every computer in the world wouldn't eventually work this way."Jobs licensed the system from Xerox (which took payment in Apple stock) and oversaw the development of computers using the new "windowing" system. The first was called Lisa, after his daughter; the next, the Macintosh, which went on sale in 1984, aimed to make windows ubiquitous. Jobs also wanted it to be as simple to use, and as closed-in, as a washing machine or other domestic appliance. Computers, he felt, were just too complicated. Using window systems was much easier.Microsoft agreed, licensed and then extended the idea, and while Jobs wrangled with John Sculley – hired from his presidency of Pepsi with the immortal line "do you want to sell sugared water for the rest of your life, or do you want a chance to change the world?" – Bill Gates extended the idea of windows to Windows, which rapidly overtook Apple's products and the most widely used desktop computer operating system in the world. Jobs was kicked out of Apple in 1985, and over the next 12 years Microsoft infiltrated and then took over personal computing. All the computers used windows – in some form. Jobs had been right.His next target was the film business. Pixar, the company that he bought from George Lucas (who was selling it as part of a divorce settlement) in 1986, is a classic "people business": the talent walks out of the door every day. It was also cutting-edge, making films entirely with computers – actors, pictures, everything. Jobs was able to keep John Lasseter and other key staff working there through thick and thin. But it was his negotiation genius that pulled off the deal getting Disney, the most powerful force in film, to distribute Pixar's first production, Toy Story – the first feature-length computer-animated film. Pixar never had a flop as an independent company; Disney bought it in January 2006 for $7.4bn (it was stock in Pixar, rather than Apple, which made Jobs a billionaire).At Pixar, Jobs discovered the importance of managing people. He rehoused it at great expense – personally designing the building with all the toilets in a central location so people would meet there, mix and keep the creative juices flowing.On returning to Apple (which bought his other post-Apple business NeXT in 1996), Jobs quickly took over and installed himself as "interim CEO" in 1997. From NeXT and Pixar he had learnt the harsh lesson of inventory management – keeping projects under control – and the finesse of recruiting the right person. Tim Cook – now chief executive – may have been the most important single hire he ever made. Cook turned Apple from a bloated manufacturer into a slick one which had less stock tied up in warehouses than its bitter rival Dell.But as he nursed Apple back to health, the music business – one of his oldest loves – came into his sights. With online file-sharing rampant and revenues crashing record labels needed a saviour. It came in the unlikely form of a cigarette packet-sized white-and-silver object. And so Jobs changed the world again.The iPod was initially conceived by a team led by then chief of hardware Jon Rubinstein, as a way to get more people buying Apple's Macintosh computers. Jobs drove its designers to distraction, again, and even on the day before the product's launch was complaining that the "click" when he put headphones into the prototypes on display wasn't satisfying. (An engineer had to polish the sockets by hand.) But the iPod changed everything, first because of its tiny size – with 1,000 songs in svelte enclosure – and for its simple, quick synchronisation. There were already music players, but they were bulky, had horrible software, and would take five hours to transfer 1,000 songs. The iPod would take 10 minutes.Then Jobs pulled off yet another audacious negotiation, and another revolution: persuading the record labels to let him sell music digitally. He did this by playing on Apple's tiny size: with the iPod still limited to Apple computers, making only 5% of the market, he persuaded them that there was little risk if anything went wrong. The labels reckoned they could license their music to someone else if it went right. "Apple's target, believe it or not, was to sell 1 million songs in the first year," the journalist Robert X Cringely – aka Mark Stephens – told me earlier this year. When the iTunes Music Store opened in April 2003 it sold the first million songs in a week. Within a few months it was unstoppable, and Jobs created a version of Apple's iTunes software for Windows which accelerated it. Within a year it had sold nearly 100m songs, and the iPod had 70% of the music player market.But it was the design of the iPod – small, appliance-like, simple – that most struck people. Jobs had insisted that it should be able to get to any song within three clicks. Design, as he explained in 2000, wasn't about how it looked. It was about how it worked. "In most people's vocabularies, design means veneer. It's interior decorating. It's the fabric of the curtains and the sofa. But to me, nothing could be further from the meaning of design. Design is the fundamental soul of a man-made creation that ends up expressing itself in successive outer layers of the product or service."In 2006 Microsoft tried to imitate it with the Zune – coloured brown. It was a flop.Computers? Film? Music? Now Jobs had one of the biggest businesses, the booming mobile industry, in his sights. The iPhone was the result of a two-and-a-half year project to use touchscreens to manipulate a computer. "We have been very lucky to have brought a few revolutionary user interfaces to the market – the mouse, the click wheel [on the iPod], and now multi-touch," he said in January 2007. "Each has made possible a revolutionary product – the Mac, the iPod, and now the iPhone.Today we're going to show you a software breakthrough. Software that's at least five years ahead of what's on any other phone."Not only was the phone different; Jobs also beat the mobile operators, formerly the rulers of the business, and used Apple's growing brand power to drive deals which offered iPhone owners unlimited data. After the iPhone, everyone needed a touch screen: Google, and then Microsoft, and then market leaders Nokia and RIM followed suit as quickly as they could. But not fast enough: in mid-2011 Apple became the world's biggest mobile phone maker by revenue, an idea that would have been nonsensical four years earlier. Jobs's revolutions were coming faster and faster.For Drance, then working at Apple trying to recruit outside developers to write Mac software, the unveiling of the iPhone was a stunning moment: an internal project that had run for two and a half years, yet he hadn't heard about it? "There's a competitive thing to Apple's secrecy, because you want to keep competitors guessing. But also Apple has built so much around the event, around the reveal, the announcement, and you really lose the magic if people know what's coming; if people know what's behind the curtain, it's not as magical an event."The final candidate for disruption? Computing, once again. Though Bill Gates introduced tablet computers in 2001, they went nowhere – but Apple took them up as a research project, and dusted them off for the January 2010 launch of the iPad. A computer you could carry, operated by touch, with a 10-hour battery life, that ran on "apps" – none of it was like the past. And Apple sold them by the tens of millions, while would-be rivals struggled. "Our competitors are looking at this [tablet market] like it's the next PC market. That is not the right approach to this. These are post-PC devices that need to be easier to use than a PC, more intuitive," he said, pacing the stage in one of his last public appearances in March. "The hardware and software need to intertwine more than they do on a PC. We think we're on the right path with this."The iPad is changing how people work and play; newspapers and magazines are desperate to find ways onto it and to make money. The latest forecasts suggest Apple will dominate the market at least until 2014 – even with Microsoft, which as in the mobile market and music player market, is following its lead with a new iPad-like "Metro" interface for its next version of Windows, due next year.All the devices had one crucial thing in common: people fell in love with them. They felt passionately about them, in a way the world had never seen before. "Touch is a very important sense; a lot of human emotion is built around touching objects, other people, touching things," Don Norman, co-founder of Neilsen/Norman Group, said. "I think that we've lost something really big when we went to the abstraction of a computer with a mouse and a keyboard, it wasn't real, and the telephone was the same, it was this bunch of menus and people got lost in the menus and buttons to push and it felt like a piece of technology. Whereas the iPhone felt like a piece of delight. It really is neat to go from one page to the other not by pushing a button but by swiping your hand across the page … it is more intimate. Think of it not as a swipe, think of it as a caress."The one challenge Jobs couldn't beat was life's finite span. "No one wants to die," Jobs told the Stanford graduates in 2005. "Even people who want to go to heaven don't want to die to get there. And yet death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it. And that is as it should be, because death is very likely the single best invention of life. It is Life's change agent."The cancer that eventually killed him was initially diagnosed in October 2003. At first, the doctors thought it was pancreatic cancer – which typically kills in six to 12 months. "My doctor advised me to go home and get my affairs in order, which is doctor's code for prepare to die." But it was neuroendocrine cancer, a more treatable form. Yet – ironically for someone working in a company working on the most advanced engineering – Jobs, a lifelong pescatarian (eating fish and vegetables) didn't seek medical intervention until summer 2004. That seemed to have quelled the problem – but in 2009 he needed a liver transplant, and the immunosuppressant drugs required appear to have let the cancer back.In January 2011 he took extended medical leave from the company he had co-founded, saying plaintively in his departure note "I love Apple so much".The questions now will turn to Apple, and its future – though they are exactly the same as those which were posed when Jobs stepped aside, finally acknowledging his illness, in August. Can it be the same creative force without him? Can those in charge find new industries to revolutionise, in the way that Jobs did with personal computing, films, music, telephony and most recently newspaper and magazine reading through the iPad?Put like that, it is the tallest of tall orders; in retrospect it seems amazing that it happened at all. Much may depend on whether those inside the company can stay true to Jobs's parting advice to the Stanford graduates. "Stay hungry," he said. "Stay foolish."• This article was amended on 12 October 2011. The original described Lisa as Steve Jobs's "illegitimate daughter". This term has been deleted, in conformity with the Guardian style book.
The sharp, bright screen of the iPad, the last marvel with which Steve Jobs dazzled the world, may be seductive, but few would argue that typing on its virtual screen is the most practical way to produce work. Yet I have been writing articles with it for months now. Why? I could give all kinds of practical reasons, but they would be lies. The truth is that I am captivated by the beauty of this piece of technology.My feelings about this particular Apple creation are, to be honest, quite bonkers. I have never felt this way about a piece of machinery before. "Machinery"? That seems inappropriate, like calling Michelangelo's David a hunk of stone.The exquisite luxury of theiPadgrows out of a tradition of Apple design that has repeatedly reshaped modern culture. This is one reason why Apple products are favoured by those who work in the arts and humanities – they look great. The other reason, of course, is that they are damn easy to use. But it is the aesthetic originality of Apple that has reshaped the way we live in the modern world.The first Apple computer in our household was aMac Classic, and at the time, its smooth whitish box with a big colourful Apple logo on the side seemed gloriously futuristic – and yet, not in the least bit techno. This was what was revolutionary about Apple, this soft-machine aesthetic.If you want to know how Apple remade the look of the future think ofGary Numan. In the early 1980s Numan's jerky robotic persona and image of an alienated future where everyone sits sealed in cars was state of the art. This was how the techno age would look, onceAlan Sugartook the Amstrad to the next level. Nowadays Numan is retro, as are all such silvery glimpses of an icy future, for Apple changed the way history was headed when it created machines that, instead of chilling you out, glow like fireplaces and nuzzle like digital pets.Soft lines, not sharp ones, define the Apple aesthetic. Even its glossiest and sleekest metal-cased laptops or giant  screens have rounded corners. The Apple logo in itself, at once natural in its associations and reassuringly warm when it glows on the cover of your laptop, is round and curvy. The way light is used – pale and silvery, it tells you the laptop is coming alive – communicates a living, continuous technological presence, friendly and nurturing.When Apple launched the iMac in 1998, the first personal computer to be hailed as a design classic, its style took a bold twist. The blue or orange or purple translucent shells of these machines, tapering to a round rear casing, invented a new kind of futurism – organic, softly moulded, cheekily colourful. This was a computer for a bubble house. It proved ephemeral (I had one for a while), but it showed how gorgeous a domestic design can be. Since then, everything from kitchen tools with chunky plastic handles in crazy shapes to Doctor Who's Tardis have imitated the pleasantly contoured future of Apple. It has inspired pod-like structures in architecture and touch-sensitive, slim-screened home entertainment devices although, in truth, I have yet to see the TV or contemporary building that portrays the future as brightly as an iPad.The real achievement of Apple goes to the very heart of aesthetics and the loftiest ideals of design. In the 19th century, radical critics of industry such as John Ruskin and William Morris denounced the grim, turgid, pretentious objects that cluttered Victorian homes. Good design, they argued, was a moral duty, and a world in which ugliness ruled must be profoundly wrong in its social order. Apple conveys this message in a relaxed, west coast way. In our age, the power of the internet might seem to lead away from the physical, real, human world, into a dystopia of lost souls staring into screens. The real brilliance of Apple is to make digital culture human, and to keep it in the swim of life.The rise of the Apple aesthetic went along with the rise of coffee shops, the idea that work and leisure can combine in new ways. The iPod, the iPhone, the iPad: none of them are designed to keep you at home, addicted to the virtual. They are made to be carried about, used in cafes and on the bus, wherever you happen to be. Perhaps the greatest insight of Steve Jobs, when it came to design, was that the most beautiful, marvellous creation on earth is not the computer, but the person using it. The Apple aesthetic is profoundly humanist – and in this sense it has truly made the world a better place.Will there be an Apple robot one day, and will it be called an iRobot? Much as Isaac Asimov might have enjoyed that, the dark warnings of science fiction writers like him seem to melt away when you fall in love with Apple. There seem many reasons right now to fear the future. But when I survey the latest troubling news on the magic screen of the iPad, somehow I am not afraid. Right here in my hand is the proof we can make it.
In the last 24 hoursSteve Jobs has been credited with changing the way we live, the way we view technology, the way we listen to music, the way we communicate, the way we think about art, design and invention, and much, much more. But I think the biggest change he has made is to the way both its critics and cheerleaders think about capitalism.Take the old adage that the consumer is king. In some ways, this is as true for Apple as it is for anyone else. It stands or falls on the basis of whether people will buy its stuff. But Jobs's success was built firmly on the idea that in another sense, you should not give consumers what they want because they don't know what they want. No one thought they wanted the first desktop Mac, iPod, iPhone or iPad before they existed. Jobs repeatedly created things that people came to want more than anything else only by not trying to give them what they already wanted. This challenges the idea that consumer culture inevitably means pandering to the conventional, to the lowest common denominator. Markets are not necessarily conservative: truly great innovations can become popular.Jobs has also provided the clearest evidence yet that excellence comes at a cost. Against both the optimistic open-source movement that thinks all good things can be made collaboratively for free, and the race-to-the-bottom chains that believe the answer is always to be the cheapest, Jobs showed that you could, and must, charge a premium price for a premium product. Far from condemning his company to a niche, by following this principle, Apple actually became, briefly, the biggest company in the world. The lesson has still to be taken on board elsewhere. In news and broadcasting, for example, we are all learning that you can't sustain quality by giving things away.It's not just about cost, however. Jobs was unpopular for the way in which he tightly controlled Apple's copyrights, refused to license to third parties and tied his devices to his own suppliers of content. This was seen as undemocratic, demagogic even. But whether or not he was always right, his success shows that there is something to the idea that true excellence often requires tight control. It's the principle that guides the best restaurant kitchens, the best production lines and even many of the best films, plays or dance productions. Jobs should have killed the idea that everything works better if it's open, collaborative and non-judgmental.Jobs also made multinational brands respectable. Many people who moan about the "designer label" culture and think that all multinational companies are evil love their Macs and iStuff to the point of being evangelical bores about them. They might claim this isn't brand loyalty, it's just enthusiasm for great gadgets. But this is really only to make clear that the genuinely good brands have products of substance behind them. The brands we should despise are those that could be pasted to pretty much any product without anyone noticing. The ones we admire are those whose name we have learned tell us something reliable about what they produce.But perhaps the most important way in which Jobs has made us rethink capitalism is shown by the very fact that we're talking about how he has changed anything at all. Just as some have claimed that the "big man" idea of history is as old-fashioned as its gender-specific name suggests, so people in business have been demoted in importance beneath impersonal "market forces". On this view, the dynamic efficiency of the free market means that every last bit of potential for increased efficiency and profit will be squeezed, not by design, but by the invisible hand of every business doing what is best for itself. So had Jobs not given us the iPad, someone else would have. Maybe not exactly the same, maybe not at just that time, but pretty much the same kind of product, and sooner rather than later.You might think that if business truly believed this, it would have no reason to pay its own men and women quite so much for their all-too-dispensable contributions. In fact, all the more reason to pay them: given that it is inevitable that gaps in the market will be filled, you want to make sure it's your business that fills them.No, the real flaw with this way of thinking assumes that the market will both throw up all the variety of products and businesses imaginable and, by a kind of natural selection, the best and most profitable will survive and thrive. But the evolutionary analogy doesn't hold. Nature needs aeons of time for random mutation to produce and test every possibility. Thankfully, human innovation can work quicker, because it's not random at all. And it's because the market doesn't automatically generate all the good ideas that individuals really can change the game. Some ideas are so crazy no one ever has them; some so apparently crazy everyone ignores them and only the genius can see they're made of gold.Yes, without Steve Jobs we probably would still have got MP3 players, smartphones, laptops that look cool and little tablet computers. But we can't say with confidence when we would have got them, how good they would have been and how dominant they would have become. We had cheap portable netbooks and tablet devices before the iPad came out, for example. But they had limited appeal, limited functionality and were languishing as niche products. What Jobs and his team did was to come up with a new type of device that really took off. And when it did, it was a game-changer.So Jobs is actually exhibit A in any case against the idea that the market is maximally efficient and can be left to take care of things by itself. A slap in the face to free-market fundamentalists, but hardly comfort to anti-capitalists either. Jobs doesn't show that capitalism is a flawed system, only that it is not perfectly self-regulating.For all these reasons, capitalism looks different because of what Jobs's company achieved. His company challenges both lazy market orthodoxies and idealistic anti-capitalist critiques. In general terms it is true that all these challenges have found voice and expression in our culture elsewhere. But with Jobs they were given a clearer, louder expression, backed up by the incontrovertible evidence his life and company produced. The world may well have been different without Jobs: not so far forward as we are, less beautiful, more in tune with the lowest common denominator. If we found ourselves in that world right now, of course, we would recognise it. But we might not love it quite so much.
Charles Arthur brings you this special edition of Tech Weekly following the death of Steve Jobs.Carolina Milanesi from Gartner looks at what smartphones and tablets have meant for the computing world Jack Schofield looks at his legacy.We also look at his impact outside the world of technology. The Guardian's Jonathan Glancey considers design, Caspar Llewlyn Smith music and Jason Phipps film.You may also want tolisten to Tech Weekly from August, when Steve Jobs stepped down as Apple CEO.
One of Google UK's best-known senior programmers, director of engineering Dave Burke, is relocating to the company's Mountain View headquarters near San Francisco to aid the company's push to create reliable voice commands for mobile phones.A team of around 80 London-based software engineers working across mobiles, advertising and mobile commerce reported to Burke, who joined Google from a Dublin speech recognition firm in 2007.The London hub has been a key part of the engineering effort which has enabled Google's Android to become the world's best selling mobile operating system. Burke's team developed many of the applications that made Google services like maps, email and search work on phones.He is now moving to join the Android engineering hub in California, which is led by Andy Rubin, who sold his phone operating software company Android to Google in 2005.Burke's speciality is in speech recognition, a topic on which he has published academic papers, and Google is intensifying its efforts to improve the ability of its software to understand and respond to spoken rather than typed commands.Android can already take voice commands for search terms, composing emails, summoning maps or pieces of music and translating sentences into another language, although its accuracy is still low.Developers across the mobile world are racing to build reliable speech recognition technology that they think will soon replace the need for awkward touch screen typing.Apple this week unveiled a leap forward for its speech recognition software, Siri, demonstrating how it could be used to get a weather forecast, set the phone's alarm, or find the nearest restaurant.Burke has a reputation within Google as a virtuoso engineer. During a 12-hour flight from London to Tokyo he wrote an entire application,Chrome to Phone, which allows users to view a web page on a PC, for example a map, then send that page straight to their phone for retrieval at the touch of a button.Google's cohort of London engineers is thought to be growing, although the company will not give precise numbers. It will continue to work on new products such as Google Wallet, a payment system which uses mobile phones instead of credit cards at tills, and which has just launched commercially in the United States.A spokesman for Google said: "Unfortunately we're not able to comment on the internal movements and details of individual Googlers. In terms of the UK engineering team, they will continue to focus on a wide range of Google products, including mobile."• This article was amended on 6 December 2009. The original stated Google's director of engineering was called Chris Burke, he is in fact called Dave Burke. This has been corrected.Also the phrase 'Google UK's most senior programmer' was changed to 'One of Google UK's best-known senior programmers' and the headline changed to reflect this
Stanford commencement address 2005Jobs urged Stanford graduates to, as the university put it, "pursue their dreams and see the opportunities in life's setbacks – including death itself". He said:No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don't want to die to get there. And yet death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it. And that is as it should be, because death is very likely the single best invention of life. It is life's change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the new. Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life.Gallery of Steve Jobs tributes, the GuardianA memorial for Steve Jobs at the Apple campus in Cupertino, California. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesGallery of shrines to Steve Jobs from around the world, curated by the Guardian.Walt Mossberg: the Steve Jobs I knewThe Wall Street Journal's veteran technology writer Walt Mossbergreminisces about his personal relationship with the Apple boss. He talks about his meetings with Jobs, the personal briefings about new products, and how Jobs would call him at weekends:They turned into marathon, 90-minute, wide-ranging, off-the-record discussions that revealed to me the stunning breadth of the man. One minute he'd be talking about sweeping ideas for the digital revolution. The next about why Apple's current products were awful, and how a color, or angle, or curve, or icon was embarrassing.After the second such call, my wife became annoyed at the intrusion he was making in our weekend. I didn't.The best Steve Jobs anecdoteJobs was patiently answering questions to members of the Stanford Graduate School of Business' hi-tech club, at the home of a student shortly before returning to Apple in 1996. One of the studentsasked him to autograph his keyboard:Steve Jobs said he'd do it, but only if first he could remove all the unnecessary keys that his successors had added in a foolish effort to make the Mac more like a Microsoft-Intel PC. He despised the long row of so-called function keys (like "F1") and the cluster of navigational arrow keys which were clunky alternatives to the more intuitive process of using a mouse to explore menus and icons. So Jobs pulled his car keys out of his pocket and began scooping into the computer keyboard, violently disgorging all the keys that offended him.Alan Deutschman, The Second Coming of Steve Jobs, 2001Boing Boing tributeBoingBoing tribute to Steve JobsBoing Boing, the group technology blog, takes inspiration from one of the early Apple innovations: the Mac Classic "desktop" screen.View from the creative industry"It's not too much of a stretch to call Steve Jobs the father of the modern creative class," says this piece on thewebsite of Contagious magazine, by digital designer Dave Skaff. Inspired by Jobs, the designers atMint Digitalcreated this tribute – a portrait made from the parts of a disassembled MacBook pro.Mint Digital's tribute, made from the parts of a MacBook Pro. Photograph: Mint Foundry/Mint DigitalThe New York Times gallery of reader picturesNew York Times gallery of Steve Jobs reader tributesThe New York Times asked its readers to submit pictures inspired by Apple and Steve Jobs. The result is an enchanting collection of images, from family snaps with early Apple products to pictures of cats on Macs.Former Gizmodo editor Brian Lam on his fallout with JobsAhead of the launch of the iPhone 4, a prototype found its way into the hands of Brian Lam, who was then editor of the tech website Gizmodo. It led to a spectacular falling out between Lam and Jobs; here, Lam describes how the episode made him lose his faith in his own writing, andhow he eventually apologized to Jobs.I just feel lucky I had the chance to tell a kind man that I was sorry for being an asshole before it was too late.The best obituaryThe New York Times version isextensive and comprehensive; the Guardian's Jack Schofield controversially raises the fallout between Jobs and his best friend Steve Wozniakover a few thousand dollars; butthis piece on the AV Club websitehas been described as "unexpectedly the best one I've read" on Twitter.It's written by Sean O'Neal, who says he was a "shitty Apple tech support technician".More than just a designer of personal computers, Jobs was in many ways a designer of modern life. His belief that technology should above all be user-friendly forever changed the methods in which we work, communicate, enjoy our entertainment, and even create our own innovations.The Apple tributeThe Apple website tribute to Steve JobsApple turned over thefront page of its websiteto a simple, classy tribute to its founder.One more thing …The Daily Beastwebsite curated this Storify of tweets by Apple employees.
The UK's Digital Economy is banking on a year-old government enterprise initiative in East London calledTech Citythat leverages the innovation of a grassroots high-tech start-up scene. But is a name enough to ensure a thriving and sustainable cluster? Already colloquially called"Silicon Roundabout", what are East London's enterprise strengths, and where does it need a boost?Rent control, transport links, broadband access and good coffee: is East London ready for Tech City? What can we learn from other clusters of innovation around the UK that have come before? This debate looks at what government, investors and the people at the coalface believe is necessary to inspire innovation and to generate globally competitive enterprise.The panelists for this discussion areEric Pickles MP(Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government),Alexandra Deschamps-Sonsino,Tara Solesbury(Digital Media &amp; Creative Industries Consultant) andPeter Barron(Director of External Relations, EMEA, at Google).JoinTech Weeklyfor the live recording of this debate at 6.30pm on Monday 24 October at Imperial College London, South Kensington Campus, Exhibition Road, London SW7 2AZ (Find it!).Do you have a question to ask? Add it to the comments below or send it to techweekly@guardian.co.uk - or tweet us -@guardiantw. Contribute to the discussion and follow the debate with the hashtag#TWTC2.
India's government has begun introducing a cheap British-built tablet computer to its schools and universities, saying its aim is to deliver modern technology to the countryside to help lift villagers out of poverty.The computer, called Aakash, or "sky" in Hindi, is the latest in a series of "world's cheapest" innovations in India that include a 750 rupee (£10) water purifier and 100,000 rupee (£1,300) compact Nano cars and open-heart surgery operations.The London-based company Datawind, which won a four-way tender to build the tablets, is selling them to the Indian government for about £30 (2,290 rupees) each; subsidies from the government will reduce that to about 1,700 rupees for students and teachers.In comparison, the cheapest Apple iPad tablet costs £399 in the UK and $499 in the US, while Amazon's recently announced Kindle Fire will sell for $199 in the US.Datawind says it can make about 100,000 units a month at the moment, though that is not nearly enough to meet India's hope of getting its 220 million children online.The tablet has an 18cm (7in) screen, and uses a version of Google's Android operating system (though not using Google's services such as Maps).The first tranche in the pilot programme will, if successful, be expanded to 1m units, and Alia Khan, the vice-president of UK operations, said the company hopes in future to sell versions to government in India and through shops in India and the UK.India's human resources development minister, Kapil Sibal, called the announcement a message to all children of the world."This is not just for us. This is for all of you who are disempowered," he said. "This is for all those who live on the fringes of society."Despite India's burgeoning technology industry and decades of robust economic growth, hundreds of thousands of citizens still have no electricity, let alone access to computers and information via the internet that could help farmers improve yields, business startups reach clients, or students qualify for university.The launch, attended by hundreds of students, some selected to help train others across the country in the tablet's use, followed five years of efforts to design a $10 computer that could bridge the country's vast digital divide."People laughed, people called us lunatics," ministry official NK Sinha said. "They said we are taking the nation for a ride."Although the $10 goal was not achieved, the Aakash has a colour screen and provides word processing, web browsing and video conferencing.The Android 2.2-based device has two USB ports and 256 megabytes of RAM, and a touch-sensitive resistive screen. More expensive versions using "capacitative" screens, as found on more expensive tablets such as the iPad and Kindle, may become available later.Despite hopes for a solar-powered version – important for India's energy-starved hinterlands – no such option is currently available.Both Sibal and Datawind's chief executive, Suneet Singh Tuli, called for competition to improve the product and drive prices down further."The intent is to start a price war. Let it start," Tuli said, inviting others to do the job better and break technological ground while still making a commercially viable product.As for the $10 goal, "let's dream and go in that direction. Let's start with that target and see what happens," he said.Students at the launch were well briefed on the goal of providing tablets for the poor, although most in attendance already had access to computers at home or in their schools."A person learns quite fast when they have a computer at home," said Shashank Kumar, 21, a computer engineering student from Jodhpur, Bihar, who was one of five people selected in his northern state to travel to villages and demonstrate the device. "In just a few years people can even become hackers."India, after raising literacy to about 78% from 12% when British rule ended, is now focusing on higher education with a 2020 goal of 30% enrolment. Today, only 7% of Indians graduate from high school."To every child in India, I carry this message. Aim for the sky and beyond. There is nothing holding you back," Sibal said, before distributing about 650 of the tablets to the students.
Could explain what exactly you need to do if you want to use an SSD as the system disk on a Windows 7 computer? Thanks,AllenAn SSD is a solid state disk drive, which means it is based on flash memory chips rather than rapidly rotating magnetic disks. The SSD's main advantage is that it can read data very much faster than traditional hard drives. This provides an increase in performance. Programs load quicker, and Windows 7 should boot faster, perhaps in about 30 seconds instead of 45 seconds (plus or minus 15 seconds).SSDs are particularly beneficial in laptops where the hard drive is allowed to stop spinning when it's not in use. When a program wants to read that hard drive, you have to wait until it gets back up to speed. SSDs don't spin, and don't need to be restarted, so they can be read instantly. This can make a laptop with an SSD feel much more responsive. Of course, if you are using a laptop on mains power, you can set the hard drive to keep running all the time, and minimise this particular problem.If you want to use an SSD as the system disk in a PC running Windows 7, it would be best to buy a new PC that has been designed for the purpose. These PCs may well use SSDs that resemble sticks of memory chips, like theToshiba Blade X-galefirst used in Apple MacBook Airs. However, many manufacturers supply SSDs in hard drive-style cases so that the SSD can be slotted into an ordinary laptop, replacing the original hard drive.You can do this fairly easily, and you will get some benefits, but the SSD is unlikely to work at its best. Also, if something goes wrong with your PC, the manufacturer is unlikely to support it, and would probably ask you to replace the original hard drive. In other words,if you intend to do this, you need to know what you are doing, and you should be prepared to take responsibility.Swapping one hard drive for another is generally pretty simple, because you can "clone" one to the other. However, hard drives and SSDs are not the same, and Windows 7 – the only version of Windows designed to work with SSDs – treats them differently. For example,Windows 7 optimises the hard drive using Prefetch and Superfetch, and does some automatic defragmentation. These routines are not needed with SSDs, and the defragging can be considered harmful. You can, of course, "clone" a laptop hard drive to an SSD, but that will produce an SSD that's set up to work as a hard drive. (See Ed Bott'sWindows 7 and SSDs: Setup secrets and tune-up tweaks.)So, to get the full benefit of an SSD, it's better to do a clean installation of Windows 7.Before installing Windows 7, you may need to go into your PC's BIOS and change the hard drive setting. PCs are typically set up to useSATA(Serial Advanced Technology Attachment) to attach hard drives. With an SSD,you may need to change this toAHCI(Advanced HostController Interface). Basically, Windows 7 and Vista don't load drivers for storage systems that are not being used, so if you change from SATA to AHCI it won't load the Msahci.sys driver needed to read the SSD. (See Microsoft's automatedFixIt.)When you do a clean installation from the Windows 7 system disc, it will partition and set up the SSD correctly aligned, install the correct drivers, and disable things like Prefetch and Superfetch that are no longer required.You should also buy an SSD that supports theTRIMcommand built into Windows 7 to avoid what Anand Lal Shimpi of Anandtech calls "stuttering crap". The problem is that the SSD's performance can decline as it fills up.Anandtechexplains:The falling performance was actually a side effect of the way NAND Flash works. You write in pages (4KB) but you can only erase in blocks (128 pages or 512KB); thus SSDs don't erase data when you delete it, only when they run out of space to write internally. When that time comes, you run into a nasty situation called the read-modify-write. Here, even to just write 4KB, the controller must read an entire block (512KB), update the single page, and write theentire block back out. Instead of writing 4KB, the controller has toactually write 512KB – a much slower operation.TRIM solves this problem by periodically scrubbing deleted blocks so that they are empty and ready for use when the SSD wants to write to them. Without TRIM, the simplest way to maintain an SSD's performance is probably by reformatting it, which erases all the data. (Of course,with a normal rotating hard drive, you never actually delete files:the operating system just deletes the file's index entry, leaving the data to be overwritten. This is why "deleted" files can often be recovered.)If all that hasn't put you off, SSDs are very expensive for the storage they provide, and their reliability is still open to question.SSDs have fewer moving parts than HDDs, and no obviously fragile parts, so SSDs should be much more reliable than traditional hard drives. They probably are. However, we don't have enough long-term data to be sure, and there is some anecdotal data pointing the other way. For example, SSD fan Jeff Atwood of the Coding Horror website reports inTheHot/Crazy Solid State Drive Scalethat a friend, Portman Wills, had eight SSDs fail in only two years.Finally, there's the cost. At the moment, you can buy an internal 3.5in terabyte hard drive for as little as £35, which means you get 931 gigabytes of file storage space for about 4p per gigabyte. SSDs cost about £1 per gigabyte.There's no doubt that SSDs have real advantages, and I guess we all expect them to become more popular in the future. SSDs will soon be available in larger capacities at lower prices, and operating system and hardware support will improve. The real question is whether you feel comfortable making the step now or whether it would be better to wait, and that's a personal decision. I suspect most non-geeks will want to buy a new PC with a built in SSD, when the time comes, rather than add one to their current machine.Footnote: Mac users may be interested to know that Apple introduced support for TRIM for Apple-installed SSD drives with Mac OS X Lion v10.7 in February. Anyone interested in using third-party TRIM with non-Apple-installed SSD drives with Snow Leopard and Lion can see Hardmac's[Updated] The universal solution to activate TRIM.
You don't have to go far on the web or even everyday life to find people happy to say it: they hate Steve Jobs and all he stood for, and those who buy things from Apple – the "sheeple", in an oft-used phrase – are simply buying stuff for no reason than its marketing, or advertising. Apple, they say, is a giant con trick.Why do they care? Because, says Don Norman, an expert in how we react emotionally to design, buying or using products that engage our emotions strongly will inevitably alienate those who don't share those emotions – and just as strongly. Norman, formerly vice-president of the Advanced Technology Group at Apple, is co-founder of the Nielsen/Norman Group, which studies usability. He's also an author of books including Emotional Design and his latest, called Living With Complexity.Apple, he says, excels at generating strong positive emotional reactions from those who use its products. The iPhone was a classic example with its revolutionary touchscreen control – which wasn't the first, but was the best: "Touch is a very important sense; a lot of human emotion is built around touching objects, other people, touching things," says Norman. "I think that we've lost something really big when we went to the abstraction of a computer with a mouse and a keyboard, it wasn't real, and the telephone was the same, it was this bunch of menus and people got lost in the menus and buttons to push and it felt like a piece of technology."Whereas the iPhone felt like a piece of delight. It really is neat to go from one page to the other not by pushing a button but by swiping your hand across the page." He adds: "The correct word is intimacy; it is more intimate. Think of it not as a swipe, think of it as a caress."But just as physics sees an equal and opposite reaction to every action, so strong emotions engender adverse emotions in response. Takethis commentby Aaron Holesgrove of OzTechNews about the iPad: "Actually, the iPad succeeds because it enables you to read websites whilst sitting on the toilet and play casual games in bed. It's a toy. You can't eliminate complexity when there was never any complexity in the first place – Apple went and threw a 10in screen on the iPod Touch and iPhone and called them the iPad and iPad 3G, respectively." Critics say Apple's products don't have as many features; their technical specifications aren't comparable to the leading-edge ones; they're more expensive. In short, you're being ripped off. And what's more, Apple is exploiting workers in China who build the products.By contrast, ask someone about other comparable products out there – Amazon's new Kindle Fire, RIM's PlayBook, HP's TouchPad – and you'll get indifference, even if the prices are the same, or they're made in the same Chinese factories as Apple uses.Norman says that the reaction – both the love and the hate – comes from Apple's designs. "This is important. It's something that I have trouble convincing companies of: great design will really convert people, but it will also put off other people. So you have to be willing to offend people; to make things that you know a lot of people are going to hate."Apple's focus on design, which is principally expressed through the objects it sells – the iPods, iMacs, MacBooks, iPhones, iPads – drives those extreme reactions, he says. (And it's notable that nobody ever complained about Pixar's products – even though Jobs was chief executive there too.)Part of why people like the devices so much is that they can personalise them: "The iPhone, being your mobile phone, is part of you, like the iPod is but even more so, because you're carrying everything around, not just your music but also your contacts and the ability to contact people – because people have observed that mobile phones are a very personal item."By contrast, other companies that try to cater for and please everyone are guaranteed to fall short – and so won't excite emotion. "Many people try to make a product that everybody will love; Microsoft is a good example," he explains. "If you make a product that everybody loves – you do all your market surveys, and when people don't like something about it you change it – you end up with a bland product that everybody will accept but nobody truly loves."Apple isn't like that, he says. "Apple says 'We're not going to even worry about it. We're going to make something that we ourselves love. We just assume that anything that we really love, lots and lots of people will love. And if other people really dislike it and hate it, so what. Tough on them.'"But what about the criticism of the lack of specifications? When the iPod was still a hot seller, before the iPhone, I asked Phil Schiller, then as now Apple's head of marketing, about the lack of extras such as FM tuners and voice recorders – which rivals did offer, even though their products made no headway in the market.Schiller put it simply: extras like FM radio were "a technology in search of a customer". He explained: "We're very careful about the technologies we bring to our products. Just because there's a new technology doesn't mean you should put it in your product. Just because our competitors have put it in their product – because they need something to compete with us, because they're losing on everything else – doesn't mean we should put it in the product."We should put new features in a product because it makes sense for our customers to have that feature, and because a significant percentage of our customers will want that feature. Otherwise, not. Remember, all these features cost money, space and most importantly power, and power is a really big deal."At Apple, the executives' view is that "a lot of product suffer from featureitis": that it's easier to try to sell a checklist than selling a better product that does what customers really need to do. As one explained it to me: "We try to be very careful not to get caught up in a 'list of features war'; we try to focus just on what makes a great product for the customers, what do they really want to do, and focus on that like no one else. If we think some features aren't that great, and don't really work that well, and involve trade-offs that customers won't want, we just don't do it. We don't just have a checklist on the side of a box."It may be significant that the strongest criticism of Apple tends to come from those most engaged with the nuts and bolts of technology. Apple's staff have probably got used to having their products called toys by now. As long as they keep selling, though, they'll keep ignoring the critics in favour of the fans – which will, of course, inflame emotions on both sides even more.
Apple IIHandbuilt by Steve Wozniak – the bearded sidekick to Steve Jobs – the Apple II was released in 1977, just 12 months after the very first Apple computer, the Apple I. Unlike that Apple I, which was assembled in Jobs's parents' garage, the Apple II signalled the Apple co-founder's early drive. Some years later, he was reported as saying: "My dream for the Apple II was to sell the first real packed computer." The Apple II duly became the fastest-selling personal computer of its time, fetching $79m in sales in 1979.The first MacintoshThe Macintosh 128K was released in January 1984 "with all the showbiz of a car launch". And what a launch it was. No technology company would have dared dream about flaunting a personal computer in a multimillion-dollar Superbowl slot, but Apple did. The Macintosh 128J was different thought – it wasn't especially for business or bespectacled engineers; it was comparatively easy to use.The iMacThree years after his return to Apple in 1998, Jobs urged the world to "think different". But no one anticipated the iMac, the computer that kickstarted Apple's fortunes and propelled the company to where it is today. As the Guardian review from 14 May 1998 noted: "nobody who attended last week's product launch expected to find the most radical Macintosh since the original hit the streets 14 years ago … There isn't even a floppy drive."The iPodUnveiled a decade ago this month, the iPod is the one device that transformed Apple from a computer company into a mass-market electronics giant – and would later spark a revolution in digital music. Though many who bought it had to hack their computers to store music on it, the first-generation iPod was a stylish MP3 player boasting a 10-hour battery life and space for 1,000 songs. "Listening to music will never be the same again," said Jobs at its launch in October 2001.The iPod nanoSteve Jobs discontinued the iPod mini at the height of its popularity in September 2005. His indefatigable drive for design and efficiency saw it replaced with the much smaller nano. Apple reinvented the nano in September 2010 with its sixth iteration. At 21.1g the new nano was 15g lighter than its predecessor and half the height.The iPhoneLess than half a decade after the iPod, Apple was already the biggest name in digital music. After months of rumour and anticipation, Jobs, in January 2007, unveiled what would quickly become Apple's killer product. The phone was a hit with techies and non-techies alike. A typically fervent Stephen Fry reviewed the iPhone four months after its launch. "Beauty. Charm. Delight. Excitement. Ooh. Aah. Wow! Let me at it," he wrote in the Guardian. With the fifth incarnation unveiled earlier this week, the excitement has not yet dissipated.iTunesUntil Jobs unveiled iTunes in January 2001, no one had been able to convince music label executives that people might pay for songs online. Announced at the back end of a 90-minute keynote to launch the new Macintosh, iTunes was an unexciting "all-in-one digital music program" that brought together MP3 playback, internet radio and CD writing. This week Apple began letting people access their digital music across any of their devices wirelessly. It is the beginning of Apple's cloud revolution.The iPadApple's so-called "Jesus tablet" was everything that everyone didn't need on its launch in January 2010. Less than a year later, Apple had invented a new market and intentionally spawned hundreds of poor-man copycats. Dubbed "the oversized iPhone" with a 9.7in screen, Apple's lean-back device would be the saviour of the media industry. Research group Gartner last monthforecastthat tablet computers will see an explosion in sales over the next four years, selling 60% as many units as PCs by 2015 – and Apple's iPad will still have almost half the market by then.iOS App StoreApple announced a new milestone for its App Store in July this year: 15bn downloads (of more than 500,000 apps) since it launched in July 2008. The App Store has become the cornerstone to the iPhone's success, with the world's media giants all scrambling for a prominent place on the smartphone of choice – and spawning a new market for software developers. Pundits called it the future of mobile consumption, and Apple has since expanded its App Store to OS X computers, potentially ushering in a new age of software development.One more thing: Apple storesApple opened its first retail store on 19 May 2001, in Glendale, California. As of July this year, Apple had opened more than 350 stores worldwide, with the largest in London's Covent Garden. Most thought Apple's move into physical retail space was madness – but they did not foresee that the philosophy, design and layout of the stores would encapsulate what drives Jobs. Customers have since flocked to the Genius Bar.
I wrotethis just a few weeksago when Steve Jobs announced he was quitting Apple:"The Macintosh turned out so well," Jobs, who resigned as the CEO of Apple last night, once told the New York Times, "because the people working on it were musicians, artists, poets and historians who also happened to be excellent computer scientists."And the people who bought the first Apple Mac computers were often architects, designers and journalists. One way or another, Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, the creators of the Apple Macintosh computers in the 1970s, came up with a line of products that – though clunky at first – had great appeal and continue to excite those engaged in design and the media – those who were best placed to sow the Apple seed.Steve Jobs died on Wednesday. I'm writing this on an Apple desktop computer. When I rush off to work on another story today, my personal Apple MacBook will come with me. I also have an iPad, a Christmas present that has insinuated itself into my working and private life. With all these Apples about, it can be like living in a digital orchard.As someone who still loves his Olivetti Lettera and who has learned to come to terms with the digital world slowly and cautiously, Apple has eased the transition. It's not just that the technology is "user friendly" to writers and millions engaged in what are known as the "creative industries", but that the physical design of Apple gizmos is seductive.The iPad is like some magic tablet that comes alive and glows as if a genie has answered at least some of your wishes. Invented by Jobs and his team and styled by Apple's Jonathan Ives, it is one of those products that I like to imagine transporting back in time and showing our equally inventive ancestors as they built a pyramid or engineered a Gothic cathedral. Look what we've learned to do!There would, of course, be one major snag. With no electricity, cables or satellites, let alone service providers and all the rest of the digital panopoly, the iPad's screen would remain resolutely dark, its crisp and gleaming plastic and metal case holding little interest for the architects of the Great Pyramid of Cheops or Salisbury Cathedral.So Apples are very much objects of our time, so much so that each has been superseded by the next at a speed that might suggest a policy of built-in obsolescence. It's not that, although any company wants to sell us its next product or go out of business. It's more a case of design and technology moving on rapidly. And, in Jobs's case, of making Apple products indispensable in the way a wristwatch, handbag or wallet are to so very many millions of people.Jobs, with incisive assistance from his design team, reshaped the personal computer from a wobbly, Professor Branestawm-like contraption lashed together at the back of a garage, or from an early Moog synthesiser lookalike, into a kind of digital jewellery.Machines that, when he was growing up, were the stuff of men in white coats poring over punched paper tape and whirring, tape-recorder style reels in sealed, air-conditioned rooms are, thanks to Jobs, sleek hand-held devices that slip into handbags – wallets in the next couple of years, no doubt.The very first Apple computer went on sale in 1976, its digital gubbins protected by a wooden casing. That was just a generation ago, and yet the latest Apples design make it look as though it might have been a tool used by medieval masons.George Stephenson did not invent the steam railway locomotive, but when he and his son, Robert, shaped Rocket in 1829 – a pretty canary yellow and white design – they made this revolutionary machine aesthetically and emotionally acceptable to a largely suspicious and sceptical public.Jobs has done much the same thing with Apple and the personal computer. There is, of course, something almost touching about the fact that most of these gleaming, seductive 21st-century devices are charged, when plugged into walls, by electricity generated by the mighty stationary steam engines we know as power stations.Not everything under the digital sun is new, but Jobs knew how to make it shine into our offices, our homes and our private lives.
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung's attempt to ban the iPhone 4S over FRAND patents is deeply troubling &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsFlorian Mueller: "Today's announcement by Samsung states that the petitions to be filed today in France and Italy "will each cite two patent infringements related to wireless telecommunications technology, specifically Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA) standards for 3G mobile handsets". Very importantly, Samsung's announcement declares those patents to be "essential", which is an incredibly important term in connection with industry standards. If those patents are indeed essential... then Samsung as a participant in the relevant standard-setting process has an obligation to grant licenses to everyone, including Apple, on FRAND (fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory) terms. Apple already accuses Samsung in other jurisdictions, including but not limited to the US, of failing to honor those obligations." Mueller, who's seen a lot of legal manoeuvring by many companies, is not impressed by Samsung's tactics.UK Government Digital Service defends bespoke approach &gt;&gt; Puffbox.comSimon Dickson: "I seemed to cause a bit of a stir a couple of weeks back, when I challenged the decision to develop a new Government [web publishing] Machine from scratch, rather than basing it on an existing third-party platform. My blog post got quite a few comments; and there were some interesting exchanges on Twitter too. And now, to the Government Digital Service team's great credit, they've written a post on their own blog, responding to the challenge." Later, he remarks: "Or if I might paraphrase, somewhat provocatively: they're writing lots of custom code because otherwise, they'd have to write lots of custom code."How Siri patches up the iPhone's voice search weakness v Android &gt;&gt; Search Engine Land"The Siri voice search assistant that Apple demoed today as part of its big press event looks pretty impressive. If it works as shown, it'll go a long way in patching up one of the big weaknesses the iPhone has had versus Android, that of lacking built-in voice commands."Samsung releases Nexus Prime teaser video &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Just a day after Apple unveiled the iPhone 4S, Samsung launched this teaser video for the Nexus Prime." 30 seconds long, with not very much shown of the device itself, which looks curved, somewhat like the Nexus S (made for Google).Searching for Mark Pilgrim &gt;&gt; Eric's Archived ThoughtsMark Pilgrim, author of many "Dive into.." books and guides, has - as the saying now goes - "committed infosuicide", which happily isn't like the real sort. Except it affects your info that you've created. Let's hope Dive Into HTML5 has some sort of permanence.Mark Zuckerberg &gt;&gt; Facebook"Steve, thank you for being a mentor and a friend. Thanks for showing that what you build can change the world. I will miss you."Sergey Brin &gt;&gt; Google"From the earliest days of Google, whenever Larry and I sought inspiration for vision and leadership, we needed to look no farther than Cupertino. Steve, your passion for excellence is felt by anyone who has ever touched an Apple product (including the macbook I am writing this on right now). And I have witnessed it in person the few times we have met."On behalf of all of us at Google and more broadly in technology, you will be missed very much. My condolences to family, friends, and colleagues at Apple."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
.
News ofSteve Jobs's deathdrove the Apple share price down more than 5% in Frankfurt on Thursday morning.The visionary co-founder of Apple – regarded as the mastermind behind an empire of products that revolutionised computing, telephony and the music industry –died of a rare form of pancreatic cancer in Californiaat the age of 56. Hestepped down in Augustas chief executive of the company he set up in 1976 with his childhood friend Steve Wozniak.Apple shares are now trading 3.5% lower at €273, after hitting a low of €270 in Frankfurt. The shares are not traded in London. They are expected to open lower when Wall Street opens at 2.30pm London time.Apple was briefly the most valuable company in the worldin the summer, knocking oil giant Exxon Mobil off the top spot. Revenues have soared from $7.1bn (£4.6bn) in 1997 to $65.2bn a year now.Jobs was ousted from the company in 1985 and went on to buy animation studio Pixar, before returning to Apple in 1997.It was near bankruptcythen and worth just $2bn. But then it came up with the first iMacs, and in 2001 the first iPods appeared.Apple's stock price has risen more than 9,000% since Jobs returned in 1997. The shares have more than doubled in the past two years, while Microsoft has gained just 5.1% and Intel has risen 14%. Hewlett-Packard is down 48%.
I am honoured to be with you today at your commencement from one of the finest universities in the world. I never graduated from college. Truth be told, this is the closest I've ever gotten to a college graduation. Today I want to tell you three stories from my life. That's it. No big deal. Just three stories.The first story is about connecting the dots.I dropped out of Reed College after the first 6 months, but then stayed around as a drop-in for another 18 months or so before I really quit. So why did I drop out?It started before I was born. My biological mother was a young, unwed college graduate student, and she decided to put me up for adoption. She felt very strongly that I should be adopted by college graduates, so everything was all set for me to be adopted at birth by a lawyer and his wife. Except that when I popped out they decided at the last minute that they really wanted a girl. So my parents, who were on a waiting list, got a call in the middle of the night asking: "We have an unexpected baby boy; do you want him?" They said: "Of course." My biological mother later found out that my mother had never graduated from college and that my father had never graduated from high school. She refused to sign the final adoption papers. She only relented a few months later when my parents promised that I would someday go to college.And 17 years later I did go to college. But I naively chose a college that was almost as expensive as Stanford, and all of my working-class parents' savings were being spent on my college tuition. After six months, I couldn't see the value in it. I had no idea what I wanted to do with my life and no idea how college was going to help me figure it out. And here I was spending all of the money my parents had saved their entire life. So I decided to drop out and trust that it would all work out OK. It was pretty scary at the time, but looking back it was one of the best decisions I ever made. The minute I dropped out I could stop taking the required classes that didn't interest me, and begin dropping in on the ones that looked interesting.It wasn't all romantic. I didn't have a dorm room, so I slept on the floor in friends' rooms, I returned coke bottles for the 5¢ deposits to buy food with, and I would walk the seven miles across town every Sunday night to get one good meal a week at the Hare Krishna temple. I loved it. And much of what I stumbled into by following my curiosity and intuition turned out to be priceless later on. Let me give you one example:Reed College at that time offered perhaps the best calligraphy instruction in the country. Throughout the campus every poster, every label on every drawer, was beautifully hand calligraphed. Because I had dropped out and didn't have to take the normal classes, I decided to take a calligraphy class to learn how to do this. I learned about serif and san serif typefaces, about varying the amount of space between different letter combinations, about what makes great typography great. It was beautiful, historical, artistically subtle in a way that science can't capture, and I found it fascinating.None of this had even a hope of any practical application in my life. But ten years later, when we were designing the first Macintosh computer, it all came back to me. And we designed it all into the Mac. It was the first computer with beautiful typography. If I had never dropped in on that single course in college, the Mac would have never had multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts. And since Windows just copied the Mac, it's likely that no personal computer would have them. If I had never dropped out, I would have never dropped in on this calligraphy class, and personal computers might not have the wonderful typography that they do. Of course it was impossible to connect the dots looking forward when I was in college. But it was very, very clear looking backwards ten years later.Again, you can't connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something — your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever. This approach has never let me down, and it has made all the difference in my life.My second story is about love and loss.I was lucky — I found what I loved to do early in life. Woz and I started Apple in my parents garage when I was 20. We worked hard, and in 10 years Apple had grown from just the two of us in a garage into a $2bn company with over 4,000 employees. We had just released our finest creation — the Macintosh — a year earlier, and I had just turned 30. And then I got fired. How can you get fired from a company you started? Well, as Apple grew we hired someone who I thought was very talented to run the company with me, and for the first year or so things went well. But then our visions of the future began to diverge and eventually we had a falling out. When we did, our board of directors sided with him. So at 30 I was out. And very publicly out. What had been the focus of my entire adult life was gone, and it was devastating.I really didn't know what to do for a few months. I felt that I had let the previous generation of entrepreneurs down - that I had dropped the baton as it was being passed to me. I met with David Packard and Bob Noyce and tried to apologise for screwing up so badly. I was a very public failure, and I even thought about running away from the valley. But something slowly began to dawn on me — I still loved what I did. The turn of events at Apple had not changed that one bit. I had been rejected, but I was still in love. And so I decided to start over.I didn't see it then, but it turned out that getting fired from Apple was the best thing that could have ever happened to me. The heaviness of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again, less sure about everything. It freed me to enter one of the most creative periods of my life.During the next five years, I started a company named NeXT, another company named Pixar, and fell in love with an amazing woman who would become my wife. Pixar went on to create the worlds first computer animated feature film, Toy Story, and is now the most successful animation studio in the world. In a remarkable turn of events, Apple bought NeXT, I returned to Apple, and the technology we developed at NeXT is at the heart of Apple's current renaissance. And Laurene and I have a wonderful family together.I'm pretty sure none of this would have happened if I hadn't been fired from Apple. It was awful tasting medicine, but I guess the patient needed it. Sometimes life hits you in the head with a brick. Don't lose faith. I'm convinced that the only thing that kept me going was that I loved what I did. You've got to find what you love. And that is as true for your work as it is for your lovers. Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it yet, keep looking. Don't settle. As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it. And, like any great relationship, it just gets better and better as the years roll on. So keep looking until you find it. Don't settle.My third story is about death.When I was 17, I read a quote that went something like: "If you live each day as if it was your last, someday you'll most certainly be right." It made an impression on me, and since then, for the past 33 years, I have looked in the mirror every morning and asked myself: "If today were the last day of my life, would I want to do what I am about to do today?" And whenever the answer has been "No" for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something.Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything — all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.About a year ago I was diagnosed with cancer. I had a scan at 7:30 in the morning, and it clearly showed a tumour on my pancreas. I didn't even know what a pancreas was. The doctors told me this was almost certainly a type of cancer that is incurable, and that I should expect to live no longer than three to six months. My doctor advised me to go home and get my affairs in order, which is doctor's code for prepare to die. It means to try to tell your kids everything you thought you'd have the next 10 years to tell them in just a few months. It means to make sure everything is buttoned up so that it will be as easy as possible for your family. It means to say your goodbyes.I lived with that diagnosis all day. Later that evening I had a biopsy, where they stuck an endoscope down my throat, through my stomach and into my intestines, put a needle into my pancreas and got a few cells from the tumour. I was sedated, but my wife, who was there, told me that when they viewed the cells under a microscope the doctors started crying because it turned out to be a very rare form of pancreatic cancer that is curable with surgery. I had the surgery and I'm fine now.This was the closest I've been to facing death, and I hope it's the closest I get for a few more decades. Having lived through it, I can now say this to you with a bit more certainty than when death was a useful but purely intellectual concept:No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don't want to die to get there. And yet death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it. And that is as it should be, because death is very likely the single best invention of life. It is life's change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the new. Right now the new is you, but someday not too long from now, you will gradually become the old and be cleared away. Sorry to be so dramatic, but it is quite true.Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma — which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.When I was young, there was an amazing publication called The Whole Earth Catalog, which was one of the bibles of my generation. It was created by a fellow named Stewart Brand not far from here in Menlo Park, and he brought it to life with his poetic touch. This was in the late 1960's, before personal computers and desktop publishing, so it was all made with typewriters, scissors, and Polaroid cameras. It was sort of like Google in paperback form, 35 years before Google came along: it was idealistic, and overflowing with neat tools and great notions.Stewart and his team put out several issues of The Whole Earth Catalog, and then when it had run its course, they put out a final issue. It was the mid-1970s, and I was your age. On the back cover of their final issue was a photograph of an early morning country road, the kind you might find yourself hitchhiking on if you were so adventurous. Beneath it were the words: "Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish." It was their farewell message as they signed off. Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish. And I have always wished that for myself. And now, as you graduate to begin anew, I wish that for you.Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish.Thank you all very much.
It's Thursday. Goodbye Steve...
A collection of 11 apps for you today:Toca StoreWe are big fans of Swedish kid-apps developer Toca Boca, which has released its latest app Toca Store. It aims to turn the iPhone or iPad into a play-shop, as children choose which virtual products to stock and how much to sell them for. The app can be used alone, but it's designed for two or more kids to use together: one playing storekeeper and the other playing customer, and taking turns.iPhone / iPadBoquitas: The Hunt for the ChupacabrasDeveloper Lima Sky is best known for the multimillion-selling game Doodle Jump, but the company has thrown a curveball with its new app: an illustrated interactive story about children, chickens and the mythical Chupacabra monsters. It looks like great fun, with free updates coming throughout October to take the story onwards.iPadPostcards by Lonely PlanetYou have to feel for Lonely Planet. Its new iPhone app lets people turn their photos into physical postcards to be sent to friends and family in the US and UK. Yet the week it comes out, Apple announces its own plans for a similar app called Cards, albeit with a higher price for sending the postcards.iPhonePrimeLocationUK property website PrimeLocation has launched its official Android app, enabling people to search for houses and flats, swipe through images, and synchronise the app with their account on the website.AndroidHipsterDoes the world need another location-based photo-sharing app? Hipster hopes so, although it uses different lingo: "Using Hipster you are able to create and send beautiful photographic postcards. Your postcards will be composed of a photo, text, location, and more, which will provide a window into what you are currently experiencing." 10 themes are included, along with Facebook and Twitter sharing.iPhoneDirecTV NomadThis is US-only, but an interesting addition to the growing canon of TV providers' apps. US satellite broadcaster DirecTV has launched its DirecTV Nomad application, which people can sync with their digital video recorders to transfer shows onto their iPhone.iPhoneLovelace &amp; BabbageWeb-comic The Thrilling Adventures of Lovelace and Babbage has been a big hit, turning scientific pioneers Ada Lovelace and Charles Babbage into steampunk superheroes. Now it's been turned into an iPad app by developer Agant, including a free sample, and using a £1.99 sample for the full-length adventure The Client.iPadDan Garson's Woodstock ExperiencePhotographer Dan Garson was at Woodstock, man. He has the pictures to prove it. And now 200 previously unseen snaps are forming an iPad book-app, or as its App Store description describes it, "a digital coffee table book".iPadInnocent Kids Banana Plane Game HDSmoothies firm Innocent is the latest company to launch a branded game, this time for iPad. Its Banana Plane Game is aimed at children, getting them to navigate a banana-shaped plane through targets while picking up "healthy bonuses" along the way. Digital agency Public Creative is the publisher responsible.iPadFrogger PinballAnother one for the long list of "brands shoehorned into seemingly inappropriate mobile game genres". Konami's new iOS game takes road-hopping classic Frogger and slaps it into a pinball game. Complete with BOSS BATTLES, FROGGER FRENZY and MULTIBALL. Their capitals, obviously, not ours.iPhone / iPadDevelop MagazineGlobal games industry magazine Develop has launched its official iPad app, offering articles on tools technology, production processes and crunchy industry issues.iPad
Flat structureApple's really efficient and very impersonal when it comes to making decisions [about killing a product]. There is never any illusion about what the company's focus is and that comes from the top, that came from people like Steve and Scott [Forstall, head of iPhone software], formerly [software chief] Bertrand [Serlet], Tim Cook, everybody, they know what Apple is supposed to be doing and the other side of that is they know what Apple is doing, they actually know what's going on in their back yards.Apple is a very flat organisation, there's not that many layers, and they're just all really involved. There were either five or six layers between me and Steve – my boss was [marketing chief] Phil Schiller. I mean, these executives, they're sending emails very late at night, sometimes after midnight. Apple is the biggest startup in the world, people work day in and day out because they believe in what they're doing. I was at the bottom of the [organisational] chart, I didn't have people under me, but I still – every time I worked on my slides or I worked on a demo or whatever – I would ask myself, I'd say if I had to show this to Steve, what would he say? And, as long as people keep asking themselves that question, and I believe that they will, then Apple's going to be fine.- Matt Drance worked as developer evangelist at Apple from May 2001 to July 2009 and now runsBookhouse SoftwareSteve was everywhereIn my years as an engineer at Apple I only saw Steve in the hallways, we never talked and I never presented to him. Even so, he completely dominated my work. I was building a fairly niche product for professional video editors, but despite our relative lack of significance the team still had to give him quarterly demos. Looking back, it's hard to imagine how many of those sort of meetings he must have done across the company. He was hands-on in a way I've never seen anywhere else, and it must have been exhausting and time-consuming for him.These were nail-biting occasions for us. We'd wait in our office to hear the verdict while the designer presented behind closed doors. Several times he never even got as far as showing off the features we'd been slaving over because Steve would immediately focus on a bad visual element in the interface. Whether it was an ugly button, a mis-aligned font, or a control panel with too many buttons, we'd never recover. All our work under the hood meant nothing, he had seen enough and we'd failed.At first I found this intensely frustrating. It felt like nit-picking over unimportant details. Couldn't he see past the cosmetic issues to the impressive code we'd been writing? We were solving hard problems, so what if there were a few rough edges? It took me time to realise how effective his method was. Because we knew any surface sloppiness would negate everything else we did, the user experience became the true top priority. We began to think about how Steve would see any changes we were considering, he would constantly come up in discussions.Our lives would have been so much easier if we could have just cut some corners, in ways that would have been seen as perfectly reasonable at any other company. Knowing he had an absolute veto and would use it if he saw the experience being threatened forced us to do better. By being both unreasonable and right, he taught us to create products to delight people, not just satisfy them.- Pete Warden worked at Apple from July 2003 to July 2008. He now runsOpenHeatMapand is CTO at JetpacWhat if Steve had never existed?Try to imagine today's society if Steve didn't exist. Can you? The Apple II. the Macintosh. The mouse. Making computers accessible to non-technical people in general. Reinventing the music industry with iPod and iTunes, over the express wishes of the industry. Beginning a similar reinvention of film and video. Revitalising animation with Pixar. Reinventing the personal communication industry with the iPhone. And most recently the iPad. He was a fundamental part of so many societal changes, any one of which would make most people's careers.I am who I am today because of Steve, through the companies and the products and the technologies he fostered; more importantly, because of the people he brought in and mentored who turned into people that mentored me. Because of the thinking and attitudes he promoted and inoculated that became key parts of what I've become. I'm the person I am because of Steve and what he did, the opportunities he created, and the attitudes and expectations he baked into those around him.I almost ran over Steve once outside of Infinite Loop 1 as I was coming in for a meeting and he popped into the street without really looking, [iPod division chief] Jon Rubinstein and [iTunes chief] Eddy Cue in tow. He almost returned the favour once as he drove in to work as I was in the same crosswalk.Steve could be a tough and very intimidating person, but as much as he demanded of others, he demanded more of himself. He was involved in one of my projects at Apple, and I used to watch the team scramble as Steve reviewed ad copy hours before a launch and mark up changes. He was that involved in the details, and he was always right.Now Steve has left us, but his memory and his legacy live on, and they will continue to drive and shape the world we live in for years to come. Nobody can replace Steve Jobs – he was unique. Each of us can choose to do something to fill a small part of the void he's left. If we do, we will help fulfil the legacy he started in trying to make the world better for all of us. I am a better person for having lived under his influence, and I can never pay that back, but I can try to carry that forward in his memory.- Chuq von Rospach worked at Apple for 17 years, from 1989 to September 2009; he now works at Hewlett-PackardRelentless requirement to meet the highest of standards – and everyday magic"It's all true." Those words compelled me to accept a job offer at Apple. And, it was all true. Steve's Apple had the most talented people in the world, the subtle chaos necessary to develop new ideas, and the relentless requirement to always meet his highest of standards.  Steve Jobs has been described as "brilliant" and "mean" in the same breath. Brilliant because of his insight and vision, mean because he would let you know if your ideas weren't insightful or visionary.Feature reviews were always stressful. Would Steve like the idea? Would a stray pixel distract the course of the meeting? Would it be axed on the spot?  If it were, you might go back to sulk at your desk, but you'd always realise that his reasoning was right. This stress is how Apple ticked; the quest to make the world a better place doesn't happen by coddling egos or releasing mediocre products. The culture of excellence and attention to detail was rooted at the top.In my time at Apple, I saw Steve's true gift was he could bring complete focus to a product, seemingly off-the-cuff. Lion started as many engineering-brainstormed ideas glommed together to form an incoherent product. The pieces were great, the sum was unknown.  After months of development, it underwent first review by Steve. Like a dog being yanked back on its leash, Steve stated that Lion (Mac OSX 10.7, released earlier this year) needed to bring the iPad "back to the Mac". In a split second it all became clear. Hundreds of engineers now had a common goal to work for, all due to Steve's ability to distil down what would be millions of lines of code into four words. This is not an isolated story but a common occurrence. This was the everyday magic of Steve Jobs, which the world lost today.Former staff member (anonymous at their request)
The iPhone and other smartphones became the most popular gaming platform for developers for the first time this year, according to a study by the industry trade bodyTigapublished on Thursday.British developers are increasingly choosing to release their games as apps on smartphones and Facebook, rather than traditional players such as the PC or games consoles.Almost half of UK developers now produce games for mobile devices and social networks – with two-thirds opting for Apple's iPhone – according to the survey of 104 businesses by Tiga.The shift to a new generation of mobile phones and websites comes as gamers have flocked to Facebook for titles such as Farmville and Cityville, and Angry Birds has dominated the market on smartphones.Of the 47% of developers who self-publish – rather than the work-for-hire model behind popular games such as Call of Duty and Fifa 12 – almost a half make games for the iPad and a third for Facebook.More developers make games for the iPhone than they do for the PC, according to the study."This trend is an overwhelmingly positive thing, because it allows developers to cut out the publisher and sell directly to the consumer," said Dr Richard Wilson, chief executive of Tiga. "Because smartphones are increasingly prevalent, used by large proportions of young middle aged people – as well as the increase in internet connections – the market for video games has increased and is increasing."In 2008, 71% of British games developers told Tiga that their most important customer was the publisher, such as Activision or Electronic Arts. This year that figure dropped to 37% – almost half of what it was three years ago – with another 37% declaring the gamer their most important customer.Wilson pointed out that in 2008, 58% of all games were so-called "for hire projects", when large publishers pay for the manufacture and marketing of a production. That figure dropped to 44% this year as Britons' appetite for Facebook and smartphones continued to boom."That demonstrates the huge change," Wilson said. "There's a huge amount of experimentation taking place with regards to business models [of self-publishing developers], and the model is still being worked out."Wilson added that the shift to self-publishing was partly due to unrewarding tax breaks handed by the government to firms making games overseas.A third of those surveyed said they felt held back by these tax breaks, with a fifth reporting that employees had left to work for developers outside the UK. Two fifths of developers reported difficulty accessing funding for games.
When historians look back at the life of Steve Jobs, they will chronicle a man of contradiction and genius. But for the legions of Apple fans, it's personal.Steve Jobs led a company that became one of the world's most valuable enterprises, and easily the most beloved by its customers, with a series of innovative and always elegant products that brought value and pleasure to people's lives. This is why you are seeing an outpouring of genuine sentiment at his passing.Jobs's career was in every sense astonishing. He helped create Apple, the first serious personal computer company. He was banished by the managers he recruited. But his years away were hardly a wilderness. He led Pixar's ascent to one of the world's most creative film studios as it revolutionised animation, and he founded a "failure", NeXT, that became the foundation for the modern Mac operating system. Those years gave him the knowledge and skills he needed to lead Apple into its best years.But what set him most apart from his peers was an exquisite sense of product design and the ability to intuit what people would want, and use. Combined with his leadership (and salesmanship) skills, he was the most formidable CEO of recent times.I've been a fan and follower of the Apple way, especially when it was by far the best alternative to the Microsoft empire – and when it was the best in class, period. I bought my first Apple product in the 1970s.But in the past half-decade, as Apple became increasingly powerful, I have found myself less enchanted with a company I'd supported with my words and, ultimately, tens of thousands of dollars of my own money. Where Steve Jobs had been the freedom fighter, he was becoming the emperor, creating a regime of secrecy, manipulation and control-freakery to accompany the ongoing, even accelerating, innovation.My respect – no, awe – for Jobs's genius has only grown, but I couldn't ultimately follow him into a walled garden, however comfortable, that contradicted what I believed in, and what he once stood for. I was no longer his kind of customer, though; he aimed now for the masses who preferred to live in Apple's warm but controlling embrace, and he succeeded.The competition hasn't yet matched Apple's marriage of hardware and software, so elegant, easy to use and playful. But the sense of style that Apple made so popular increasingly permeates the electronic devices we use today, no matter who makes them, and that trend seems likely to continue.That is one reason why Apple's long-range transition looks murky. The company's technical and design people are phenomenal – Jobs built an unequalled team – and his successor as CEO, Tim Cook, has built one of the world's sleekest operational juggernauts. What is in the product pipeline will no doubt maintain the momentum for at least several years.But for almost a decade and a half, this redoubtable team has deferred on the most essential decisions to the design sensibility of Steve Jobs. Now he is gone. Every such decision in years to come – the most crucial choices any consumer-products company makes – will be accompanied a frisson of doubt. Everyone will ask, would Steve have made this particular choice? And no one will know for sure.As I write this, Apple's homepage is poignant and just right. It is a photo of Jobs in his recent prime, after coming back to Apple but before the illness that consumed him. In the photo, he is looking into the camera with utter assurance, and with a hint of mischief.Today, I sent an email to my students. In that email, and from my social networks, I linked to a video of a powerful commencement speech Jobs gave atStanford University a few years ago. The power went beyond his genius as a product wizard, pitchman and CEO, illuminating a man who'd listened, learned and led.What he told the graduating students may be Steve Jobs's best legacy. Here is one part we all should remember:Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma, which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.
Steve Jobs, Apple co-founder and technological visionary, was well known for his words as well as his creations. Here are some of his thoughts over the past 25 years.On life"Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything - all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart."– Stanford commencement speech 2005On Macintosh"I don't think I've ever worked so hard on something, but working on Macintosh was the neatest experience of my life. Almost everyone who worked on it will say that. None of us wanted to release it at the end. It was as though we knew that once it was out of our hands, it wouldn't be ours any more."When we finally presented it at the shareholders' meeting, everyone in the auditorium stood up and gave it a 5-minute ovation. What was incredible to me was that I could see the Mac team in the first few rows. It was as though none of us could believe that we'd actually finished it. Everyone started crying."– Playboy magazine 1985On customers"There's nothing that makes my day more than getting an e-mail from some random person in the universe who just bought an iPad over in the UK and tells me the story about how it's the coolest product they've ever brought home in their lives. That's what keeps me going. It's what kept me five years ago [when he was diagnosed with cancer], it's what kept me going 10 years ago when the doors were almost closed. And it's what will keep me going five years from now whatever happens."- AllThingsD Conference, 2010On technology"We think the Mac will sell zillions, but we didn't build the Mac for anybody else. We built it for ourselves. We were the group of people who were going to judge whether it was great or not. We weren't going to go out and do market research. We just wanted to build the best thing we could build.When you're a carpenter making a beautiful chest of drawers, you're not going to use a piece of plywood on the back, even though it faces the wall and nobody will ever see it. You'll know it's there, so you're going to use a beautiful piece of wood on the back. For you to sleep well at night, the aesthetic, the quality, has to be carried all the way through."– Playboy magazine 1985On motivation"That's been one of my mantras — focus and simplicity. Simple can be harder than complex: You have to work hard to get your thinking clean to make it simple. But it's worth it in the end because once you get there, you can move mountains."– Business Week 1998On money"Being the richest man in the cemetery doesn't matter to me … Going to bed at night saying we've done something wonderful … that's what matters to me."– Wall Street Journal 1993On internet start-ups"The problem with the internet start-up craze isn't that too many people are starting companies; it's that too many people aren't sticking with it. That's somewhat understandable, because there are many moments that are filled with despair and agony, when you have to fire people and cancel things and deal with very difficult situations. That's when you find out who you are and what your values are."So when these people sell out, even though they get fabulously rich, they're gypping themselves out of one of the potentially most rewarding experiences of their unfolding lives. Without it, they may never know their values or how to keep their newfound wealth in perspective."– Fortune magazine 2000On design (1)"Design is a funny word. Some people think design means how it looks. But of course, if you dig deeper, it's really how it works. The design of the Mac wasn't what it looked like, although that was part of it. Primarily, it was how it worked. To design something really well, you have to get it. You have to really grok what it's all about. It takes a passionate commitment to really thoroughly understand something, chew it up, not just quickly swallow it. Most people don't take the time to do that."-Wired magazine, 1994On design (2)"In most people's vocabularies, design means veneer. It's interior decorating. It's the fabric of the curtains and the sofa. But to me, nothing could be further from the meaning of design. Design is the fundamental soul of a man-made creation that ends up expressing itself in successive outer layers of the product or service."– Fortune magazine 2000On Apple"My position coming back to Apple was that our industry was in a coma. It reminded me of Detroit in the 70s, when American cars were boats on wheels."– Fortune magazine 2000On innovation"Innovation comes from people meeting up in the hallways or calling each other at 10.30 at night with a new idea, or because they realised something that shoots holes in how we've been thinking about a problem. It's ad hoc meetings of six people called by someone who thinks he has figured out the coolest new thing ever and who wants to know what other people think of his idea."And it comes from saying no to 1,000 things to make sure we don't get on the wrong track or try to do too much. We're always thinking about new markets we could enter, but it's only by saying no that you can concentrate on the things that are really important."– Business Week 2004On home computing"The most compelling reason for most people to buy a computer for the home will be to link it to a nationwide communications network. We're just in the beginning stages of what will be a truly remarkable breakthrough for most people – as remarkable as the telephone."– Playboy 1985On desktop computers"The desktop computer industry is dead. Innovation has virtually ceased. Microsoft dominates with very little innovation. That's over. Apple lost. The desktop market has entered the dark ages, and it's going to be in the dark ages for the next 10 years, or certainly for the rest of this decade."It's like when IBM drove a lot of innovation out of the computer industry before the microprocessor came along. Eventually, Microsoft will crumble because of complacency, and maybe some new things will grow. But until that happens, until there's some fundamental technology shift, it's just over."– Wired magazine 1996On instinct"You can't connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something – your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever. This approach has never let me down, and it has made all the difference in my life."– Stanford commencement speech 2005On work"Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it yet, keep looking. Don't settle. As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it. And, like any great relationship, it just gets better and better as the years roll on. So keep looking until you find it. Don't settle."– Stanford commencement speech 2005
1955Steve Jobs is born in San Francisco on 24 February 1955, and adopted by Paul and Clara Jobs of Mountain View, California.1974He takes a job at videogame company Atari Inc but resigns after a few months to travel to India.1975Jobs and his friend Steve Wozniak build a prototype computer in the garage of Jobs' parents.1976Jobs and Wozniak co-found Apple Computer to sell their machines, staring with the Apple I.1977The Apple II is launched. The first successful mass-market computer, it remains in production for 16 years.1980The company's second computer, the Apple III, is launched but proves a commercial failure, plagued by faulty construction.1983Apple launches the Lisa, the first personal computer controlled by on-screen icons activated at the click of a mouse. But it also proves unsuccessful.1984Apple launches the Macintosh computer, which wins rave reviews but suffers disappointing sales.1985Apple closes half its six factories, sheds 1,200 employees (a fifth of its staff) and declares its first quarterly loss. Jobs loses a boardroom battle against John Sculley and is forced out of the company.1986Jobs buys the computer graphics division of Lucasfilm Ltd, the company owned by Star Wars director George Lucas, and founds what would become Pixar Animation Studios.1987Macintosh II is launched in 1987.1988Jobs founds NeXT Computer, but it was not a financial success, selling only 50,000 computers.1995With Jobs as its chief executive, Pixar releases Toy Story, the first full-length computer animated film, which is a worldwide box office smash.1996Apple buys NeXT for $429m (£277m) and uses Jobs' technology to build the next generation of its own software.1997Jobs becomes Apple's interim chief executive.1998The iMac is launched, a self-contained computer and monitor. Its design eclipses the clunky build of Apple's competitors.2001The first iPod goes on sale in October and proves a huge success.2003The iTunes music store is launched in April.2007The first iPhone is launched. Jobs decides to drop the computer part of Apple's name.2010The iPad is launched in April and 3m of the devices are sold in 80 days. Nearly 15m iPads are sold worldwide by the end of the year. Apple's annual sales reach $65bn – a huge rise from $8bn in 2000.2011Apple continues to roll out new products to great demand including the iPad 2 and iPhone 4.
Steve Jobs, the Apple founder and former CEO who invented gadgets that transformed everyday technology from the personal computer to the iPod and iPhone, has died. He was 56.Apple company statementWe are deeply saddened to announce that Steve Jobs passed away today. Steve's brilliance, passion and energy were the source of countless innovations that enrich and improve all of our lives. The world is immeasurably better because of Steve.Jobs family statementSteve died peacefully today surrounded by his family. In his public life, Steve was known as a visionary; in his private life, he cherished his family. We are thankful to the many people who have shared their wishes and prayers during the last year of Steve's illness; a website will be provided for those who wish to offer tributes and memories.Tim Cook, Apple CEOApple has lost a visionary and creative genius, and the world has lost an amazing human being. Those of us who have been fortunate enough to know and work with Steve have lost a dear friend and an inspiring mentor. Steve leaves behind a company that only he could have built, and his spirit will forever be the foundation of Apple.We are planning a celebration of Steve's extraordinary life for Apple employees that will take place soon.No words can adequately express our sadness at Steve's death or our gratitude for the opportunity to work with him. We will honor his memory by dedicating ourselves to continuing the work he loved so much.Bill Gates, former chief executive of MicrosoftThe world rarely sees someone who has had the profound impact Steve has had, the effects of which will be felt for many generations to come. For those of us lucky enough to get to work with him, it's been an insanely great honor. I will miss Steve immensely.Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of FacebookSteve, thank you for being a mentor and a friend. Thanks for showing that what you build can change the world. I will miss you.Steve Jobs, who has died aged 56. Photograph: John G Mabanglo/EPALarry Page, Google co-founderI am very, very sad to hear the news about Steve. He was a great man with incredible achievements and amazing brilliance. He always seemed to be able to say in very few words what you actually should have been thinking before you thought it.His focus on the user experience above all else has always been an inspiration to me. He was very kind to reach out to me as I became CEO of Google and spend time offering his advice and knowledge even though he was not at all well.President Barack ObamaMichelle and I are saddened to learn of the passing of Steve Jobs. Steve was among the greatest of American innovators brave enough to think differently, bold enough to believe he could change the world and talented enough to do it.By building one of the planet's most successful companies from his garage, he exemplified the spirit of American ingenuity. By making computers personal and putting the Internet in our pockets, he made the information revolution not only accessible, but intuitive and fun.And by turning his talents to storytelling, he has brought joy to millions of children and grown-ups alike. Steve was fond of saying that he lived every day like it was his last. Because he did, he transformed our lives, redefined entire industries and achieved one of the rarest feats in human history: He changed the way each of us sees the world.The world has lost a visionary. And there may be no greater tribute to Steve's success than the fact that much of the world learned of his passing on a device he invented.Michael Bloomberg, New York mayorTonight, America lost a genius who will be remembered with Edison and Einstein, and whose ideas will shape the world for generations to come.Again and again over the last four decades, Steve Jobs saw the future and brought it to life long before most people could even see the horizon.In New York City's government, everyone from street construction inspectors to NYPD detectives have harnessed Apple's products to do their jobs more efficiently and intuitively.Bob Iger, chief executive, Walt DisneyHis legacy will extend far beyond the products he created or the businesses he built. It will be the millions of people he inspired, the lives he changed, and the culture he defined.Steve was such an 'original,' with a thoroughly creative, imaginative mind that defined an era. Despite all he accomplished, it feels like he was just getting started.Spike Lee actor, director, producerVISIONARIES are always called CRAZY in the beginning. A VISIONARY sees things that everybody else says is IMPOSSIBLE, sees a World that People can't invision (sic) - MAC, IPOD, IPAD, IPHONE, ITUNES and PIXAR. I have nothing but Love for Mr. Jobs and Apple, they have always given me and my films L-O-V-E.The GrammysThank you for revolutionising the way we listen to music. Your vision will not be forgotten.Norman Foster, architectWith my colleagues I would like to pay tribute to Steve Jobs. Like so many millions our lives have been profoundly and positively influenced by the innovations pioneered by Steve and Apple, names which are inseparable.We were greatly privileged to know Steve as a person, as a friend and in every way so much more than a client. Steve was an inspiration and a role model. He encouraged us to develop new ways of looking at design to reflect his unique ability to weave backwards and forwards between brand strategy and the minutiae of the tiniest of internal fittings. For him no detail was small in its significance and he would be simultaneously questioning the headlines of our project together whilst he delved into its fine print.He was the ultimate perfectionist and demanded of himself as he demanded of others. We are better as individuals and certainly wiser as architects through the experience of the last two years and more of working for him. His participation was so intense and creative that our memory will be that of working with one of the truly great designers and mentors.
Steve Jobs, billionaire co-founder of Apple and the mastermind behind an empire of products that revolutionised computing, telephony and the music industry, has died in California at the age of 56.Jobs stepped down in August as chief executive of the company he helped set up in 1976, citing illness. He had been battling an unusual form of pancreatic cancer, and had received a liver transplant in 2009.Jobs wrote in his letter of resignation: "I have always said if there ever came a day when I could no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple's CEO, I would be the first to let you know. Unfortunately, that day has come."Apple released a statement paying tribute: "Steve's brilliance, passion and energy were the source of countless innovations that enrich and improve all of our lives … The world is immeasurably better because of&nbsp;Steve."Bill Gates, the former chief executive of Microsoft, said in a statement that he was "truly saddened to learn of Steve Jobs's death". He added: "The world rarely sees someone who has had the profound impact Steve has had, the effects of which will be felt for many generations to come."For those of us lucky enough to get to work with him, it's been an insanely great honour. I will miss Steve immensely."He is survived by his wife, Laurene, and four children. In a statement his family said Jobs "died peacefully today surrounded by his family … We know many of you will mourn with us, and we ask that you respect our privacy during our time of grief".Jobs was one of the pioneers of Silicon Valley and helped establish the region's claim as the global centre of technology. He founded Apple with his childhood friend Steve Wozniak, and the two marketed what was considered the world's first personal computer, the Apple II.He was ousted in a bitter boardroom battle in 1985, a move that he later claimed was the best thing that could have happened to him. Jobs went on to buy Pixar, the company behind some of the biggest animated hits in cinema history including Toy Story, Cars and Finding Nemo.He returned to Apple 11 years later when it was being written off by rivals. What followed was one of the most remarkable comebacks in business history.Apple was briefly the most valuable company in the world earlier this year, knocking oil giant Exxon Mobil off the top spot. The company produces $65.2bn a year in revenue compared with $7.1bn in its business year ending September 1997.Starting with his brightly coloured iMacs, Jobs went on to launch hit after hit transformed personal computing.Then came the success of the iPod, which revolutionised the music industry, leading to a collapse in CD sales and making Jobs one of the most powerful voices in an industry he loved.His firm was named in homage to the Beatles' record label, Apple. But the borrowing was permitted on the basis that the computing firm would stay out of music. After the success of the iPod the two Apples became engaged in a lengthy legal battle which finally ended last year when the Beatles allowed iTunes to start selling their back catalogue.Jobs's remarkable capacity to spot what people wanted next came without the aid of market research or focus groups."For something this complicated, it's really hard to design products by focus groups," he once said. "A lot of times, people don't know what they want until you show it to them."Jobs initially hid his illness but his startling weight loss started to unnerve his investors. He took a six-month medical leave of absence in 2009, during which he received a liver transplant, and another medical leave of absence in mid-January before stepping down as chief executive in August.Jobs leaves an estimated $8.3bn, but he often dismissed others' interest in his wealth. "Being the richest man in the cemetery doesn't matter to me … Going to bed at night saying we've done something wonderful … that's what matters to me."
Apple Inc has announced that the company's co-founder Steve Jobs has died. He was 56 years old.In a statement, the company said: "We are deeply saddened to announce that Steve Jobs passed away today."Steve's brilliance, passion and energy were the source of countless innovations that enrich and improve all of our lives. The world is immeasurably better because of Steve."His greatest love was for his wife, Laurene, and his family. Our hearts go out to them and to all who were touched by his extraordinary gifts."The homepage of Apple's website now displays a full-page image of Jobs with the text: "Steve Jobs 1955-2011."A dedicated webpage then reads: "Apple has lost a visionary and creative genius, and the world has lost an amazing human being. Those of us who have been fortunate enough to know and work with Steve have lost a dear friend and an inspiring mentor. Steve leaves behind a company that only he could have built, and his spirit will forever be the foundation of Apple."
Steve Jobs, who has died aged 56 of pancreatic cancer, made an unprecedented impact on the world's consumer electronics markets with a string of successful products, including the iPod media player, iPhone smartphone and iPad tablet computer. In little more than a&nbsp;decade, he took Apple – the company he co-founded in 1976, and returned to&nbsp;in 1997 – from near-bankruptcy to&nbsp;being the world's second most valuable company by market capitalisation, after the oil giant Exxon, with around $80bn in the bank.Steve Jobs, co-founder and chairman of Apple, has died aged 56. Photograph: Paul Sakuma/APThe iPod, iPhone and iPad were all relatively late to market, expensive, and, in their initial versions, lacked important features. But Apple's products not only came to dominate their rivals, they redefined large areas of three entire industries: music, mobile telephony and personal computing. Through iTunes Jobs provided a simple way for users to&nbsp;buy digital content where previously they would have pirated it. Through his animation studio, Pixar, and films such as Toy Story (1995), he also helped change the movie industry. Few entrepreneurs – one thinks of Henry Ford, or Conrad Hilton – have had as much impact.To an unusual degree, Jobs was responsible for Apple's success. He&nbsp;was described as a control freak and was known to have rejected hundreds of ideas in the quest for his idea of&nbsp;perfection. In a speech to&nbsp;a&nbsp;conference held for Apple's third-party software developers in 1997, Jobs&nbsp;apologised for putting "a bullet in&nbsp;the head" of some things they had been working on, but he had a larger vision. He said: "Focusing is about saying no. You've got to say no, no, no … and the result of that focus is going to&nbsp;be some really great products where the total is much greater than the sum of&nbsp;the parts."Although it went largely unnoticed at the time, Jobs then explained the strategy that was to lead to Apple's recovery. "One of the things I've always found is that you've got to start with the customer experience and work backwards to the technology. You can't start with the technology and try to figure out where you are going to try to&nbsp;sell it. I've made this mistake probably more than anybody else in this room, and I've got the scar tissue to&nbsp;prove it, and I know that it's the case."As we have tried to come up with a strategy and a vision for Apple, it started with 'What incredible benefits can we give to the customer? Where can we take the customer?', not with 'Let's sit down with the engineers and figure out what awesome technology we have and how are we going to market that.' I think that's the right path to take."The ultimate aim was, of course, to make money. His schoolfriend and early collaborator, Steve Wozniak, had done things for fun, but Jobs's line on any technology was: "How does that fit into a larger cohesive vision that allows you to sell $8bn, $10bn of products a year?"Jobs's desire to deliver the best possible customer experience led him to try to control, or at least influence everything, including the design of&nbsp;the chips Apple used, the hardware, software and the online services. He even opened hundreds of shops to sell Apple products. He launched new products himself, in carefully crafted "Stevenotes" that attracted adoring crowds and received huge press&nbsp;coverage.His micro-management enabled him to go against industry conventions in his quest for ease of use and simplification. The iPhone, for example, was launched in the US with one basic model from one network operator. Apple also authorised and controlled the applications available from its online App Store, and if a&nbsp;user wanted Adobe Flash – used on millions of websites and the standard for delivering online video – they could not run it without unlocking their iPhone. Jobs could be regarded as a&nbsp;benign dictator. His customers loved him for it, but he was a dictator nonetheless.Nothing in the first 45 years of Jobs's life suggested that he would have such an impact. Born in San Francisco, the child of two graduate students, he was adopted, and named, by Paul and Clara Jobs. He grew up in Mountain View, close to the heart of Silicon Valley. While at Homestead high school, Cupertino, he went to extracurricular lectures at&nbsp;Hewlett-Packard – the Valley's founding technology company – in nearby Palo Alto, and he and Wozniak got summer jobs there.After finishing high school in 1972, Jobs moved north to study at Reed, an expensive liberal arts college in&nbsp;Portland, Oregon. He dropped out after one term, but continued to go to some classes, including a course on calligraphy. That came back to him 10&nbsp;years later, he said, and "we designed it all into the Mac. It was the first computer with beautiful typography." He grew his hair and a beard, slept on friends' floors, and sometimes went to a&nbsp;Hare Krishna temple for free meals. Like many drop-outs at that Beatles-inspired time, his ambition was to visit a guru in India, which he eventually did with a friend from Reed, Dan Kottke. When they got there, the guru had died.At this point, Jobs had a limited education, and no obvious talents, apart from a notorious ability to talk people into things. (Later this became known as his "reality distortion field".) However, he did have a devoted friend who was an electronics genius. Wozniak could design circuits with fewer chips than anyone else, and he enjoyed the challenge. It was a talent that Jobs exploited in the creation of Apple Computer. However, they were a team. Without Jobs's ambition, constant prodding and the talents that he rapidly developed – high design standards, the ability to make deals and, soon, great marketing skills – Wozniak might well have spent a quiet life designing hardware at HP. Woz could design computers, but Jobs could exploit markets.In his book about Apple, Infinite Loop (2000), Michael Malone said Jobs "had&nbsp;begun the summer [of&nbsp;1976] almost a stranger to personal computing. He&nbsp;would finish it as the best businessman in the industry." The&nbsp;first Apple computer was a hobbyist machine in a&nbsp;crude wooden box. It was assembled by hand at Jobs's parents' house and sold for $666.66. It made Jobs realise that, in order to compete, Apple had to be set up as a&nbsp;proper company, with financial backing and an experienced chief executive. That happened with an investment from a&nbsp;former Intel employee, Mike Markkula, and the appointment of&nbsp;Apple's first chief executive, Mike&nbsp;Scott.Woz's follow-up, the Apple II, was beautifully designed, and its easily accessible expansion slots meant it could be adapted for almost any purpose. Its built-in colour graphics and&nbsp;ability to plug into a TV set were marked advantages over rivals that appeared the same year, the Commodore PET and the Tandy TRS80. Thanks to Jobs, the Apple II also had a&nbsp;strikingly original case, a&nbsp;helpful manual and consumer-friendly advertising. It was a&nbsp;great success, dominating the US market until the IBM PC was launched in August 1981. Upgraded versions continued to sell for&nbsp;many years.The Apple II's success also enabled Apple Computer to go public in December 1980. Its share price more than doubled on the opening day, valuing the young company at $1.8bn.However, the arrival of wealth and fame had an unexpected consequence. In February 1981, Wozniak was injured after crashing his Beechcraft Bonanza while taking off from a local airport. Apple's development had to continue without him, and Jobs took over the direction of the Macintosh project from its originator, Jef Raskin. This would be Jobs's computer, not Wozniak's.The Mac was intended to&nbsp;be the first mass-market computer based on using a mouse and a&nbsp;graphical user interface. These ideas had been developed by Alan Kay and other scientists at Xerox PARC (Palo Alto Research Center). They had been tried in the high-priced Xerox Star workstation and, later, in Apple's Lisa ($9,995), without finding commercial success.Jobs wanted the Mac to be an appliance that would appeal to ordinary consumers rather than hobbyists, scientists and businesses. As he pointed out, there were no user groups for particular brands of washing machine. It led to a simplified, closed-box design that was cute but did not take you very far. Kay criticised it in a memo: "Have I&nbsp;got a deal for you: a Honda with a one-quart gas tank."The Mac was launched with one of&nbsp;the most famous TV commercials in history, titled 1984, and given a single showing during the Super Bowl of&nbsp;January that year. It associated IBM, at the time the major force in personal computers, with the Big Brother of&nbsp;George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four. There were also 20-page adverts in the major US magazines. Bill Gates, chairman of Microsoft, appeared on&nbsp;stage with Jobs at the Mac's launch, praising the machine and promising Microsoft's software support. Versions of Word, Excel and PowerPoint were all written for the Mac. Unfortunately, after an initial burst, the Mac failed to sell in&nbsp;the expected quantities.In 1985 Apple closed half its six factories, shed 1,200 employees (a&nbsp;fifth of its staff) and declared its first quarterly loss. Jobs lost a boardroom battle against John Sculley – the man he had hired from Pepsi as chief executive officer with the immortal line: "Do you want to spend the rest of your life selling sugared water or do you want a chance to change the world?" – and was forced out of the company. The Mac was redesigned as a conventional three-piece system with expansion slots, and Macintosh II was launched in 1987. It was particularly successful in the design and publishing industries. In a Playboy interview, Jobs said: "I feel like somebody just punched me in the stomach and knocked all my wind out. I'm only 30 years old and I want to have a chance to continue creating things. I know I've got at least one more great computer in me. And Apple is not going to give me a chance to do that."Jobs set up a new company, NeXT, to produce a powerful, futuristic Unix workstation for business and higher education users, taking several Apple employees, including members of the Mac team. Although the company attracted a lot of financial backing, and Tim Berners-Lee developed the world wide web on a NeXT Cube, sales were dismal. The company ditched the hardware and switched to selling the operating system, but it was still failing. However, by this stage, Jobs had been transformed. When he launched the NeXT in the UK – not at some boring hotel but from the stage of the London Palladium – he was beautifully groomed and a very polished performer. He was a superstar, albeit a (temporarily) irrelevant one.Everything changed after Microsoft launched Windows 95, which finally made the mouse and graphical user interface ubiquitous. Apple's annual turnover slumped from $11.1bn in 1994 to $5.9bn in 1998, it lost money, and there were several attempts to sell the company. Apple's board installed one of&nbsp;its members, Gil Amelio, to turn things around, but that did not work either. As Jobs said later: "The products suck! There's no sex in them any more!"Mac OS software development had stalled, and Amelio knew he had to buy in a new operating system to replace it. The early betting was on Jean-Louis Gassée's BeOS. (Gassée had replaced Jobs as head of Macintosh development, then left to develop the BeBox as a Mac replacement.) However, at the end of&nbsp;1996, Amelio bought NeXT instead. Jobs, the super-salesman, had struck again. Apple paid $429m for NeXT after telling Gassée that his $275m price was too high.Jobs was now back at Apple as Amelio's adviser, though it was something of a reverse takeover: former NeXT staff such as Avie Tevanian and Jon Rubinstein took charge of Apple's software and hardware respectively. Whatever his official status, no one had any doubt who was running the show. This time, Jobs staged the boardroom coup, and he became "interim CEO" in&nbsp;September 1997.There had long been a pseudo-religious element to Apple's following, and Jobs's return was akin to the Second Coming for the Mac faithful. It was an amazing example of the American dream: the adopted son who spent time in the wilderness (Oregon, India), started a company in a garage, achieved fame and fortune, was booted out and then returned in triumph.Turning Apple around was not easy, even for Jobs. He killed off weak products such as the Apple Newton, dramatically simplified the product line and started a process of creating eye-catching designs. More than a&nbsp;dozen Mac models were replaced by the teardrop-shaped iMac, followed by the portable iBook and a NeXT-like G4 Cube. NeXT's NextStep was adapted to provide the new operating system, Mac OS X. Jobs even secured an investment from Microsoft and a promise to keep Microsoft Office available for the Mac.Curiously, Jobs kept repeating the process that he had used with the original Macintosh. Products were developed in secret under his intense supervision, before being given a&nbsp;big-bang public launch, followed by huge advertising. He also kept to the idea of making things more and more like household appliances, removing expansion slots, and even sealing in batteries. However, the world had changed since 1984. Technology was no longer the domain of hobbyists and businesses, and ordinary consumers were now buying computers to do email and surf the relatively new world wide web. Jobs wanted to delight customers, and now there were customers who wanted to be delighted.The Mac alone, however, would have left Apple with limited prospects in a&nbsp;Windows world. As Jobs had said before the NeXT takeover: "If I&nbsp;were running Apple, I would milk the Macintosh for all it's worth – and get busy on the next great thing. The PC wars are over. Done. Microsoft won a&nbsp;long time ago."True to his word, Jobs went in a different direction, launching the iPod in October 2001 and the iTunes music store in April 2003. These changed the music industry, and put Apple on a&nbsp;growth path. When Jobs followed up with the iPhone in January 2007, he was confident enough to drop the computer part of Apple's name. Annual sales soared from $8bn in 2000 to $65bn in 2010, and are still rising rapidly, thanks to new versions of the iPhone and the iPad. Indeed, the iPad is already a bigger business than Macintosh.Apple's decade of growth may be considered even more remarkable in&nbsp;the light of Jobs's health problems. In 2004 he had an operation for a&nbsp;neuroendocrine pancreatic tumour, a relatively rare form of cancer. The following year, he talked about death in an inspiring speech at Stanford University: "Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything – all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or&nbsp;failure – these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I&nbsp;know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart."In January 2009 Jobs missed giving his usual Apple Stevenote, saying he was suffering from weight loss due to a hormonal imbalance. He took a six-month medical leave of absence, during which time he had a liver transplant, before returning to work. In January 2011, he took another medical leave of&nbsp;absence before stepping down in&nbsp;August as Apple's CEO.Although Jobs was idolised by Apple fans, he was not universally admired, partly because of his perfectionism, secrecy and hard-driving management style. A Wired magazine article quoted Rubinstein (now at HP), saying: "We have cells, like a terrorist organisation," with the company's former chief evangelist Guy Kawasaki adding: "Steve proves that it's OK to be an asshole."Some never forgave Jobs for cheating Wozniak out of a few thousand dollars – a bonus payment from Atari for reducing the chip count of its Breakout game. Wozniak, while working for HP in the mid-1970s, had done most of the work. Jobs also refused for some time to&nbsp;acknowledge a daughter, Lisa, born in&nbsp;1978 to Chrisann Brennan. He aroused local ire by buying a historic mansion in the Woodside area of California and leaving it to decay when he moved to Palo Alto. Preservationists took Jobs to court to try to save it, but lost on appeal, and it was demolished in February 2011.Jobs was a quintessential Silicon Valley hero, following on from HP's Bill Hewlett and David Packard and preceding Google's Larry Page and Sergey Brin. He built one of the world's richest and most successful corporations against all the odds, using his own taste, talents and willpower. He was, of course, in the right place at the right time – the start of the personal computer industry – and he was well placed to catch the wave as analogue industries changed from vinyl, tapes, film, paper and other physical formats to digital ones. But Jobs was unique in his ability to ride that wave, and shape it in ways that no rival could emulate.Jobs is survived by his wife, Laurene Powell, whom he married in a Buddhist ceremony in 1991, and their children, Reed, Erin and Eve; by Lisa; and by a sister, the novelist Mona Simpson.•Steven Paul Jobs, businessman, born 24 February 1955; died 5 October 2011
Microsoft is considering a fresh attempt to take control of Yahoo, sources close to the situation have told Reuters, more than three years afterits first bidfor the internet business failed,The software giant launched a $44.6bn hostile bid for Yahoo in 2008 that was vigorously rebuffed by the company. Yahoo's share price has subsequently collapsed and the firm was valued at less than $18bn before Microsoft's renewed interest was reported.Yahoo's shares soared by 10% on the rumour, which neither company would comment on, before falling back in after-hours trading. Peaking at $15.94, the shares were still barely half the value of Microsoft's $31-per-share offer in 2008.Yahoo axed chief executive Carol Bartz last month and said the company was conducting a strategic review of its business, promptingspeculation that it was a takeover target.Goldman Sachs and media specialist Allen &amp; Co are working with the firm and are believed to be sounding out potential buyers. Last month, several Yahoo employees in were told in a memo that the company's financial advisers were "fielding inquiries from multiple parties that have already expressed interest in a number of potential options."Jack Ma, chief executive of Chinese internet company Alibaba, has already expressed an interest in buying Yahoo. The US firm owns 40% of Alibaba and Ma has previously sought to buy back the holding. The two firms have had a contentious relationship and Bartz was criticised for her handling of the Chinese firm, seen as one of Yahoo's best assets.Other potential bidders include News Corp, buyout firms Providence Equity Partners, Hellman &amp; Friedman and Silver Lake Partners and Russian technology investment firm Digital Sky Technology. Microsoft may seek a partner to go after Yahoo, according to Reuters' sources.If Microsoft makes a bid it will be at a fraction of the price it was prepared to pay in 2008. That bid ended in failure after an intense four-month battle that eventually led to the resignation of Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang, who has opposed Microsoft's move.According to Reuters there are "two camps" within Microsoft. One group of executives believe buying Yahoo would be a 'knock-out blow' to rival AOL, leaving MS-Yahoo as the undisputed leading web portal. Others, though, believe Microsoft should focus on buying companies with more potential for growth.Yahoo is still one of the biggest draws on the internet but it has lost out to Google and Facebook in the battle to win over advertisers.At the time of the original bid Microsoft's chief executive Steve Ballmer said buying Yahoo was the best way to achieve scale online, an area where the software giant has trailed arch-rival Google.The two firms started talking again in 2009 and Microsoft signed a 10-year deal with Yahoo to run its internet search advertising business. That deal was attacked by Google as an "attempt to exert the same sort of inappropriate and illegal influence over the Internet that it did with the PC."Any new deal between the two firms is also likely to spark regulatory scrutiny and fierce lobbying from Google.Tech analysts were sceptical about the chances of Microsoft bidding for Yahoo again, especially now it has secured the search advertising deal. They also argued that the sale process remains in its early stages.
Microsoft has signed deals with more than 40 television and video-on-demand companies to launch a range of entertainment services on Xbox Live this Christmas.Xbox 360 owners in the UK will be able to access a large selection of on-demand and streaming media from such providers as the BBC, Channel 4, Channel 5 and the movie rental services blinkbox and Lovefilm.Much of the content will be searchable via Microsoft's own Bing engine, and with some of the services, users will be able to use voice commands to find movies and TV shows, via the Kinect device.Some of the announced content providers are only available in specific regions. The list of providers available to UK console owners also includes AlloCiné, Crackle, Muzu.TV, MSN, MSNBC.com, VEVO and YouTube. BSkyB, Last.fm, Zune, Twitter and Facebook are already available on Xbox Live.Don Mattrick, president of the interactive entertainment business at Microsoft said the move is a major step forward in the company's vision to bring console owners the entertainment they desire."Combining the world's leading TV and entertainment providers with the power of Kinect for Xbox 360 and the intelligence of Bing voice search will make TV and entertainment more personal, social and effortless," he said.Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer forecast this announcement last month in a presentation at Microsoft's Financial Analyst Meeting in Anaheim. Ballmer said the Xbox 360 was "perhaps the number one intelligent device connected to TVs around the world [and] it's quite obvious that we need to increase the amount of TV and video content that are available on it".The deals are part of Microsoft's strategy to make Xbox 360 a general entertainment platform, rather than simply a games machine.The announcement of such a broad range of content partnerships is a clear challenge to Sony PS3 console, which is also competing to 'own' the living room entertainment space. That machine will no longer be the only console to feature content from the BBC and Channel 4.It is not clear yet, however, if BBC content will be supplied via an Xbox version of the iPlayer app.Some of the content services in the announcement require a Gold subscription to Xbox Live, which would contravene the BBC's public service remit.
Producers and broadcasters should embrace the opportunities provided by tablets, smartphones and social media as a chance to "unleash" television, according to Anne Sweeney, co-chair of Disney Media Networks and president of Disney-ABC Television Group."Digital technology didn't disrupt our business. It transformed it," she told an audience at the MIPCOM conference in Cannes."Digital didn't weaken the power of television. It unleashed it. We're giving people more quality and options than ever before, and they're responding: tuning in, logging on, downloading, streaming, buying, renting - devouring our content any way they can get it."During herkeynote speechat the event, Sweeney noted that while the majority of viewers will be content to watch television shows on their sets at home, others "will want to watch television on every single device they own, and shape the experience to their individual expectations".A prominent example was Disney's Oscar Backstage Pass iOS app, released in March this year for ABC's coverage of the film industry awards. People could switch between more than 30 camera feeds from the event on their device."Digital technology has unleashed our power to provide a great personal entertainment experience for every single viewer in the world," said Sweeney. "The more personalised television gets, the less passive the experience will become. Television has always been something you watch. Now, increasingly, it's also something you do."Sweeney also talked about Disney's criteria for deciding which digital services and retailers to strike distribution deals with, harking back to 2005, when the company was one of the first studios to make its programmes and films available to buy digitally on Apple's iTunes store."We realised when we were doing the iTunes deal that we have a criteria for working wth people," said Sweeney. "We want to work with companies that will respect our IP, protecting us from piracy. And we want to work with companies that are strong brands... and who will market their platforms, and not just use our shows to build their businesses."Sweeney also warned the TV industry that it should not worry that making its shows available on multiple platforms and devices risks eating into its traditional revenue streams."The more devices people have, and use to access content, the more television they watch," she said. "That watching is additive to our linear channels, not cannibalistic."
Tech Weeklyhas postponed this talk from it's originally scheduled date of October 17th though we hope to return to this subject in the future.The government is putting its financial and political weight behind the digital economy because it believes tech is the key to financial recovery in the short term, and to our long-term economic stability. Initiatives likeTech CityandDirect.gov.ukexist to keep our competitive edge in the global marketplace, but they rely on the UK being connected, engaged and informed. The UK needs to build a high-speed broadband network and get its citizens online.But are they compromising our access by sharing the financial weight with private companies who have their own commercial agendas? Once we're all connected, what responsibility should the government have to make sure that we are well-prepared to be Internet citizens? This debate brings together policy leaders and industry bodies to find out what the technology and social strategies for the UK are.
