I haven't blogged on mobile games for a while so here are a few collected news snippets from my in-tray. Those of a non-mobile gaming disposition may want to look away now...Play Super Miners for freeMobile developer Infinite Dreams is offering visitors to its website the chance to download a free beta demo of forthcoming Boulder Dash-style dig 'em up, Super Miners. The game is compatible with Series 60 handsets, and anyone who plays the demo can leave comments and suggestions on the site. Few companies have offered demos of mobile titles so far - possibly because the games are often so simple, most players would be satisfied with a limited version. However, as gameplay becomes more complex, this is bound to catch on.Lotus Challenge goes multiplayerEarlier this month, Kuju Wireless launched a two-player version of its racing title Lotus Challenge, allowing real-time competitive play over GPRS. The games makes use of a "unique mobile multiplayer network solution" created byTerraplay. I talked to Kuju about the game at 3GSM and they assured me it runs pretty seamlessly despite the obvious latency problems over the 2.5G infrastructure. Apparently some pretty tricksy coding ensures that players always feel as though they're competing closely against each other, even if data packets go astray for several seconds. Manchester-based mobile developer, iFone, is another supporting the Terraplay solution - it plans to create two-player versions of its Cluedo, Monopoly and Tetris titles before the end of the year.In-Fusio snaps up Universal licencesMobile games companies love retro brands - they appeal to the twenty-something technophiles who download Java titles. Which is why In-Fusio has secured the rights to two Universal Studios licences - Battlestar Galactica and The Munsters. The first title to exploit this agreement will arrive by the Autumn, but In-Fusio has yet to confirm what it'll be exactly. The question is, will they go for the old seventies Battlestar or the new one with the lady Starbuck? And will this cause an ironic mudslide of seventies sci-fi conversions? Buck Rodgers, Space 1999, Blake's Seven and UFO must all be on someone's crazy licensing shopping list.So far, however, our favourite licensing decision is iFone's procurement of the Lassie rights...In-Fusio strokes NeopetsRapidly expanding French publisher In-Fusio has inked a deal to create a mobile portal for the well-established "online youth community",Neopets- a sort of massively multiplayer Tamagotchi... thing. As the press release intones, "This major step for the mobile industry is the first Wireless-to-Web (W2W) application of its kind, giving players full access and interactivity from their mobile phones to the online Neopets world."This is quite an interesting development with all sorts of ramifications. It hints toward a future where, say, World of Warcraft and Everquest players can manage their avitars while on the move. Possibly not the best news for those of us considering a trip to the Priory for MMORPG addiction. Still, at least we'll be able to play WoW on the way...
Unashamed hardcore gamer blog, Geek On Stun, has come up with the novelideaof taking videogameFAQsand converting them to the iPod Notes format. Once transfered, walkthroughs become easily accessible while you play! The Geeks have only done Resident Evil 4 and Mortal Kombat II so far, and both are downloadable from the site. This is bound to catch on - no more printing out pages and pages of gumph, or rushing backwards and forwards from your console to your PC everytime you get stuck.
Here's a slightly strange story from today'sIndywhich looks at the foiling of an online suicide pact in Spain:An elaborate suicide plot by three students has been foiled by journalists from a television programme who infiltrated the group and then passed the details to police in an extraordinary case which has both intrigued and appalled Spaniards.After being charged with the criminal offence of preparing to commit suicide, the students were released into psychiatric care. Their identities have not been revealed, but the details of their conspiracy have provided rare insight into the growing phenomenon of suicide pacts conducted over the internet.When two journalists from the Con Ana Rosa Quintana show - a kind of Spanish Richard and Judy - stumbled upon the pact while exploring an internet health site, they anonymously joined the cybergroup, pretending to sympathise with the project.Having obtained the mobile phone number of one of the group, the journalists, whose names have not been released, communicated frequently as plans were finalised for the date and location of the suicide. The students apparently never spoke of a religious or cultish motive for the conspiracy.Whether or not it should be a criminal offence to prepare to commit suicide, that's another argument, but internet suicide pacts have made headlines in the past - especially in Japan, as we havereportedseveraltimesbefore.Of course, all the web has to do with these cases is enabling people to communicate with each other. It's no more to blame for the deaths than the telephone is to blame for two people falling out when they have an argument over the phone.I wonder if we'll see some "NET DEATH PACT" headlines, though.
More on one of Apple's ongoing court cases - this time the most interesting case, againstThinkSecret. This fromMacworld(my emphasis):Attorney Terry Gross intends to offer two lines of defence on behalf of his client, Think Secret's Nicolas Ciarelli. The first is a First Amendment argument that states that journalists can't be held liable for reporting the news if they obtain information lawfully.The second questions whether news about Apple's products really reveals trade secrets. Trade secrets are generally defined as information thatderives economic value from not being knownand has been subject to reasonable efforts to maintain its secrecy, explains Information Week.Gross says: "Apple can't even prove trade-secret misappropriate occurred here, because there's no commercial advantage in this information just a few days before issuing a press release. No competitor is going to be able to take this information and use it to their advantage. And Apple makes no claim that any competitor did do that."Why is this case more interesting than the rest? Well, because - as others have pointed out - some of the other Apple vs blogger cases revolve around solicitation for illegal material. In ThinkSecret's case I've been told by a source that no NDA was broken when they leaked the release of the iPod Shuffle and Mac Mini: they are clearly arguing on that point.So if the information was obtained lawfully, the question has to be whether the leak damaged Apple financially, in which case one could expect them to be due reparation. But, to me at least, it seems that ThinkSecret helped buildupthe anticipation ahead of the announcements of January, rather than the reverse. ThinkSecret did reveal the information despite Apple's "reasonable efforts to maintain its secrecy", but was it harmful to the company?I didn't meet anyone at MacExpo who hadn't read the ThinkSecret story, but I don't think any of them thought it was taking the wind out of Apple's sails. I certainly can't imagine that Apple could have sold more iPod Shuffles if the situation had been different (the queue at the SF store stretched out onto the street for much of the launch day).Of course, journalists and bloggers have investment in arguing for the rights of ThinkSecret: we want to be able to disclose information we learn of new launches whenever possible - it's the scoop that we're chasing, and so we sympathise with those who get the scoops themselves. That's also why you've probably seen an awful lot of coverage of these wrangles.But ultimately - and assuming the information was gained lawfully - this becomes a question of freedom of speech against the damage to corporate profits. That's an argument that should get everyone excited, not just journalists and bloggers.
Photographic retailer Jessops today saw its shares drop by almost one third as it issued a profit warning amid signs that the craze for buying digital cameras was over.Jessops, which floated on the stock market last autumn, joined the growing list of retailers to downscale profit estimates as consumers reined in their spending.The firm said a slowdown in consumer spending had hit sales of digital cameras. Although it had preserved market share, profit margins had been squeezed by the need to keep up with price-cutting from the competition."Jessops has experienced difficult trading conditions in February and March," the firm said in a statement. It added that same-store sales growth was likely to be around 1% for the first half to the end of March, down from the 6.4% that was reported after 13 weeks.To the consternation of City analysts, Jessops, which owns 270 shops, said it was prudent to revise its sales growth and profit expectations in the "more challenging trading environment".It added: "Therefore the outcome for the year as a whole is likely to be significantly below its previous expectations, and below last year."Jessops reported underlying annual earnings of £19.5m and sales of £319m in December - its first set of results as a listed company. Analysts cut back profit estimates by more than £5m, from previous figures of £20m.Digital products such as cameras had been selling briskly in recent months, and many retailers, including the John Lewis Partnership group, said this was responsible for strong Christmas sales. Jessops has benefited from the sale of digital cameras in particular.Jessops insisted it had not lost any of its share of the digital camera market, but said shoppers were not buying as many as before.The firm said sales were likely to pick up in the second half of its financial year to the end of September, helped by new product launches and a growing demand for professional-style digital single-lens reflex cameras.But Rhys Williams, an analyst with Seymour Pierce, described the news as very disappointing and said it "will shock the market over the extent of the consumer slowdown".He added: "If a company operating in one of the most sought after product categories is failing to meet expectations then we remain bearish on demand for less exciting retail offers."Further evidence of a slowdown in consumer spending emerged last week when the Office for National Statistics (ONS) reported retail sales growth of just 0.2% in February.The ONS said the volume of retail sales in the three months between December and February fell by 0.6% against the previous quarter - the weakest performance since the Iraq war nearly two years ago.In early afternoon trading, Jessops shares were down 29.1% at 109.50p, after touching a low of 106p.
The red button on Sky digital boxes will be old hat from next month. The new phrase to batter viewers' eardrums will be: "Put the card in."All Sky TV viewers know there is already a viewing card slot that sits in the set-top box that allows access to Sky's pay TV channels. But there is also a second slot, and that is the one that Sky hopes will be the focus of digital TV's next big step.From April viewers could be buying things, have access to a members' club for favourite channels, be earning loyalty points for watching TV or even for watching a particular advertisement. Later in the year they will be able to use a new Sky credit card in the second slot to pay for interactive games or to take a flutter on a horse. It is all part of Sky's grand vision to make the second card slot a significant new development and revenue earner."My view as a member of the advertising community is we would be delighted to make commercials more transactional," says John Murray, managing director of PHDiQ, the interactive arm of PHD Media. "Advertising is fantastic and it works really well, but wouldn't it be absolutely lovely to be able to buy and pay for that product you see off the telly right then?"Since Sky announced that it was activating the second slot on its 7.5m boxes about 10 days ago, lots of conversations have been taking place with broadcasters about loyalty and other schemes. A new company called MiCard is pitching loyalty smart card ideas to broadcasters and retailers, including Channel 4 and Five."The great thing about this is if you are 17 and you can't have a credit card, but a cool channel you watch says 'Here's a card with your name on it and you can get free stuff with it as well', you are going to say 'Fantastic, that's me almost being grown up'," says David Sanderson, director of MiCard. Cartoon Network is said to be very interested in creating a loyalty card, but executives there could not be reached for comment."For us at Five, we buy into the concept, but it is early days," says Damon Letzer, interactive business controller at Five. "We have to be careful about managing our viewers' expectations. Sky own the infrastructure and the technology and they have a lot more to gain from this than Five. But we are interested. It's just one of those things that is more than one or two conversations."Even Sky admits that there will be no services or loyalty programmes ready when the technology starts working next month. The new Sky credit card will not be ready for several months, says Jon Florsheim, Sky's chief marketing officer.He says the launch will be a big part of the commercial equation behind the second slot. "The Sky credit card is the commercial catalyst."Sky says the second slot will be free to broadcasters or retailers, but if it is used to generate revenue, there would have to be negotiations about a revenue-sharing agreement with Sky."It is really about allowing an element of personalisation so that third parties can create a personal relationship through the card with their viewers," says Florsheim. "When you put the card in the slot it will recognise who you are. But the data won't necessarily come to us if it is a third party's card."Observers with slightly longer memories note that some of these strategies for the second slot have already been tried and failed. When the first Sky digital boxes were introduced in 1998, a consortium called British Interactive Broadcasting (BIB) that included electronics manufacturer Matsushita, HSBC bank and BT as well as Sky helped finance the cost of the box and run an interactive shopping mall called Open on the Sky TV service. The idea was that people would buy goods from retailers that were part of the Open service. HSBC was also eager to promote its Mondex virtual money cards for use in the Sky box and on special card readers.All this was to some extent part and parcel of the internet hype of the time, but it all went wrong. Mondex never got off the ground and BIB was bought back by Sky in 2001 and effectively became the Sky Active service of today - but with a very different business model."The second slot is definitely not a reinvention of the Open model," says Florsheim. "This is far more of an enabling and a personalisation play. It is not trying to replicate other commercial models from the high street on the interactive platform."
Since the first cable company disrupted the traffic flow in the early 1980s and the first Sky dishes started mushrooming around the country, the broadcasting industry has changed beyond recognition.But if the past 15 years have been characterised by increased choice and an attendant willingness to pay for it, telecoms companies globally are now set to gamble billions on the idea that viewers will in future choose to receive television down their telephone line.It is a battle that will pit Rupert Murdoch's News Corp - which has a formidable lead in pay-TV by investing in satellite technology - against Bill Gates' Microsoft. The pair have fundamentally different outlooks on the way television will evolve in the next decade. Murdoch, who has a sizeable head start, remains convinced that consumers will continue to pay a dedicated pay TV company to provide for all their viewing needs, attracted by exclusive content and technological advances such as Sky Plus-style personal video   recorders and high definition pictures.But Gates is equally adamant that the future lies in IPTV - television delivered over broadband internet lines to a set-top box, DVD player, PC or games console attached to the set. He has wasted billions since 1992 trying to break into broadcasting and anticipating the convergence of home entertainment devices. But Microsoft now senses this could be its moment to break into the industry.Over the past two years it has been investing heavily in its Microsoft TV division. Just as most consumers are now used to running PCs using Microsoft software, it hopes that in decades to come they will be watching television on networks running its systems."Microsoft's efforts in this area have gone through turns and twists," explains Moshe Lichtman, vice president of Microsoft TV. "If you look at our business today - $40bn plus revenue - 96% of that business is coming out of a single phenomenon, the PC."It is a phenomenon that has taken about 30 years to come together and now there are about 750m PCs out there. But if you look at what is happening around us and is touching consumers' lives, there are two huge phenomena that are coming into play in a big way in terms of the ability of software to change them. One is mobile phones, of which there are 1.6bn in the world today, and the other is pay TV."In both those categories you are already looking at devices that are smart, they already have memory, they are all connected. So we are very interested in the role of software in those devices and how they can improve the whole experience."From a standing start 14 months ago, Lichtman argues that Microsoft TV has made real progress. It has sold a version of its software tailored for cable companies (the so-called Foundation Edition) to cable giant Comcast in the US and has a 40% market share in Latin America. And it has signed deals with some of the biggest telcos to use its IPTV edition software, which works over phone lines and which it hopes will fundamentally change the broadcasting landscape.It has struck deals with partners including Bell South in Canada, Telecom Italia, Verizon in the US, Swisscom and Alcatel. "Internally, we called it TV2 because that's what we think it is going to be, the next generation of   TV," says Lichtman. "Today it is called IPTV Edition." There are several more partnerships still to be announced, he adds. "We have done a lot of education on what IPTV is and what it isn't. It is not television over the internet. It is a closed, secure network. That means the delivery of any content, whether it be to the TV or the PC or the cell phone, will be absolutely protected."Lichtman insists the company has made real progress: "14 months later, we are looking at about 25% of the world's access lines and 75% of access lines in North America and Western Europe. Altogether, that's about 200m consumer active lines. That is a pretty phenomenal achievement."But what does all this mean for the viewer? Microsoft insists that the growth of IPTV will result in prices coming down and new services springing up. Because the investment is in the network rather than the customer's set-top box, a theoretically unlimited number of channels, interactive services, video on demand and niche content such as "ultra local" programming can be added at will. "IPTV is right for anybody who has a broadband network, cable or telcos. Cable companies think   that five to 10 years from now it will all be IPTV," says Lichtman.In the UK, NTL is experimenting with TV channel delivery via IPTV rather than the more bandwidth-hungry standard broadcasts. And BT has been working on plans to deliver television services to consumers over the telephone line via a set-top box, but has yet to announce whether it will use Microsoft's system.All of this excludes satellite, Lichtman says, because it lacks a so-called "return path". And if consumers want all devices in their home - telephone, TV, PC and stereo - to talk to one another, they will want them all to be speaking the same Microsoft language, he reasons."The TV today is an island. You want to be able to connect services so you can see caller ID on your TV, so you can programme your entertainment experience on your PC and so on."Once chips that can decode IPTV are in everything from DVD players to games consoles and mobile phones, Lichtman sees no reason why it will not become the dominant viewing platform. "That is where this gets very interesting, when you see it appearing in every consumer electronics device."Analysts predict around 26m households globally will have IPTV subscriptions by 2008, around 4.5m of them in Europe. But thereafter, the technology is expected to grow more quickly as prices come down and broadband speeds continue to rise.But Murdoch has not achieved his current dominance without anticipating likely threats. That is one of the reasons why BSkyB, and Murdoch's other pay-TV companies, are investing now in new set-top box based technology to see off the telecom upstarts."Storage trumps bandwidth," Sky chief executive James Murdoch has said, encapsulating News Corp's vision. Sky sees the majority of its consumers upgrading their set-top box before the end of the decade to new versions with hard disk space, HDTV capabilities and the ability to archive shows and save them to portable devices. Sky has also dipped its toe in the water by making a handful of channels available to Homechoice, the London-based broadband TV provider.But Lichtman insists times are changing. "There is definitely a lot of scepticism and concern. The folks who have invested tens of billions in their infra structure have a hard time reconciling the fact that now their competitors are going to be able to offer a superior service for much lower investments."In the UK, things are seen as less cut and dried, partly because of Sky's dominance. Andrew Burke, head of BT's recently-created entertainment division, believes significant changes to the way TV is delivered will occur over the next five years, but adds: "This is evolution, not revolution."BT remains intent on being an enabler for others over its network. Attractions such as time-shifted TV, allowing viewers to see any programme from the previous seven days, and on-demand archived content will be early drivers, Burke believes.It plans to launch a Freeview box with a broadband connection next year but has not yet decided whether to use Microsoft's network, despite partnering it in other areas.Ultimately, much will depend on whether telecoms companies can ever begin to think like broadcasters. But Lichtman insists that, in much the same way that they upstaged terrestrial TV, Murdoch's satellite networks will eventually become yesterday's technology.
TheGizmondohandheld launched this weekend. One of the key elements is the Regents Street shop in London - a brave/foolish statement of intent. I popped in this lunchtime to have a look. Think of it as a miniaturised version of the Apple store just up the road. Minimalist packaging, seating areas - it was all there. As you'd expect there were a number of the handheld devices on display, along with accessories and games. Unfortunately a lack of price information meant having to speak to one of the shiny-suited sales people who clearly graduated from the same charm school that supply numerous mobile phone outlets. At £229 for the basic package theGizisn't cheap, but it does come with an impressive spec. Movies, games (too early to comment on quality of these), music, GPS. But does it cover too much? I'll be spending more time with one this week and hope to have the answer then.
There's a lot oftalk across the webtoday about Yahoo's decision to buy out Ludicorp - the makers of the fantastic photo sharing serviceFlickr. Here'sCNet:Joanna Stevens, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, Calif.-based Yahoo, confirmed the deal Sunday but did not disclose the terms."We look forward to working with them for their innovation and product development across the Yahoo Network in the coming months," she said.Stevens said Flickr will remain a standalone site for now. The company's employees, however, will relocate to Sunnyvale later this year.Jacknotedthe rumour when he was at ETech last week, and we devoted a large article to Flickra couple of months ago(and, in fact,this time last year).Still, it's good to see someone doing well with what is essentially a great, innovative service (and a fantastic use of Flash in a world where there aren't many such examples).
Internet giant Yahoo! has acquired online photo service Flickr.com as it attempts to build a presence in the rapidly expanding areas of social networking and internet-based sharing of photographs, music and entertainment.Just weeks after it unveiled a new service that lets users share information and communicate better with friends and family, Yahoo! said it was buying popular photo sharing site Flickr.com for an undisclosed sum.The Canadian website lets users create their own virtual photo albums then share those pictures with anyone they want, including posting them to weblogs.The site offers a limited free photo organising service to members but charges around £25 a year for unlimited storage and archiving.Yahoo! is expected to take some of the features of Flickr and add them into Yahoo! 360, the sharing and communicating service it began to trial last week.Yahoo! 360 combines elements such as the company's messenger service with newsgroups, blogs and a music download service.It will allow users to recommend their favourite tracks, clubs or restaurants to friends.The acquisition of Flickr will enable Yahoo! to beef up the picture-sharing element of that offering.While Yahoo! already has its own picture-sharing service, it is expected to add some of Flickr's features to Yahoo Photos while maintaining the newly-acquired business as a stand alone site in the short term.Flickr is one of the more popular photo-sharing sites. It lets users "tag" photos so they can be shared with other users.The acquisition comes at a time when rival internet operators are attempting to build a presence in the fast-expanding blogging and social networking fields.Just before Christmas Microsoft introduced MSN Spaces, a new blog for its MSN service, while Google operates the Blogger service as well as social networking site Orkut.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
XBox First Person Shooter Halo 2 is being used to "witness" among Christian gamers, according toThe Christian Post(viaWatercoolergames).Apparently the plot of the million-selling video game is similar to that of the Bible: Lone survivor Master Chief (read: Jesus) saves the world from the Covenant (read: Satan and various other evil). Actually, I was playing it at the weekend and was shouting quite a few unholy things.In fact, what Christian ministries are arguing is that, while there are quite a few non-Christian aspects to the game, its cultural relevance offers the opportunity to talk to other gamers about issues arising from the game, from violence to death.From the article:"So the next time you are hanging out with friends who know Halo but don't know God, try bringing up a conversation about the storyline behind planet earth."
News agency AFP is suing Google for nearly £10m, claiming the search engine breached its copyright by reproducing its pictures and articles.The French news service is seeking damages of at least $17.5m and an order barring Google News from displaying AFP photographs, news headlines or story leads."Without AFP's authorisation, &#91;the&#93; defendant is continuously and wilfully reproducing and publicly displaying AFP's photographs, headlines and story leads on its Google News web pages," AFP said in its lawsuit, filed in the US in the Columbia district court.AFP said it had already asked the search engine to stop displaying the agency's copyrighted work on the Google News site, which aggregates stories from other sites.It said Google had ignored such requests and "continues in an unabated manner to violate AFP's copyrights".Google News, launched in autumn 2002, gathers photos and news stories from around the web and posts them on its news site, which is free for users to access.AFP, one of the world's biggest news agencies, has 600 paying online clients and does not provide its articles or pictures for free on the web.The lawsuit comes a few months after Perfect 10, a publisher of nude photographs, sued Google in the federal court in Los Angeles.Perfect 10 said Google illegally allowed people to view hijacked versions of photos it owns and produced, violating copyrights and harming its ability to profit from the distribution of the photos via its magazine and website.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Attempts to hack into the online accounts of unsuspecting bank customers have more than trebled in the last six months, according to a report published today.Using a virus which infects computers via email, online fraudsters are directing high street bank customers to bogus web sites which resemble the genuine log-in pages of banks. Using these fake pages, hackers harvest customers' names and passwords as well as other personal details. From there they attempt to defraud the customer in an attack known as "pharming". Unlike "phishing", which only works   when users click onto a link to a spurious web site, "pharming" redirects users to fake sites when they try to access their bona fide bank web site. Leading high street banks are all being attacked.The internet security firm Symantec reported that at the beginning of this year its anti-virus software was blocking an average of 33m "phishing" attacks a week. It estimates that one in every 250 email messages contains a virus that helps trigger an attack.In a reversal of current internet security protocols, banks may attempt to tackle the virus by proving their own identity to customers when they visit their sites.
Academics will today argue that the growing use of computers in secondary school classrooms and for homework could be leading to worsening performance in literacy, science and maths.An international study of about 100,000 15-year-olds in 32 different developed and developing countries suggests that the drive to equip an increasing number of schoolchildren in the UK with computers may be misplaced.In a report to be given at the conference of the Royal Economic Society in Nottingham this week, Thomas Fuchs and Ludger Woessmann of Munich University say the research shows diminished performance in students with computers."Holding other family characteristics constant, students perform significantly worse if they have computers at home," it says."This may reflect the fact that computers at home may actually distract students from   learning, both because learning with computers may not be the most efficient way of learning and because computers can be used for other aims than learning."But if computers don't help then plenty of books at home do. The authors of the report found that "students with more than 500 books in their homes performed better in maths and science than those with none".The information was collected under the Programme for International Student Assessment in 2000, but the new analysis appears to contradict parts of the government's policy on information and communications technology in classrooms.Labour has pushed a policy of "personalised learning" with computers, and children as young as eight now have access to laptop computers.Last week the chancellor, Gordon Brown, announced an extra &#163;50m for information technology in schools - including moves to let pupils take computers home on "low cost" leases.
It's cost you &#163;1,000 but you think it's worth it. That computer upstairs is the key to securing an A star at English or Maths GCSE for Johnny or Jane. Right? Wrong.Kids at home use computers to chat to their mates and to play games rather than for boring educational programs that could improve exam performance, say Thomas Fuchs and Ludger Woessman, education experts from Ifo, the German economic research institute.This time spent on the computer can result in the child's educational performance suffering, since out-of-school hours are spent playing on the PC rather than improving   their writing and maths skills.Neither does having computers available for use at school always translate into a better performance from pupils. If schoolchildren use computers moderately, then performance can be improved. But not using a computer at all or too frequently can lead to a poorer academic performance by students.So should parents ban computer use at home and Tesco scrap its computers for schools campaign? Not necessarily, say Fuchs and Woessman. A PC in a child's room can improve a child's education as long as it is used for emails, access to the web and educational software. Similar use of a computer at   school for internet access can also improve educational performance."Having a computer at home and using it at school will almost certainly raise some computer skills," say Fuchs and Woessman. But gaining good computer skills may come at the expense of improving others - such as maths and reading.Parents may think that by ensuring their children have good computer skills, they are improving their future employment prospects. But it is good reading, writing and maths skills that most improve the child's ability to find a well paying job in later years, say Fuchs and Woessman.Most governments have schemes to increase the number of computers in schools. To improve a child's employment prospects, it is important that these computer skills are not over-emphasised at the expense of the three Rs.Computers at home appear to be aping the trend set by television: it can be a powerful educational tool but through documentaries or current affairs programmes rather than Celebrity Big Brother.So the next time you are thinking about spending &#163;1,000 on a new computer, think again. Investing the same amount in books is likely to a be a better investment for your child's future.
Jon Johansen ("DVD Jon") and others have developed PyMusique software for Windows and Linux that by-passes the digital rights management (DRM) system Apple uses for online music sales.Extreme Techreports:"The software takes advantage of the iTunes software, which actually applies the iTMS DRM software itself before a song downloaded from Apple's music store can be played by the user. The software prevents the DRM from being applied, essentially permitting the user to copy, share, and otherwise use the downloaded song like a normal MP3 file. Users can also redownload songs that were previously purchased using the utility."As the story notes: "The PyMusique software appears to go against Apple's terms of service, which requires users access the iTMS code only through approved Apple software."
"Agence France Presse has sued Google, alleging the Web search leader includes AFP's photos, news headlines and stories on its news site without permission," reports CNet."The French news service is seeking damages of at least $17.5 million and an order barring Google News from displaying AFP photographs, news headlines or story leads, according to the suit filed Thursday in the US District Court for the District of Columbia."
"Taking a look at all the rest of the benchmark scores, the Mac is beaten consistently by the PC. If you look to the left of the Dell Precision Workstation 470 scores, you'll notice that the ABS dual Intel Xeon 3.4 GHz machine also beats the Mac G5 on all of the tests except one as well. Keep in mind, the 3.4GHz Xeon chip is the second-fastest Xeon chip in Intel's line, and all of the Intel Xeon chips are due for a speed bump in the second quarter of this year (2005)," reports Digital Media Net Executive Producer Charlie White inCreative Mac.Comment:The fastest Mac is a G5, Dual 2.5GHz machine with 4GB of memory, and it's beaten in every test but one by a Dual Intel Xeon 3.4GHz PC with only 2GB. The Xeon machine also beats a Dual AMD Opteron 248 (2.21GHz) PC with 2GB of memory in all but one test, where the scores are level. As we know, the PC also blows the Mac G5 out of the water running an optimisedDOOM 3.I'm now waiting for Steve Jobs to buy some TV advertising that looks back at previous ads -- you know, showing a Pentium on the back of a snail, or someone being blown out of the house by a G5 Mac -- and apologising.There's no shame in being marginally slower than a not-very-popular PC configuration. The shame is in misleading people about it.
While I was at the ETech conference, several people asked what we were doing with RSS, if anything. It's a standard journalistic belief that for everyone who asks, there are hundreds if not thousands of people who would ask if they could, so.... there's a list of the webfeeds we currently offerhere.The list starts with the Guardian Unlimited front page and includes sport and film news as well as the blogs.
Family historians were once lucky to find their ancestors in sepia photographs or the odd battered reel of cine-film. Today the famine has become a feast, with the latest addition to the growing hunger to 'chronicle your past' - a DVD, concisely edited, broadcast-quality 'biopic' of your family.Tired of information overload, growing numbers of people have handed over their stacks of lovingly shot videos of birthday parties and beach holidays to services such as eDv, the 'personal motion picture company', which within four to six weeks edits the material into a slick piece of film complete with musical soundtrack. The truly ambitious - and wealthy - have gone further by commissioning eDv to dispatch a film crew, interview friends and family and compile a documentary-style feature about an individual.The DVDs, which are typically distributed among relatives and stored for future generations to watch, come at a time of national obsession with genealogy and recording life experience for posterity. Last year the BBC television series  Who Do You Think You Are?, in which celebrities, including opera singer Lesley Garrett and TV presenter Bill Oddie, traced their ancestry, was regularly watched by more than five million viewers. It prompted an 87 per cent upsurge in people researching their families on the National Archives website of government records. Internet 'blogs' and multi-media mobile phones have also opened the potential to communicate experiences across both distance and time.Charlie Berman, a banker from Chelsea, west London, hired eDv to make a documentary about the life of John Berman, his 77-year-old father. He said: 'My father had an interesting upbringing in China. When the Japanese took over, the family were interned for three years, and when they were released he left for the UK.'We'd talked for years about writing his story down, but he never did it. He went back to China for the first time in 60 years, which awoke a lot of memories, and I shot various bits of film. He was interviewed by a professional journalist and the results were edited down within a one-hour documentary. It is a moving thing: my children will be able to see their grandfather talking about that time in his life.'One hour's worth of home video footage will typically produce five minutes of material for the finished montage, with scenes from a beach holiday more likely to make the cut than a school play. But eDv's service, based in Notting Hill, west London, comes at a price: an average montage costs &#163;2,000. A full biographical film can range from &#163;4,000 to &#163;60,000, with an average price of &#163;10,000-&#163;20,000. So far, 300 people have bought montages and 50 have commissioned biographies, usually ordering multiple copies for other family members living elsewhere in the UK or abroad.Technology's claim to fill the vacuum created by the geographical spread of modern families is also being made by Nokia, the mobile-phone manufacturer. Several of its latest models carry 'Nokia Lifeblog' software which organises photos, videos, text messages and multi-media messages into chronological diary form. Part or all of the diary can be transmitted to the internet in 45 seconds, allowing, for example, parents to follow their children's holiday on the other side of the world in close to real time.Christian Lindholm, director of Nokia Ventures Organisation, said: 'Once, you went to a painter or photographer's studio. People kept photos in a shoebox or album. The idea of the Lifeblog is to give a context. It has a lot more than just pictures, with other digital artifacts added automatically by phone while you are on the move. Among younger people, for example, a significant part of their love life is now conducted via text messages.'
Donald Trump, Steve Wynn, Sol Kerzner, eat your hearts out. This is what a gambling tycoon of the internet age looks like. Vikrant Bhargava is a 32-year-old electrical engineer from Rajasthan who confesses he has never played a hand of poker in a real casino.Poker, though, may be about to make him a fortune: Bhargava's 15% stake in PartyGaming, the company behind the world's most popular poker website, is worth roughly &#163;450m, according to some City calculations.Whatever Bhargava is worth, Anurag Dikshit, his old chum from the Indian Institute of Technology in Delhi, is worth more. Dikshit was a founder of PartyGaming in 1998 and owns about 40% of it. That equates to roughly &#163;1.25bn on the same unofficial City valuations. Dikshit (pronounced Dixit) is a mere 33.He is also, for the time being, shy of the media, which is why it falls to Bhargava, as marketing director, to conduct PartyGaming's first proper press interview. This tentative shuffle towards the public glare is prompted by the fact that PartyGaming, owner of the extraordinarily successful Party Poker website, is in the middle of a strategic review that may lead to a flotation in London.Investment bankers have been appointed and the outside world is getting a glimpse of the scale of profits being made by internet gambling companies. PartyGaming, according to the insiders, made profits of about $350m (&#163;183m) last year and is on course to reach $500m to $600m this year. That might make the business worth $6bn, or a little over &#163;3bn, enough to qualify for the FTSE 100 index. Four years ago it hadn't even launched Party Poker.There is one big caveat to this tale of good fortune. The legality of internet gambling in the US is a point on which the operators and the US department of justice cannot agree. So before Bhargava, Dikshit and their colleagues can turn any part of their theoretical fortunes into cash, the investment community has to be convinced that the business is not vulnerable to being closed down overnight in the US, its biggest market.The signs are good. Sportingbet, a quoted British company, paid &#163;169m last year for one of PartyGaming's rivals, Paradise Poker, and has seen its share price surge 150% since then, as investors wake up to the global online poker revolution.Bhargava says more than 70,000 people play on Party Poker simultaneously at peak hours; two years ago, the figure was fewer than 2,000. Party Poker makes its money by taking a small slice from each pot - the rake, in the jargon. A dollar here and dollar there add up, particularly when your website runs round the clock.Unlike Amazon and the other US internet pioneers, PartyGaming was not an original idea. "In early 2000 everybody was talking about Paradise Poker and we saw them and thought 'they're making money, so can we,' " says Bhargava.The strategy was to launch with a bang - a tournament with a first prize of $1m. At the time, such sums could only be won in the very biggest tournaments in bricks-and-mortar casinos, such as the annual World Series of Poker in Las Vegas, where the entry fee for the main event is $10,000.PartyGaming's idea was to play a series of online mini-tournaments with small buy-ins, then whittle down the qualifiers to 100 and put them on a cruise ship in the Caribbean to fight it out for the big money. It was an idea in the best traditions of Vegas itself - make it bigger and brasher than anything else.Credibility"We put 100 people with their partners on a cruise ship to play in a live final," says Bhargava. "We said live, as opposed to online, even though we were an online site, because that was the only way people could really believe that a new company had paid out $1m in first prize. It was good PR and showed the credibility of our company."It was expensive PR too. Party Gaming lost about $500,000 on the event but the first PartyPokerMillion was the making of the company. "Credibility of online poker rooms in those days was not the highest," admits Bhargava. "So for players to see that a company had put up money when it was obvious that they were losing money on that particular event was a big thing."Party Poker has not looked back since. Its next break was the explosion of poker on television in the US, a phenomenon that almost has to be witnessed at first hand to be appreciated. Sports bars will regularly show television coverage of poker tournaments, with under-the-table cameras revealing players' cards, allowing the viewer to know when the innocent-looking guy in seat seven is running a monster bluff.Hollywood celebrities have jumped on the bandwagon, with the likes of Ben Affleck and Nicole Kidman playing in a tournament that generated a television audience of 13 million. Party Poker's coup was to sign Mike Sexton as its public face. Think of Sexton as a Gary Lineker of televised US poker. Clearly he could not plug the site on TV but Party hammers home its association elsewhere."The World Poker Tour going live on TV in April 2003 brought poker from people's kitchen tables into their living rooms," says Bhargava. "People were discussing it at work and so on, and wanting to play the game having seen the TV programme, and   we got the word out that if you do participate in an event like this you can do so online. We saw our market share go from up 20% to 50% in a fairly short period."Bhargava also applied internet marketing techniques, such as offering incentives to outsiders who recruited new players to the site. These affiliates could be existing players, other websites or even online poker bloggers, of which there are hundreds. "We have learned what works online," he says. "These techniques could have been used for selling books online or whatever. We put it to use in poker."So what of the key issue of the legal status? No poker website dares to base itself in the US, where the Wire Act, forbidding gambling across state lines, is potentially a frightening piece of legislation. Party Poker bases itself in Gibraltar, which is also the home of the online operations of the British bookmakers Ladbrokes and Victor Chandler. It also has a 1,000-strong call centre in Hyderabad in India.Bhargava's view is that the Wire Act applies to sporting events, not poker, which is deeply embedded in the culture of US colleges and the military. Setting foot in the US holds no fears. "I go to the US very frequently," he says. "I am an Indian passport holder and have a 10-year multiple-entry visa to the US."One of the aims of the UK gambling bill, currently facing a race to be passed before the election, is to bring online operators on shore, where they can be more closely regulated. Bhargava is rigidly non-committal about the merits of the bill: he sees the advantage of being recognised as a proper industry in a G7 country but is making no promises. He does, though, make one important admission. "We pay very little tax in Gibraltar but would tax prevent us coming on shore? No. Taxes are not driving the issue. Regulation is something that would play a far more important role."A further worry in the investment community is that online gambling sites might be unwitting participants in money laundering. After all, billions of dollars are being waged in cyberspace. Bhargava argues that rigorous checks are made but that the basic impracticality of laundering money this way should also reassure outsiders and regulators; so, too, that   PartyGaming uses respectable international institutions for its banking."People keep talking about it, therefore we look at it," he says. "But ask yourself whether it is really possible to launder money this way. Look at what the average value is for deposits. It is very small. What's the maximum? It's not too large. If you send a wire for $50,000 or &#163;50,000, we would not accept it because you do not need $50,000 to play poker."People need a $50, $100, $150 deposit to play; $500 can last a player a long time. So would it really be an efficient way of laundering money? Probably not. There must be easier ways than making lots of micro-transactions."HackersHe says "maybe a few hundred," players have been banned by Party Poker, mostly for attempted collusion, something that is relatively easy for the software to spot. A bigger danger has been attempted extortion by hackers trying to crash the website. Such attacks have usually been preceded by demands to send money to obscure bank accounts in Russia."In early 2004 many sites in online gaming space went down and we went down multiple times," he says. "Since then we have been attacked a few times but we now have systems in place to fend it off."PartyGaming, as it inches closer to the mainstream investment community, faces another issue of credibility - the fact that Ruth Parasol, another founder and owner of 20% of the shares, made her first fortune in internet pornography. Her husband, Russ DeLeon, also has a stake of the same size, so they are important figures. Parasol, a California lawyer, left the porn business a decade ago but Bhargava also knows the subject cannot be avoided."I have known Ruth since early 2000; she has definitively severed her ties with these sorts of people," he says. "That is all history. It's her previous life. If we had characters of that sort associated with the company, I would not be here and 99.9% of the people in our organisation would not be here. I have grown up in an environment where honesty and integrity are extremely important to what we do."That view, one suspects, will be accepted by investors, especially as PartyGaming is now hiring executives with public-company experience. For example, Richard Segal, the respected former boss of Odeon cinemas, has been installed as chief executive. David Abdoo, Carlton's former company secretary, is also on board.Those appointments suggest PartyGaming is not simply looking to sell itself to the highest bidder but has ambitions to keep growing. A flotation would give it a currency to buy rivals, and Cassava Enterprises, owner of the 888.com online casino, has been touted as a possibility; Cassava even operates from the same building in Gibraltar.Even without a deal, the possibilities for PartyGaming, if it can retain its 50% market share in poker, are enormous. China, the land of the world's most enthusiastic gamblers, is an enormous medium-term target. This extraordinary growth story may yet have a long way to go.The CVBornJaipur, India, 14 December 1972EducationIndian Institute of
Technology, Delhi; Indian Institute of
Management, CalcuttaCareerCredit officer, Bank of America;
business analyst, BG India;
marketing director, PartyGamingFamilyWife and two childrenHobbiesPhotography, travel
Gran Turismo 4PS2Sony's obsessively authentic "real driving simulator" returns for another round of car upgrades and lessons in using the racing line, and fans of the series will already be salivating over its monumental 700 cars and 200 separate racing events. Stats aside, GT4 is structurally near identical to its forebears, adding little more than the utterly pointless Photo Mode, but it doesn't matter - access to endlessly upgradeable cars from 80 manufacturers and tracks to win money on is pretty much all a virtual petrol head needs for a hugely entertaining few 100 nights in. If it's earnest devotion to realism you're after, rather than the innovation and instant appeal of Burnout 3, then you won't be disappointed.&#183;Sony, &#163;40Logitech Driving Force ProPS2The Achilles heel of the GT4 experience is the Dual Shock Joypad: no matter how accurate the placement of the petrol tank in each car and specific friction of each variety of low profile racing tyre, moving a small joystick to steer your car just isn't quite Silverstone. Enter Logitech's superb Driving Force Pro wheel, that lets you feel the steering as it weights up into corners or goes slack as your rally car hits a gravel section. Feeling surprisingly solid and powerful, this is definitely for grown-ups, feeling as though it would snap the tiny limbs of toddlers with consummate ease, and while it doesn't make GT4 any easier to win, it makes it more like driving a real car and way more fun.&#183;Logitech, &#163;100Resident Evil 4GamecubeResident Evil 2's Leon S Kennedy is back, and, far from the familiar bounds of Raccoon City, is inserted into rural Spain in search of the US president's kidnapped daughter. What he discovers is villages full of "the infected" who want nothing more than to hack him to pieces with scythes, axes, pitchforks and any other sharp implement they have lying around. Unlike shuffling zombies, Leon's new enemies possess an animal cunning that sees them calling friends to creep round and attack you from behind, and thanks to an exquisitely unnerving Dolby Pro Logic II soundtrack, their crazed muttering never sounds more than 6" away from the back of your head. It's a horror masterpiece unrivalled in its perfection.&#183;Nintendo, &#163;40
First there was the air guitar (ukairguitar.com), now there is a dance music equivalent: Air Scratching (air-scratch.com), wherein competitors who can't afford mixing decks can mime their finest DJing moves to their favourite beats.But there are other destinations for turntablists without turntables:play-create.comis an interactive 3D sound sculpture;beaterator.com, a real time sampler and mixer;superfancy.com, a mind bending cheesy disco happening; andjruaux.free.fr/samples.htm, a place to sample some samples.We also enjoyedinfinitewheel.com, where you can create your own dub mix by clicking on cute hearts and flowers. To access the latest mash-ups and DJing mixes, there is no place finer thanblentwell.com, the blended music authority.
There's been a whole heck of a lot of stuff happening this week. Purvey the below for your pleasure.SundayEmily Dickinson: Design ChallengeMondayWorld of SweatshopGDC: Quality of Life in 60 minutesGame Developers Choice Awards snubs GTA: San Andreas. Rockstar North walks outHas videogaming had its Citizen kane moment?Talking about Orson Welles moments...A fantastic review of GT4TuesdayWonderland at GDCDS does wellShazam! Judge tells Marvel to get realWednesdayOndrejka on "six ways to make games without EA"Industry closes doors on original ideasVirtual game becomes a real boyThursdayBoy in a bubble (but no baby with a baboon heart)Latest reviewsHaunted hardwareUbi Soft parades its waresFeel good with games, manFridayWOWIs the price right?Father of MUDs tells gamesblog what it takes to be a First Penguin
Pretty much apropos of nothing (it is Friday afternoon, after all) I was having a look at theComputer Hall of Famewebsite, part of theSan Diego Computer Museum.They've got a list of potential inductees into the computing Hall of Fame.My mind was suddenly cast to earlier this week, when there was talk about who had been voted the most importantFrench greatof them all.Of course, the Beeb ran its programme onGreat Britonsa while back. A depressed alcoholic came top, narrowly ahead of a trainspotter and a bit of posh totty who "entered the nation's hearts".But who would be your greatest technologist of all time? Would it be Bill Gates or Steve Jobs? Would it be Sir Tim Berners-Lee or Doug Englebart? Or even, going back, the likes of Ada Lovelace or Charles Babbage? I'm sure there are hundreds of candidates.But, in your opinion,what person has made the greatest ever contribution to technology?
Every year, the IGDAGames Developers Choice Awardshonours a designer who's leaped into unknown waters with a unique and, occasionally, crazy vision of what interactive entertainment can be.Past recipientshave includedMasaya Matsuura, creator of music-centred titles likeParappa the Rapper,Hubert Chardot, who inspired the Silent Hills and Resident Evils with the first title of the survival horror genre,Alone in the Dark, and the founders ofActivision, who've set the business model standard for the games industry.This year, theFirst Penguin Awardwas given toRichard A. Bartle, the founding father of virtual worlds. He should also have won the award for most hilarious speech.In 1978, when Bartle and Roy Trubshaw were at the University of Essex, the pair wrote and designed the firstMulti-User Dungeon, which later inspired previous Penguins Randy Farmer and Chip Morningstar of LucasFilm to createHabitat, the first graphical MUD. Since then, the inspiration has spiralled into contemporary Massively Multiplayer Online Games (MMOGs), themselves a phenomenon with limitless potential.Gamesblog was able to distract Richard from his work at Essex, where he currently supervises games design courses in the Department of Electronic Systems Engineering, to answer a few questions.As the Game Developer's Choice Awards First Penguin, what was the impetus that caused the first leap into the icy, unknown waters?I like to jump.At some level, everyone likes to jump. You're born, you live, you die. Everyone has icy waters awaiting them; it's what you do while you're in the air that matters.For me, the question is not what caused me to jump from the collective warmth of a million close-packed penguins into waters that would be ice if they weren't so salty; for me, the question is why wouldn't I jump?What inspired you to take the fledgling computer medium and make a virtual world/computer game with it?As a child, I'd always created my own worlds. It was just something I enjoyed doing. Computers were another way to do what I would have been doing on paper or with paper tokens anyway. The only (albeit rather critical!) difference was that with a computer I could give other people free rein in the world, whereas with my other games my imagination was the computer.What do you feel is the distinction between virtual worlds and computer games?Virtual worlds are places. Computer games are experiences. You can have an experience in a place but you can't have a place in an experience.What are the essential components of a successful virtual world?Players.In the evolution of MUDs, what surprising and expected results are you most proud of?I wouldn't use the word "proud" to describe my attitude to anything I've done. Pride is what I have in my children's achievements, not in my own.I would say I am very pleased at the way some things have turned out. In particular, I like the way that the freedom I tried to give players right from the beginning has held up reasonably well. It would have been very easy for a stigma to become attached to role-playing, but it hasn't: you want to play a male elf when you're a female human in real life, well, OK, you're a male elf. Have fun.Players can be themselves; players can be whoever they want to be. The process of playing is how they come to realise that these two statements amount to the same thing: what they want is to be themselves. They play because they don't know who their "self" is initially.I'm actually pessimistic about how things could work out. The concept of what a virtual world IS has become diluted in recent years, and I see it getting worse. It may be that 15 years from now, people wonder what all the fuss was about, virtual worlds being little more than grand portals in which people hook up before heading off into some private sub-game together. Then again, we might all have our own virtual worlds like we all have our own web sites. It could go either way. Long term, virtual worlds as they were conceived will prevail, because they simply DO offer something that regular computer games (even ones disguised as virtual worlds) can't. They offer people the chance to become themselves.How do you think they'll bring new audiences to accept the medium?That'll happen anyway. They have people in them. Players of single-player games will age, and their priorities will change. 30 years from now, the Prime Minister will have played computer games in his or her youth, and computer games will be as much a mundane part of popular culture as TV or film or radio or comics or novels or ...It'll happen. I just hope I don't hit the icy waters too soon and miss it.Bartle's bookDesigning Virtual Worldswas released 2003. For more information on the current state of MUDs or Richard himself, check out hiswebsite.
Late last year, Microsoft launched the Windows XP Starter Edition - a stripped down version of its operating system that it wanted to be bundled with systems sold in Asia. Unfortunately, according to Silicon.com, it lookslike it's not taken off as well as they'd hoped.Unlike Microsoft's flagship Windows offerings, however, Starter Edition is not for retail. The firm is banking on its partners to bundle and promote the software with their low-end PCs, a strategy which has so far received lukewarm response.Kharisma Shintara, director of Arta Computer Centre, a computer assembler in Indonesia that has licensed Microsoft's scaled-down offering, said: "We're not focused on Starter Edition."Piracy's still a big problem in the Asian market, with many retailers loading the systems they sell with unlicensed software, and it doesn't look like SE is making many inroads into that culture.
Today's Wall Street Journal (Europe) is running an interview with new Sony boss Howard Stringer. I can't actually find it online, but like pretty much everything else on WSJ.com, it's probably subscription only. In lieu of being able to read it, here's one answer to an interesting question about the future of "Mr PlayStation",Ken Kutaragi- who was originally thought to be one of the frontrunners to take over the firm.Sayeth Stringer:"I have no indication that he doesn't intend to stay. Every company needs the sort of brilliance in residence that he represents... people whose mind leaps in imaginative vaults, to arrive at different conclusions. So I've gone out of my way to say he's very important."We've both discussed coming back to PlayStation and helping bring Sony Entertainment into different parts of the electronics company. It's very important to find ways that these silos can work together... [silos] worked in the analog era, not in the digital one."Is this an ego-massaging attempt to keep Kutaragi on side, or is it just bolstering the position of one of the firm's leading lights?
This week'sWhat's Newcolumn wraps up the more interesting announcement from CeBIT in Hanover, as well as looking at some other gadget headlines this week.First off there's a review of the new Sanyo 3G handset, with its trademark big ole screen and Moto-style nobby aerial. Our gadget guru Ashley Norris says that "the S750 isn't quite in the same league as the Sharp/Vodafone 902, but Orange subscribers who can live with its bulk should check it out."We also have a look at Motorola's new V1150 clamshell 3G phone that "includes design features first used on Motorola's ultra slim RAZR handset".It's also got a two megapixel camera (with no less than an 8x digital zoom), and can play MP3 and Windows Media files, and comes in pretty light compared to other 3G phones on the market.As always, there's more - justclick herefor this week's gadget round-up.
How much will you pay for "next-gen" games on the PS3 and Xbox 2? It's almost certain to be more than you do at the moment, with the likes of Activision and Take-Twosuggestingthat there will be a new premium price point for the triple A games on the new platforms. Now while £50, for example, is unacceptable for a.n.other racing game, is it too much to pay for the next GTA game on PlayStation 3?A game like that is likely to last you for weeks, whereas a day out at the footy, for example, costs more and is over far quicker. And it wasn't that long ago that the likes ofTurokon the N64 cost a whopping £69.99! As usual the early adopters will bear the brunt with prices falling in 2007-8 when everyone else gets on board.As long as the top price is restricted to the best and not used as an excuse to up prices across the board then I don't have a problem with it - better quality usually costs more. Of course, it's easy for me to say this when I get free review copies, but will higher prices put you off next-gen games?
So it's not just me then. Blizzard haveannouncedthat World of Warcraft has over 1.5 million subscribers worldwide. Europe alone accounts for 500,000 of those, and bar some initial hiccups the launch has gone incredibly well. I've said it before but if you can get a copy of this game - shop stock is low - then definitely give it a go (it's even available for the Mac) This is an enchanting virtual world that, crucially, lets players quest on their own or in groups. I'm on the Deathwing realm, if you want to help me kill a few humans..
Detectives are investigating the possibility of insider involvement in a daring electronic bid to steal &#163;220m from the London headquarters of a Japanese corporate bank.Sumitomo called police last October when suspicions surfaced that hackers were trying to infiltrate its computer systems. An undercover operation foiled plans to transfer the money into 10 bank accounts around the world and the cyber crime was thwarted with no cash lost.Israeli police arrested a 32-year-old man, Yaron Bolondi, in Holon, near Tel Aviv, on Tuesday. Bolondi, an Israeli who is not a bank employee, has been charged with money laundering and deception. An Israeli police spokesman said there had been a sophisticated attempt to transfer &euro;20m (&#163;13.9m) into his business account.Two officers from the UK's national hi-tech crime unit have flown to Israel to interview him. The hunt continues for other suspects.The criminals are thought to have tried to access the bank's systems by keylogging - surreptitiously installing software to copy every keystroke made on a computer so that vital passwords can be stolen.This can be done in various ways, perhaps installing the software directly on an office computer or tricking an employee to download rogue software on a laptop.Jonathan Mepsted, UK director of computer security firm Fortinet, said increased mobility of staff around the world, contacting offices by laptop, made it easier for hackers."Why go through the front door of a major financial institution, where the firewall is toughest, when you can simply sneak round the back?" he said."Hackers can send out a spam email, getting the recipient to open a fake website and unwittingly download a malicious program. The code sleeps until it is transferred on to other PCs, where it is activated to start keylogging."Jacques Erasmus, a former "ethical hacker" who broke into systems and informed firms of their weaknesses before becoming a security expert for Milton Keynes-based Prevx, said: "It's much easier than in the old days, running into banks with guns. Now all criminals have to do is sit at home tapping on a keyboard, and the rewards are potentially much, much greater."Philip Martin, a lawyer representing Sumitomo, one of Japan's largest commercial banks, which employs 500 people in the UK and thousands worldwide, said the failure of the attempted theft showed the strength of Sumitomo's security.But he refused to give more details or comment on whether any staff might have been involved. The hi-tech crime unit also declined to comment, on the grounds that it might jeopardise investigations.However, computer and banking sources said some sort of insider involvement would be one of the first lines of inquiry. "I would suspect insider involvement," said Arthur Barnes, principal consultant with Diagonal Security. "This would require comprehensive understanding of banking infrastructure, not necessarily in senior management but perhaps in technical operations or some specialism."He said large banks usually separated their money management system from other computer communications. But experienced hackers could still install a keylogging device. Sumitomo may well have detected this early but the best way to catch the criminals was to follow the electronic money trail."The criminals would have a dedicated hacking/counter-forensic team as well as individuals to launder the money," he said.Emlyn Everitt, who has a PhD in intrusion detection, said: "I would be very surprised if there wasn't some insider element. But this might not necessarily be a current employee. It could be a former employee, a contract worker, or anyone who can get near the computers, even a cleaner."Many large firms spend vast sums on technology but invariably take on some employees and temps on low wages   with minimum background checks. You're only as strong as your weakest human link."The Financial Services Authority, which regulates the City, warned firms last November to vet staff thoroughly, citing "evidence that organised crime groups deliberately target firms to place staff to commit financial crime, particularly identity theft".Philip Robinson, of the FSA, said: "Hackers and fraudsters are improving their techniques as we speak. Firms will have to run to stand still if they are to protect their assets and those of their customers."Experts also said that much electronic crime against corporations went unreported because it engendered such negative publicity."There is big under-reporting of this type of crime, not only because of the money loss, but the slump in investor and customer confidence," said Mr Barnes.But experts said that cyber theft was on the rise, fuelled by lax financial systems in such regions as eastern Europe, and increased hi-tech awareness among organised gangs willing to pay people large sums to hack into big corporations.Mr Erasmus said: "You can open a bank account by post in Latvia. It's completely anonymous and very easy to transfer money there."It's also interesting that some of the money was allegedly going to Israel, as while they have very good computer security experts there, they also have very good hackers."
"We want our audiences to rip, mix and share the BBC," said the BBC'sPaula Le Dieu, who was on stage at ETech about an hour after Lawrence Lessig, She said the BBC would finally open its Creative Archive this year, with a test version that could be in beta for 18 months or so. The content will not be protected by a DRM (digital rights management) system, and, she added, "we are hoping our audience is going to become our distribution partner with peer-to-peer".One not-so-little problem was that all this was "UK only". How that restriction might be applied, Le Dieu did not say.... However, it seems she's leaving the Creative Archive to join the Creative Commons operation, so she probably won't have to worry about it for much longer.
Law professor Lawrence Lessig, creator of theCreative Commons, did the final keynote at ETech 2005. The hall was packed for the 8.30am start, and his speech was terrific. The best approach would be to download anaudio version, though you'll miss the visuals.Lessig's message was short and to the point. He argued that people have always remixed their culture, by talking about it, quoting it, and reworking it. ("Remix" was the ostensible theme of this year's ETech.) Historically this has not been much of a problem in a culture based on language. However, today's culture is increasingly based on digital content, including movies and music, and these traditional approaches are now illegal."When the tools change, do the freedoms change as well?" asked Lessig.Hollywood is lobbying to "blind the technology to conform to 18th century law", rather than allow us to reform the law.In a conversation with Cory Doctorow, Lessig also commented on the EU's attempt to introduce software patents. He described it as "taxing your own innovators to protect foreign competition. They're shooting themselves in the foot."
The strange biofeedback gameJourney to the Wild Divinehas been getting a lot of space on theWomen In Games Developmentlistserv lately, primarily because the software is actually garnering somegoodpress about videogames. Indeed, the tendrils of positivity are reaching some unlikely places, and the game apparently solves all sorts of ills.The latest comes from online women's siteBella Online, which claims that playing Wide Divine may actually cureADHD.This biofeedback computer game helps to integrate mind and body to reduce stress, improve mental and physical performance, increase focus and creativity, and promote total wellness. The game can give you more awareness of your own internal states of consciousness. Other possible benefits include the potential for a clearer state of mind, heightened powers of imagination, greater understanding of the mind/body connection, and more energy and relaxation.This isn't the first title released that argues that offline goodness can come from computer game play. I recall, very dimly, something calledEndorfunreleased by Time Warner Interactive, which supposedly messed around with the endorphins in people's brains and made them feel happy. But can playing GTA: SA make peoplefeel good about their bodies?
Yes, the French publishing giant has revealed its line-up for the fiscal year ending March 2006. The collection of 32 titles includes new manifestations of the Splinter Cell, Rainbow Six, Ghost Recon and Prince of Persia brands, as well as a King Kong movie tie-in and a couple of newcomers: first-person shooter Killing Day for next gen platforms, and 187 Ride or Die, a - thank the lord - urban street racer. You can find the full press releasehere.Games Radar, by the way, takes the planned November release of Ghost Recon 3 for 'next gen platforms' to be conclusive proof that Xbox 2 will be out before Christmas.Anyway, 32 titles, two new ones - that's 6.25% original material. Way to go Ubi Soft!**I don't know why I'm being like this, Splinter Cell Chaos Theory is great.
Sadly I spotted this too late to put in an offer, but someone has just sold ahaunted NESconsole on Ebay for $225. Apparently it contains the spirit of a deceased previous owner, which manifests itself as eerie voices coming from the TV while you play.What an ingenious method of shifting old skool gaming equipment - $225 and it doesn't even come with its original packaging!
Every day my PDA/cellphone chirps with the joyous tidings: "The blind receive sight, the lame walk, those who have leprosy are cured, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the good news is preached to the poor."OK, maybe not quite as the Apostle Matthew had it. But seemingly the age of miracles is nearly upon us. If anyone doubts it, they should try my Google alert. Recently, I asked Google to tip me off every time it picked up a reference to stem cells - that most ubiquitous of human tissues - and Parkinson's, the "shaking" disease.Courtesy of the internet search machine, the reports come pouring in of pending "breakthroughs" in the use of stem cells to repair cells damaged by disease, or accident. Most of them mention Parkinson's as an obvious target for the technique. I have Parkinson's and would dearly love to see it cured. To some extent I am being greedy, having already benefited from what could be called half a miracle - the implantation of a brain pacemaker which has effectively eradicated the shakes. But there are enough symptoms left - erratic balance, for example, and stiffness in hand movements - to make me long for the complete cure.Unfortunately, the cure itself, as opposed to hopes for it, has proven long in the anticipation and short in the realisation. For more than 10 years - since I was diagnosed as having the disease - I have been excitedly awaiting the arrival of the stem cell "miracle", which promises not just to cure Parkinson's, but to revolutionise medicine and, by some predictions, put an end to disease. But after 10 years the miracle remains remote.Not that there haven't been breakthroughs, mostly with mice. The little creatures, it seems, barely need the sniff of a stem cell to be the beneficiary of a miracle cure to whatever foul condition has been foist upon them in the laboratory. But where human beings are concerned, such miracles are everlastingly over the next horizon.Admittedly, beauty clinics in Moscow are reported to be offering stem cell treatments. For about $150 a shot they give a course of injections with promises of cures for conditions ranging from baldness to wrinkly skin. While the placebo effect seems to be enough to keep the industry running, patients are more likely to get skin tumours than a miracle cure for their dollars.Man is eternally gullible, but it can be said that none more so than one who stands in need of a miracle. Thanks to "deep brain stimulation", on the part of my pacemaker, with its electrodes running into my grey matter, the sense of urgency is less felt in my case.But I still have a great enough longing for the complete cure to help me appreciate the feelings of those for whom stem cells and the timing of the promised miracle is a life-and-death issue. People like Christopher Reed, who recently ran out of time, waiting for stem cells to knit together the severed nerves in his vertebrae. Or Tom Hill.The tale of Tom Hill is one moving story to reach me via my Google alert. It came from the Los Angeles Times and was the story of the last months of a successful Atlanta real estate developer. LA Times staff writer Alan Zarembo describes how, frantic to save himself from Lou Gehrig's disease - a particularly vicious and terminal form of the disease suffered by the Cambridge mathematician, Steven Hawking - Hill stumbled across a biotechnology company, BioMark, which seemed to hold out some promise.Co-founded by a model with a taste for alternative medicine and yoga, BioMark was flogging stem cell therapy for diseases including Lou Gehrig's and Parkinson's at $21,000 a course.Hill pored over BioMark's material, "dozens of pages of patient testimonials, scientific references and news reports on the vast promise of stem cells," reported Zarembo. Hill's wife, Valerie, could hear her husband's printer churning out page after page. "It is worth a try," Hill scrawled in the margin of one print-out.He bargained the BioMark fee down to $10,000 and, without telling his doctors, flew to Toronto, Canada, to have the injections. A month later he said he was finding it easier to close his mouth. But his son, who had taken a year off college to care for his father, was having trouble getting him into the lift they had installed in their house."At this late stage Valerie wished that Tom could help patch the holes of their life - apologies, advice for their children, regrets, kind words that could help her carry on without him," recounted Zarembo. "She begged him to make peace with his life. 'Why are you so mean to me?' Tom typed on his synthesiser. 'You want me to die soon'."Valerie asked whether he wanted to be buried, or cremated, and Tom turned up the volume on the television to drown her out.Hill died in March last year at the age of 56. Valerie had him cremated. Subsequently the Food and Drug Administration sent her a cheque for $6,896 seized during a fraud investigation into BioMark.It was back in 1970 that a researcher at the Jackson Laboratory in Maine postulated the existence of stem cells - capable of developing into differing types of cells and then into the different tissue and organs making up the body - after discovering them in mice.The predilection of mice to be at the forefront of such research received further demonstration, were it needed, with the startling announcement this week by Stanford University that they were in a position to breed a mouse with a brain made entirely from human cells.The university said that it was waiting for a go-ahead from the government before they tried the experiment with stem cells from aborted foetuses.The head of the university's institute of cancer/stem cell biology, Professor Irving Weissman said the experiment could lead to a cure for Parkinson's.I read it on a news alert.Googled again.&#183;Googled. v. the inadvertent tendency, by an internet search engine of the same name, to create excessively high hopes where the miraculous is concerned
Project Rub, Snake Eater? Thisweek's reviewsare stuffed with more double entendres than aCarry On film. Project Rub is one of the more unusual titles for the new Nintendo DS and sees you scratching, blowing and, possibly, canoodling, your way into the heart of the female star of the game. As I said in my review, "people unfamiliar with gaming are likely to be interested". And they will - Rub is totally accessible entertainment. Less welcoming, but ultimately more satisfying is Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater. We reviewed this two weeks late, so you've probably all played it now (look out for next week's reviews, including a first look at FIFA 2003). If you haven't then the important thing to know is that there are still FAR too many non-interactive cutscenes - film or game Mr Kojima, please decide. Luckily the game itself is a good 'un, and it impressed reviewer Steve Boxer. "The attention to detail is outrageous", he said, although perhaps not as much as his blatant plug for a tips company in the last paragraph. Nevertheless he's probably right when he said, "It is a must buy if you own a PlayStation 2."Last upis the new Splinter Cell game, Chaos Theory. With the speed they churn out SC games you do fear the worst. Thankfully this is probably the best of the series, with Mike Anderiesz calling it, "a little cracker".
Police have foiled an audacious attempt to steal &#163;220m from the London offices of a Japanese banking group, it emerged today.A high-technology crime ring planned to hack into Sumitomo's computer systems and transfer money electronically to 10 bank accounts around the world.It would have been Britain's biggest ever theft, dwarfing the &#163;26m robbery from Belfast's Northern Bank in December, it was reported.The thieves planned to use a method called keylogging - software which records buttons pressed on computer keyboards - to glean user names and passwords. The programme had already been installed, but police have not confirmed whether this was done by an inside accomplice, or by a break-into the City bank, or whether they managed to do it from outside via the internet.Police in Israel yesterday arrested a man whose business account had been the intended recipient of some of the money, the Financial Times reported. He has been charged with money laundering and deception after the thieves tried to transfer 20m euros (&#163;13.9m) to the account.Takashi Morita, head of communications at Sumitomo in Tokyo, said that the company had not suffered any financial loss as a consequence of the robbery attempt."The case is still in the middle of investigation so we cannot comment further," he said. "We have undertaken various measures in terms of security and we have not suffered any financial damage."According to the Financial Times, officers from the National High-Tech Crime Unit have been investigating the attempted theft since October, after the gang gained access to Sumitomo's computer systems and tried to transfer the money. The plan was uncovered before any money was transferred. Police have not said how they uncovered the attempted theft or how many people are believed to be involved in the gang.The attempted theft highlights the growing threat to commercial operations posed by sophisticated organised gangs."The rise of keyloggers poses a real threat to companies and this may be the first time we have evidence of organised criminals using the equipment to attack a bank," Alan MacDonagh, managing director of the fraud consultancy Hibis Europe told the Financial Times.Bank security procedures involve the regular sweeping of computers for bugs or rogue software.It was reported that rumours of the attempted theft have been circulating in police and corporate circles since late last year, after the police warned financial institutions.The National High-Tech Crime Unit refused to make any comment today. It is understood to be reluctant to say anything about what is a major continuing investigation.
This week's print edition ofOnlineis a bumper one, stuffed full of interesting bits and bobs.First off is a cover story exploring thetrue depths of cyber crime, which is now more of an industry than ever. We interview members of Britain's National High-Tech Crime Unit as well as the criminals and hackers who profit from cybertheft.Elsewhere, we talk to BBC new media bossAshley Highfieldabout the corporation's web operations and a potential threat from Europe, as well as looking at a new sort of personal networkingthat uses your body as a transmitter.It's a busy week in terms ofgaming, as we not only review the likes ofSplinter Cell: Chaos TheoryandMetal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater, but we also look at the newGizmondohandheld that's looking to take on Nintendo and Sonyandwe interview with games industry veteranTrip Hawkins(founder of Electronic Arts).We've gotcommentfrom Dave Birch onthe problem with quantum computing, Jack Schofieldon Delland Michael Cross onthe failure of online customer service.And there's more: we talk toBenjamin Zephaniah; explain how topublish your music on the web; look atBlackberrys for small businessesand uncover the goings-on with thedigital mapping of Britain.Click herefor the complete run down, including all our regular features.
The Times has run a piece on thePSP todaywhich includes a graphic exploring its rivals:Screen gem or video nasty?.It's rather uncharitable about the Gizmondo, which it says is a "deeply uncharismatic lump of black plastic", and that "the screen's too small".According to their figures, the Giz has a 2.75" square screen: just a bit bigger than one of the Nintendo DS's screens, and hardly any smaller in terms of area than the PSP's widescreen display.Still, the jury's out on Gizmondo, as ourfeature todayexplains:With a recommended retail price of £229 and patchy support from games publishers, the Gizmondo's launch into a market dominated by some of the games industry's heaviest hitters begins to look like folly. Yet it is an impressive piece of hardware that was designed, and is being launched first, in the UK. And it has unique features.Will it be a success? I don't know, but they're certainly going for it - flagship central London shop, big launch party, claims of low expectations. Still, the nagging feeling is that Gizmondo is a jack of all trades and a master of none.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday March 28, 2005We said below that Tom Zimmerman had invented the original IBM system for transferring data via the body. IBM has asked us to point out that Mr Zimmerman developed the systems known as personal area networks with Neil Gershenfeld at the MIT Media Lab and continued working on them at IBM.Your body could soon be the backbone of a broadband personal data network linking your mobile phone or MP3 player to a cordless headset, your digital camera to a PC or printer, and all the gadgets you carry around to each other.These personal area networks are already possible using radio-based technologies, such as Wi-Fi or Bluetooth, or just plain old cables to connect devices. But NTT, the Japanese communications company, has developed a technology called RedTacton, which it claims can send data over the surface of the skin at speeds of up to 2Mbps - equivalent to a fast broadband data connection.Using RedTacton-enabled devices, music from an MP3 player in your pocket would pass through your clothing and shoot over your body to headphones in your ears. Instead of fiddling around with a cable to connect your digital camera to your computer, you could transfer pictures just by touching the PC while the camera is around your neck. And since data can pass from one body to another, you could also exchange electronic business cards by shaking hands, trade music files by dancing cheek to cheek, or swap phone numbers just by kissing.NTT is not the first company to use the human body as a conduit for data: IBM pioneered the field in 1996 with a system that could transfer small amounts of data at very low speeds, and last June, Microsoft was granted a patent for "a method and apparatus for transmitting power and data using the human body".But RedTacton is arguably the first practical system because, unlike IBM's or Microsoft's, it doesn't need transmitters to be in direct contact with the skin - they can be built into gadgets, carried in pockets or bags, and will work within about 20cm of your body. RedTacton doesn't introduce an electric current into the body - instead, it makes use of the minute electric field that occurs naturally on the surface of every human body. A transmitter attached to a device, such as an MP3 player, uses this field to send data by modulating the field minutely in the same way that a radio carrier wave is modulated to carry information.Receiving data is more complicated because the strength of the electric field involved is so low. RedTacton gets around this using a technique called electric field photonics: a laser is passed though an electro-optic crystal, which deflects light differently according to the strength of the field across it. These deflections are measured and converted back into electrical signals to retrieve the transmitted data.An obvious question, however, is why anyone would bother networking though their body when proven radio-based personal area networking technologies, such as Bluetooth, already exist? Tom Zimmerman, the inventor of the original IBM system, says body-based networking is more secure than broadcast systems, such as Bluetooth, which have a range of about 10 metres."With Bluetooth, it is difficult to rein in the signal and restrict it to the device you are trying to connect to," says Zimmerman. "You usually want to communicate with one particular thing, but in a busy place there could be hundreds of Bluetooth devices within range."As human beings are ineffective aerials, it is very hard to pick up stray electronic signals radiating from the body, he says. "This is good for security because even if you encrypt data it is still possible that it could be decoded, but if you can't pick it up it can't be cracked."Zimmerman also believes that, unlike infrared or Bluetooth phones and PDAs, which enable people to "beam" electronic business cards across a room without ever formally meeting, body-based networking allows for more natural interchanges of information between humans. "If you are very close or touching someone, you are either in a busy subway train, or you are being intimate with them, or you want to communicate," he says. "I think it is good to be close to someone when you are exchanging information."RedTacton transceivers can be treated as standard network devices, so software running over Ethernet or other TCP/IP protocol-based networks will run unmodified. Gordon Bell, a senior researcher at Microsoft's Bay Area Research Center in San Francisco, says that while Bluetooth or other radio technologies may be perfectly suitable to link gadgets for many personal area networking purposes, there are certain applications for which RedTacton technology would be ideal."I recently acquired my own in-body device - a pacemaker - but it takes a special radio frequency connector to interface to it. As more and more implants go into bodies, the need for a good Internet Protocol connection increases," he says.In the near future, the most important application for body-based networking may well be for communications within, rather than on the surface of, or outside, the body.An intriguing possibility is that the technology will be used as a sort of secondary nervous system to link large numbers of tiny implanted components placed beneath the skin to create powerful onboard - or in-body - computers.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Our lead story in this week's edition of online is anexamination of the criminal gangswho commit much of the world's cyber crime.As if by magic, theFinancial Timescarries a story this morning about an attempted £220m bank raid by computer hackers.A high-technology crime ring tried to steal £220m ($421m) from the London offices of Sumitomo, the Japanese banking group, last year, in one of the most audacious thefts attempted in the City for many years.Police have been investigating the theft since October, when the gang gained access to Sumitomo's computer systems and tried to transfer the cash electronically to 10 bank accounts around the world. However, their plan was uncovered before any cash was transferred.The details are sketchy - was this a straight network invasion? Did they use keylogging software? Who was behind it? - but it's clear evidence that cyber crime is moving up a gear.
On cloud nineIt is nice to know someone is against "blue sky thinking", even if it is only the Cloud Appreciation Society. Its website has "the latest cloud-related news and events", photos and a chat forum. UK residents who join - it is free - also get a membership badge and certificate. It is run by Gavin Pretor-Pinney, co-founder of The Idler magazine, and it's hard to argue with the idea that watching clouds is a pleasant way to idle your life away.www.cloudappreciationsociety.orgwww.idler.co.ukCity clickersChuck Ideh read about South Korea's Ohmynews.com, where "citizen reporters" write the news, and We The Media, a book about blogging and citizen reporting by US journalist Dan Gillmor. "Eureka! A town crier, electronic, everywhere and everyone," Ideh cried, and launchedwww.eTownCrier.com. "What, again?" we responded, pointing out that "metroblogging" was not exactly new. Indeed, Metroblogging's Metblogs are already said to provide "a hyper-local look at what's going on" in various cities, including London. There's also Gothamist, which has a London site called Londonist. eTownCrier's blog says that "upon achieving satisfactory results" in its first cities, Baltimore and Washington DC, "eTownCrier.com will be launched in other cities where needed".www.metroblogging.comwww.london.metblogs.comwww.Gothamist.comwww.londonist.comFunny gatesThe Gates, the $20m Christo exhibition held recently in New York's Central Park, also provoked a couple of humorous responses. The best was The Somerville Gates, by 50-year-old financial adviser Geoff Hargadon, which was tiny and cost only $3.50. "Hargo" placed his miniature gates at home, where his cat Edie had walked: his site got 5.5m hits in a week and he became a media celebrity. As he quipped to MSNBC news: "I'm just thankful that Paris Hilton didn't have my phone number." Another parody effort substituted orange crackers.www.masl.to/?P2BD32AAAwww.tinyurl.com/5tm9qwww.not-rocket-science.comMake it happenIn the US, O'Reilly has launched Makezine, a $14.95 magazine for hardware hackers. Don't worry if you can't buy it, as you can read it on the web. Contents of the first issue include Made on Earth (Amazing things that ordinary people are making in their garages and backyards), The Open Source Car: a Design Brief, and Dorkbot, a "warehouse of wild, weird, and wonderful projects".www.makezine.com/currentCustomised newsPeople who use Google's news service may have spotted a new box that says "Customise this page". It lets you shuffle the order of the page and add standard sections, such as Sci/Tech, from Google News in other countries. Users can also create their own news section by typing in one or more keywords, which Google will use to search its news sources.www.news.google.co.ukSpaced outBritish scientists are building the world's largest model of the solar system, under the Spaced Out project, with the help of teachers and schoolchildren. Mars is at Hartford High School, Cheshire, while Jupiter is at Techniquest@NEWI, Wrexham. The model will stretch from Cornwall to the Shetland Islands. However, the UK is too small to include any stars, as the nearest would have to be beyond the moon. The project is part of British Science Week.www.spacedout-uk.comSearch liveWith the launch of a Microsoft-powered MSN Search service in the UK, MSN has added MSN Search Live. This lists all the boring stuff we are searching the web for - currency conversion, French ski resorts, the weather - but MSN has jazzed it up with "duels" in Macromedia Flash. This compares the frequency of searches for two topics, such as Corrie v Eastenders, or David v Victoria Beckham. You also get the top 10 "movers' in the worlds of TV, music and sport.www.msn.co.uk/searchlive&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
If we Brits truly favour underdogs - as our national stereotype suggests - then we should embrace the Gizmondo when it launches on Saturday. It is a handheld device that runs videogames, plays MP3s and MPeg-4 video and contains a 0.3 mexapixel camera, a GPS satellite positioning chip and full GPRS phone functionality (although you cannot make voice calls). It will, however, surely struggle to compete with Nintendo's recently launched DS and Sony's forthcoming PlayStation Portable.With a recommended retail price of &#163;229 and patchy support from games publishers, the Gizmondo's launch into a market dominated by some of the games industry's heaviest hitters begins to look like folly. Yet it is an impressive piece of hardware that was designed, and is being launched first, in the UK. And it has unique features.Gizmondo's managing director, Carl Freer, is playing down his ambitions. "We're not trying to conquer this market," he says. "We've got an interesting proposition for people who want more than just gaming." Gizmondo, he says, can download music from the OD2/Loudeye service (www.gizmondomusic.com) and music videos (Gizmondo has signed a deal with Universal). It can play movies pre-loaded on to SD cards, and send cheap SMS and MMS messages (it is supplied with a pay-as-you-go Sim card).Freer also raises the prospect of the price dropping dramatically when Smart Adds is up and running: these are targeted ads that can be combined with the GPS location to, for example, offer electronic discount vouchers for Gizmondo owners who walk into particular shops. It is also possible to use the Gizmondo as a car satellite navigation system, and to send street-mapping information to it. Freer says that once 150,000 Gizmondos have been sold in the UK, the Smart Adds revenue will drive the hardware price down.But the jury is out regarding its credibility as a gaming platform. In design terms, it impresses: the screen is good, it is well shaped, its analogue joystick has a good feel, its shoulder buttons are usable and, as it is the first item of hardware to use Nvidia's GoForce 4500 3D graphics processor, it can run proper 3D games.But publisher support is lacking. British publisher SCi has embraced it - and Gizmondo versions of Conflict: Vietnam, The Great Escape, Carmaggedon and Richard Burns Rally will eventually appear. A game developed in house called Colors uses the device's GPS capabilities: anyone playing it will be able to challenge Gizmondo owners who stray into their vicinity.Freer hints that he is close to a deal with "a huge publisher", and Microsoft is supporting the device because it uses the WinCE operating system. Freer, however, scotches rumours that a Gizmondo version of Halo is on the way. By Christmas, he says, about 85 Gizmondo games should be on sale."The typical Gizmondo buyer will be an early adopter, a very sophisticated gamer and also a gadget freak." If that sounds like you, Gizmondo is opening a store in London's Regent Street on Saturday, where you will be able to get your hands on the machine.So is Gizmondo a plucky Brit underdog or a technological blind alley? As Freer is fond of saying, time will tell.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Managing software development in a large organisation can be tricky. IT directors need to juggle scarce resources while delivering applications and services that respond to business needs. It is a complex task, and one that often looks more like managing a portfolio of investments - or playing a particularly complicated game of SimCity.The portfolio approach is easy enough to describe: each IT project is part of a basket of linked projects, and is assigned a value to the business, and a set of dependencies. It is a way of showing that while project A may be expected to take several months, and have a return on investment of several years, it is critical to the success of projects B and C, which have high returns. Traditional ways of looking at individual projects would pinpoint issues with project A, possibly leading to its cancellation - and to the failure of B and C.Portfolio management works particularly well in the financial sector, where IT and business staff are familiar with the methods of managing investment portfolios, and can use them to help deliver IT projects.One approach to portfolio management is "application strategy planning", which Jost Hoppermann, Forrester Research's vice president of research for Financial Services Europe, thinks is similar to the approach taken by town planners. Instead of thinking of individual projects, businesses need to think of their development plans being like a town, full of conflicting needs, but built on a common infrastructure. Such scenarios can help prioritise project plans, as they can be used to align the business strategy with the technologies that will deliver the services used to run key business processes.But simply identifying a need and putting in a solution isn't enough: it is important for the business and the IT department to be able to see how projects affect the overall business plan, and the resources needed to make sure critical projects are delivered on time. Scenarios lay out a landscape that helps businesses choose which technologies and projects will support the business aims. Chief information officers (CIOs) can also use them to help plan and budget, while still being able to respond to the changing demands of a flexible business. It may sound like SimCity, but there's real money on the table.Using application strategy planning to set out an IT roadmap will change how IT staff work with the rest of the business. Architects will need to have more of an understanding of how the business works, while business requirements will need to take into account the IT resources available. Both sides must have as much information as possible, because incorrect assumptions on the available resources, or on the direction of business plans, could lead to architectures that fail to deliver the applications and services the business needs, when it needs them.Managing IT development is a complex task, and one that is often made more complex by a lack of communication and information. A service-based approach to IT delivery will require much more of a link between IT strategy and business strategy. Delivering the application strategy vision requires tools to help make decisions and record the available resources and infrastructure.Once a set of application strategies are in place, IT departments need to manage their portfolio of development projects. It is important to be able to control projects, understanding where and why resources are being deployed. Project management tools need to take a lesson from customer relationship management, and ensure there is only one port of call for all stakeholders in a project. It is critical for everyone to have access to the same information: more than 50% of US capital expenditure is now on IT projects.CIOs need to be able to demonstrate value to the rest of the business, and at the same time manage projects and control spend. Business Engine has developed a suite of tools to help solve this problem. Mark Strauch, the company's chief operat ing officer, describes it as "running the business of IT, by applying to IT the same investment strategies as have been applied to money management". The Business Engine Network, which is built on top of Microsoft's Project Server, comprises three linked applications: Delivery Engine, Financial Engine and Alignment Engine. These are tools for everyone involved with IT development, from IT staff, to operational management, to line of business project sponsors.The Delivery Engine helps IT departments manage a portfolio of projects, while the Financial Engine handles budgets and costs. The Alignment Engine brings application strategy planning into the development world, helping to optimise development processes by aligning IT development with business priorities. Starting with a portfolio of possible projects, CIOs, architects, programme managers and project sponsors can use the Alignment Engine to create a list of projects that can be delivered, and will help meet business needs.Tesco is one company that has benefited from the Business Engine approach: it has used the tools to improve how it controls more than 200 projects and its &#163;100m annual IT project spend. Tesco now saves four days a month in reporting time, and is able to calculate spending up to three weeks earlier than before.It is not just project management and application development that require a strategic approach. The more a business relies on IT, the more important IT operations become. BMC recently launched its Atrium Configuration Management Database. With such a database in place, IT operations and development can have a single place to record the configuration of every system - and what it is used for. Help and service desk tools can use this single store to see whether a failure is the boss's desktop PC, or the main e-commerce server, and make sure that business operations get the resources they need.It is a tool that can also feed back into application strategy planning, as a single source of "as is" information. As businesses become more dependent on IT, such approaches will help IT departments deliver the service management requirements of the IT Infrastructure Library.A closer relationship between IT and the rest of the business will make it easier to define business processes, and the services used - and how they should be supported. It is a relationship that needs to begin with project planning, and carry on throughout the life of the service.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Last week, the sky above Cape Canaveral in Florida was splattered with a stream of white smoke as an Atlas V rocket carrying Inmarsat I-4, the biggest and most sophisticated commercial communications satellite ever built, roared out of the Earth's atmosphere.The British-based company hopes the satellite will usher in a range of space-delivered data services. After the third satellite in the I-4 series launches next year, owners of dedicated Inmarsat BGAN (Broadband Global Area Network) satellite dishes will be able to access data, voice and video at broadband speeds of about 432Kbps wherever they are.Traditionally, Inmarsat's customers have been the military, aid agencies and shipping fleets. The launch of Inmarsat I-4 could, for the first time, see the company's services made available to consumers via broadband data services offered to passengers aboard airlines.Both Inmarsat and its rival Boeing (which has a system called Connexion that uses Intersputnik's Yamal-200 satellites) already offer online communications to air passengers. Boeing has a deal with Lufthansa and delivers data download speeds of up to 2Mbps to passengers on several long-haul flights. Passengers on Japan Airlines' London-Tokyo route can also use Connexion.If airline companies harness Inmarsat's new satellites, the online access on planes is likely to become widespread and significantly cheaper. Inmarsat claims that as half the long-haul planes already use its equipment for safety and operational features, upgrading the system to add data communications for passengers is fairly simple. The company already has a name for the service -Swift Broadband - and expects it to feature on planes in 2006/2007.Swift Broadband will do more than just access the web. It will also enable passengers to make and receive mobile phone calls from their seat. Two companies - OnAir, which consists of Airbus Group (France) and SITA (Netherlands), and Telenor Arinc - have developed systems that use a pico-cell transmitter on board planes to connect to mobiles. Calls are re-routed via satellite. As the mobile phones latch on to the plane's transmitter, they operate at much lower power than if they were looking for a cell farther away. According to OnAir, the transmitter and phones will have no impact on the plane's communications and safety systems.There are still several issues that need to be resolved, but one thing is for sure: with the arrival of the Inmarsat 4-I satellite and Boeing's increasing commitment to its Connexion services, airline passengers of the future will have plenty of alternatives to the in-flight movie.www.inmarsat.comwww.connexionbyboeing.com&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
HardwareDitch the cablesCreative unveiled technology at CeBIT aimed at ditching the cables that connect you to your music player. As an alternative to Bluetooth wire-free systems, the company was showing off its magnetic induction technology. Creative claims it creates a "wireless bubble" around the user, allowing wireless streaming from MP3 player to headphones with reduced interference. The system can operate for up to 30 hours on one AAA battery and will be rolled out on several products, beginning with the Zen Micro player, later in the year.www.uk.europe.creative.comRemove the TabletToshiba used CeBIT to give consumers a glance of a prototype of an innovative laptop PC that features a removable LCD monitor. The concept is that users can detach the monitor, which then converts into a fully functioning Tablet PC. The prototype is a 12.1 inch XGA TFT LCD that communicates with its base station using 802.11b wireless technology. The company hopes to bring the PC to market within three years. It admits, however, that it will have to improve on the battery life, which only lasts about an hour. It also hopes to reduce the width of the screen and bring down the weight of the device.www.toshiba.co.ukStriking deviceKorean manufacturer Cowon, best known in the UK for its ultra-thin hard disk-based personal audio devices, is sizing up the personal media player market. It has developed the A2, a striking white-and-grey model with a comprehensive line-up of features. It boasts a four inch widescreen (16:9) monitor, is available with a 20, 40 or 60GB hard disk and sports an input that enable it to record directly from a TV. The A2 also supports a range of formats including MP3, WMA, Ogg and WAV audio, DivX and WMV video and JPeg, Gif and BMP image files. It is expected to launch in the UK in the summer.www.mp3-plus.netCorporate kingIt has been a big week for BlackBerry maker Research In Motion, which has signed important agreements to cement their position as kings of corporate communication. A deal with the biggest Windows Mobile phone manufacturer, HTC, is set to license Black Berry software on to its Pocket PCs and smartphones, and should support business and individual users. RIM is also pushing instant messaging, and will now come pre-loaded with Yahoo's messaging software to try to encourage users to chat more. AOL has also been brought on board to include AIM and ICQ services on the increasingly popular device.Mobile PhonesTake thatSamsung has unveiled its answer to the Sony Ericsson Walkman and Motorola iTunes music-playing phones. The SGHi300, shown for the first time at the CeBIT exhibition in Hanover last week, is a candy bar-style mobile that pairs MP3 and WMA players with a 3GB hard disk - the first time this type of storage has been seen on a European phone. The phone, due to launch in late summer, uses the Windows Mobile operating system and offers applications such as Outlook, Pocket Explorer and Word. It also features a 1.3 megapixel camera with a flash. At CeBIT, Samsung also displayed the SCH-V770, a phone with a seven megapixel camera and a 3x optical zoom. No launch date has been confirmed.www.samsung.co.ukCompact clamshellMotorola is to add a pair of new mobile phones to its range of 3G handsets. The V1150 is a compact clamshell phone that is smaller and lighter than almost all other 3G mobiles and includes design features first used on Motorola's ultra slim RAZR handset. It boasts a two megapixel camera with an 8x digital zoom and macro mode, and features playback software for MP3 and WMA files. Other features include Bluetooth and Sync ML for connecting the mobile to a PC. Motorola has also unveiled the V1050, another clamshell 3G model that includes a 1.3 megapixel camera, MP3 player and video download and calling facilities.www.motorola.co.ukState-of-the-art debut for SanyoIt is surprising that the S750, a 3G phone available exclusively from Orange, is Sanyo's first foray into the UK. The handset boasts Sanyo's trademark, a large 240 x 320 pixel 262k colour screen, which lets users make the most of the network's sports and movies video downloads and person-to-person video-calling facilities.While the screen is state of the art, however, the handset feels dated. It is bulky, with a protruding aerial. Much better is the keypad with prominent, easy-to-use keys.On offer is POP3 email, an MP3 player, video capture and one of the best 1.3 megapixel cameras on a phone. However, the user interface is fiddly. The phone can also work as a modem, offering 3G speeds to connected laptops.Overall, this is a solid UK debut for Orange that bodes well for future phones. The S750 isn't quite in the same league as the Sharp/Vodafone 902, but Orange subscribers who can live with its bulk should check it out.www.orange.co.uk&#183;Contributions from Bobbie Johnson and Ashley NorrisStat of the week: Lost and foundMobiles are increasingly important to our lives, and a recent study says that a third of people worry that they would lose touch with friends if they lost their phone. Even the generation gap is closing, with mobile ownership above 80% for all age groups except the over 65s.
The internet has become a non-stop source of crime stories. Later this month, detectives from Scotland Yard will sit down with representatives from online auction community eBay to discuss how to tackle a series of frauds on users carried out by Romanian criminals.Just weeks before that sting, the Bank of America revealed it had lost computer tapes containing financial data on 1.2m federal workers, including US senators. And British police recently charged 28 people with involvement in a sophisticated identity fraud racket that swindled almost &#163;2m from more than 100 private bank accounts.Welcome to the world of cyber crime - the fastest-growing form of crime since the production line of Henry T Ford ushered in the era of car theft.Cyber crime was once largely the preserve of the lone individual or politically aware groups that wanted to make a "point" about government and big business taking over what they felt should have been the gently anarchic internet world. The only real victims were companies and bureaucracies, and the rest of us looked on unconcerned - and even amused.All that began to change with the emergence of damaging computer viruses that spread around the world, costing companies money and making individual computer users increasingly irritated.Now, however, the criminals don't want our attention - they want our money. In the UK alone, the government reckons &#163;1.3bn is lost to identity fraud each year. While much of this results from people carelessly throwing away old credit card bills and other potentially valuable documents, criminals are increasingly committing ID theft after hacking into databases, building up consumer electronic profiles or conning us into handing over personal data.America's Federal Trade Commission revealed last year that 10m US citizens had fallen victim to ID theft at a total cost of $50bn, and that 2m people were conned by "phishing" attacks.In the UK, the relatively recent phenomenon of phishing - in which criminals pose as a bank or building society to steal data and, ultimately, cash - costs financial institutions tens of millions of pounds a year. Police fear the next big target of this increasingly sophisticated fraud will be high-profile online retailers, such as supermarkets.The most worrying development, meanwhile, is that more and more of these attacks are being committed by sophisticated crime gangs operating across the world. Indeed, according to Tony Neate, the industry liaison officer of the UK's National High Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU), these gangs have been preparing the ground for a number of years by getting their members trained for the job."Serious and organised crime is very aware of the use of technology to further its activities," says Neate, who is one of the new breed of cyber cops in the developed world, trained to counter online crime. "Serious and organised crime is now investing in people in order to further those activities. We have evidence that they are putting people through university to further those activities."This trend was confirmed by a hacker with links to a north London crime syndicate in the 1990s. "One member put his daughter through university so she could get a job in a bank and then they set up the crime," says the hacker. "Apparently, she 'made a mistake' as she transferred around &#163;500,000 into a dodgy account and the bank sacked her - but the deed was already done."Meanwhile, in the 1990s, hackers such as Nicholas Whitely, the first to be imprisoned in the UK, have confirmed they were approached by criminals while inside to use their skills to help gangs. Other hackers have revealed how they were employed by syndicates to wipe hard drives from stolen computers to eradicate any trace of ownership.In effect, crime organisations are operating like those legitimate businesses that saw the advantages of embracing the technological revolution and developed a strategy accordingly. "They see a new opportunity come up in crime and they set up a new section," says Neate. "There certainly is a research and development department in these organisations."There are, of course, some differences in how the gangs recruit their staff. According to one accomplished Russian hacker, he was initially offered a small sum of money to co-operate with a gang - or face a violent alternative. This is a familiar story in Russia and former eastern bloc countries, which provide the bulk of the world's cyber criminals.Detective Chief Superintendent Len Hynds, head of the NHTCU, has been working with the Russian authorities to counter the problem. He says much of the activity is centred on St Petersburg, which has a high number of very able maths and computer studies graduates."I do know that the programmers concerned have been set a whole range of different tasks including the management of websites, the development of phishing scams, and the control of 'bot net armies'," he says."Bot net armies" are a growing weapon of choice for many gangs. The criminals, using viruses or spyware downloaded on to unprotected computers, control hundreds or thousands of software robots all around the world. At a pre-arranged signal, these PCs simultaneously bombard the intended target with an endless stream of junk data, until it is brought down.The real purpose of this scam is extortion - website owners are threatened with the loss of their website (and therefore business) unless they hand over protection money. Offshore UK gambling sites have been a target of these crimes in recent years.Such attacks can net between &#163;7,000 and &#163;17,000, which may seem small, but when multiplied by a factor of 80 or so, they start to generate healthy revenue streams for more forward-thinking Russian organised crime groups, such as Tambov and Solntsevo. In the Far East, where gambling is a popular pastime, the Russians have found rich pickings.The computers that the criminals use to hide their bot armies - or herds, as they are also called - are usually poorly protected home PCs, especially those with high-speed broadband links.Like so much else in the world of computers and the internet, this practice started out as relatively harmless fun among computer buffs. It was the age of "bot rustling", a competition in which herdsmen would compete to try to seize the slave computers from their rival's bot herds. Soon, however, the bot herdsmen found organised criminals literally knocking on their doors. A new and recent trend has been the renting out of bot nets for about $1 per bot a day.The subversion of computers worldwide by a variety of spyware and Trojan programs to make them into bot-hosting zombies is often carried out using viruses. Viruses now typically have several different payloads and purposes - those that are meant to be discovered and treated, and those designed to lie dormant until they are needed to compromise the computer.However, such programs may not just be used to launch bot attacks. They could also be harvesting the data we store on our computers. US expert Robert Siciliano warns that spyware may pose one of the biggest technological threats from cyber criminals. "Installed remotely or at the terminal, monitoring the software allows scammers to record all activities of computer users and automatically deliver logs to them via email - including email sent, websites visited, file operations, every keystroke, username and password and online chat conversation. It's just like a surveillance camera directly pointed at the computer monitor."More and more viruses are being used by gangs to make money, rather than by internet vandals who just want a few seconds of fame.One virus trend some experts fear is the "male and female virus", in which the two different components (sexes) are harmless and undetected on their own, but when they combine on an infected computer, they produce deadly offspring.Viruses and bot armies are even being used for political purposes. Last year, South Korea claimed that North Korea had recruited a small army of hackers to wage cyber war on western armies, including the United States.Yet the main motivation for cyber crime is still money. One of the problems is that so many new computer and internet users know little about how to guard themselves, and are therefore easy targets for scams and crimes. One hacker, who had been involved briefly in internet crime, reveals how he could scarcely believe how stupid many people were when using the internet."But then I realised the internet was just like society," he says with a smile. "There's clever people and there's stupid people - and the internet magnifies that by a factor of millions."Expect the criminal gangs to be making more headlines in the coming months.&#183;Cyber Alert: How the World is Under Attack from a New Form of Crime by Peter Warren and Michael Streeter is published by Vision at &#163;10.99. To order a copy for &#163;10.44 with free UK p&amp;p, call the Guardian book service on 0870 836 0875 or go towww.guardian.co.uk/bookshop&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
