If there's one thing publishers love it's getting all their characters (or 'brands' as they often prefer) into one game, thereby capturing a huge meta-demographic of avid fans. Capcom has its 'Vs' series of fighting games, Sega has its All-Stars racing titles and Nintendo has – *deep breath* Super Smash Brothers, Mario Party, Mario Kart, Mario Tennis, Mario Sports Mix... etc.Now Sony is entering the multi-character fray with PlayStation All-Stars Battle Royale, which has been rumoured for ages but only officially announced today. It's a four-player brawler for PS3 featuring well-known faces from throughout the entire history of the console. So if you've ever wondered who would win in a fight between vengeful Spartan warrior Kratos and paper-thin rapping dog, PaRappa now's your chance to find out. I'll have a tenner on the one wielding the Blades of Athena.Other confirmed stars are Sly Copper, Colonel Radec from Killzone, Sweet Tooth from Twisted Metal and Fat Princess from, erm, Fat Princess. Sackboy and Nathan Drake must be in the running to feature, too - although personally, I'm hoping for Scott Shelby from Heavy Rain.Sony says that certain third-party stars will also feature. All characters will have their own special moves, of course, as well as themed environments. The music score will feature mash-ups of all our favourite soundtracks.It's being developed bySuperBot Entertainment, a start-up studio in Culver City, California, and is due out this winter. We can – yes – expect more news at E3. I'm going to get sick of writing that veeeery soon.So, any suggestions for other PlayStation characters to join the fight?
A selection of 21 new and notable apps for you today:LinkedInBusiness social network LinkedIn has launched its official iPad app, which is very impressive indeed. It's much more than a blown-up version of the company's existing smartphone app, aimed at "coffee and couch" habits of people using their iPads in the mornings and evenings. The most useful feature: synchronisation with the iPad calendar to show LinkedIn profiles for meeting attendees.iPadFrankensteinProfile Books and developer Inkle have teamed up for an appy take on Frankenstein, with interactive features including visiting Victor Frankenstein's workshop, helping him build his monster, and taking part in the ensuing chaos. It includes the full text of Mary Shelley's original book, as well as 65 illustrations.iPhone / iPadO2 WalletO2 is the latest company jumping into the peer-to-peer mobile payments space, with an app that helps you "Choose a friend. Choose the amount. Confirm and hit send. Done." It follows the launch of Barclays Pingit earlier in the year, and like that service, isn't restricted to the company's own customers.Android / BlackBerry / iPhoneDell Mobile ShoppingComputing firm Dell has launched an official shopping app for iPhone and Android, enabling customers to compare products, buy and track them, and read ratings and reviews, while also accessing Dell's support services.Android / iPhoneFocus Big Book of AnswersThe BBC's Focus science magazine has a new spin-off app for iPad, which promises to "tell you everything you ever wanted to know about, well everything". That means more than 500 facts and trivia titbits in sections including Space, Transport, Technology &amp; the Digital World, Animals and Human Body.iPadThe Dictator: Wadiyan GamesSacha Baron Cohen's latest film The Dictator is heading to cinemas, and there's a freemium game for iOS from Paramount Pictures to promote it. It sees the General Aladeen character competing at running, swimming, fencing and boxing.iPhone / iPadTop Of The Pops Magazine Special: One DirectionBritish magazine publisher Immediate Media has turned BBC brand Top Of The Pops' magazine into a digital edition devoted to boy-band One Direction. Expect interviews, love matches, "blush-inducing cringes" and posters – presumably to be saved as wallpaper rather than sticking the iPad on a wall. Separate editions forThe WantedandJLSare also available.iPadFlick Kick IrelandPikPok's marvellous Flick Kick Football gets greener with this Irish incarnation, with the action set in the Aviva Stadium. It's out in good time for Ireland's participation in this summer's Euro 2012 tournament.iPhone / iPadDC NationComics firm DC Entertainment has a new app for iOS aimed at younger fans. DC Nation includes more than 100 digital comics for 69p a pop, including characters like Superman, the Green Lantern and Batman.iPhone / iPadEchoerEchoer is the latest social app with a local twist, aiming to highlight what people are saying near your current location, sorting them for relevance. The app is fresh from winning a Google People's Choice award at the LeWeb 2011 conference.iPhoneNHL PrePlayThis is North American only, but an interesting addition to the ranks of second-screen apps. It's designed to be used when watching NHL ice hockey games on TV, with prompts to predict what's going to happen next throughout the game, and earn points to compete against friends.iPadOnion BrowserParanoid that your web browsing is being watched? Onion Browser uses the Tor network to anonymise browsing on iOS devices, encrypting the connection before it leaves the device, and ensuring that ISPs and websites can't identify its IP address.iPhone / iPadInotia 4: Assassin of BerkelCom2uS' immersive RPG series has a fourth incarnation on iOS, as you explore a fantasy world slaying monsters, collecting items and treasure, and recruiting mercenaries.iPhone / iPadStocard – Loyalty Card AppFollowing success in Germany and Austria, loyalty card app Stocard has launched in the UK. Developed by two students at the London School of Economics, it aims to replace physical loyalty cards and coupons. It can be scanned at tills just like they can.iPhoneFaerie PlanetAre their fairies – sorry, faeries – at the end of the garden? This augmented reality game for children aims to find out. It gets them hunting virtual creatures by pointing the iPhone or iPod touch at them, then sharing them with friends.iPhoneGiftureAn Instagram for animated GIFs? Strange though the idea may sound, that's Gifture. It gets you to capture a sequence of photos, add visual filters, and then share them to Twitter and Facebook as animated GIFs.iPhoneCrunchyrollWestern anime fans craving a regular fix of Japanese animation will flock to Crunchyroll, which promises to show new episodes as little as one hour after they air in Japan – but legally.Windows PhoneBicycle Jacked Up!The United States Playing Card Company is getting digital with this new app. The idea: you play games with a physical deck of cards, while scanning them with the iPhone "changes the rules with every hand" through a mischievous Joker.iPhone / iPadConference Guide - BlackBerry World 2012RIM has launched an official app for its BlackBerry World conference, where developers and partners will be gathering to debate all things BB. Session, speaker and sponsor details are all included.BlackBerry / BlackBerry PlayBookScarfaceThe famous movie comes to mobile phones again, this time with an iOS game promising to "bring 1980s Miami to life". Characters and voices from the film are included.iPhone / iPadNeedleDropNeedleDrop is a music discovery app for iPad that aims to emulate digging through vinyl crates looking for new releases, with daily updates showing music that's fresh.iPad
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNotebook vendors to push ultra-like notebook models &gt;&gt; DigitimesThe high prices of second-generation ultrabooks which are set to appear in early June of around US$1,000 are unlikely to help them win-over consumers; therefore, notebook vendors plan to launch ultra-like notebook models with lower prices along with the new ultrabooks to help boost sales, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.Acer is reportedly set to push 13- to 15-inch ultrabooks and Asustek plans to announce two ultrabook models featuring 11- and 13-inch IPS panels shortly."Lower-priced ultra-like" notebooks. Or as they're also known, cheap notebooks.RIM turnaround could take up to 5 years, Watsa says &gt;&gt; ReutersResearch in Motion Ltd may take four to five years to regain its stride after its recent stumbles, but the BlackBerry maker's stock is a good buy at current levels, value investor Prem Watsa said on Thursday."Is it going to turn around in three months, six months, nine months? No," said Watsa, chief executive of insurer Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. "But if you're looking four, five years ... We make investments over four or five years."Duly noted. (Thanks Graeme Dunn for the link.)Sensing the City: Mapping London's Population Flows &gt;&gt; Spatial AnalysisThe team at UCL again, with some fabulous visualisations.Open Standards consultation - important update &gt;&gt; Government Digital ServiceDr Hopkirk is a respected advocate for"openness and interoperability of systems, of people, processes and information technologies". He has in the past, for example, been an invited observer at events such asOpen Forum Europe.However, at the time he was engaged to facilitate the Open Standards roundtable, while we were aware that he represented theNational Computing Centreon theMicrosoft Interoperability Executive Customer Council(along with 40 other CIOs/CTOs across the public and private sector who participate in a voluntary capacity) he did not declare the fact that he was advising Microsoft directly on the Open Standards consultation.When this came to our attention we asked Dr Hopkirk for an explanation and he has told us that he has "not been paid to specifically write their response to the Open Standards consultation but he is engaged to help them tease out the issues".Ahem.Four million decimals of pi &gt;&gt; Two-nVisualisation of the first four million decimals of pi. If you need to generate a truly random landscape any time... (Thanks @mbrit for the link.)Five not-so-obvious reasons why Apple won't be Sony redux &gt;&gt; ZDNetAmong others (and similarly to those expressed in comments on Thursday by @iainl)):Apple isn't a silo-ed conglomerate. One reason Apple won't be Sony is because the organizational structure is completely different. Sony's business units break down like this: Content (movies and music), games, TVs, consumer electronics, smartphones and financial services. Sony's problems largely stem from a lack of coordination between its units. Apple is vertically integrated. Colony's argument would have more merit to me if Apple suddenly started developing movies.Or asteroid mining? Though at least that would be aiming to expand the potential customer base.Oracle fails in bid to reincarnate dead Java patent &gt;&gt; Wired.comFederal Judge William Alsup has rejected Oracle's attempt to reincarnate a dead Java patent in its attempt to prove that Google stole its intellectual property in building the Android mobile operating system."Oracle's argument that the patent 'trial' has not yet started is wrong," Alsup's ruling, filed late Wednesday,read(PDF). "Oracle will be required to stand by its word and live with the dismissal with prejudice."Tough on Oracle, tough on the causes of.. This does show how messed up the US patents system is: patents can circle around, being granted, killed off, then revived.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Police have arrested two men arrested and shut down 36 web domains used to sell compromised credit and debit card data, as part of an initiative by the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca), working with the FBI and US Department of Justice.The men, who were arrested earlier this week, were suspected of making large-scale purchases of data about cards from the sites, which specialised in selling stolen payment card and online bank account details.Soca says that they used e-commerce type platforms known as Automated Vending Carts (AVCs) which let criminals sell large quantities of stolen data quickly and easily.People trying to access these sites are now directed to a screen indicating that the web domain has been seized by law enforcement.Along with the arrests, the UK's Dedicated Cheque &amp; Plastic Crime Unit (DCPCU) seized a number of computers suspected of being used to facilitate  offences under the Fraud ActActing on information from Soca, an AVC operator based in Macedonia has been arrested by the Macedonian Ministry of Interior Cyber Crime Unit.Soca has been tracking the development of AVCs and monitoring their use by criminals who support payment card and online banking fraud on a global scale.Working with the FBI, the BKA in Germany, the KLPD in the Netherlands, the Ukraine Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Australian Federal Police and the Romanian National Police, Soca has recovered over 2.5m items of compromised personal and financial information over the past two years.The recovered data has been passed to UK and overseas financial institutions to help prevent potential fraud taking place against the accounts and mitigate the impact of large-scale data thefts.The potential international fraud prevented by the identification of this detail is estimated at being in excess of £500m.Charlie Abrahams, vice president of MarkMonitor, which provides brand protection services online, said: "This is excellent progress, although the challenge for law enforcement is that internet crime typically crosses so many jurisdictions – consumer in one country, website hosted in a second, perpetrator in a third, etc."Brand owners themselves have the core responsibility to educate and protect their customers from the risks that go along with the benefits of transacting online."Lee Miles, the head of cyber operations for Soca said: "This operation is an excellent example of the level of international cooperation being focused on tackling online fraud."Our activities have saved business, online retailers and financial institutions potential fraud losses estimated at more than half a billion pounds, and at the same time protected thousands of individuals from the distress caused by being a victim of fraud or identity crime."For several years, cyber criminals have been stealing large volumes of compromised financial information (bank account, credit and debit card details) and selling them in bulk to a growing market of online fraudsters.The past 18 months has seen criminals increasingly adopting e-commerce platforms to facilitate the sale of stolen data.The emergence of automated vending carts has enabled criminal groups to sell data in larger volumes and more quickly than they were previously able to do.
Friday at last! What are your gaming plans for the weekend?
VMWare, the virtualisation software company, has revealed that a hacker associated with LulzSec calling himself "Hardcore Charlie" has stolen at least one and possibly many more source files for its software – and has begun posting them online.But some have speculated that the theft may have come from ahacking attack in March on a Chinese import-export company, the China National Electronics Import-Export Corporation (CEIEC), based in Beijing, in which 1TB (1,000GB) of data was copied.In a conversation with Kaspersky Lab, the hacker claimed to have 300MB of VMWare source code.That would suggest that it was CEIEC which had the code originally. Documents leaked online show what look like internal VMWare letters and memos on a CEIEC letterhead and with stamps which appear official.At the time, Hardcore Charlie suggested he was seeking information on the US military campaign in Afghanistan.In anadvisory on its websiteVMWare confirmed that a file posted on Pastebin – a popular site with hackers who want an effectively anonymous outlet – had come from its ESX source code.In an IRC conversation with Hardcore Charlie, Kaspersky said that he claimed to have cracked cryptographic hashes on the credentials of hundreds of thousands of sina.com email accounts with the help of another hacker, who goes by the name of @Yamatough and who is thought to have been involved in the distribution of documents suggesting that the Indian government had put in monitoring systems for Nokia, RIM and Apple smartphones.The companies all denied the claim, and the documents were later shown to be faked.VMWare insisted that the code dated back to 2003-04, though it did not say whether that section of the code had been changed since then."We will continue to provide updates to the VMware community if and when additional information is available," said Iain Mulholland,  director of VMware's security response centre in a statement.VMWare provides software which makes it possible to run multiple operating systems or environments at once on the same computer.Hardcore Charlie is claimed by some to be a former member of LulzSec, the hacking crew that in 2011 perpetrated a number of hacks of websites, including Sony Pictures Europe and News International.Its known members included one called Sabu – later unmasked as Hector Monsegur, who turned out to have been working for the FBI as an informant since August last year.A hacker with access to the full source code of a product could sell it to rivals, or would-be competitors, or might be able to compile it into versions that are infected with their own malware which would, for example, pass back personal details from the user's machine.CEIEC is reckoned to have deep ties into the Chinese government and Ministry of Foreign Trade, and is a key contractor on a number of overseas projects.Mulholland said in the statement: "The fact that the source code may have been publicly shared does not necessarily mean that there is any increased risk to VMware customers."VMWare didn't indicate whether its own systems had been breached, and seemed to widen the number of potential targets to include commercial partners.VMWare, it said, shares its source code and interfaces with other industry participants "to enable the broad virtualisation ecosystem today".
News just in games giant Nintendo, creator of iconic consoles the Snes, Game Boy and N64, posted its first loss in 30 years.The figures are accounted for inthis article, which states the £330m loss is on the back of weak Wii sales and strong yen, along with disappointing launch of 3DS handheld. Kyoto-based Nintendo is optimisitc sales of the Wii consolewill pick up in the next financial year.So what's happened to Nintendo since the much-loved success of the Snes, Gameboy, N64 and the early days of the Wii? Our readers have been posting tributes to the consoles they knew and loved onTwitterandFacebook– and putting forward ideas for how the games company could pick things back up again.@guardianGame N Watch!#retro!#Nintendo&mdash; Weirdy Vee(@canon_alberic)April 26, 20121989 Snes (Super Ninetendo entertainment system) and Game Boy@guardiangameboy color, I'm 25 and still play on mine.#retro&mdash; Thom Baker (@Thom_Baker)April 26, 2012@guardianPokèmon on the GameBoy!&mdash; Travis Croft (@Travis_Croft)April 26, 2012@guardianGameboy colour!! First ever games console... I have the best memories from that one. :)&mdash; Becky Reyna (@BeckyReyna1)April 26, 2012@guardianmy heart belongs to the SNES, although i give much respect to beloved consoles who have come before and since.&mdash; noah tron (@noahtron)April 26, 2012@guardiandonkey kong country on snes! Loved it! 😍&mdash; Dafydd Burge (@dafyddplymouth)April 26, 2012@guardianGameCube was underrated, but you can't beat a snes. Always wanted one...&mdash; mrgray (@Super_Thumbs)April 26, 2012@guardianSNES forever &lt;3&mdash; Seema Patel (@Nemolala)April 26, 20121996 Nintendo 64@guardianN64! Hands down, greatest console ever. It will never be beaten, a true classic!&mdash; Matt Horner (@HattMorner)April 26, 2012Are smartphones wooing casual gamers?alas, the advent of smartphone games has taken away all the noobs RT @guardianNintendo posts first loss in 30 yearsbit.ly/IyYAoc&mdash; Annam Choudhry (@bobbyV_89)April 26, 2012@guardianMobile gaming passed them by&mdash; Greg Adkins (@fritopunk)April 26, 2012Gardenia F onFacebook:Simple, not making their games available for mobile gaming on smartphones.Gareth WSeems obvious where they have gone wrong... They make consoles for educational and family friendly games... The money in games at the moment is in death and carnage.... Brave attempt Nintendo, but if you can't beat them... Join them!Michael FUnfortunately Nintendo followed a relatively similar path to Polaroid. They had a unique niche in the gaming market with portable gaming, but based their entire company around retro cartridge-style game packs and when technology advanced, Nintendo decided to stay in the dark.João Z:the lack of new series that could do for gaming what the Super Mario Bros. or the Legend of Zelda series did before. Make no mistake, Mario and Zelda remain huge names in gaming and I'm always looking forward to the next deliveries, but Nintendo has been falling victim to re-releasing and milking some series way too much. The best examples that come to mind are Pokemon and Mario Party (for those who don't keep a close eye on videogames, "Mario Party" is a series of party-themed games featuring characters from the Mario world, it's not part of the Super Mario Bros. series).What were your favourite consoles and why? Where did Nintendo go wrong and how could they pick up sales? Leave your comments below.
So now we know,there will be four editions of Windows 8, all arriving (probably) by the end of this year. There are just two surprises: a small one and a larger one.The small surprise is that the main versions of Windows will come in just 2.5 varieties: Windows 8, Windows 8 Pro, and Windows 8 Enterprise. (Enterprise is Pro with a few extra management bits.)The second, larger surprise is that Microsoft's iPad competitor, the bet-the-farm, nothing-more-important-than-this, post-PC tablet proposition is called – wait for it – Windows RT.Huh? What's so wrong with Windows Metro? What was so wrong with WOA (Windows on ARM)? And how's that going to work in their marketing: "I'm a post-PC device and Windows RT was my idea?"Anyway, that's not important. What is important is that Intel may have just ruined the whole deal.iPad-cloneThe vision of what was, until this week, called Windows on ARM, or WOA was to produce something that looks and felt like an iPad, but with two distinguishing differences. It would come with Office – the only post-PC device to have it, and availability of Office on iPad is looking increasingly unlikely these days.It would also come with the Metro-shell, the widely-appreciated and respected user interface vision that Microsoft is imposing on itself internally and on partners.Go back a year or two and it's easy to understand what pushed Microsoft into building a version of Windows that would run on ARM. From the fact Windows RT exists, we can infer that on the one hand Apple's success with the iPad scared them rigid, and in short order.On the other hand, we can infer that they had no faith in Intel being able to make x86 deliver ARM-like power efficiency. Their engineers must have thought – back in 2010 – that Intel-based tablets were always going to be hot, noisy, and a bit rubbish. If they were relaxed about the iPad and confident about Intel, they would have simply waited out Intel's R&amp;D and delivered an iPad-clone that ran on x86.But here's the law of unintended consequences in action – what Intel are actually doing is goinggangbusters on trying to deliver that x86-based iPad-clone Microsoft didn't think was going to happen. Thatreallymuddies the water.It makes perfect sense for Microsoft to do that. Whilst Microsoft is terrified of a post-PC world ruled by Apple, Intel is terrified of a post-PC world ruled by ARM. If Intel were to make x86 work as well as ARM in scenarios where ARM currently rules, Intel's shareholders are happy bunnies.It was never clear to me how Microsoft was going to manage having two products called Windows that would behave very differently. The problem with WOA is that it doesn't run legacy apps, so it's entirely possible that our customer floating into PC World could buy a "Windows" machine that happened to be a tablet fully expecting it to run his copy of Microsoft Office 95, only to find himself unable to install it. But yet, had he bought this other machine labelled Windows it would have worked fine.The new Intel tablets are SoC units based on Atom – essentially, they are next-generation netbook-class devices wrapped in a tablet chassis. But, hilariously, these are not Windows RT tablets. They are Windows 8 tablets. So on the counter in PC World you're going to have one tablet labelled Windows 8 that will run all your legacy applications, and one labelled Windows RT that won't.And then?According to Mary Jo Foley in her article above these new "Clover Trail" tablets will have a nine-hour battery life, weigh less than 700g and be under 9mm in thickness. For comparison, a "new iPad" is about 9mm in thickness, weighs 622g and has a nine-hour or 10-hour battery life. So they're the same sort of deal.There will be a slight price difference though. Apple doesn't have to pay for an operating system license, whereas Microsoft's OEM partners do. Windows 8 will go to OEMs at a higher price than Windows RT.Although pricing information on Windows RT is privileged, it would be logical to expect this to be priced about the same as a Windows Phone OEM license. In December, I felt this to bearound $15 for the Windows Phone license, $56 for the Windows license. That's about a £25 difference.Something about these Clover Trail devices then starts to make serious sense. A basic new iPad will run you £400. If you were to say to someone that for just £25 more you can runallWindows software on a device that behaves like an iPad? That's a big sell.A much smaller sell is saying to someone that for £400 you can have something like an iPad that's not an iPad, but with less apps. And that's also not an iPad – which I realise I just mentioned, but it's a point so important it's worth mentioning twice. Everyone in this space could really do with the iPad being ever-so much more important.Oh, but one thing, Windows RT comes with Office (albeit without Outlook). Windows 8 doesn't. So if you do spend £425 on a Windows 8 Clover Trail-class tablet, you're going to need to shell out on Office, unless you've got a copy of Office 95 or better lying around, in which case you're golden.So what's wrong with that?Logically then, if their Clover Trail-class tablets work as advertised, Intel just killed off Windows RT tablets. Why would you not spend an extra 25 bones to run all your Windows apps?What's wrong with that is the Windows 8 and Clover Trail and x86 are all "PC" devices, and we're in a post-PC world now. Microsoft's intention was to create a post-PC device.The fact you can run the legacy Windows desktop at all on Windows RT is an accident. Microsoft needed to run Office on it, so their engineers kept the legacy desktop support in there to de-risk the development of the Windows RT-optimised version of Office.Why do you think you can't run any other apps in legacy mode? The intention of neutering legacy mode in that way is designed to pin Windows RT in a post-PC world rather than have it get dragged back into a PC world. (No pun.)In this article James Kendrick nails it by saying that thelure of the tablet is that there's no intimidation. That's why iPad sells so well. Post-PC devices are easy, straightforward, operable by anyone, and rarely go wrong.PCs aren't like that. And a Clover Trail-class Windows 8 tablet is a PC. Ergo, there will be intimidation, ergo people won't buy them, ergo Apple will sell bazillions of iPads and, perhaps, thewindow of opportunity for Android will open again.Case in point – a family friend recently bought an iPad and she asked me if she needed anti-virus for it. On an iPad, of course not. But on a full-on Windows machine, yes she would.If these Clover Trail-class devices work as advertised they'll steal all of Windows RT's oxygen and kill it stone dead. And Windows will never move into a post-PC world. Something else will end up being the Pepsi to iPad's Coke.
Both of my wife's parents are very deaf, and it's almost impossible to have a telephone conversation. It would be great if they could speak and my wife could type out her side of the chat. Neither of my in-laws has any interest in computers. Is there an e-reader or very inexpensive tablet that could run a chat program that two technophobes would find easy to use?Mike CThis is hard to do over a landline, which provides a point-to-point voice connection. However, it is a common problem, and there is a supported solution calledText Relay(formerly Typetalk). This enables someone with a voice phone to talk to a deaf user with a "text phone" (sometimes called a Minicom) by using a human operator to provide a text-to-speech and speech-to-text translation service.Text Relay is a free service, so you only have to pay your telecoms provider for the call in the usual way.Action on Hearing Loss, which used to be the RNID (Royal National Institute for Deaf People), sells a number oftext phones. Prices range from about £250 to £360, including VAT. Many of these are also available from other suppliers, such asConnevans.TheGeemarc T374 screenphone(£251.94) looks a good bet for Text Relay over an analogue telephone line. The product blurb says: "[It's] ideal for people who want to voice their call but can no longer hear the response and find textphones too complicated." It works like a normal phone but offers increased amplification (a maximum volume of 112dB, which is loud) and "one touch text and voice switching". You can download data sheets and a user guide fromGeemarc.Action on Hearing Loss has a free helpline on 0808 808 0123 or emailinformationline@hearingloss.org.uk. You should give them a call.More things become possible if you have mobile phones at each end, because you can send and receive SMS messages, and switch from a voice-only to an internet connection. Unfortunately, I couldn't find any useful smartphone apps, or any deaf people who were using them. You can, I think, use Skype for Android for video chats over a GSM mobile phone connection, but the image fills the phone screen, and there doesn't seem to be a way to use Skype instant messaging at the same time. (If there is, please tell us in comments. I'm not a Skype user.) Smartphones are also comparatively poor at multitasking.Smartphones have offered speech recognition for the best part of a decade, and you can download applications such as Nuance'sDragonrange, which is the technology used by the Apple iPhone assistant, Siri. However, speech recognition apps are used mainly for doing things like searching and sending text messages. I can't see anything that will translate an incoming voice call to text, though that would probably solve your problem.The most interesting app I found wasDeaftel, "coming soon" for the iPhone. The website says: "We use technology that converts a hearing person's voice into text during a phone call. Deaf Tel users can read and respond to the text message with their keyboard. We then convert the Deaf Tel user's message into speech and play that for the hearing person." In other words, it works like Text Relay but cuts out the human operator.It seems that technically aware deaf people have embraced PCs with internet connections, and this gives them a vast array of options. They are using Skype and Skype-based applications, instant messaging systems such as Windows Messenger, Facebook chat, and websites such asMyFriend. This offers a fantastic array of options for deaf people, including video, audio and real-time text calls (ie you can see what people are typing), Text Relay, Talk by Text, and BSL interpreter relay. (Video is important because it allows for sign language and lip-reading.)MyFriend allows video, voice and text simultaneously in real time, so it may be your best solution. You can download a copy of the free MyFriend software to run on a Windows XP, Vista or Windows 7 PC (Mac OS X is not supported), and then install the Android version on a device to pass on to your wife's parents. The list of suggested hardware is: Samsung Galaxy S and S2, Samsung Galaxy Tab, HTC Evo 4G, HTC Desire and Desire S.It won't cost you anything to download MyFriend and check it out, so I suggest you do that. However, before you buy an Android device, it may be worth contactingsupport@myfriendcentral.com(at theUniversity of Bristol Centre for Deaf Studies) for further advice.MyFriend will work best on a fast broadband connection but apparently it will run over a 3G phone connection. A 2G connection is said to support text but not video. Your wife's parents will probably need a good 3G mobile connection, and UK coverage is patchy, so you will need to check this.Getting the in-laws to install broadband would obviously be an expensive proposition, especially if they are not going to use it to share photos on Facebook, play Flash games, and watch cat videos on YouTube. However, if you have any way of checking the locality, they might live within range of some sort of public Wi-Fi service.Most people are familiar with The Cloud and similar services, which are often available in coffee bars and so on. However, some of your in-laws' neighbours may be offering Openzone hotspots via a BT Broadband hub (there are more than 3.5m in the UK), or may be prepared to share their full-speed Wi-Fi.There are more than 40 million deaf people in Europe, which is why the European Commission is supporting projects such as Reach 112, on which MyFriend is based. Sadly, few companies appear to be interested in catering to their needs, but maybe they just don't know enough about them. The deaf and deaf-blind need advanced technologies even more than the rest of us.
An internal presentation given in 2010 by Google's Android boss Andy Rubin has provided some fascinating details on the company's expectations for its smartphone and tablet OS.The "quarterly review" deck has emerged as part of Google's patent and copyright infringement trial against Oracle,published in fullon technology site The Verge.While Google tends to stick to device activations and total app downloads when providing public updates on the growth of Android, the presentation shows its hopes for revenues back in 2010, and where the company expected them to come from.In July 2010, 20m Android devices had been sold, and 160k more were being activated every day. Rubin's presentation outlines highlights for Android as being device sales, searches – 2.65 a day for active devices – and advertising, with an annual ads revenue run-rate of $120m.Lowlights included Android being "behind on music, video, books", as well as a "low rate of app purchases" in its Android Market app store, which Rubin contrasted with the company's key rival: "Apple momentum continues with strong launches (iPad, iOS, iPhone 4) + iBooks".It's the predictions of future device sales and Android-related revenues that make the slide deck an intriguing read, however. It reveals that Android had generated $16.8m of revenues for Google in 2009, with $15.7m of that coming from advertising, and $1.1m from app sales.The company was forecasting $278.1m of revenues in 2010, with $158.9m from ads, $3.8m from app sales and $115.4m from "DTC" – sales of Android handsets direct to consumers.In the face of opposition from mobile operators, it seems Google had already realised this was a commercial dead-end: the predictions for 2011, 2012 and 2013 don't include any DTC revenues.Instead, Google was aiming for $507.3m of revenues in 2011 ($492.8m from ads and $14.5m from apps); $840.2m in 2012 ($804.3m from ads and $35.9m from apps); and $1.33bn in 2013 ($1.27bn from ads and $64.8m from apps). That last figure was based on predicted Android app sales of $1.3bn.Google's predictions for Android revenues. Source: The VergeAdvertising focusThe predictions are instructive: in 2010, Google expected 95% of its 2013 Android revenues to come from ads rather than app sales.Developers and publishers who criticise the company for its lack of efforts to boost paid app sales on Android Market (and now Google Play) may see the predictions as ample explanation why.A separate slide predicts Android's install base on both smartphones and tablets. Google predicted that Android would grow from an install base of 40m smartphones in 2010 to 220m by 2013, with 170m handsets sold in the latter year, by which point Google was aiming for a 25% market share.Meanwhile, Google was hoping 0.5m Android tablets would be sold in 2010, leading to an install base of 35m by 2013, with 15m tablets sold that year, and a market share of 22%.We have data to see how those predictions compare to what actually happened. By February 2012, Google had activated more than 300m Android devices, including 12m tablets,according to Rubin.The slide deck from July 2010 predicted 190m Android smartphone sales by the end of 2012, so the platform is way ahead on that score.Its prediction of 20.5m Android tablets by the end of 2012 isn't looking in too bad a shape either, if Google's manufacturing partners shift 8m in the final nine months of this year. Bear in mind the rumours about a Google-branded Nexus tablet launching in the summer.And market share? In November 2011, Gartnerestimatedthat Android had a 52.5% share of the global smartphone market, ahead of Symbian (16.9%), iOS (15%) and BlackBerry (11%).Meanwhile, IDCestimatedin March 2012 that Android's tablet market share in the fourth quarter of 2011 was 44.6% in terms of devices shipped, behind iPad's 54.7%. Note, this includes forked Android devices like the Kindle Fire and Nook, which Google doesn't count in its own activation stats.By April 2012, more than 850k non-forked Android devices were being activated every day, according to Google. That compares to around 555k iOS devices (based on Apple's claim in its last financial results that it sold more than 50m iOS devices in the first quarter of 2012).Google's predictions for Android smartphone and tablet sales. Source: The VergeShifting sandsThe key thing to remember, though, is that the mobile and tablet market has shifted rapidly between July 2010, when Rubin gave his quarterly update, and the spring of 2012.Apple's iPad only went on sale in April 2010, and its success has led analysts to continually revise their forecasts for the tablet market ever since. Meanwhile, the pace of Symbian's decline and the travails of BlackBerry were not yet clear, while Microsoft had announced Windows Phone, but smartphones running it hadn't yet shipped.Things have changed for Google, too. Its predictions for app sales were likely made based on paid downloads, yet since then in-app purchases have become a key source of revenues on Android and iOS alike – The Guardian's recentanalysis of the top grossing apps on Androidshows how much.Another slide in Rubin's 2010 presentation focuses on music, predicting that launching a music locker and download store in 2010 would yield Google $46m and $78m respectively of gross revenues, rising to $534m and $906m in 2013.This was the "base case", incidentally. An "aggressive case" suggested music locker revenues could top $85m and download revenues $117m in 2010, rising to $991m and $1.4bn in 2013 – with Google taking a 30% cut of download sales and 50% of locker revenues after costs.Protracted negotiations with music rightsholders are likely to have made a mockery of these predictions though. The Google Music locker didn't launch until May 2011, and rather than users paying $2.99 a month for it as suggested by the presentation, it was free.The download store then launched in November 2011. Google has not provided public statistics for users, downloads or revenues for either since.Exceeding expectationsIn summary, though: Android has exceeded Google's expectations in terms of smartphone sales, but even the much-maligned Android tablet sales aren't a million miles away from the company's forecasts – even if they came at a time when the media tablet market was decidedly nascent.And revenues? In October 2011, Google chief executive Larry Pagesaidthe company's revenue run-rate in mobile was $2.5bn, although that's all mobile devices, not just Android. Rubin's slides reveal that iOS was generating a run-rate of $281m in 2010 versus $120m for Android, but there's no way of telling how that ratio has changed since.From an apps standpoint, though, it's useful to end with another comparison to Apple. If the key to Android being a cash-cow to Google is advertising revenues, for Apple it's in device sales.Apple generated revenues of $1.9bn from its iTunes Store in the first quarter of 2012 – that's app sales, but also music, video and e-books. By contrast, the company generated $22.7bn from sales of iPhone hardware, and $6.6bn from iPad hardware.If success on these rival ecosystems depends on playing to the bigger priorities of the platform owner, it's unsurprising that freemium models (albeit driven by IAP as much as ads) are dominating on Android, while investing heavily in creating apps that show off its devices appears to be the way to Apple's heart on iOS.Google sells ads, and Apple sells devices. That, in a nutshell, is why the battle between the two companies in the smartphone and tablet space is so fascinating.
"Why do you still play video games?"Shigeru Miyamoto is tired. Jetlag is partly to blame – the 11-hour flight from his hometown Kyoto to Paris, combined with a day's worth of interviews with journalists eager to pull headlines from his lips, accentuating the bags under his eyes. But it's more than that.This November, Super Mario's father turns 60. Having spent over half of his life working at Nintendo (his first and only job) on more than 100 games, a little vocational weariness is inevitable.But it's more than that. The pause before he answers is borne from somewhere deeper than the fug of travel exhaustion or the fatigued plod toward retirement. While his face remains composed, there's an internal scrabbling for an acceptable answer to the question.Eventually, a sharp intake of breath and a smile. "I still play video games because I still make video games, of course," he says, before adding: "Just playing the stuff I make myself keeps me very busy."He looks down.Miyamoto may not have fathered the video game medium, but perhaps more than anyone else, he has been responsible for raising it.From his first unexpected success with Donkey Kong, a game designed to shift 2000 Radardscope arcade cabinets sitting unsold in Nintendo warehouses in 1981, through the creation of multiple multi-million selling series based around characters of his own design, Miyamoto has stayed abreast of every generational leap in technology in a way not one of his contemporaries has managed.The iconography of MarioFor more than 20 years his most famous work, Super Mario Bros. remained the best-selling video game, selling more than 40m copies worldwide and popularising a character who, by the 1990s, had become more recognisable among American schoolchildren than Mickey Mouse.Mario's iconography came to define the medium in popular culture: the red splash of his plumber's costume; the unfashionable cap and moustache; Koji Kondo's irrepressibly joyful theme tune; the squat, shifty-eyed Goombas; and the spike-backed kidnapper, Bowser. There was a  rude surplus of ideas behind the pixels which, combined, continue to represent video-gameness to so much of the world.Beyond the recurring play myths he originated – Donkey Kong, Zelda, Mario – Miyamoto was the first to master not only the technological transition from 2D to 3D graphics with his seminal titles Super Mario 64 and The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, but also the accompanying creative transition in game systems and mechanics this dimensional expansion brought with it.Then, in more recent years, his hand on Nintendo's visionary tiller brought motion control to the masses by way of Wii Sports and Wii Fit, titles that broadened both the definition of games as well as the audience that consumes them.Miyamoto was honoured as the first inductee in to the Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences Hall of Fame in 1998 and is the only video game designer to have been knighted into France's Order of Arts and Letters. If the esteem in which he is still held in was in any doubt, just four years ago he placed first in the Time Magazine reader choice of the world's 100 most influential people.As such, to hear this visionary say that he only plays video games because he makes them is jarring. Surely his love for the medium he has spent a lifetime working to shape and define is more than just a job? Surely."Could it be that you might not play games if you didn't create them," I venture.Again, the long pause; a quiet search for an answer already sat on his tongue:"It could be that … I might not be playing games."Could it be that Shigeru Miyamoto is tired with video games?More spokesman than creative genius?"The thing with Shigeru Miyamoto is that you think you're meeting Walt Disney when, in reality, you're meeting Mickey Mouse."I had shrugged off my journalist friend's sharp warning that Mario's maker can be something of corporate mouthpiece in interviews these days. But now, sat opposite him in the plushest hotel room in Paris that yen can buy, this diminutive designer, producer and director appears more spokesman than creative genius.It's partly understandable. He's here to promote Nintendo's latest project, an interactive guidebook on 3DS for visitors to the Louvre museum – an app, if you will, not a game.Instead of a Walkman or iPod with spoken notes delivered as you strain to see the Mona Lisa, now visitors can rent Nintendo's latest handheld, offering 700 commentaries about the artworks and a real-time map to show your position in the museum.It's a gimmicky idea but a well-executed one, designed to show off some of the 3DS's lesser-known features to the general public and, no doubt, help drive sales for a handheld whose sales have been generally underwhelming.But my interest lies in Miyamoto's game work, not his promotional role in quirky tour guides. This doesn't stop him from working the Louvre guide into every other answer, with quietly cheeky stubbornness.Miyamoto's dedication to remain unflinchingly on-message reflects his unusual position in the company. Fusajiro Yamauchi may have established the Marufuku Company in 1889, the company that would shortly thereafter become the Nintendo Playing Card Company, but without Miyamoto the Nintendo of today would not exist.It's from his creative heart that Nintendo's brand, mascots and most valuable game series have sprouted. Miyamoto is inseparable from contemporary Nintendo and Nintendo is inseparable from contemporary Miyamoto.And whenever a creative becomes synonymous with a corporation, there's a danger that creative pursuit slips into corporate concern, especially when business falls upon tough times. Indeed, it's easy to forget that Miyamoto's current job title is "general manager", a role that belies his expertise, inferring generalist, unspecified supervision.A day in the lifeSo just how much input does the one-time artist and designer have in Nintendo's creative output? What does a day in the life of Miyamoto look like in 2012?"My days all follow much the same pattern," he says. "They are structured and typical. Roughly half of my time I spend checking new games that Nintendo's directors are working on."I sit at my desk, play their games and create checklists of comments and amends that I then send out to the directors. Then, the rest of my time is spent attending various meetings, talking about management decisions for the general business direction of Nintendo."This split of Miyamoto's time clearly reflects the split in his professional responsibility: half to the company's creative output and half to the company's corporate future. I wonder if he misses spending the majority of his time creating?"Not at all; the decreased workload allows me to do new projects like the audio guide," he replies, with typical Japanese diplomacy. "But I am still very close to the game development. Although I am not a director myself I do check all of our games and discuss them over email. I visit Nintendo's Tokyo EAD team every few weeks too, so I don't really feel detached from the game side of the business."Miyamoto's schedule may still be demanding, including a significant amount of foreign travel to promote Nintendo games as well as his monthly trips to Tokyo, but there is a sense that, as he approaches 60, he is winding down, stepping aside to allow others to carry the creative flame.The most recent Super Mario and Zelda titles have credited him as "general producer" with direction and design duties falling to others, most notably Koichi Hayashida, director of Super Mario Galaxy 2 and, more recently, Super Mario 3D Land.I ask him how he has been working to ensure that there are artists and designers to take his place when he retires, a question that is greeted with a gently frantic response."There have been numerous media reports that I am about to retire and I very much want to emphasise that this is not the case." This eagerness to dismiss his (inevitable) retirement plans is understandable.When a video game blog recently claimed he was looking to retire soon, Nintendo's stock price fell the same day – a further indication of just how closely Nintendo's fortunes are perceived to be dependent on his involvement."I believe that if I remain in the same position as a leader of the development teams within Nintendo, then the entire structure will grow or revolve around me," Miyamoto says. "I've certainly seen there are other people within EAD that have the potential to be leaders."I wanted to give these people a chance to lead their respective teams. When I said in the press that I would step back a little I was just saying I want to support the company from the side, rather than being front and centre all of the time."'We don't usually hire game designers'Despite this eagerness to push others to the fore, Nintendo's recent unwillingness to stray far from characters and series first developed by Miyamoto is worrying.Without risk-taking at a managerial level, surely there's little creative soil from which the next Miyamoto may emerge and flourish.Nintendo EAD has always had the air of myth about it, a Chocolate Factory for games – the handful of journalists who have visited the Kyoto or Tokyo premises rarely see anything more than the lobby and a meeting room separate from the machinery of game development – with Miyamoto a subdued Willy Wonka.With this in mind, I ask him how he spots new talent when hiring."We don't usually hire game designers," he says. "We almost exclusively hire artists or programmers; people who have learnt a technique and have a basis that we start with. Recently we have hired a few game designers, but generally they have already had careers in other companies and then joined us. But we hire a lot of people out of university. They bring basic knowledge and we start from there."A love of discovery and adventureThis was certainly Miyamoto's own route into the industry. Born and raised in the 1950s in the rural town of Sonebe, near Japan's ancient capital, Kyoto, Miyamoto was a short, unassuming boy.With no television in the family home he relied on the natural world outside for excitement, spending countless hours exploring the woods, caves and riverbanks near his house.It was here he fostered the love of discovery and these childhood adventures inspired his games, a local chained-up barking dog making an appearance as the Chain Chomp enemy in Super Mario Brothers 3 and his beloved caves appearing throughout the Zelda series, myths that appear to grow in the retelling.Graduating with a degree in industrial design in the mid-1970s, Miyamoto's father asked an old friend – Hiroshi Yamauchi, president of the toymaker Nintendo –whether he had any jobs available for his son.Miyamoto's first task at the company was to design art for the outside panels of some arcade cabinets Nintendo was working on: Radarscope and Sheriff. Two years later Yamauchi called Miyamoto into his office and asked him if he'd like to design an arcade game.Miyamoto jumped at the chance, drawing the game's characters on square paper, each block representing a single pixel on the screen, calling the resulting game Donkey Kong: "Donkey", as a synonym for "stubborn" and "Kong" for gorilla.Is there a difference between the kind of designer that started in art, like Miyamoto (who is ambidextrous – both Mario and Link were designed with his left-hand), to one who started in programming, I wonder?"I don't think there is a big difference," he says. "Obviously people from artist or programmer backgrounds have to work together soon enough. So I think there are two key characteristics: a positive attitude towards new things, and someone who doesn't easily give up in the face of problems or criticism. That's what I look for in a new hire."•In Part 2, Simon talks to Miyamoto about the troubled launch for the Nintendo 3DS and the future of the handheld market
Resident Evil creator Shinki Mikami has announced his latest project. Zwei (a 'codename' apparently, so expect a new title before release) will be a survival horror adventure, which would seem to be harking back to the original spirit of Capcom's classic zombie series."A true 'survival horror' game is one in which the player confronts and overcomes fear," said Mikami, who departed the Resident Evil team after the fourth title, and now heads up his own studio, Tango Gameworks. "I've found my focus and once again I'm striving for pure survival horror. I am being very hands-on in the development of this game to ensure that the quality is there. Rest assured."Mikami's last project was the highly regarded third-person shooter Vanquish for Platinum Games. He hasn't worked on an all-out horror game since his transfer to the much-hyped Clover Studio in 2004.Publisher Bethesda is not saying anything about the game just yet, but has released a collage of environment images, depicting a darkened dockyard and silhouetted boats. It's likely we'll find out much more – or at least what platforms it's coming to, at E3.
A selection of 16 new and notable apps for you today:Python Bytes – Monty Python Series 1And now for something completely... Well, yes. This app offers 22 of the best sketches from the first series of Monty Python's Flying Circus, as well as commentaries. Shaking the iPhone brings up another sketch at random, although they can be chosen individually too. There's also a fun "App Signing" feature – Pythons Michael Palin, Terry Jones and Terry Gilliam will beappearingat Apple's Regent Street store in London on 3 May to scribble their signatures on the screens of fans with the app.iPhoneJames May's Science StoriesLondon's Science Museum has a new augmented reality app starring Top Gear co-host James May. Point an Android or iOS device at specific exhibits, and a virtual May pops up to explain them – although the AR markers can be printed out for use at home too.Android / iPhone / iPadKlout for iPhoneThere's nothing worse than a Klout bore, chuntering on about their social influence score while pleading for +K to boost it. Now there's an app for that, on iPhone. It cleverly displays the user's Klout score as a notification icon on the iPhone homescreen, while providing other alerts about changes.iPhonePrincess Poppy Picture BooksMore than 2m of the Princess Poppy books have been sold in print, but now Random House and Robot Media have teamed up to turn them into an app. It includes animation, colouring and sticking, and voice narration from actress Tamzin Outhwaite. One picture-book is included, with two more available via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadScalado AlbumAndroid has a new photography app in the shape of Scalado Album, which is a beefed-up photo gallery showing pictures stored on the device, and sorting them by location, date and folder.AndroidZombieSmashZynga has ported its iOS action game ZombieSmash to Android, blending tower defence gameplay with "a herd of writhing, unrelenting zombies", with specials and upgrades to help dispatch them.AndroidThe Math Mage HDThis looks fun: an adventure game for the new iPad (andonlyfor it) that involves battling monsters with The Power Of Maths. Six levels provide more than 200 equations for children to solve.iPadEyeEmNo Instagram for Windows Phone just yet, but EyeEm is hoping to capitalise with its photo-sharing app, providing filters and the ability to share to Facebook, Twitter, Foursquare, Flickr and Tumblr.Windows PhoneSnipSnapI think this may be a US thing for now, but SnipSnap is a very interesting idea. It involves snapping photos of printed coupons – vouchers, ads in magazines and newspapers, and so on – and turning them into a "mobile-optimised offer" to be redeemed by showing your iPhone in a store.iPhoneMarvel Vs. Capcom 2Beat 'em up Marvel Vs. Capcom returns to iOS, pitting characters from Marvel's comic universe and Capcom's back catalogue against one another. 56 characters feature, along with a Bluetooth local multiplayer mode.iPhone / iPadMy StarBritish developer Mobile Pie has brought its music-themed social game My Star from iOS to Android, as you customise a virtual pop star, record songs and share the fun with friends.AndroidDreamtopiaMobage has a new social freemium game for iOS, ported from Android. It's like a FarmVille populated by people with dreams – of becoming astronauts, ninjas and other ambitions. Your job is to help them.iPhone / iPadFive Little Monkeys Collection #1Oceanhouse Media's latest book-app bundles five simian-themed stories for children, including Five Little Monkeys Jumping on the Bed. They also bake cakes, wash cars, sit in trees and scrub houses, it seems.iPhone / iPadCity of FriendsBased on a TV show of the same name, this app for 2-6 year-olds is based on emergency services, introducing kids to the role of the police, fire and ambulance services through colourful characters and mini-games.Android / iPhone / iPadArt Doodle LiveThis looks fun: an app for doodling over classical and contemporary artworks, developed by Togeva in partnership with the Bridgeman Art Library. Several users can paint at once, and share the results with friends.iPadRun in New York - The Marathon ExperiencePlanning to run the New York marathon? There's a slick new iPad app for that, providing an interactive map, photos and videos, and text about the experience of entering the event, to serve as inspiration.iPad
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle documents show hopes for big gains in non-search revenue &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukIn case you haven't seen it:Other documents entered as evidence come from an internal July 2010 presentation given by Rubin. They reveal that the company got advertising revenue of just $16.8m from Android handsets in 2009, but by mid-year of 2010 that had grown to $132.1m from ads on the fast-growing handset market - though Apple devices such as the iPhone and iPad using Google's search and maps generated $281m, or more than twice as much in total.Useful ammunition for anyone renegotiating a deal with Google; these detailed internal figures are less than two years old. Apple's success for Google is two-edged: Google has to pay a substantial sum back in revenue share, making iOS devices less valuable to the bottom line than Android handsets.Mac botnet still very big &gt;&gt; Dr WebDoctor Web's virus analysts continue to monitor the largest to date Mac botnet discovered by Doctor Web on April 4, 2012. The botnet statistics acquired by Doctor Web contradicts recently published reports indicating a decrease in the number of Macs infected by BackDoor.Flashback.39 The number is still around 650,000.Hard to know how to verify who's right. Dr Web first spotted the Java variant of the Flashback malware.Divvy · Fast and intuitive exploratory data analysis &gt;&gt; University of CaliforniaDivvy is a tool for exploratory data analysis with unsupervised machine learning. Use Divvy to better understand your scientific and business data.A Mac app, but source is available so it should be feasible to port it.SkyDrive APIs - Bring your data to any app, any platform, any device &gt;&gt; Microsoft MSDN blogsGiven our recent announcements, we wanted to reiterate how developers can integrate SkyDrive into their apps and devices, showcase a few of our favorite integrations and let people know about a few developer events we are sponsoring in Amsterdam, NYC and Las Vegas.If you want breadth, it's all about the APIs, and Skydrive is getting there with these.Apple Q1 US smartphone market share 59%, v 36% year earlier &gt;&gt; ForbesBased on the Q1 financial reports from Sprint, Verizon and AT&amp;T, Raymond James analyst Tavis McCourt estimates that Apple had 59% of the U.S. smartphone market from the country's top three carriers in the quarter. That was up from 36% a year ago, although down a bit from 63% in the December quarter, a period in which Apple launched the iPhone 4S.McCourt writes that non-iPhone smartphone sell-through appeared to drop 38% year-over-year, while iPhone sell-through grew 55%.Very surprising. The graph suggests a leap in iPhone use that tallies with numbers that have come out recently, but still feels unexpected.Government launches Digital Advisory Board &gt;&gt; Computer WeeklyThe government has created a Digital Advisory Board (DAB) of industry IT heads and academics to support its digital by default agenda.The board will be chaired by UK digital champion Martha Lane Fox and will meet twice a year to advise the Cabinet Office's Government Digital Service (GDS) on the accessibility of online services, as they are rolled out across Whitehall departments.Exclusive: Bebo founders, shareholders sue owner for 'destroying' site -- paidContentThe business relationships have gone spectacularly sour. In their filing, the four plaintiffs complain Criterion's Levin "has not dedicated sufficient time and energy to the operation" and "would almost never show up at Bebo's office".And they say "gross mismanagement" was to blame for Bebo going offline for two days this January - an outage which caused even Michael Birch, at the time, to suppose the site had disappeared for good.Criterion has not arrested Bebo's traffic decline, but has previously claimed to have made Bebo profitable by cutting costs and bringing in engineering talent to refresh the technology under Xbox co-creator Kevin Bachus as chief product officer.Digital Public Space: Data Guides &gt;&gt; BBC Internet BlogMo McRoberts:Last year, my colleagues in BBC Archive Development and I wrotesomeblogpostsabout theDigital Public Space project, which uses Semantic Web technology as a way to help unlock the value in the archives of the BBC and other publicly-funded institutions.Since those posts, our efforts have been focussed upon delivering the technology platform for a joint project with Arts Council England called"The Space"which will be available between May and October this year.However, we haven't lost sight of the vision for the Digital Public Space project, and I wanted to share with you a piece of work which has come from that.Everything's coming up linked data.How Google Search works, in a nutshell &gt;&gt; Hubspot.comGood primer on how things have changed. Note that you never get primers like this about Bing or similar. Why not? Is Microsoft missing a trick?Apple = Sony &gt;&gt; Forrester BlogsGeorge Colony:Without knowing them personally, I would look to Apple executives Jon Ive or Scott Forstall to be CEO. From on far they appear to have some of the charisma and outspoken design sense to legitimately lead the company.When Steve Jobs departed, he took three things with him: 1) singular charismatic leadership that bound the company together and elicited extraordinary performance from its people; 2) the ability to take big risks, and 3) an unparalleled ability to envision and design products.  Apple's momentum will carry it for 24-48 months. But without the arrival of a new charismatic leader it will move from being a great company to being a good company, with a commensurate step down in revenue growth and product innovation.There isn't the faintest chance that Ive will lead Apple; it's doubtful he even has that ambition. Forstall, however, has both the ambition, the ruthlessness and the vision (he was one of the two people who persuaded Jobs to let apps onto the iPhone. The other was Phil Schiller - another CEO candidate). The problem is, for that to happen, Cook would have to leave. Why or when would he do that?Google Drive versus Dropbox and the rest: cloud storage compared &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukThe picture that emerges from the comments is that people who already had a cloud service are sticking with Dropbox. Of course comments on such articles are self-selecting - people who care will comment. Will Google publicise GDrive numbers as it does Google+? More to the point, will it mean anything?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's Thursday. How is the whole gaming thing working out for you so far this week? I'm being driven slowly mad by Trials Evolution.
Google projected back in October 2010 it would get more than 35% of its 2013 revenue from outside its search operation, anticipating that three non-search businesses – including e-commerce – would generate more than $5bn (£3bn) each, according to internal company documents filed in court.Display advertising would generate $8bn in revenue in 2013, e-commerce would bring in $5bn, while YouTube and Google TV would combine for $5bn, according to documents revealed during the high-stakes trial of Oracle against Google over smartphone technology.Search, meanwhile, had been pegged to generate $34bn, the 2010 projections say, giving a forecast total revenue of $52bn for 2013.Those may turn out not to be far off. Official revenue figures suggest that Google is on track to generate more than $40bn in total revenues this year, having reported first-quarter revenues of $10.6bn earlier in April, up 24% on the same period in 2011.Company staffers compiled the documents in October 2010 for a Google board presentation, according to testimony in a US district court in San Francisco on Wednesday.Oracle lawyer David Boies briefly referred to the October 2010 documents on Wednesday while questioning Android mobile software chief Andy Rubin, but Boies did not delve into the projections. However, a full copy of the internal documents has been formally admitted into evidence in the case.The 2010 documents show that Google's search business generated $19.2bn in 2009, while the display business brought in $3.2bn that year. YouTube made $300m, while e-commerce brought in no revenue.Enterprise software was projected to generate $2bn in revenue in 2013. Overlaying all of the business units are Google's Android and Chrome platforms, the documents said."Android and Chrome platforms critical assets for their success," the documents say.Other documents entered as evidence come from an internal July 2010 presentation given by Rubin. They reveal that the company got advertising revenue of just $16.8m from Android handsets in 2009, but by mid-year of 2010 that had grown to $132.1m from ads on the fast-growing handset market – though Apple devices such as the iPhone and iPad using Google's search and maps generated $281m, or more than twice as much in total.Average ad revenues from Android handsets were higher, at $9, than from Apple devices, at $6.70, because Google has to pay a share of the revenues back to Apple.The detailed breakdown of figures from Rubin's presentation show that after the costs of sales, marketing, engineering, product management and legal expenses were taken into account, the overall Android division was not expected to become profitable until 2011, by which time it was forecast to generate nearly $500m in adverts.However, sales of Android handsets have grown far more quickly than Rubin was forecasting at the time, suggesting that Google's Android revenues are far ahead of those figures. Google has told the media that the figures don't reflect the company's current thinking about its business operations.The two sets of documents provide a rare glimpse into Google's mindset in 2010, as the company does not break down the percentage of its revenue that comes from search advertising versus its other businesses in official filings.Google had fought in pre-trial hearings to exclude such commercially sensitive data from the public trial, but was overruled by the judge.Estimating the ratio is complicated because of the limited information Google discloses about its various businesses. Analysts' estimates for Google's non-search business currently range from 10% of the company's revenue to as much as 25%."Their core business has done better than they were forecasting. Search is growing faster than 10% a year," said Colin Sebastian, an analyst at RW Baird. However, Google still has work to do in areas like commerce, he said, adding that Google's mobile wallet product has not made as much progress as it hoped."This document suggests those businesses may not be meeting Google's initial expectations," Sebastian said.Google spokesman Jim Prosser said: "Our industry continues to evolve incredibly fast and so do our aspirations for our various products and services."The Rubin presentation from July 2010 indicated that Google hoped that 10m Android tablets would be sold in 2011, and that it would achieve a 33% share of the market.Overall, Rubin outlined an aggressive plan to generate more than $1.2bn in total revenue from adverts and app sales on Android phones by 2013, although after costs such as revenue shares from adverts were subtracted, the contribution to Google's bottom line would be closer to $500m.But the rapid takeoff of Android sales since Rubin made his presentation, when there were just 20m Android handsets in operation – compared to more than 100m now – suggests that those targets may have been met sooner than was forecast.Rubin outlined some causes for concern at the time, including Apple momentum with iPad, iPhone 4 [then newly launched[ and that Google was behind [Apple and Amazon] on music, video and books. He also noted a low rate of app purchases.At the time Android handsets were being activated at the rate of 180,000 per day. The figure now is more than 700,000.Oracle has accused Google of violating its intellectual property rights to the Java programming language. An Oracle spokeswoman declined to comment on the figures.In pre-trial settlement talks, Oracle had suggested that Google should pay a small percentage of ongoing Android revenues in settlement of another part of the trial dispute, in which Oracle claims its patents have been infringed.
Gearbox is deadly serious about Aliens. At the multiplayer hands-on event in Dallas in March, chief executive Randy Pitchford bounded on to the stage to say: "This is the sequel to Aliens that we've all been waiting for. It's the game I've been wanting to play since I saw that film so many years ago." Other members of the development team nodded their heads in tacit agreement.Set for release this autumn, Colonial Marines is a first-person shooter set after the events of both James Cameron's movie and Alien 3. As such, it is a true canonical sequel, overseen and approved by 20th Century Fox. "There are a lot of people in that loop, a lot of executives," says writer Mikey Neumann. "But I think they like to leave the creative stuff to the creatives. It was a collaborative process though, we'd go to them with stuff and see how far we could push in certain directions. Ghost Newt solving mysteries was apparently totally not okay."There have been meetings, too, with some of the luminaries of the Alien series. The team got time with Syd Mead, the famed concept artist who worked not just on Aliens but Bladerunner and Tron."He's an amazing guy, he invented the future," says Gearbox co-founder Brian Martel. "It was incredible to be able to go over to his house and check out all the original paintings and drawings." From Mead's blueprints, the art team was able to flesh out the Sulaco, adding detail that the movies only hinted at.Martell also met with Sir Ridley Scott at his production company's office in LA. The director talked about the origins of the derelict craft in the original movie, and the possibility of it being a delivery mechanism for biological weapons. He also retrieved his original storyboards from Alien and talked through them."It was a weird fan moment," says Martel. "Just noticing things like the fact he used TV rather than movie-style storyboards because he'd come from a background directing commercials. And he hand drew them all."Colonial Marines begins 17 weeks after the Sulaco was reported destroyed over Fury 161,  the prison planet featured in Alien 3. The strange thing is that it's now in orbit over LV 426. We don't know why yet, but when the USS Sephora turns up to investigate, the crew are mighty jumpy about it all.The campaign can be played alone or with a friend, via a drop-in/drop-out co-op function. As in the online multiplayer mode, it will be possible to upgrade weapons and also customise armour and guns, adding your own features and slogans, like the characters in Aliens.The first thing fans may want to know is, why this timeframe? Why adopt David Fincher's somewhat controversial Alien 3 into the recipe?"It made the most sense – there was a lot that happened in that movie," says Neumann. "A lot of it is kind of subtle, like Michael Bishop showing up at the end. That's really important, yet it's glossed over. Weyland-Yutani is paramount to our game. The main motivation, though, is being a Colonial Marine. Everyone wants to shoot a smart gun."In the opening moments of our demo, which takes place near the beginning of the game, we find out that lead character Corporal Christopher Winter is part of a group of marines preparing to board the Sulaco from the Sephora, now connected to the apparent ghost ship via a long umbilical tunnel. A battalion of marines has already been in to investigate and, of course, all contact with them has been lost. Now it's time to find out what happened.Naturally, what happened was slaughter. We arrive in the hanger of the Sulaco after a major battle between the marines and a bunch of alien soldiers. As CPR is being adminstered on a casualty in the background, we look around and immediately its obvious to fans that this is where the climatic battle between Ripley and the alien queen took place – you can even spot Bishop's legs in a pool of milky android blood on the floor.Moving further into the ship, we pass a group of ejected cryotubes, hinting at whatever disaster caused the evacuation of Ripley, Hicks and Newt at the start of Alien 3. The mission is to find the craft's flight recorder, but on the way, we discover a soldier cocooned in an alien egg chamber. The poor guy doesn't know what's about to hit him, but he joins up with Winter.The demo culminated in a shoot-out with a new kind of "stalker" alien – a sort of stealth monster that lurks in the shadows, scuttling over walls and ceilings to sneak up on you. The action is accompanied by James Horner's discordant action theme from the Aliens score, adding masses of tension. Marines shout stuff like "check those corners", harking back to the heavily militarised vernacular of Cameron's movie.After setting sentry guns to guard his six, Winter escapes into the umbilical connector leading to the Sephora. But then his new companion starts convulsing, an alien busts out and in the confusion a thermal grenade is detonated, severing the tie between the two craft. The player, trapped in the now flailing tunnel, must complete an Uncharted-style quick-time sequence, clambering back up the passage avoiding debris, until you're back at the Sulaco. Trapped. With who knows how many aliens.And the big question at this stage is, where did all these monsters come from? If only a small squad of marines boarded the Sulaco, how come the place is now teeming with xeno soldiers? Has the Gearbox team had to play fast and lose with the accepted lifecycle?"We're doing a game that requires a lot of xenos, which obviously means we need a lot of hosts," says Neumann. "But we've had to stick to the canon that the audience understands - we can't make too much shit up."However, I've added my own section to the lifecycle cannon. It fills in a plot point we have on the gestation process. Now there's a little less vagueness in a certain area, based on some Weyland research. I was very proud of that."A key element of the project has been capturing the atmosphere of horror and dread that typifies the Alien movies. A big part of that is the movement of the alien creatures – something only shown in glimpses by Scott and Cameron, but surely more exposed in an action video game.Design director John Mulkey recognises this: "We spent a lot of time looking at how they move through the environment, how they go through ducts, and come down via air shafts – things that make it so they can get to you in frightening, unnerving ways. We don't want them running down the corridor at you, jazz hands waving! To be honest, we've had that iteration, but we're beyond that now!"Neumann meanwhile sees the horror of the game in the way that a highly organised fighting machine very quickly unravels. "Aliens was about a small group of people watching everything spiral out of control, our game is about a large group – there are 400 people on the Sephora. It's about how can one tiny mistake endanger everyone, and how fast does that happen … and it happensfast."What's clear is that the production design already shows a strong understanding of the Aliens aesthetic. The game features a deferred rendering engine, which draws the environment first and then lights the scene in real-time, allowing multiple dynamic light sources and authentic shadowing – and lights and shadows are of course pivotal devices in the movies."Over the course of this year as technologists start to talk about what next gen graphics are going to look like, you'll hear the phrase defered rendering alot," says Pitchford. "The lighting is natural and realistic instead of being pre-baked and cooked in before the processing takes place. It takes a lot of processing power and some high-end algorithms – and we're providing it in this generation."There are quite obessive levels of authenticity here: art director Brian Cousins even studied the excessively grainy high speed film stock used by Cameron – Kodak 5294 – which the director apparently favoured and instisted on, even though it was being phased out at the time. It's an accurate approximation (at least on the beefy PCs running our demo), everything is dipped in a hazy blue-white light, the vast interior hulks reflect hazes of strip lighting from the more brightly lit sections. And when warning sirens go off, the revolving red bulbs send strobing arcs across every surface.The team has had access to all the original audio files, so the pulse rifles, motion detector beeps, alien screams and alarm sounds are just right. The movie archives have been opened up, allowing access to set photos and props (Fox even loaned Sega the huge model of the alien queen used in Aliens to show off at its Colonial Marines press event. Insured for around £2m, it came with its own security guard).The major question, and subject of much rumour and speculation, is over how the game may cover some of the ground being explored in Ridley Scott's forthcoming sci-fi movie – and alleged Alien "prequel" –  Prometheus, particularly the origin of that derelict space craft. I put this to Martel: "It is definitely an area we're interested in, but we also knew [the movie] would be playing in that space. We'll get to it, but we won't explore it in the same way; we'll deal with our own take on it."As for the future of Aliens games, Gearbox seems to have plans to stick around. "We're taking it one step at a time," says Martel. "But we think ahead and we'd like to make sure we leave something open so there can be a sequel."I'd love to see a long-running TV show, with the marines as the stars. I still think that's an area no one has explored – these guys, not just fighting bugs, but going off to war. I mean, what's happening in this universe where they're colonising planets that require a set of marines to go in and deal with problems. That part is really cool to me."I'm not sure at this point whether we're talking about Martel's plans for a post-Aliens marine game, or if we really are picturing a TV series about characters like Hicks and Hudson. But this is all part of Gearbox's submergence into Alien lore. They really mean this.I'm still conflicted. As authentic as the visuals are in places, as determined as the team is to craft something that respects the canon, we're 25 years on from Aliens – is there still that mass interest in the brand now? Especially since it has been mugged and disfigured by the risible Aliens v Predator flicks.And can the bizarre psycho-sexual threat of the xenomorphs ever really be captured in a game? Does shooting dozens of these things deaden the impact? Gearbox certainly seems to be the right studio for this job, but is it a job that is already being done by the Dead Space series, which has successfully evolved the Aliens blueprint for an interactive age?Anyone who loves the movies wants to see this done right though – and there is a lot to be intrigued by here. "This is a labour of love for us," said Pitchford in his demo day speech. "I've been stealing from the Alien films throughout my entire career."So has everyone. Can this be the point at which the games industry starts giving back?• Aliens Colonial Marines is due out on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in autumn 2012. For more information on the multiplayer mode, see ourhands-on preview
I've been using Lightroom since the public beta of version 1 appeared, and I've pretty much fallen in love with it.Since that first flush of infatuation, our relationship has grown up and now what for my money is Adobe's most consumer-friendly and useful software is at version 4. And yeah, I'm still in love with it.I'm not a professional photographer, but I take a lot of pictures and with the best will in the world – and the best camera in the world – no image is going to be perfect at the moment of capture.Lightroom has been evolving through its releases and this new version has a couple of significant changes plus a couple of nice-to-have but by no means vital additions.The most important change is the switch to a new processing algorithm, PV2012. What this means in practice is that first, when you open images you processed in earlier versions of Lightroom, you'll be asked if you want to upgrade them to the new process.It's up to you whether or not you do that. My suggestion, after playing with it, is to leave your old images alone if you were happy with them before. The new algorithm seems to brighten and up the contrast when applied to images processed under the old algorithm, PV2010.However, the benefit of this new algorithm is that you get new sliders to play with when working with pictures in LR4. Previous versions gave you Exposure, Recovery, Fill Light and Blacks; the new algorithm gives you Highlights, Shadows, Whites and Blacks.You'll have to play with them to get used to their effects, but taking pot luck with clicking Auto on the Tone button seems to produce better results first time than before.The adjustment brush has been made more powerful. With it you can tweak small areas of your image to change the exposure, contrast or — perhaps most usefully – the white balance, which will save you having blue faces against a yellow background if you're shooting with a slow shutter sync.The other big deal is the improvement to the video tools. They're still pretty rudimentary, but you can now top and tail a video in Lightroom; and you can apply adjustments to your clips in the same way as still images.Lightroom 4's new processing algorithm: on the left is an unedited picture imported via Lightroom 3's algorithm, PV2010; on the left is how it will look if upgraded to PV2012. Colours in PV2012 are more saturated; contrast is higher; detail is lost in the shadows. Panel on the right shows old sliders. Image: Kate BevanAnything more and you'll need a proper video editing program, but this does at least mean you can do the basics.Also useful, especially to a professional, is the new ability to soft-proof an image – this means that if you've calibrated your monitor to a printer, you can see what the image will look like on screen before you start splurging on ink.Of the by-no-means-vital additions, I quite like the new ability to add location data to images. The new Maps module is powered by Google Maps (so you'll need to be online) and it's straightforward to use.Type in the location, highlight the images you want to tag with location data and drag them on to the location on the map. If you want to strip that data out before you upload or export your pictures, there is thoughtfully an option to do so.Less compelling, for me at any rate, is the inclusion of a Book module, particularly as there's only one commercial provider baked into the software – Blurb – although you can add plugins that export to other providers, or export your creation as a PDF for sending to another provider.This feels like a bit of an afterthought, and I think it's something that Apple's iPhoto does rather better.One of the things I love about Lightroom is the community of photographers and developers around it who have created an ecosystem of filters, plugins and other useful add-ons.Search through theAdobe Exchangeand you'll find endless useful (and not-so-useful) additions, from Instagram–style instant-retro-faux-aged filters to provider-specific export plugins.One thing still lacking in Lightroom is easy social sharing: there's now a Facebook export baked in, but it's not very intuitive to use; there are a couple of third-party exporters to Twitter in the Exchange and none at all to services such as SkyDrive or Dropbox.Those niggles aside, if you're even remotely serious about your pictures, take a look at Lightroom. There's a bit of a learning curve but mostly it's just play-with-it-and-see, while if you're an expert, there are plenty of really detailed and powerful tools. However, far and away the best thing about this release is the price: Adobe has cut it sharply and you'll find it online for around £99, or £60 if you're upgrading.Pros:new processing algorithm, powerful and mostly intuitive to use, price cutCons:book publishing a bit lame; social sharing ditto.Adobe.com
Now that the numbers are in, we can get a view on how the PC industry is doing – both the bit that Microsoft licenses directly (through Windows) and Apple's slice.Below is the graph for PC sales after you out take Apple's slice. What it shows is that the high watermark for the industry – so far? – seems to have come in the Christmas quarter of 2010, when just over 89m Windows PCs were sold (averaging the figures from Gartner and IDC). In fact, that was the high watermark for the whole PC business so far, including Apple: just short of 92.9m personal computers were sold in that quarter.Global PC market (average of IDC and Gartner) excluding Apple computers. Source: Gartner, IDC, Apple financialsBut after that things fell off, leading me towonder whether the PC industry had peaked. Analysts reckoned that it wasn't necessarily because of the iPad, which launched at the start of that year, but something was going on. From that piece at the time:"While it's tempting to blame the decline completely on the growth of media tablets, we believe other factors, including extended PC lifetimes and the lack of compelling new PC experiences, played equally significant roles," said Bob O'Donnell, program vice-president at IDC. He had only expected a small rise in sales – of 1.5% – but was surprised by the fall.The wisdom of analysts is now forecasting that the release of Windows 8, expected around October (with a sort-of "final-ish" release version in June), will lead to an uptick in sales for the year.But when you compare such forecasts with those made earlier, it becomes clear that actually, forecasts for the PC market are being pared back. And there's one reason why: tablets.IDC, for example, makes regular forecasts for how the PC market will pan out. It also puts out tablet forecasts. I've combined and compared forecasts it made in June 2011, September 2011 and March 2012 where it predicts how emerging (essentially, south-east Asia and South America) and mature (essentially North America and Europe) markets will do in sales of desktops and laptops.How IDC's forecast for PC sales by region and category has changed since June 2011. Source: IDC, GuardianThe decline of the desktop isn't surprising. We've been seeing that for a long time. But what's surprising is how the mature markets keep getting revised down (that's the top of the light blue line, which shifts downwards in each revision) while tablet sales (the yellow chunk on top) gets bigger and bigger. Tablet forecasts aren't available for some years and periods. I asked IDC to supply them, but it declined – only paying clients see those. Even so, you can see the direction of travel. Tablets are eating PCs' lunch.It's not only IDC saying this. Forrester put out a release on Tuesday  forecasting that by 2016, a total of 375m tablets will be sold globally, and 760m already in use. Compared with 2011, when Forrester reckons 56m tablets were sold, that's an astonishing 46% compound growth. Frank Gillett, a Forrester analyst, says tablets "will become our primary computing device" because while they aren't the most powerful computing gadgets, "they are the most convenient". He points to longer battery life, always-on capability, handiness for carrying around, and ease of frequent use even if there isn't a flat surface about.Is that going to kill PCs? No, says Gillett (and you knew that answer already – in general new technologies don't kill off old ones, they just slow them down). "Our casual estimate is that there will be 2bn PCs in use by 2016, despite growing tablet sales. That's because tablets only partially cannibalise PCs. Eventually tablets will slow laptop sales but increase sales of desktop PCs." Why? "Because many people, especially information workers, will still need conventional PCs for any intensely creative work at a desk that requires a large display or significant processing power."One point the report (which I've seen) makes is that "tablets will blossom in growth markets, particularly China" – which ought to be a worry for Microsoft's traditional Windows licensing business on the PC, because China and south-east Asia have up until now been the promised land, despite the piracy. Forrester reckons that emerging markets will take 40% of tablets by 2016, and that "Apple will do well in these markets due to strong product and brand appeal". It also thinks that first-time buyers looking for a computing device will turn to a tablet, not a PC.There's some confirmation of that in what Tim Cook, Apple's chief executivesaidon Apple's earnings call on Tuesday. He pointed to how quickly sales of the iPad have ramped up: "Through the last quarter, I should say, which is just two years after we shipped the initial iPad, we've sold 67m. And to put that in some context, it took us 24 years to sell that many Macs, and five years for that many iPods and over three years for that many iPhones."In other words: Tablets sell. Fast. People are adopting them really quickly.The worrying things for Microsoft and (to a lesser extent) Google? Forrester reckons that "Apple will be the clear leader" – it shows it taking around 50% of the market, even in 2016 – and that "Google's Android ecosystem will struggle in tablets and focus on low price markets". Here's the surprise in the latter: "The wide variety of devices, features and software support, plus inconsistent support for OS upgrades, is fragmenting the Android ecosystem, and it will result in a net decline in the Android installed base by 2015, despite the continued success of Android smartphones."However, sales of the Amazon Kindle Fire and other "forked" versions of Android will pass "officlal" Google Android sales by 2014, it forecasts. And for Microsoft, sales of the Metro tablets will accelerate in 2014. Why not until then? Because the software base is comparatively new "it will take time for the developer ecosystem to build".Forrester forecast for the tablet market to 2016. Source: ForresterSo, the old order is changing. A couple of points from the last few days. Microsoft announced its results, and they showed that Windows revenue rose more strongly than PC sales did – indicating that enterprises have begun to upgrade from Windows XP (which is still going, still getting support and still suits some businesses, it seems) to Windows 7. That led to a slight uptick in profits, even while revenues per PC sold stayed pretty level. As below:Microsoft average profit and revenue per PC sold, by quarter, from Q3 2007 - Q1 2012. Source: Gartner, IDC (PC data), Microsoft financialsNote the downward dip and upward spike around the launch of Windows 7 – but also the slight downward trend in profit (and slighter one in revenues) per PC sold. That seems to be due to more piracy when PCs sell in south-east Asia, meaning Microsoft doesn't get a 1:1 payment per machine. PCs, though, are going to keep selling, and there's no sign of people abandoning Windows. But if IDC keeps revising those figures downwards as the years go on, and the PC market turns instead to tablets, then Windows, as a business, will slow down too. (Of course, Microsoft will still make money hand over fist from Office. It's not going bust in a hurry.)The other point: Apple suffered from not having new laptops. Analysts had been expecting it to sell around 4.2m computers. Instead it managed 4.0m. What's clear from the split is that while desktop sales held up, laptop sales barely budged compared with last year. The ratio of laptops to desktops, which had been bumping around 75% for the past few quarters, fell to 70%. If laptop sales had stayed at their typical ratio (by Apple releasing new MacBooks and MacBook Airs), the total would probably have been at least 4.5m. Cook evaded the question of whether sales had slowed there because of the lack of transition, but the numbers don't lie.And one other memorable quote from the discussion came when Cook was asked whether Apple would begin offering a hybrid – say, an iPad with a keyboard you could attach and detach (like the Asus Transformer).Q:"Can you comment about why you don't believe the PC or the Ultrabook and tablet markets or your MacBook Air and tablet markets won't converge? Isn't it realistic to think in a couple of years we're going to have a device that's under 2lbs with great battery life that we can all carry around and open as a notebook or close up in a clever way and use as a tablet?"Cook:"I think, Tony, anything can be forced to converge. But the problem is that products are about trade-offs, and you begin to make trade-offs to the point where what you have left at the end of the day doesn't please anyone. You can converge a toaster and a refrigerator, but those things are probably not going to be pleasing to the user. And so our view is that the tablet market is huge."Seems like Cook and Apple are going with the flow here, at least.
This week both Microsoft and Google got their acts together and released Dropbox-like applications for their online storage services, SkyDrive and Google Drive respectively.Why hasDropboxbeen winning in this space? Fantastic convenience. Just save a file into the Dropbox folder on your PC or Mac, and it syncs everywhere, including iOS and Android mobiles. No official Windows Phone 7 client yet; but nothing is perfect.Now both SkyDrive and the new Google Drive are equally convenient, though with variations in platform support. Apple iCloud is also worth a mention, since it syncs across iOS and Mac devices. So too isBox, though I doubt either Box or Dropbox enjoyed the recent launches from the big guys.How do they compare? Here is a quick look at the pros and cons. First, pricing per month:Cloud storage prices comparedServiceFree storageCost for 25GBCost for 50GBApple iCloud5GB$3.33$8.33Box5GB$9.99$19.99Dropbox2GB$9.99Google Drive5GB$2.49$4.99 (100GB)Microsoft SkyDrive7GB$0.83
(27GB)$2.08
(52GB)And now platform support:Cloud storage services: platform supportWebAndroidBlack
berryiOSLinuxMacWindowsWindows
PhoneApple iCloud✓XX✓X✓LimitedXBox✓✓✓✓X✓✓XDropbox✓✓✓✓✓✓✓XGoogle Drive✓✓X✓X✓✓XMicrosoft SkyDrive✓XX✓X✓✓✓Before you say it though, this is not really about price and it is hard to compare like with like – though it is obvious that Microsoft's SkyDrive wins on cost. Note also that existing SkyDrive users have a free upgrade to 25GB if they move quickly.A few quick notes on the differences between these services …Apple iCloudis not exposed as cloud storage as such. Rather, this is an API built into iOS and the latest OS X. Well behaved applications are expected to use storage in a way that supports the iCloud service. Apple's service takes care of synchronisation across devices. Apple's own apps such as iWork support iCloud. The advantage is that users barely need to think about it; synchronisation just happens – too much so for some tastes, since you may end up spraying your documents all over and trusting them to iCloud without realising it. As you might expect from Apple, cross-platform support is poor.Boxis the most expensive service, though it has a corporate focus that will appeal to businesses. For example, you can set expiration dates for shared content. Enterprise plans include Active Directory and LDAP support. There are numerous additional apps which use the Box service. With Box, as with Dropbox, there is an argument that since you are using a company dedicated to cross-platform online storage, you are less vulnerable to major changes in your service caused by a change of policy by one of the giants. Then again, will these specialists survive now that the big guns are all in?Dropboxdeserves credit for showing the others how to do it, Apple iCloud aside. Excellent integration on Mac and Windows, and excellent apps on the supported mobile platforms. It has attracted huge numbers of free users though, raising questions about its business model, and its security record is not the best. One of the problems for all these services is that 2GB of data is actually a lot, unless you get into space-devouring things like multimedia files or system backups. This means that many will never pay to upgrade.Google Drivepresents as a folder in Windows and on the Mac, but it is as much an extension of Google Apps, the online office suite, as it is a storage service. This can introduce friction. Documents in Google Apps appear there, with extensions like .gdoc and .gsheet, and if you double-click them they open in your web browser. Offline editing is not supported. Still, you do not have to use Google Apps with Google Drive. Another issue is that Google may trawl your data to personalise your advertising and so on, which is uncomfortable – though when it comes to paid-for or educational services, Googlesays:Note that there is no ad-related scanning or processing in Google Apps for Education or Business with ads disabledGoogle Drive can be upgraded to 16TB, which is a factor if you want huge capacity online; but by this stage you should be looking at specialist services such as Amazon S3 and others as well.Microsoft SkyDriveis also to some extent an adjunct to its online applications. Save an Office 2010 document in SkyDrive, and you can edit it online using Office Web Apps. Office Web Apps have frustrations, but the advantage is that the document format is the same on the web as it is on the desktop, so you can also edit it freely offline. A snag with SkyDrive is lack of an Android client, other than the browser.ConclusionsThere are many more differences between these services than I have described. Simply though, if you use a particular platform or application such as Apple, Google Apps or Microsoft Office, it makes sense to choose the service that aligns with it. If you want generic storage and do not care who provides it, SkyDrive is best value and I am surprised this has not been more widely observed in reports on the new launches.One of Microsoft's problems is that is perceived as an old-model company wedded to the desktop, and lacks the cool factor associated with Apple, Google and more recent arrivals such as Dropbox.•This articlefirst appearedon Tim Anderson'sGadget Writing blog. It's used with permission.
Apple will hold its annual Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) event from 11-15 June in San Francisco's Moscone West venue, just a couple of weeks before Google's I/O event takes place in the same venue.Thefive-day WWDCwill focus on iOS and OS X Mountain Lion software, with technical sessions and hands-on labs aimed at developers making apps for both platforms. Apple will also hold an awards event to garland the best iPhone, iPad and Mac apps.Google'slineup for I/Ois similar, with technical sessions and coding labs. Both conferences will host high-profile keynotes from key executives talking about the next steps for their platforms, as well as parties and networking events for developers.In past years, Apple has unveiled new hardware at WWDC: the iPhone 3G in 2008, the iPhone 3GS in 2009, and the iPhone 4 in 2010.The company broke the pattern in 2011 though, saving the iPhone 4S for a separate Autumn event. That suggests the iPhone 5 – already the subject of continuous speculation regarding its likely features and launch date – will not be unveiled at WWDC 2012.That doesn't mean there won't be news, though. The sixth generation of Apple's iOS software is likely to be the key announcement at WWDC.The blogosphere jungle drums have yet to beat in earnest about possible features for iOS 6, but Apple may well unveil a redesigned App Store as part of it, possibly including revamped recommendation technology from itsacquisition of startup Chompin February 2012.Likewise, Google's I/O may see a major update to the company's Android OS, which is expected to becodenamed Jelly Bean. Hardware-wise, there have been persistent rumours of aNexus-branded Android tabletin 2012, so I/O may be that device's coming out party too.The closeness of WWDC and I/O will make June a pivotal month for smartphone and tablet app developers, with many still focused on iOS and Android at the expense of rival platforms like Windows Phone and BlackBerry.Yet with RIM holding its BlackBerry World 2012 event on 1-3 May, and Microsoft readying the next generation of Windows Phone, by the end of June we'll have a clear picture of how those four platforms are stacking up for features, but also support from app developers.
Social travel service Gogobot has opened a European office in London, in an effort to boost the popularity of its site and app beyond its US homeland.Gogobot launched in November 2010 as a website, with an iPhone app following in October 2011. The company has raised $19m in funding so far, and its chief executive is Travis Katz, who used to run Myspace's international business.He says the idea for Gogobot came when travelling around Europe with his wife, and trying to research destinations online. "We'd get up on a Saturday morning, power up the computer, and eight hours later we'd still be sitting there, more confused than when we started," he says."We'd end up trying to work out if we knew anybody who'd been there, and if not, I'd throw up my hands and go to buy a Lonely Planet guide. There was something really wrong about not being able to figure this out using the internet."Gogobot's solution to that problem is to tap into Facebook's social graph, and get people to share their travel experiences for the benefit of their friends.The company's app now covers more than 60,000 destinations, with its photo-postcard feature one of the ways it encourages users to contribute to its database. There's also a feature to plan trips."When we started the company, we had a big debate over whether we should start as mobile then build a web component, or start as web and then go to mobile," says Katz. "We knew mobile was going to be critical to the story: travel is the most natural use for mobile."When the company started, Katz admits he expected people to plan their holidays using Gogobot's website, then simply access the details from their phones when away, as well as using the postcard feature to share photos."We thought that people would probably want to do the research and planning on a bigger PC, but we've actually found that they want to plan their trip on mobile as well," he says."We hadn't expected that at all. In fact, the number of trips being planned on mobile has already caught up to the number being planned on the web. Now we're thinking about how to make that experience richer on the mobile."According to social metrics site AppData, Gogobot currently has 450,000 monthly active users for its Facebook-connected app. Key competition is likely to come from established online travel sites adding social features, though.Katz is unsurprisingly bullish about the likely threat, suggesting that "it's hard to do social as a bolt-on", while claiming that the big travel websites have a laser focus on "optimising conversions from traffic coming in from search engines… they're amazingly good at that, but it's not really social at its core".For the future, Gogobot is looking to improve its recommendation engine, having just hired "one of the top recommendation experts in the US out of Stanford Research Institute".Katz says the company is also thinking about adding more offline features to its apps, to ensure they can be more useful for people who turn their smartphone's data off when abroad for fear of roaming fees.Keeping the pace of development up will be important, as more companies get into the social travel space."Travel is the most lucrative vertical on the internet, and social is the way everybody wants to interact on the web," says Katz. "A lot of people are clamoring to get into this space, and we see a lot of the big guys copying us. Which at least is usually a sign that you're doing something right…"
Traditionally 'game hacks' or 'game jams' have seen developers target the desktop or web browser using rapid development environments such as Flash or ActionScript. Using tools that allow you to put something together quickly is the key to success.Mobile devices offer interesting new ways to experiment with controls and interaction. Features such as multi-touch, accelerometer and the camera allow games developers to innovate in ways that are not possible in a desktop environment. Games such asZnipballhave shown that multi-touch can add innovative and intuitive controls to familiar game play.It is also possible to create something simple, yet innovative, using these mobile-only features. This makes it easier to create something really impressive for mobile without having to work on detailed graphics and gameplay. Think about a game such as Cut the Rope – it's simple, yet addictive and intuitive to play using touch controls. Now consider a classic game such as Pong: what sort of innovative controls could be implemented using the touch screen or accelerometer?There are also various different mobile platforms to target and developers have already seen the benefits of targeting multiple mobile platforms. Popular iPhone app Instagram, for example, saw over 5m downloads in the first seven days after being released on Android. Other developers such as Rovio have benefitted from releasing on both iOS and Android simultaneously, with Angry Birds Space leaping to the top of the charts on iOS and Android on the day of release.Developing for mobile can help you reach a huge audience and the distribution channels make it easy to showcase your game once you have made it. The App Store and Google Play offer you the chance to reach about 500 million potential users.There are different development environments using various programming languages that will allow you to create your game for mobile. If you want to target multiple platforms and are familiar with C++, theMarmaladeSDK would be an option for you. Each platform offers its own SDK too - you can program in Objective-C for Apple products, and Java for Android devices using the platform SDKs provided by Apple and Google. Consider that if you choose a platform SDK, your game will only run on that platform and you will most likely need to rewrite your game to target others.When developing a game in a short space of time you need to choose the right approach to make your game both achievable and the best it can be. If you only have 24 hours to make a game, the design becomes more dependent on what your chosen framework is capable of doing. Think about how quickly and easily you can create your assets and get them moving on the screen.Here are some top tips for hackathon attendees from our Marmalade games experts:Choose powerful and flexible toolsIt is essential that you have the right tools for the job. You need flexibility and power to make the most of your time. Choose an environment that is familiar and gives you the flexibility to change direction quickly if you need to.Don't reinvent the wheelIt is a big challenge to write a game engine in 24 hours, so taking advantage of existing engines and libraries will save time and effort. This also ties into your choice of tools - make sure they give you the flexibility to use existing libraries. Popular games engine Cocos2D offers developers an easy to use and flexible framework. Thecocos2d-xproject allows developers to target multiple platforms and can be used with the Marmalade SDK for easy deployment to phones and tablets.Use flexible asset tools and pipelinesUse simple tools to create your assets quickly. In 24 hours it is unlikely you will be able to create well-polished and detailed assets, so use tools that are simple but flexible.Pyxeleditis a simple free tool for creating 2D images;Blenderis a free tool that can be used to create 3D assets.Powerful debuggingUse a development environment that offers powerful debugging tools that allow you to debug your code as it is running, perhaps in a simulator. Visual Studio and XCode both offer powerful debugging features and Marmalade provides a simulator environment for debugging.Keep it simpleIt is easy to get carried away when designing your game for the hackathon. If you think something will take about four hours it will probably take you the whole time available. Try to plan the work you do, particularly when it comes to the time spent on creating assets. When developing for mobile you might even consider using existing game code but innovate using mobile specific features.Marmaladeis a cross-platform mobile SDK offering developers the ability to target multiple mobile devices and platforms from a single codebase using C++. Many high profile 2D and 3D games have been made with Marmalade, including Backbreaker, Pro Evolution Soccer, Cut the Rope, Draw Something and Lara Croft.
Google's former chief executive Eric Schmidt told jurors on Tuesday that he was confident that the Android smartphone platform was developed legally, and that top executives at Sun Microsystems did not object to the project now at the centre of a high-stakes court battle."My understanding was what we were doing was permissible," he said. "From the sum of my experiences and interactions, I was very sure what we were doing was legally correct."Schmidt, now Google's executive chairman, took the stand in the trial of Oracle against Google over the use and development of Android, which now powers around 300m smartphones and tablets around the world.Oracle, which acquired Sun in 2010 after bidding for it in 2009, sued Google in August 2010, saying Android infringed on its copyrights and patents for the Java programming language. Google countered that it does not violate Oracle's patents and that Oracle cannot copyright certain parts of Java, an open source software language.In court on Tuesday, Oracle lawyer David Boies showed Schmidt a 2005 presentation given to Google's top managers that said Google must take a licence from Sun. Schmidt said he could not recall being told that was the case.Schmidt said at one point that Google derived enough advertising revenue from Android to fund the operating system and a whole bunch more."The goal was to get as many users as we could on a powerful new platform that could exploit the Web," Schmidt said of Android.But Schmidt did not specify how much money Google gets from Android; the company has fought to keep that figure out of the glare of the courtroom spotlight, although US District Judge William Alsup, presiding over the case, has said that such data is not off-limits and can be demanded in evidence.So far Oracle's lawyers have not sought to elicit it, although that might emerge in any damages claim later in the case.Greater easeUnlike Google chief executive Larry Page, who testified last week, Schmidt appeared much more at ease while parrying questions from Boies about the development of Android.Reports from the courtroom suggested that he was able to hold the jury's interest far more effectively than previous witnesses, including Page and Android chief Andy Rubin – who preceded him on the stand – in explaining the sometimes deeply complex topic of program code and classes, and application programming interfaces (APIs).Oracle claims that Google has infringed 37 Java APIs in Android. Judge Alsup ruled earlier this week thathe will decide on whetherAPIs can be copyrighted, but said it would be up to the jury to decide whether Google's use of the APIs in Android – which have essentially identical names and, apparently, functions as those in Java – are fair use of a limited amount of a copyrighted work, or infringement.Schmidt said that Google did not need a licence from Sun to create its own version of Java. Boies pointed out that Google was the only company yet cited which used Java's APIs without a licence.Schmidt said that Google had planned to use Java from the start of the project – but disagreed on the characterisation of the computer language and platform."An interface is a specification. A name," he said. "There's a collection of those names that forms the standard that Java uses. We – Google – implemented those interfaces in our own way."Challenged on whether Google had copied the 37 APIs, Schmidt responded: "We used the interface names, which is how one does this, and then did our own implementation of those services."Oracle has pointed to lines of code that are the same in Android's source and in Java as evidence of direct copying rather than a clean room implementation of the language, and suggested that makes Google liable to license Java."Are you saying the only thing you copied was the names?" asked Boies."Yes," said Schmidt.Final examBoies's examination of Schmidt was the final part of Oracle's case on copyright.At one point, Schmidt asked Boies to repeat a question, saying he wanted to be sure he answered it truthfully. "I want you to answer truthfully," Boies replied, prompting Schmidt to laugh.Boies had been less happy earlier in the day with Rubin. Boies had cited an email from Rubin at the time when Google was developing Android in which Rubin wrote: "I think a clean room implementation is unlikely because of prior knowledge … anyone with specific knowledge especially those from Sun are tainted and would be bad."Google has hired a number of former Sun staff in recent years, including for the Android project.But courtroom observers described Rubin as having sidestepped questions from Boies, who wanted to show that Google knew developing its own version could fragment Java. Rubin said he didn't recognise the lawyer's use of the word fragmentation.Rubin then testified to Google's lawyer that the team had considered using Javascript, Python and Lua to implement Android.But he said that his experience from his first mobile startup, Danger (subsequently sold to Microsoft after Rubin had left it) had highlighted the benefits of Java – it was a well-known brand name with wide compatibility, and was taught at many universities worldwide.He said he had led preliminary negotiations with Sun about implementing Java on Android in 2005.In one telling email to a Java licensing account manager at Sun, Rubin wrote that allowing Android to go open source could mean a really close partnership. "As discussed, the two companies [Google and Sun Microsystems] are aligned against a common industry bully" – apparently a reference to Microsoft.Google then called Schmidt straight back to the stand as its first defence witness, where he was questioned by Google lawyer Robert Van Nest.Schmidt told him that in 2006 Sun wanted roughly $30m (£18.6m) to $50m to develop a mobile platform jointly with Google. Such a deal would have saved Google time in getting Android to market, Schmidt said."We would have paid that simply to resolve it," he said. The period predated Apple's release of the iPhone, though Schmidt may have been aware of its development because he then sat on Apple's board.Instead, Schmidt said: "It's hard to relate to that now, but we were very concerned Microsoft's mobile strategy would be successful."Microsoft at the time was driving hard with its Windows Mobile platform, which was attracting a growing number of handset makers, leaving Nokia, Microsoft, Palm and BlackBerry maker RIM as the key platforms in the market.Microsoft's power in the mobile market has since withered in the face of the onslaught of Android, which now powers more than 50% of smartphone handsets being sold worldwide.But, Schmidt said, negotiations between the two companies faltered.Rubin later testified that while Google wanted to make the software platform open source, Sun wanted to impose restrictions to which Google was opposed.Alone with AndroidAfter Google developed Android on its own and announced it at the end of 2007, Schmidt said he had multiple meetings with Sun chief executive Jonathan Schwartz, who never expressed any disapproval about Android.Google has argued that Oracle launched the lawsuit only after Oracle decided it would be unable to develop a smartphone on its own.The trial, expected to last at least eight weeks, has been divided into three phases: copyright liability, patent claims, and – if the jury determines that there has been infringement by Google – damages.Early in the case, estimates of potential damages against Google ran as high as $6.1bn. But Google successfully narrowed Oracle's patent claims and reduced the possible award. Oracle is seeking roughly $1bn in copyright damages.The jury will deliberate on copyright liability before moving on to hear evidence about patent infringement.Since the start of the trial, the US Patent Office has upheld one of the patents that Google had contested; that means that Oracle will be able to assert three rather than two patents during the second part of the case.Judge Alsup may also decide some of the copyright issues.Updated to clarify that Alsup will rule on whether APIs can be copyrighted.
A selection of 13 new apps today:Google DriveGoogle's long-rumoured cloud storage service has finally been unveiled, complete with an Android app to access photos, documents, videos and other files stored on Google Drive, while also uploading from the device. An iOS version will follow in the future, according to Google.AndroidKinect Star Wars for iPadMicrosoft has ported its Windows Phone social app to iPad, serving up Facebook and Twitter updates with a Star Wars skin. As on Windows Phone, they can be viewed in the style of the famous opening title sequence. But no, this isn't a game.iPadAngry Birds SpaceRovio has taken its latest Angry Birds game to another device: RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook tablet. It includes 60 levels with more free updates planned, although for now its in-app purchases don't appear to figure.BlackBerry PlayBookFroobles MathsiOS education app Froobles Maths has been ported to Android, aimed at children up to the age of seven who are learning to add, subtract, divide and multiply. It includes a reward chart for parents to use.AndroidNaked WinesUK-based online wine retailer Naked Wines has launched an iPhone app, with videos, tasting notes, shareable deals and the ability to chat to the actual winemakers: so a social app around wine, rather than a pure e-commerce app.iPhoneLil' KingdomAnother (for now) Android-only game, as Google's platform continues to gather pace for gaming. This is Glu Mobile's latest freemium game, which gets players to build their own dungeon. The screenshots make it look like an underground Tiny Tower.AndroidBandsintown ConcertsLive music site Bandsintown has stolen a march on rival Songkick by being first onto Android. Its app scans the music stored on the phone, logs into Facebook, and provides a "personalised concert cloud" of upcoming gigs that you might like.AndroidWordamentIndie Windows Phone word game Wordament has been revamped as an Xbox Live title by Microsoft, offering boards of letters for a competitive wordsearch game against "the whole internet".Windows PhoneFind a Property search app for the iPadUK property website FindaProperty.com has a new iPad app to help people browse new homes on their tablets, complete with a map view, floor plans and the ability to contact estate agents by email or share details with friends.iPadLondon Elections 2012Publisher Michael O'Mara Books has launched a free app for this year's London mayoral elections, offering information on the candidates and their manifestos, details on how to vote, video interviews and a policy comparison.iPhone / iPadTower Bloxx RevolutionDigital Chocolate has revamped its already-excellent Tower Bloxx series of mobile games, with a new futuristic version with robots, colour combos and power-ups.AndroidArchie ComicsThe famous Archie comics have been turned into an Android app by iVerse Media, with more than 1,200 comics and 40 graphic novels available as in-app purchases.AndroidPrototype 2 Official SidekickConsole game Prototype 2 has its own companion (or "sidekick") app, offering level maps, progress-tracking and other hints and tips. One map is free, but the others are bought via in-app purchase. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team"The hidden side of your soul": How the FBI uses the web as a child porn honeypot &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe email arrived in James Charles Cafferty's inbox on July 14, 2011. Unlike most unsolicited email on the Internet, the message did not pitch mortgages, get rich quick scams, or penis pills. Instead, it provided a link to an under-the-radar child pornography website and the password needed to access it. Cafferty, a diplomatic security officer working for the US government at its London embassy, waited for three days, then clicked on the link.Gruesome. Fascinating. Horrendous.Compare - How does SkyDrive compare to Dropbox, iCloud, and Google? &gt;&gt; MicrosoftTickboxes galore. Man, Microsoft sure does love those tickboxes. It's like the specification inspector. What's not mentioned is that you don't have to use one or the other. You can have them all.Introducing the Google+ Share Button &gt;&gt; Google+ Developers BlogWhen your visitors come across something interesting on your site, sometimes you want to encourage a simple endorsement (like +1). Other times, however, you want to help visitors share with their friends, right away. Today's newGoogle+ Share buttonlets you do just that.You get to email it or send it to particular Circles of your Google+ following. (There's a phrase that would have made no sense three years ago.) Will publishers have two +1 buttons (the old and the new) or, facing button overload, will they go with this one? Having to choose which Circles you send it to sounds, as Orwell would say, plusungood.This is the web right now &gt;&gt; The OatmealIf at least one and preferably two or more don't make you laugh aloud, get someone to check you for a pulse.World Internet population has doubled in the last 5 years &gt;&gt; Royal PingdomThis year the number of internet users worldwide reached 2.27bn, almost exactly twice what it was in 5 years ago, 1.15bn. We all know the Internet is big, but this kind of growth really puts things into perspective.The Internet population has been swelling rapidly since the arrival of the World Wide Web (which rests firmly on top of the foundation provided by the Internet). It's human nature to get used to changes, so most of us have a tendency to forget how rapidly the world has changed, and keeps changing.And as the internet population grows, so does the potential size of online services. One example of this extreme evolution is Facebook. Last year we noted that Facebook now has more users than the entire Internet had back in 2004, the year the social network was founded.Apple Reports Second Quarter Results &gt;&gt; Business WireNote: contains big numbers.Opinion: Why we need Anonymous 2.0 &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityLisa Vaas:Nobody in technology, nor in business, for that matter, can get away from fighting Anonymous or other similar groups, whether the fight transpires in media or anywhere else, [hacker "Jericho"] said.So that's why they care, and why we must. Beyond our own, personal involvement, a broader concern is that much of what we lay at the Anonymous doorstep may be branded as such merely as a smokescreen.As Corman noted, this amorphous thing we call "Anonymous" has become the perfect scape goat. Anonymous members continually drop in and out of affiliation with, or actions taken on behalf of, the group.Twitter / @creativeKoder: so my Mac finally had the conversation...Ha, ha.Skype for Windows Phone working on Nokia Lumia 610, scoffs at memory restrictions &gt;&gt; EngadgetActually, the headline is wrong. It should read "will work":After "some challenges early on", Nokia tells us that the app is primed for use when the entry-level Windows Phone eventually hits Asian store at the end of April.(Thanks @FossilFuel for the link.)The slow decay of the Microsoft consumer &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMG Siegler argues that Microsoft is morphing into a business that makes its money almost entirely from enterprises, hardly at all from the consumer:Everyone got all excited that the Windows division actually managed to grow last quarter. Because the broader PC market has been stagnant and Windows 8 is in testing mode, expectations were extremely low. 4% growth was considered a big win.But Microsoft as a whole saw 6% growth year-to-year when it came to revenue. It wasn't Windows driving it, it was the Business Division (9% growth) and the Servers &amp; Tools Division (14% growth). Again, the enterprise side of things.The Business Division is now by far the largest Microsoft division in terms of revenue. Meanwhile, Servers &amp; Tools almost surpassed the Windows Division this past quarter. The last time that happened was the tail end of the Vista nightmare. It's going to happen again. Microsoft's two biggest businesses will be their enterprise businesses.The numbers support him. Problem is, there are more consumers than there are enterprises.Unforgiven: The consequences of profit failure in mobile phones &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:Since my post in June last year Sony Ericsson and Motorola were acquired making the total victims list total 14 companies with Nokia, LG and RIM having joined the "endangered species list". If the pattern repeats, then RIM and Nokia are in early phases of what promises to be an extended period of pain followed by an exit.What the analysis does not answer is when a vendor loses its independence after beginning loss making. Motorola took 20 quarters; Sony Ericsson 14, Ericsson 8 and Siemens only 7. We cannot tell if or when LG which is still operating after 8 and Nokia, which is now in its fourth and RIM in its second quarter post-loss will lose independence.The mobile phone business is brutal.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday. Let's have your mid-week gaming chatter!
Apple surpassed analysts' expectations on Tuesday and saw its stock jump in afterhours trading, after reporting profits up 94% year on year to $11.6bn (£7.2bn), or $12.45 per share.Revenues were up 59% to $39.2bn, as it reported sales of 35m iPhones and 11.8m iPads.The announcement came after Wall Street had been worrying that figures for phone sales released earlier in the day by phone network AT&amp;T might indicate weak sales. That had sent the stock slipping further, continuing a downward slide which began after the stock peaked at $636 on 9 April. It recovered to pass $600 in afterhours trades compared with $571 as the market closed, prior to the results.But instead, iPhone sales worldwide were up by 88% year on year, and only down by 2m compared with its blowout quarter over Christmas, cementing Apple's strength in the smartphone business alongside Korea's Samsung, which is expected to announce even better figures later this week, and contrasting with those from former giants Nokia and RIM, which both reported losses in their mobile phone businesses in their latest quarters.In another blow, Nokia's billions of euros of debt had its rating cut to junk by Fitch. Nokia's cash substantially exceeds its debt.Apple's figures came after a financial quarter during which the company came under increasing scrutiny over its working practices and conditions for its workforce in China, particularly the giant plants run by Foxconn. A number of investigations both by journalists and working-practice groups have not, however, found widespread abuses. Apple itself published a "supplier code of conduct and progress report" during the quarter.But while phone sales may have slowed down in the US after receiving a huge boost in the previous quarter from the launch of the iPhone 4S, its arrival in other regions seems to have helped sales. CEO Tim Cook said Apple had had its best ever quarter in China, with revenue of $7.9bn, three times higher than the year before. Though the company does not give a geographical breakdown for iPhone sales, previous years have seen an uplift in iPhone sales during the first three months because of the Chinese New Year."International iPhone sales were on fire," Apple's chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer told Reuters in an interview.Sales of the iPad, which was updated in January, more than doubled compared with the same period last year when it sold 4.7m. The figure was down compared with the Christmas figure of 15.4m, but ahead of the period before that, indicating strong growth in the sector. Carolina Milanesi of the research group Gartner said that it had come in behind her forecast of 13m for the quarter. But the potential strength of the field was underlined by a prediction from Forrester Research, which said on Tuesday that it expected that by 2016 total tablet sales will hit 375m annually – almost as many as PCs. "Tablets aren't the most power computing gadgets, but they are the most convenient," commented Frank Gillett, a Forrester analyst.The company indicated that it expects the strong performance to continue into the next quarter, guiding analysts to revenues of $34bn and earnings per share of $8.68 — though that guidance is almost always significantly lower than it achieves.Despite itsannouncement earlier in the quarter that it will begin paying a dividend, the company's cash pile is now $110bn, having generated $28bn more in the past three months.• Apple infringed patents belonging to Motorola, according to the ITC, which rules on trade disputes in the US. The interim decision is part of an ongoing battle between the company and a number of handset vendors.
One of the guiding principles of this government is the restoration of civil liberties and rolling back the intrusive state; that is why one of our first legislative acts was to scrap ID cards. So it is wrong to say our proposals are similar to the previous government's abandoned "database state" legislation (Government data-sharing plan triggers privacy fears, 24 April).We want people to be able to interact with government online, for example, in applying for benefits or a disabled parking permit, in a way that is quick, easy and secure. To do this we need to give them a way of proving their identity online, but only if they choose to. This would be done without a national, central scheme.This is all about putting the citizen in charge, not the state. But we are still taking great care to carefully consult on our plans. Throughout all our work in this area we have proactively engaged with privacy and consumer groups including NO2ID, Privacy International, Which?, London School of Economics, Oxford Internet Institute and Big Brother Watch.In June the Cabinet Office will publish, in a white paper, plans for improving data-linking across government. What will not be published in this white paper are any "fast-track" proposals that would require changes to the existing legislative landscape. Any such proposals will need careful consideration with the involvement of the public and interest groups with whom we will continue to engage.This is not a question of increasing the volume of data-sharing that takes place across government, but ensuring an appropriate framework is in place so that government can deliver more effective, joined-up and personalised public services, through effective data-linking.Francis Maude MPCabinet Office minister; paymaster general• Theresa May is rightly concerned to avoid undermining confidence in the police by insisting any evidence of police corruption be properly dealt with (May gives Lawrence family hope of fresh public inquiry, 23 April). On the same grounds she should also establish a public inquiry into claims that the police and/or security services supplied information that led to the blacklisting of 3,200 workers.Theblacklist was discovered after a raid by the information commissioner's staff in 2009on the offices of the Consulting Association (CA). There had been allegations about the existence of this blacklist over the last decade, but no investigation was undertaken. As well as files on 3,200 people, the vast majority of them trade union members, the ICO raid found 44 construction firms had funded the CA and used it to vet potential employees.Denial of a job for discriminatory reasons such as trade union membership is illegal and blacklisting is statutorily prohibited. And some of the information on those blacklisted may well have been false or malicious. This is all the more serious when there is now evidence that the police/MI5 were party to the conspiracy. David Clancy, an ICO investigator,gave evidence at a recent industrial tribunalwhich showed compellingly that details in some of the files could only have come from state security sources.That is why a public inquiry is now urgently needed as to why no action was taken for a decade over complaints about blacklisting, why the police and/or MI5 appear to have passed information to an illegal blacklisting organisation, and whether the 44 construction companies that used it should now be prosecuted.Michael Meacher MPLondon
Police are planning to arrest a number of Twitter users who are alleged to have named the 19-year-old rape victim of Sheffield United footballer Ched Evans, and have launched an investigation into Sky News after it broadcast her name in a report.A spokesman for North Wales police confirmed on Tuesday that arrests would be made and said that the force was looking into Sky's mistake as part of the same investigation.Sky News inadvertently displayed a Twitter feed that named the 19-year-old as part of a report on users of the micro-blogging site revealing who Ched Evans's victim was following his conviction for rape."North Wales police will seek to ensure that the legal anonymity of victims in rape cases under the Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act 1992, is protected and those who commit offences in this regard will be brought before the criminal justice system," said assistant chief constable Gareth Pritchard. "We wish to reassure victims of serious sexual offences of our continuing determination to support them."Sky issued an apology after the victim's name was flashed up on screen for what is understood to have been around a second."In our coverage last night we very briefly revealed the victim's name despite heavy redaction, and if watching in real-time viewers would not have noticed," said a Sky News spokeswoman said. "We would, however, like to apologise to the victim and her family for any distress caused."An Ofcom spokesman said that the regulator was not currently investigating to see if Sky's error was breach of the broadcasting code. The media regulator said that the incident was a matter for the police."Broadcasters must comply with our rules to protect the privacy of people who appear in their programmes," said a spokesman for the media regulator. "However, identifying victims of sexual assault is a criminal offence and as such is primarily an issue for the police."On Monday, North Wales police announced that it was investigating the naming of the victim on Twitter after she was first identified just hours after Evans was found guilty of the attack, which took place in a Premier Inn hotel room during a Bank Holiday last May.The victim's name was circulated so widely that it is understood to have trended on Twitter over the weekend, meaning it was one of the most popular topics on the site.Evans was jailed for five years on Friday at Caernarfon crown court after being found guilty of raping the woman who was "too drunk to consent".Sheffield United havesuspended 19-year-old reserve-team playerConnor Brown after he allegedly voiced his support for Evans by making offensive comments about the victim.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
In the second of our anonymous double-bill interviews,Aleks Krotoskitalks toAndrew Lewman, executive director of the Tor software project.Tor is an encryption software, known as "onion routing", that allows people to browse online anonymously, hiding their location and avoiding traffic analytics associated with their online activity.The software began as a project sponsored by the US naval research laboratory but is now run as a not-for-profit business that offers the software free of charge online.Aleks and Andrew discuss the role of Tor and its wish to create an anonymous space online. They also talk about the growing trend for companies to collate and monitor your online activity in order to build up a profile of you for monetary gain.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
The Ceph are not dead – that was always going to happen. Although seemingly annihilated at the close of Crysis 2 in a cataclysmic Central Park showdown, the aliens are crawling out of their protective chambers once again. Their mission, as always, is to test the graphical capabilities of modern games hardware to the max. The last installment of the sci-fi shooter series was critically acclaimed (though not universally loved), providing a visually incredible romp through alien invasion cliches. With Crytek employing a tweaked version of its CryENGINE 3, we can expect plenty more graphical gymnastics this time round.So here's the story. It's New York, 2047 – 20 years after the end of Crysis 2. CELL Corp, the dodgy private military company from the last game, has enclosed the Big Apple in a huge nanodome, ostensibly to help finish off the Ceph invaders and cleanse the environment. But long-term Crysis character Prophet,  [SPOILER] who psychically merged with Crysis 2 lead character Alcatraz at the close of the story [SPOILER ENDS],  isn't buying it. He reckons CELL is up to something, something terrible. The extraterrestrials are still out there, lurking amid the dense vegetation that's grown up around the city's iconic buildings. CELL is harvesting their tech, preparing for a global takeover."These nanodomes have been built by CELL to contain Ceph activity," explains senior creative director Rasmus Hojengaard. "Cell has accelerated this forestation process so you have this city that in 20 years has grown into a rain forest that would usually take 500 years to develop. The city is a completely different take on the post-apocalyptic setting. We spent a lot of time ensuring that the environment mirrors nature, rather than just slapping foliage onto each scene."Hence, in the murky swamplands of Chinatown, frogs leap and swim amid the swirling waters, mists shift across the surface and butterflies flutter overhead. The aim is to create a real ecosystem, into which the features of the city have been subsumed. Hojengaard talks about how the design team have thought about the relic of New York as a natural habitat, so that the financial district with its towering skyscrapers is now effectively a mountain range; Central Park is a savanna. There are in fact seven new zones known as the Seven Wonders each with its own unique identity and challenges.The world of Crysis 3, then, is part Escape From New York and part I Am Legend – but also very much a hybrid of the lush tropical location of Crysis 1 and the urban jungle of Crysis 2. "The vegetation gives us a lot of variety in terms of scale and mood," says Hojengaard. "This level is very dense and claustrophobic and this dictates the sort of gameplay you should logically follow – stealth. But in a large grassland, it will be completely different, more of a sandbox experience. Some levels are more funneled, more linear, others are much more open-ended. We're taking the ups from each of the previous games and trying to avoid the downs!"In the demo we saw last week, Prophet is working as part of a resistance group within a swampy area that was once China Town. Foliage clings to the crumbling walls of the battered tenement building we're hiding in; outside, floodlights provide an intrusive white light, and a dropship hovers past, causing the brick work to shake, depositing dust into the air. We're playing on a hefty-looking PC and the effects are magnificently detailed.During the hands-off presentation we're shown a bunch of weapons. Foremost among them is the new bow, which can be fired while Prophet is cloaked, adding to the stealth aspects of the game. Various arrow types are available, including incendiary options, and long distance kills are celebrated with an arrow cam that follows the shaft through the air to its victim.The human forces get a blistering Typhoon machine gun that apparently spits out 500 rounds per second, pretty much obliterating anything that strays into its sights. The Ceph, meanwhile, get a plasma rifle that vaporises enemies in one burst. We also meet the new Scorcher Cephs, effectively living flamethrowers capable of dousing a whole area in fiery death. There is also a drone-like aerial remote, which is capable of sensing Prophet while he's cloaked and counter-acting his suit's technology, making him visible to Ceph forces.It seems that the new version of the nanosuit will allow players to merge with alien weapons, as in District 9, augmenting their power. It will also provide players with hacking capabilities, allowing them to control various gadgets and mechanisms in the game world, but we know little else about its capabilities at this stage. "We're playing in to the mix of Ceph and human DNA and how that effects the suit," says Hojengaard. "It's very important that everything ties in, organically, so the nanosuit has an arc of its own that develops alongside Prophet. And in some ways the suit is his enemy – Prophet wants to be human, but he becomes more alien as the game goes on, because the suit is such a useful tool kit. He's really conflicted. We're wrapping up all that stuff in the game. And there's a big revelation at the end..."The mystery at the heart of the game then is Prophet, this new hunter warrior. "He's a really troubled characters," says Hojengaard. "He's been forced to make decisions that have killed men and he wants to get back at those who dictated his actions. He has some long-term goals as a human - or whatever he is. I won't go into that right now, but it's a more human story than Crysis 2; it's less about the hardcore sci-fi and more about the characters inside the story."As for multiplayer, Crytek isn't saying much, but we can expect more info at E3 in June. For now Hojengaard would only hint at the developer's aims. "Conceptually, within Crytek, we just want to draw in the feedback and make sure we do better than what we released last time. But we have our own ideas too – the worst thing you can do is listen to feedback and just do what players want – you need to reach their expectations and then surprise them on top of that."• Crysis is due out on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in spring 2013
A senior State Department official has stressed the Obama administration's opposition to a controversial cybersecurity bill ahead of a vote in the House of Representatives later this week.The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (Cispa) is intended to facilitate sharing of information on online threats across different federal agencies and private companies. It has been criticised by both activists and politicians of both Democrats and Republicans for vague wording and insufficient safeguards.Ahead of the bill coming in front of the House of Representatives alongside three other cybersecurity bills, Alec Ross, a senior adviser for innovation to Hillary Clinton, reiterated the administration's opposition to the proposals in more explicit language than previous statements from officials."The Obama administration opposes Cispa," he told the Guardian. "The president has called for comprehensive cybersecurity legislation. There is absolutely a need for comprehensive cybersecurity legislation."[But] part of what has been communicated to congressional committees is that we want legislation to come with necessary protections for individuals."Ross refused to be drawn, however, on whether the White House would consider vetoing the bill were it to pass through CongressRoss's comments came as Republican presidential candidate Ron Paulset out his own strident oppositionto Cispa."Cispa permits both the federal government and private companies to view your private online communications without judicial oversight provided that they do so of course in the name of cybersecurity," he said on Monday."Simply put, Cispa encourages some of our most successful internet companies to act as government spies, sowing distrust of social media and chilling communications in one segment of the world economy where Americans still lead."The open internet group EFF has warned that Cispa's broad wording could class many routine internet activities, such as using encryption on emails or enabling anonymity using a service calledTOR, as potential threats. The act could also indemnify companies acting for security purposes from civil and criminal liability, including violating a user's privacy, provided these were not intentional, the group warned.Despite the opposition, Mike Rogers, the chairman of the house intelligence committee and primary sponsor of the bill, remains confident it will be passed by the House of Representatives this week."I feel pretty confident that we'll close out the bill," he told theTalking Points Memo blogon Monday. Rogers also reportedly told the site he was not aware of a final stance from the Obama administration regarding his bill, and said he had met with some advocacy groups and modified Cispa as a result."There's some people who aren't interested in having any bill happen," Rogers told TPM. "But we've had an open and transparent dialogue with everyone who has chosen to engage with us, and there's been major progress made. This has always been a collaborative effort."Three other cybersecurity-related bills are passing through the house this week – the Data act, which creates more oversight on security of  federal computer systems and data; the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act, aimed at targeting federal cybersecurity research, and a third computer research and design bill.
What is AddThis?AddThisis a social sharing tool that appears on a lot of websites. It is owned and operated byClearspring Technologies.Hooman Radfar, founder and executive chairman of Clearspring, describes the technology as the "largest social sharing and analytic platform on the web", whose goal is to "increase traffic and social engagement".It is often displayed as a "share" button that expands to show a vast array of sharing options.What information does AddThis track?AddThis collects personal information in the form of an email address when you request the service to share via email. AddThis uses the email address provided, but it is not stored. The person with whom you share the site will see your email address but otherwise it is not shared with third parties and not merged with any non-personal information.It also collects non-personal information in the form of web analytics, which they share in aggregated form. Cookies and web beacons collect information but do not track the individual user. AddThis says its servers log:- your internet protocol (IP) address.- browser type.- browser language.- the date and time you visited that web page.- if you came to a web page where an AddThis Button is enabled via a search - engine such as Google, the web search that landed you on that web page.The servers also collect information on how often you share content with others using the AddThis platform. In particular, AddThis logs the share options and the subsequent numbers of clicks a shared link gets. The information collected in this way is anonymous and aggregatedThis is aggregated and analysed so that users are categorised into various audience types. Publishers are provided with information on the type of audience that accesses their sites and advertisers can use this information to choose where to advertise. The cookie gives each browser on a user's computer its audience label so that the right sharing tools and targeted ads will appear on the sites with the AddThis plugin installed.Is the data sold to third parties?AddThis shares only non-personally identifiable information with the website publishers who have the AddThis Button enabled on their websites for the purpose of analytics. It provides statistics on sharing trends, and the top content segments shared so that publishers can understand how users share their content and advertisers can better target their ads.It may share any information with third parties if it has "a good faith belief that disclosure of such information is reasonably necessary" to:- satisfy applicable law, regulation, legal process or an enforceable governmental request.- enforce the applicable terms of service, including investigation of potential violations thereof.- detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues.- protect against harm to the rights, property or safety of Clearspring, its end - users or the public as required or permitted by law.It shares non-personally identifiable aggregated information with third parties without restriction.Is the data ever matched to personally identifiable information?The personal and non-personal information are never matched, says AddThis.How long is the data stored by AddThis?This information is stored for between 0 and 14 days depending on how often cookies are flushed from the browser.  It is then aggregated and analysed into 'audiences' and these categories are made available to the publishers and advertisers.Additional information:AddThis has variants to the information collected and terms of sharing depending on whether you log in to its site directly or use its toolbar.It has anopt-out option, which drops a cookie so you would have to disable cookie blockers and not delete your cookies to permanently have this option enabled.Radfar says "cookies are the ultimate anonymous experience" whereas "logging in and filling in your personal details "is far more revealing on a very personal level."Further reading:AddThis privacy policy
What is yieldmanager.com?Yield Manager is an advertising delivery technology operated by Right Media. Since 2007, this has operated as a subsidiary of Yahoo.Right Media runs Yahoo's advertising exchange, allowing advertisers to buy slots on both Yahoo-owned and independent websites that use their Yield Manager service. Once advertising slots have been purchased, Yield Manager also delivers these adverts on to websites.What information does Yahoo track?Right Media has one of theclearest privacy policiesout of all our top 10 trackers, outlining what information Yield Manager records and how it does so.When a browser visits a site that uses Yield Manager, a cookie will be set. This cookie is used to identify whether the browser has loaded an advert and when and where it loaded it.The cookie also records whether the advert was clicked on and whether the person browsing the site bought anything.When an advert is displayed Yield Manager also collects information such as:- the date and time of your visit to the website.- IP address.- the type of browser you are using.- the web page address you are visiting.Right Media says this allows it to know what type of context the advert will appear in (the type of browser, its size and the content). It then keeps this information in a log file for "auditing and fraud detection purposes".The company also uses web beacons embedded into adverts and on advertisers' own pages, so it can track what adverts have been clicked on and what pages that browser then went to on the advertiser's site.The web beacons will also be used in conjunction with cookies to note the type of pages that a browser has been on and, as a result, provide adverts that advertisers believe would be more targeted.Yield Manager itself stores aggregated reports on:- what adverts were served.- date and time they were served.- the websites they appeared on.- the likelihood that they were clicked on.- the types of browsers the advert was shown in.- the location of the browser (inferred from the IP address).Does Yahoo collect personally identifiable information?No, says its privacy policy.Does Yahoo share data with third parties?Copies of log files may be sent to advertisers, clients and certain partners relating to the specific transactions to which they are a party, in order for them to judge how effective an advertising campaign has been, says Right Media's privacy policy.Any information a Yield Manager customer collects as part of their advertising campaigns or as an online publisher belongs to that customer."Malvertising"Unlike some of its competitors, Right Media's privacy policy is explicit about the work it is doing to combat "Malvertising" – malware or computer viruses transmitted through fake advertisements. When these adverts are displayed on legitimate websites (high-profile examples includeThe New York Times in 2009and theLondon Stock Exchange in 2011), they can transfer viruses to a user's computer.This is not done through cookies, web beacons or any other tracking tool. Instead, the malicious code is hosted on a web page and is loaded if an advert is clicked on. Flash-based adverts may also have the ability to load malware without a user clicking on them.Malware damages the credibility of advertising networks and, as a result, Right Media attempts to identify and remove malicious adverts from its networks. However, it is in a cat-and-mouse game, as those that transmit malvertising go to some effort to make the adverts they use appear legitimate.Further reading:Yahoo Ad Preferences ManagerYield Manager Opt Out pageMalvertising: The Use of Malicious Ads to Install MalwareMalvertisements: Who should kill them off?Analyzing and Detecting Malicious Flash Advertisements(pdf)
Somewhere around the release of Saints Row II the meaning of "sandbox" shrank from a description of non-narrative open world gameplay to a euphemism for "GTA clone". But it's tough to think of a better tag for Prototype 2, a game built on gory superhero antics which call to mind nothing so much as the destructive relish, narrative indifference and truck-chucking joy of toddlers playing in the dirt.In the place of tyrant three-year-olds, Prototype 2 has a tyrant army man, a generic vessel of scowls and death called James Heller. Heller is exceedingly cross because Alex Mercer – anti-hero of the first, flawed Prototype game – has caused the death of his wife and daughter, and rather than submitting to a good revenge-knifing has infected Heller with the same Cronenbergian virus that previously caused Mercer to grow giant claws and murder half of New York. With Mercer in the wild like some ultra-hoody from Middle England's nightmares, Heller clenches an ominously rippling fist and determines to uncover the truth behind the virus, and murder the other half of New York.But all this talk of story is misleading. Prototype 2 is a game of action rather than character, and the sacrifice of Heller's family is undertaken with a single aim – to give a man with superpowers a reason to be very angry in the middle of a busy city. Despite laughably sentimental asides ("My little girl…" Heller mourns as he eviscerates another blockful of pedestrians), there isn't a great deal to our protagonist beyond incandescent rage and a great many ways to make people dead.The shortcut description of Prototype's gameplay is GTA with superpowers. Indeed, it's easy to imagine the moment of inception coming during a five-star crime spree on GTA IV; with FBI marksmen and army tanks converging on Niko Bellic, it's a short, spandex "What if…?" to Heller sprinting up skyscrapers and gliding around downtown like a winged monkey.They're just two of Heller's powers in an arsenal that includes, at the low end, absorbing people like fleshy sunscreen and turning fists into giant hammers and, as things get more serious, the ability to turn civilians into splatteringly potent "biobombs," and sticky tendrils capable of flinging giant pieces of military hardware into one other explosively.Prototype 2 has apparently been engineered exclusively for the purpose of breaking things, built to stage extraordinary carnage around a central figure of impossible strength. And on this count it's a definite success – other open worlds with similarly super heroes such as inFamous and Crackdown trail behind in terms of both raw spectacle and the ability to impact, govern and fuel that spectacle. Prototype 2 not only creates wonderful chaos, it makes you feel in charge of that chaos.This is a big improvement on the first Prototype, in which the sandbox felt ill-defined, the raging street battles haphazard and unsatisfying. That game also suffered from a repetitive progression of missions and boss battles, so that the path to eventually god-like powers felt unhappily worn long before it led to anywhere worth visiting.Credit is again due to the sequel, which alleviates this problem with a three-island structure (another loan from GTA) comprising of green, yellow and red zones. The colours indicate the level of viral infection – green means clean, red means dead. Of course, everyone is dead shortly after Heller arrives, but the colour-coding at least allows for three distinct environments, each with their own enemies, hazards and atmospheres.Prototype 2 also boasts a more varied diet of mission types than its predecessor. Sprawling hand-to-hand fights are stacked alongside sneaking infiltration missions (using Heller's ability to assume the form of enemies he's absorbed), city-wide manhunts (showing off Heller's viral sonar) and acrobatic rooftop races. If the mark of a successful open world game is combination of digressional freedom with the ability to marshal players along tight corridors of more managed gameplay, Prototype 2 is at least at the races.It all feels a little more considered. It's harder to set off alarms, even when you gobble a guard grotesquely in peripheral view of his locker buddy, and it's easier to escape when you do, by running up a tower block and turning into that tramp under the bridge that no-one's going to miss. It might not say a lot for Prototype 2's realism, but in a game where exposition mostly takes the form of eating people's minds, that's hardly a major bone of contention.In fact, the only major bone of contention is that the game battles an oppressive sense of meaninglessness throughout. Between ingesting innocents for health boosts and tearing strips out of New York, Heller hasn't so much lost his moral compass as weaponised it and fired it at a nice old lady. The very purity of purpose which makes the game such a fine arcade killbox also renders it unengaging on any level that isn't soggy and littered with stray organs. So while as a destruction simulator Prototype 2 scores very highly, there's a chance that, just like those toddlers in the dirt, you'll get bored after a short while and wander away.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
A selection of 10 new apps for you today:Pip and Posy: Fun and GamesIllustrator Axel Scheffler drew The Gruffalo, but he also has his own popular range of Pip and Posy picture-books. They've now spawned a collection of games and activities for iOS, published by Nosy Crow. Colouring, digital jigsaws, matching pairs and making faces in a virtual mirror using the front-facing camera all feature.iPhone / iPadSamsung Mobile Unpacked 2012Dozens of journalists will be liveblogging the unveiling of Samsung's next Galaxy smartphone on 3 May in London, but anyone with an interest in the news will be able to watch the event live in Samsung's official Android app. Besides the livestream, the app will provide the press release and product info as they're released on the night.AndroideMusicFor now, eMusic's official Android app is US-only, but the company says it has plans to bring it to Europe (and iOS) in the future. People who don't subscribe to eMusic can use it to play their MP3 files, get song recommendations and playlists, and listen to samples from the music service's catalogue, but members can download songs and listen to eMusic radio too.AndroidBlablaCarRidesharing service BlablaCar is popular in Europe, helping drivers with spare seats in their cars hook up with potential passengers. Now its iPhone app is available in the UK, hoping to add to its 1.7m existing members.iPhoneCargo-BotHow's this for meta: "a game about programming, programmed entirely on iPad". Cargo-Bot is the first iPad game to be developed entirely inside a separate app called Codea. The game itself involves teaching a robot how to move crates.iPadWave ControlWave Control is a gesture-based app for controlling music and voice calls on Android smartphones. Play, pause and skip songs by waving a hand across the sensor, or answer, end and reject calls by doing the same.AndroidRange Rover Evoque 2012 BrochureLand Rover has launched an iPad app for its latest Range Rover car, with a mixture of photos, videos and tech specs.iPadFree BooksThe title says it all: this Windows Phone app offers 23,469 e-books from the public domain, from Shakespeare plays to Seneca and Plato philosophy, ghost stories and banned books. It's a port of a popular iPhone app.Windows PhoneMyVoucherCodes.co.uk VouchersBritish discounts site MyVoucherCodes has a new BlackBerry app providing access to discount vouchers in the user's local area, with retailers covered including Pizza Hut, Garfunkel's, Neal's Yard and Frankie &amp; Benny's.BlackBerryDiscriminationPongPong, reimagined as aracistgame? Sounds bizarre, but that's the idea behind DiscriminationPong, which "visualizes discrimination/racism, makes it playable and very tangible". Meaning that the player with the "not-so-white paddle" faces a variety of in-game handicaps to stop them winning.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLack of Google Voice app for Windows Phone isn't just inconvenient &gt;&gt; CNET NewsWant to use Google Voice on your mobile phone? Google has apps for Android, the iPhone, and BlackBerry. But a year-and-a-half after Windows Phone launched, Google still has no plans to support Microsoft's mobile platform."We're focusing our Google Voice efforts on Android &amp; iOS and don't have a plan to extend this to the Windows Phone," Google told me via e-mail, when I asked recently about the lack of support. "This may change if we start to see greater demand from Windows Phone users for Google Voice."Given how tiny a portion of the US market (where Google Voice has the most traction) Windows Phone presently is, that would be a long wait. Danny Sullivan also makes the point that it forces people to use unofficial apps - whose security isn't certain.The Band's ex-tour manager blasts Reddit founder Alexis Ohanian, Kim Dotcom, The Kickstarter "Begging Bowl" &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyHere's how he started his blast:Last week at our debate, I talked about the essential unfairness that my friend and colleague Levon Helm had to continue to tour at the age of 70 with throat cancer in order to pay his medical bills. On Thursday, Levon died and I am filled with unbelievable sadness. I am sad not just for Levon's wife and daughter, but sad that you could be so condescending to offer "to make right what the music industry did to the members of The Band." It wasn't the music industry that created Levon's plight; it was people like you celebrating Pirate Bay and Kim Dotcom - bloodsuckers who made millions off the hard work of musicians and filmmakers.It is a hell of a blast. (Thanks @pauljreynolds for the link.)New Flashback variant continues Java attack, installs without password &gt;&gt; Mac Security BlogIntego has discovered a new variant of the Flashback malware, Flashback.S, which continues to use a Java vulnerability that Apple has patched. No password is required for this variant to install, and it places its files in the user's home folder, at the following locations:~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.java.update.plist~/.jupdateIt then deletes all files and folders in ~/Library/Caches/Java/cache in order to delete the applet from the infected Mac, and avoid detection or sample recovery.The no-password thing is just more drive-by fun. Unclear: prevalence. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Sun's Tim Bray on the day Sun released Java under GPL - "There will be lots of forks and I approve" &gt;&gt; GroklawSo, Google was sincere in wanting to work with Sun. Sun? Apparently it had a more complicated position.But reading the exhibits, you see that an independent implementation was always viewed as possible by Google, Lindholm even mentioning one possibility, just not ideal. In fact, apparently someone in 2010 told Safra Katz of Oracle that maybe Google would just use something else, and this apparently seemed to disturb her, as on page 7 it says the "threat" to move off Java "hit her hard". Of course Google has the technical ability to do pretty much whatever it wants to take on. They're designing driverless cars and how to mine asteroids. I mean. Really. Replacing Java would be annoying but not impossible.p&gt; But part of what Google was trying to make happen in 2009, as you can see on page 30, was getting Sun to "get Java more fully open sourced" which, by then was seen as urgent in that they thought Sun was "going to fail sometime soon." Why did Google care? Because, as one email that year in the same thread pointed out, Google was already highly invested in Java.Replacing Java in Android wouldn't have been impossible for Google, but it would have been very, very, very difficult. This long analysis of nothing-very-much also overlooks the fact that Bray has worked at Google for some years, so presumably could tell its lawyers exactly what parts of Java were GPLd and what weren't. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Xbox 360 found to infringe Motorola patents in preliminary ITC ruling &gt;&gt; The VergeA judge at the US International Trade Commission has just ruled that Microsoft's Xbox 360 infringes five of Motorola's patents. The ruling isn't unexpected, since many of the patent cover H.264 video encoding, which is a standard -- the ITC wasn't persuaded by Microsoft's argument that Motorola will "kill video on the web" by failing its obligation to license the patents under fair and reasonable terms.Not sure whether the ITC has the authority to rule on FRAND issues. Motorola seems to have backed out of its concession to license its H.264 patents on "reasonable" terms; otherwise would they have ever been included in the H.264 patent pool?Opinion: Apple, the iPhone and the future of travel &gt;&gt; ComputerworldJonny Evans:Apple's patented solution is an app called 'iTravel'. It's an integrated iPhone app which will let you reserve types of transport, including flights and hotels; acts as a boarding pass; at baggage reclaim and delivers local information for where you end up. It even - at least, the patent filing describes - allows for personal identification. In other words, your iPhone won't just be your wallet, but your passport, too.The transcript of an intriguing talk.Skype app won't support low-end Windows Phone devices &gt;&gt; WMPoweruserMicrosoft just released the first version of Skype app in Windows Phone Marketplace last night. While most of us will be enjoying the app, the upcoming Windows Phone Tango devices with 256MB RAM such as Nokia Lumia 610 won't have access to this most wanted app. In the release notes by Skype team posted yesterday, they have mentioned that your Windows Phone requires a minimum of 512MB of memory to install and use Skype which basically tells us that Windows Phone Tango devices are not supported.Bummer.How to Be a Horrible Boss &gt;&gt; Diego Basch's BlogThe fact that lots of people still ignore these simple guidelines is what keeps Dilbert in cartoons.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Phew, that's Monday over with. Any gaming action last night, then?
Google's latest doodle, a giant zipper running down the centre of the search engine's homepage, marks the birthday of Gideon Sundback, the Swedish-American electrical engineer most commonly associated with the development of the fastening device that revolutionised the clothing industry.Before Sundback's intervention, the idea for a fastener based on interlocking teeth had circulated among engineers for more than 20 years but no one had perfected it.His innovation was to place a dimple on the underside of each tooth and a nib on the top that would sit securely within the dimple of the tooth above it.As a result, the join between two rows of teeth was then strong because no single tooth has enough room to move up or down and come apart. He also created the manufacturing machine for the new zipper.Born on April 24, 1880, in Småland, Sweden, he moved to Germany following his studies and emigrated in 1905 to the US, where he started to work at Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.A year later, he was hired to work for the Universal Fastener Company in Hoboken, New Jersey, and became its head designer in 1909.Sundback initially proposed the new zipper as a replacement for hook-and-eye fasteners on women's boots but it had become a regular feature for the flies of trousers and on dresses by the 1930s.Sundback died of a heart condition in 1954 and was interred at Greendale cemetery in Meadville, Pennsylvania.
Clear guidelines must be introduced in law to allow the security services and police to intercept social media such as Facebook and Twitter while avoiding the "chilling effect" of state surveillance, according to a former Whitehall intelligence chief.The explosive growth in social media has provided criminals, paedophiles and terrorists a "secret space", warns Sir David Omand, former director of GCHQ, the government's electronic eavesdropping centre, and Whitehall's former security and intelligence coordinator.However, the ability of state security agencies and the police to intercept social network communications such as tweets must be placed on a clear legal footing, he says.A report entitled #Intelligence, published by the thinktank Demos and co-authored by Omand, says existing laws regulating the interception of communications by security agencies and the police needed to be overhauled to meet the new challenges and opportunities presented by social media.Intelligence gathered from social media – which it calls "Socmint" – could be important in identifying criminal activity or threats to the public. But the public needed to be confident it was not being abused."Democratic legitimacy demands that, where new methods of intelligence gathering and use are to be introduced, they should be on a firm legal basis and rest on parliamentary and public understanding of what is involved, even if the operational details of the sources and methods used must sometimes remain secret," says the report."In respect of Socmint these conditions of democratic legitimacy are presently absent," it adds. There was a pressing need to distinguish between information obtained through open sources and information that can only be gathered by eavesdropping – that is, between information that people make openly available on social media sites and information that should be considered private and should be accessed only through warrants issued by a minister or a judge. "Moreover, new and emerging technology potentially allows more invisible and widespread intrusive surveillance than ever before," it adds. "Without an explicitly articulated approach towards generating Socmint based on respect for human rights and the associated principles of accountability, proportionality and necessity, there is a serious risk that this vital confidence and trust will be undermined."The report continues: "There is also the danger that Socmint could result in a chilling effect on the use of social media itself, which would have negative economic and social consequences for the country as a whole."The report is published amid huge controversy over government plans to extend the monitoring of phone calls, emails and internet traffic to social media and Skype."Socmint must be based on a publicly argued and sound legal footing, with clarity and transparency, over use, storage, purpose, regulation and accountability," says the report, whose three authors include Jamie Bartlett and Carl Miller.Introducing the report, Omand suggested that the 2000 Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, the existing statute governing communications intercepts and state surveillance, is out of date.He also emphasised the need to ensure that intelligence is not gathered for political reasons. "After Iraq, we must be sure that if people are engaged in this kind of monitoring, they are doing it for the reasons set out in the authorisation [and that] it has not been politicised," he said.Omand referred to a number of principles he has already laid out governing the activities of the security and intelligence agencies. A version has been adapted and incorporated in the Guardian's own code of practice covering investigative journalism.The principles include sufficient cause and integrity of motive, the methods used must be proportionate to the seriousness of story and its public interest, there must be proper authority – any intrusion must be authorised at a sufficiently senior level and with appropriate oversight – and there must be a reasonable prospect of success.The report's authors point out that last year's riots demonstrated that the police failed to appreciate the opportunities provided by social media used by members of the public who wanted to alert them.
Facebook's earnings and revenues fell in the first quarter of 2012, the company said in aregulatory filingahead of what is expected to be a $100bn stock market sale.The company has been spending heavily in the initial public offering (IPO). It said seasonal factors were also to blame for the slip, as advertisers spent less in the first quarter compared with the last three months of last year.Facebook's revenue in the first three months of the year rose 45% year-on-year to $1.06bn, compared with the first quarter of 2011. But profit during the quarter dropped 12% to $205m from $233m a year earlier as costs soared.Facebook is still growing fast. Advertising revenue was up 37% and payments and other fees rose 98%. The company now has 901 million monthly active users and looks set to hit a billion by the end of the year on current trends.Analyst Sam Hamadeh said the latest profit figures were a "disaster". "This company has done everything it can to have a blowout the first quarter. This is absolutely not what they wanted," said Hamadeh, chief executive of PrivCo, which specialises in private companies.He said Facebook had increased the number of ads its customers see, introduced its new timeline look and made several other attempts to increase profits as the IPO approached."You have to ask: has this company peaked?" he said. "We often say that companies go public too early. Could this one be too late?"Costs and sales and marketing expenses rose – in part related to expanding data centre operations and more people in sales and marketing. For the three months ending 31 March, costs were $677m, compared with $343m for the same period last year.Revenues in the first quarter were 6.5% lower than in the fourth quarter of 2011 and profit down 32% from the end of last year. Facebook said the fall in advertising spending was driven by "seasonal trends".Facebook also gave new details about its purchase of Instagram, which it bought earlier this month. Facebook bought the photo sharing site for $300m in cash and 23 million shares.About 11% of Facebook's revenue for the quarter came from Zynga, the social gaming company. Zynga is set to report its own results on Thursday afternoon, and its numbers will be closely watched for more news on Facebook's fortunes.
Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul has slammed a controversial cyberterrorism bill, calling it "Big Brother writ large" and saying it would make "government spies" of Facebook and Google.The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (Cispa) is due to be heard in the House of Representatives this week and now has the backing of 112 members of Congress.The bill aims to make it easier for US companies and authorities to share information as they tackle online crime. But it has been attacked by civil liberties groups as too broadly written and a threat to the privacy of ordinary citizens.Paul urged his supporters to protest against the bill, pointing to the successfulcampaign against the Stop Online Piracy Act(Sopa) earlier this year."We should never underestimate the federal government's insatiable desire to control the internet," said Paulin an address released Monday."Cispa permits both the federal government and private companies to view your private online communications without judicial oversight provided that they do so of course in the name of cyber-security," he said.The bill was too broadly written and allows the government to use people's information "far beyond any reasonable definition of fighting cyberterrorism," he said.Paul said Cispa was an "alarming form of corporatism" that "further intertwines government with companies like Google and Facebook. It permits them to hand over your private communication to government officials without a warrant. Circumventing the well-known established federal laws like the wiretap act and the electronic communications privacy act.""Simply put, Cispa encourages some of our most successful internet companies to act as government spies, sowing distrust of social media and chilling communications in one segment of the world economy where Americans still lead," said Paul."Imagine having government-approved employees embedded at Facebook, complete with federal security clearances serving as conduits for secret information about their American customers," he said.Paul joins achorus of criticsincluding the White House as well the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Electronic Frontier Foundation and other civil rights groups that have been campaigning against the bill.The bill's primary sponsor, Mike Rogers, toldTalking Points Memothat there was a "strong chance" the bill would be passed by the House this week.
Why are technology products still thought of as "boys' toys" and tech ads often prevalent during football tournaments? More smartphones were bought by women than men in 2010 and a study out today by YouGov andLady Geekhas shown that 79% of women now have the biggest input when buying a new TV for the household.Women are more likely to use an internet-connected TV or Smart TV, more likely to use catchup services and more likely to stream on-demand content. The survey of 1,056 people showed that a man's influence on household technology declines after 35 – around the time when he stops buying toys for himself and starts thinking about his family. For a woman, the opposite happens, with her influence increasing at that age.These stats should become increasingly important to TV manufacturers and content providers.   Yet still older women are about as welcome in a technology store as they are at a boy-scout meeting. But as the battle for the living room heats up, our study shows that neglecting the older female market represents commercial suicide.The whole situation is a byproduct of an age-old problem – there just simply aren't enough women working in technology. Of course, TVs and computers are going to be seen as being "boy's toys". Boys design them, boys make them and boys sell them.There have been many arguments in recent years as to why the technology industry needs to up its game on gender equality, and each of them have their merits. But, ultimately, tech companies are businesses, and if we really want to make a difference we have to start appealing to their wallets. This new study should present enough of a financial incentive to shock the industry into changing its ways and embracing women, before it's too late.The next time I'm locked in a sales scenario with a teenage stat-machine I may just have a figure of my own to throw at him. The estimated cost of neglecting female technology consumers in the UK is a whopping £588 million. Surely worth a few ads of its own.@belindaparmar is the CEO of Lady Geek.
An old rule states that you are a mere six degrees of separation away from anyone else on the planet. For some people, however, the world is even smaller. So let me propose an amendment: you are only one relative, friend or acquaintance away from one of the late Steve Jobs's creations.You may be browsing this on a new iPad, one of the 30m Apple sold last year. Or perhaps you're viewing it on an iPhone screen – which would be unsurprising, since the market analysts at Mintel say that the iPhone 4 is the most popular handset in Britain today. Maybe your children are reluctantly putting away their iPods, of which Apple sells 5m worldwide every three months (a remarkable figure, but half the 10m Jobs and his colleagues were shifting each quarter in 2008 and 2009).And if you've really never done any of those things, rest assured your prime minister has. "The cool thing is that I now control my iMac from the iPad, to play out through the speaker,"David Cameron boasted to the Telegrapha few months after moving into No 10. It was one of those canny-to-the-point-of-irritating references the Old Etonian used to specialise in; a flash of his real-world accreditation.As Cameron knows, Apple is a byword of everyday sleekness. Yet there is another way of viewing the company. Focus instead on the way it does business, and all those iPhones, iPods and iPads aren't just exemplars of design and user-friendliness: they are devices that destroy western jobs. And they do so needlessly, because if the California-based giant manufactured its goods in America rather than China, it could still make profits that would be the envy of every other US business.This is, I know, an unorthodox position. When journalists or politicians discuss the way that western companies make goods in China, or anywhere else in Asia, they almost always start from the premise that this is how business is done nowadays. This is the commonly accepted logic of globalisation, which enables companies to keep their costs down, which allows the ordinary American or Briton to spend less money shopping, and which also offers poorer nations in the east to develop their economies. Expensive shirts might still be made in Italy; high-end kitchens might be assembled in Germany – but the future of mass production inevitably lies in China.Apple has both made and benefitted from that argument. In January, the New York Times ran a lengthy investigation of the technology firm's manufacturing processes, which began by disclosing a conversation in 2011 between Jobs and Barack Obama. The president asked why Apple products could not be made in the US. The most admired man in Silicon Valley was reportedly blunt: "Those jobs aren't coming back."Very few people argued with that assessment. In other ways excellent, the New York Times' piece had an elegiac tone, conveyed by the headlineHow the US Lost Out on iPhone Work. And the following commentary went on in this it's-not-you-it's-me vein. It wasn't Apple's fault it didn't hire Americans to make its goods: it was America's. US workers weren't skilled enough; not enough of them were trained in engineering.All this should be familiar to anyone who's followed the Westminster debate on globalisation, where prime ministers from Thatcher to Blair to Cameron have agreed that if Britain is to attract employers, its workers need to shape up. Students need to brain up and get degrees, adults need to retrain or sharpen up their attitudes. Even then, the British have to prepare for a post-industrial future, where they do the design and marketing and the Chinese (or the Indians, or the Vietnamese) make the goods.Such national self-abasement has the merit of at least feeling like a policy; but it's debatable whether on its own it really will pull in big employers. Apple, after all, used to base its manufacturing in the US. Jobs used to boast about how the Mac was "a machine that is made in America". And according to new research given exclusively to the Guardian by theCentre for Research on Socio-Cultural Change(Cresc), it's clear that it would not only be affordable for Apple still to make its goods in America, it would remain hugely profitable.Using a mix of Apple's own filings and industry data, the academics broke down the cost of making one product in particular: the wildly popular 4G iPhone. Assembled in China, the total cost of putting together just one phone was $178.45. Compare that with a sale price (including downloads) of $630 and Apple makes $452 on each phone: a whacking gross margin of 72%.Chinese labour accounts for a tiny proportion of the company's costs: $7.10 for each phone, which accounts for about eight hours of assembly. So what would it cost to make the same iPhone in America? The Cresc team took the average wage in the US  electronics industry of $21 per hour and calculated that the total production cost would increase to $337.01. That is a big jump – but it still leaves Apple with a gross margin of 46.5% on each iPhone – a level that Cresc's Sukhdev Johal estimates would probably still make it the most profitable phone in the world.So: two models of making one of Apple's most popular products, and two models for distributing the profits. The made-in-America model still leaves the California giant with a profit margin that most companies can only dream of, but would create hundreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs in the US to boot. That may strike you as laughably naive, but it's more akin to enlightened self-interest: just think of the way Henry Ford raised wages so Ford workers could buy his cars.The made-in-China model, on the other hand, has carried no such social benefits, either in Apple's home country or in the People's Republic. Last year, Apple built up cash reserves of $100bn – more than the US government. Indeed, it was so much money that the company was stumped how to dispose of it. Tim Cook, who is now CEO of Apple, announced a few weeks ago that he would begin buying back shares and paying dividends to investors. Among other people who benefited from this arrangement was Cook himself, who was awarded $376.3m in Apple stock when he took over last year. That pile of shares is now valued at around $634m. The people who win from the made-in-China model are big investors and top executives.In the case of Apple, outsourcing manufacturing is not about keeping costs to customers down – they are still paying huge prices for the latest handset or tablet computer. Nor is it about the company's survival: it would still do tremendously well were it to bring those factories back home. No, in the case of Apple, moving jobs offshore  has become a way of directing ever more money to those at the top of American society.This is not just my conclusion, or that of the Cresc team; it is backed up by the Asian Development Bank. In a 2010 study of an earlier model of the iPhone, ADB researchers concluded: "It is the profit maximisation behaviour of Apple rather than competition that pushes Apple to have all iPhones assembled in the PRC."This division of labour has certainly not helped China very much. Foxconn, which makes those iPhones, has to work to an incredibly tough contract with Apple that forces it to keep all costs to a minimum. This surely helps account for why Foxconn, whose client list is almost a Who's Who of the smartphone sector, has had repeated troubles with its workforce, including at least 18 suicide attempts by workers in 2010 alone. After that, and the terrible publicity that followed, Apple put pressure on its subcontractor to raise workers' pay and improve conditions. But it didn't take the most obvious route of doing so, which would be: pay more to Foxconn, and direct it to use that surplus to increase wages.The reason for concentrating on Apple in this fashion is not because it's a terrible company, but because it's an exemplary one. It has become the business success story of our age: the firm others want to emulate, and prime ministers want to name check. And yet there is a paradox here. For all the stylishness and sleekness of its products, the Apple business model is an unattractive and, over the long term, possibly an unsustainable one. It subcontracts work that offers the Chinese little prospect of economic development, while at the same time selling to Americans and others products they want but increasingly don't have the jobs or incomes to buy so readily.Apple's rise to primus inter pares in the business world has coincided with a wider social trend: a general anxiety about the decline of the west. Some of the reasons for why America, Britain and others are on the slide are large and abstract. But some of the factors are smaller and closer to hand, like the iPhone in your pocket or the Mac waiting for you at home.• Cresc is holding a workshop on the "Apple Business Model" at Senate House, University of London on Wednesday
Among those who loved the ZX Spectrum: Barry (aka Kev) Adams, who was the banjo/guitar player for Dexy's Midnight Runners (you know - Geno, Come On Eileen…), which makes this a proper 1980s fest. I asked for people to send over their memories, and here they are - we've used full names where people have given their permission.Here's howKev(as he now is)Adamsrecalls it:1982 was a pretty big year for us, so as you can imagine we were busy preparing and then promoting the album Too-rye-ay. After "Come on Eileen" succeeded, I had some money for the first time in my life and I splashed out on a Spectrum :-) It didn't come on tour but I bought a few games for it initially, did the whole typing in of long programme listings - not only tedious but too often riddled with typos so you'd have to wait until the following magazine to get the corrections or fix them yourself. Or get my younger brother to do it :-) I was curious enough to want to do more with it and learned to programme in Sinclair Basic and even dabbled in Z80 machine code/assembly language.As the years rolled by I stuck with it and had an 8-bit drum machine called the Specdrum, a primitive 8-bit sampler and even bought a MIDI expander for it but that was pretty poor and unreliable so I decided I had to upgrade and eventually bought an Atari St for MIDI music.It was something I was drawn to, really, and although I progressed from Spectrum, Atari St, Amiga, countless PCs and Macs - mostly for music initially, but I was drawn to programming and discovered I had an aptitude for it. You always have a soft spot for your first love and that's how it feels for the Spectrum I guess :-) It kicked off my love of computers.(Jump to the end if you want to be reminded of what Come On Eileen looked like on Top Of The Pops.)Luke Milerof Adsie:I am Polish and as you probably know, back in 1982 we were one gray communistic silo... I think I was one of ten or something in the whole country when I got my ZX Spectrum when I was four years old in 1984. At that time it was illegal to even travel outside Poland and but my father was "mariner" (as we used to called fathers who were able to go abroad since they were working on foreign ships.. my father was electrician). He bought ZX Spectrum what his ship was docking in Canada, along with Kempston joystick and three game cassettes and smuggled it to Poland (it was also illegal to purchase and bring and goods from western countries to Poland)... Later I learnt the ZX was worth his monthly salary but my father wanted his children (me and my little brother who was 1 yo then) to have a chance to experience this new digital magic... And boy it was magic... we didn't get it really and the games were really hard and we were *trying* to play those (I remember when I was 5 or 6 when I realized what thatJetpackis all about:)... but imagine the whole grey communistic country when you are getting limits to buy meat and bread in the shops (people were standing in 12hour lines for those)... where you cannot travel and [have only a] pale idea what computers are... and two small kids and their father loading this cassette that bring colourful magic to them...It gave me my entire passion for computers... the digital beauty that one can create... and idea that there is the beauty and magic even though everything you can see are the shades of gray... and those cassettes... I still have them, inspiring me every day and reminds me of the magic we have discovered and can now create as well…Chris van der Kuyl,chairman of 4J Studios (currently making Minecraft for Microsoft Xbox 360) and CEO of brightsolid.:Unlike the rest of the country I am one of the lucky ones who live in Dundee where the Spectrum was manufactured by Timex. That meant we were all able to get them for a tenner and a pack of fags round the back door of the plant.I personally had six which was how I learned to code and set me off on my future career path.Paul:I was 9 years old when my grandmother gave me a ZX Spectrum for Xmas. I was completely hooked, instantly, very quickly graduating from playing games to writing them myself in BASIC. As soon as one was invented, I bought a hardware add-on for the Spectrum to turn it into a sound sampler (with 1.2 seconds sampling time!) which mesmerised me and introduced me into the world of music creation.30 years later, my love of computers, ignited by the spectrum, has led to my founding my own software company; building websites and online applications for customers as diverse as Sony and Volkswagen Group, as well as many small artisan companies.That sound sampler kicked off another passion that never waned, and by night I'm a dubstep producer, making tunes on Canadian record label Altosync; back in the nineties I also produced a UK Hip Hop crew, signed to German record label Blitz Vinyl.I can certainly say that that single gift, the Spectrum, pointed me in a direction that I've followed unswervingly for 30 years – I've no idea where my life would have gone without it!Stuart Palmer, Tobytek:Currently I write apps for iOS, before that (and still) web design/development, before that being a Technical Specialist for a major UK financial.I remember lunchtimes spent in the library at school learning how to code basic, and writing 500 lines of code to program games that didn't work! (and subsequently going back and fixing them!).Nigel Little, Distinctive Developments:I remember seeing the ZX Spectrum at a friend's house (at age 11) and pestered my parents for months in order to get one myself (Another of my friends has a BBC Micro but I knew that was out of reach due to it's price). I had the Spectrum for maybe 5 years and during that time it cemented the belief that when I left school I wanted to be involved in computing. I learnt a lot about games; what made a good game and what made a bad game (me and my friends played a LOT of games). And I also learnt to program using it.I eventually moved onto bigger and better computers but the one that really got me hooked on computers and made me imagine my future career was the Spectrum.When I left school at 18 I got a job making computer/video games and then 5 short years later set up my own games development studio.That studio, Distinctive, is still very much alive and well. Indeed, our latest game 'Downhill Xtreme' is currently sitting at number 4 in the Free Apps chart in the UK Apple App Store.Lee Richardson:The one thing that has always remained consistent since I was nine years old is the use of piracy (or taping as we called it) to obtain software. My uncle would send us early Psion software which he could copy as he had a tape to tape hi fi. As more of my friends at school got Spectrums within a few years we had a pretty big circle of games copiers. If someone had a new game pretty soon everyone in the circle would have their own copy of it.  I would maybe get only one or two games a year as presents from relatives and most birthday presents would comprise of simple blank tapes which I would then tirelessly fill with software and distribute.Interestingly I didn't know anyone who actually bought their games brand new. I guess there must have been a rich kid at the top of the chain somewhere but I never met him.  Over the years I amassed a collection of games that ran into the hundreds if not thousands, often with hand copied manuals (this was before the days of photocopiers) and even hand copied code pages designed to deter pirates.I seem to remember the only games we couldn't copy wholesale were the Lenslock (a small plastic lense that made a code appear when you placed it over a garbled image) games (I think Elite was one of these). But we simply got round this by lending the master copy round as soon as we had finished or (usually) got bored with the game.I never ever considered what I was doing to be stealing or even morally dubious. My parents obviously encouraged this piracy as it saved them a lot of money. A few blank BASF tapes could store maybe a hundred games. Interestingly I still have no idea how much games in those days sold for. We were a pretty poor family and my dad slaved away to save the money (I think it was approaching £100 for a 16k Spectrum in 1983). His thinking was that because it was a programmable system (as opposed to the cartridge only Atari's and their ilk) me and my brother would be able to program our own games and software routines. He guided us through the first few pages of the manual and then we were on our own. Within a year or so we had taught ourselves both BASIC programming and machine code.  I doubt any nine year olds nowadays would have the patience to do that.Anyway, my main point is that my piracy has been pretty consistent throughout the last 30 years. Nowadays I pirate most PC games, play them a bit (effectively demo-ing them) and if I don't like them then I just delete them. I will only buy a game if its multiplayer component is un-piratable or if it's a small indie developer which I want to support. I'm not going to shovel my money into a big EA shaped hole in the ground. I think though, even if I was a high earner, I would still pirate software as it's something I've been doing for most of my life and I enjoy the illicit nature of it.So really that is Sir Clive's legacy to me.Thanks for reading, i'm now going to celebrate 30 years of glorious Spectrum genius by playing a ported Lunar Jetman on my iPad. (which interestingly seems to have made it onto the app store even though it is a direct copy of Ultimate Play the Game's original and it gives no credit to them or indeed has permission to use the original code)Alec Meer,editor ofRockPaperShotgun.com:My colleagues and I on bewilderingly successful PC gaming site RockPaperShotgun.com all owe its existence, and our respective 15-year-and-counting careers in games journalism, to formative gaming experiences with the ZX Spectrum. In fact, the reason we're all writing about PC games as opposed to Xbox/Playstation stuff is the direct line from the weird and wonderful, homemade essence of Speccy games to today's crazed indie games and mods on PC.James Nugent, Google:My Spectrum was a gift from my parents as a kid.  I can have only been 10 or so and it submerged me instantly into computing.  Whereas other kids were given musical instruments to learn, I guess you can trace all of my studies and career to-date (including now working at Google) back to that decision from my parents.I now work [at Google] on ChromeOS - the fledgling operating system here at Google.  If we create anything that comes close to having a fraction of the impact of the Speccy, we'll have done a good job.Rory Sinclair, asmallworld.net:I blame my brothers.  I have two older brothers, 8 and 10 years older than me, who had a ZX Spectrum, and plenty magazines with code listings in them for the games they wanted to play.  What they didn't want to do is have to type in the code listings.  So they asked me if I 'wanted to play' with the computer.  This translated to sitting typing in their code listings for them, and since it was such a mind-numbing task, I started to wonder what all these weird symbols meant; what would happen if I put in a 2 instead of a 1, that sort of thing.After that, I started to write my own games, for fun, then went off to university and did a Computing Science degree.  Fast forward 10+ years, i'm now Head of Technology for a social networking website, and still love coding.John Mullins:Back in the early eighties I worked in a retail outlet that sold the ZX Spectrum. I took one home, bought a few books, taught myself how to program and within a year or so had started writing games for a living. Actually 'for a living' is a bit of a stretch, to start with we earned just about enough to pay for pizza and coke to keep us fuelled up for marathon coding sessions. Still living at home with your parents was a big help. Eventually though we actually started to earn enough to get a mortgage, buy a car (no Ferraris though) and have a fairly decent lifestyle. I worked for fifteen years in games before moving in software tool development and have worked for Imagination Technologies for the last ten or so years.Without the Spectrum I'm not sure where I might have ended up, but it certainly changed the direction of my career.And to round off the memories - yet another person who made it onto Top Of The Pops thanks to the Spectrum. Welcome John Mathews:I once battled with Cliff Richard for the Christmas number 1 withthis song.14 years previously, I'd composed my first (rather abstract) piece on the Spectrum's monophonic bleepchip. During the Cuban Boys fortnight at the top, the term "ZX Spectrum" was used perjoratively by A&amp;R men [Artist &amp; Repertoire - the "talent spotters" in music labels] to describe some of our more synth-pop tracks.Fascinated? Here's the songAnd of course the not to be forgottenCome On Eileen. Kev is on the banjo/guitar on the right of the stage…EnjoyAnd the final question is: in 30 years' time, are we going to feel the same way about theRaspberry Pi?
What is adnxs.com?Adnxs.com is run byAppNexus, a company that provides technology, data and analytics to help companies buy and sell online display advertising.The technology it uses can plug into other advertising serving platforms, such as Google's Doubleclick, and "data aggregators", such as Quantcast, which provide behavioural targeting. In essence, this makes AppNexus an an "advertising exchange for advertising exchanges".AppNexus offersa number of different services, including:Ad exchangeAn auction marketplace where advertisers can bid for ad slots on certain websites.Data aggregator/supplierThe company collects data from a range of online and sometimes offline sources and provides data to advertisers directly or via its exchange.Demand-side platformTechnology provider that enables advertisers to buy ad inventory from other ad exchanges.What information is AppNexus tracking?The company says it uses cookies and web beacons to build groups of users (segments) that are used to target advertising.It is not entirely clear from AppNexus's website or privacy policy under what circumstances someone is likely to have an AppNexus cookie set on their browser. However, it is not too wild an assumption to make that the cookie is set when a browser visits websites that use the AppNexus service or related ad exchanges.Web beacons may also appear on these websites and work in conjunction with the cookies to identify the types of pages a browser is visiting. It is also possible that web beacons may be included in advertising that is using the AppNexus service to provide data about the success of the adverts and whether browsers who clicked on adverts then went on to buy anything.According to its page on cookies, information that may be tracked about about a browser include:- a unique identifier (so a browser can be recognised when it appears on another website using AppNexus' services).- what adverts the browser has seen.- what page the browser was on when they saw the advert.- when the browser saw the advert.- whether the advert has been clicked or not.- what type of pages the browser has visited (to build up an idea of what content might be used).- IP Address (to infer location).Is the data sold to third parties?On AppNexus' website, it mentions that it allows customers to match data that has been collected through the company's services with data from other services.This is the complicated world of cookie matching – where two services willshare the same ID for a browser.AppNexus says it only shares data when it is aggregated into a report or when required by law (this is the same for all organisations that store data).Is the data ever matched to personally identifiable information?No, says AppNexus.How long is the data stored by AppNexus?Data obtained by AppNexus are owned by their customers. Any data in the platform is retained in non-aggregated form for up to 12 months. Aggregated data, which AppNexus uses to create reports and analysis, may be stored for up to three years.Further reading:AppNexus Platform Privacy CodeAppNexus Cookies explainedAppNexus Opt-OutEvidon factsheet on AppNexus"Mike on Ads" - the website of AppNexus co-founder and CTO Mike Nolet
We saw a lot from google.com in our crowdsourced data, but there is still some confusion as to why it might have been there. It is likely to be one of two things: Google Analytics and Google+. Both of these also rank highly in Evidon'sKnowYourElementssite, which lists some of the most prolific trackers used on the web.What are Google Analytics and Google +1?Google Analyticsis a tool that can be used by website publishers to better understand how people are using their website. It is also used by Google to better understand the performance of its own websites.The Google +1 button is a social sharing tool that website owners install on their pages to make it easier for people to share their content on theGoogle+ social network.What information are they tracking?Google AnalyticsThe Google Analytics cookie will store a unique identifier – so the website can recognise you if you visit again – as well as information about the pages the browser visits; when the browser is seen on the website; how long the browser was seen on the website; the IP address (which can allow the Google Analytics to infer the browser's location), and what site the browser was looking at before arriving at the site (the referring url).By default, this information is shown to website publishers through the Google Analytics tools and is not shared with anyone else. It is a first-party cookie.The website owner can, however, also opt to share analytics data with Google. This information helps Google learn more about the advertising market and, in return, the websites that share their data get access to tools that improve the effectiveness of any advertising or paid search terms they buy from Google.Website owners can also add their anonymised analytics data to a Google-owned pool of information on sites in similar industries. If they elect to do this,Google will send them a benchmarking report.Google+If a browser visits a website that is using Google's +1 button, a Google cookie is set (whether or not the Google+ button is clicked). This, says Google, is the "Google Preferences cookie", set even if a user is not signed in to a Google account. Its conventional use is to remember preferences associated with Google services, such as your language and whatlevel of Safe Searchyou might be using.Google say this cookie is also now being used to record when and where the +1 button is loaded in order "to maintain and debug its systems". This cookie expires after about two weeks.Is the data ever matched to personally identifiable information?No, says Google. But, if you click a +1 button this would, of course, be linked back to your Google+ ID. In this case Google+ will take the ID of your Google profile (obtained from the cookie that stores your Google account ID), the URL you +1, your IP address, and "other browser-related information".Depending on yourpersonalisation settings, Google+ may use this to show other people in your circles that you have clicked that button.Is the data sold or given to third parties?Websites may share anonymised analytics data with Google and other companies (see above). No data from Google+ is sold or given to third parties, says Google.Further reading:Google Analytics: Safeguarding your dataHow does Google use cookies for Google AnalyticsCookies &amp; Google Analytics(a more detailed list of the cookies used)Google Analytics opt-out browser extensionGoogle+ privacy informationInformation on +1 on non-Google websitesGoogle +1 personalisation settings
What is twitter.com?The prevalence of twitter.com in our data is almost certainly due to its social buttons ("share" or "follow"), which feature on web pages across the internet. These appear to use web beacons.What information is twitter.com tracking?Fromits privacy policy, it's not entirely clear. The assumption is that the information Twitter can obtain from these buttons is similar to that which can be obtained by Facebook and Google+ sharing buttons (which are clearer about what they do in their privacy policies).If you have an account with Twitter, you will have a cookie set on your browser providing a unique ID. This will also record if you are signed in to Twitter or not.If you visit a page that uses Twitter social sharing, this cookie can be used by the social sharing buttons to identify your account.If you interact with a Twitter share button, twitter.com will record log data such as your Twitter account ID, IP address, browser type, and the website you were on.What is a bit unclear is how this data is used (if at all) in aggregate. It is also unclear what happens if a browser loads Twitter sharing buttons but is not logged in to Twitter or does not click any of the buttons.How long is the data stored for?If it's not deleted earlier, Twitter says it will delete log data – or will anonymise it (remove any common account identifiers, such as your username, full IP address, or email address) – after 18 months.When a Twitter account is deleted, it will remain retrievable for 30 days (in case it was accidentally deactivated). After this, the account begins to be deleted; this can take up to a week.Does Twitter circumvent privacy enhancing software?No, Twitter says: "Some recent news coverage has focused on companies blocking privacy-enhancing software or circumventing privacy settings. We intend to do the opposite by building privacy enhancements into our products and policies."Twitter has publicly announced plans to update its privacy guidelines after it was discovered in February that some iPhone applications had the ability to download and store theentire contents of your address book.Further reading:Twitter's privacy policyWall Street Journal article on tracking potential of sharing buttonsDeveloper notes on the tweet buttonDeveloper notes on the follow button
What is facebook.com?This question doesn't really need answering, but what is interesting is how this social network uses cookies on other websites – especially if you do not have a Facebook account.What information is facebook.com tracking?The Facebook tracker that appears in our data is not for targeted advertising. In fact, Facebook explicitly told us it has no need for such a thing – the information its users willingly volunteer on the platform is a far richer resource for advertising.The tracker we are seeing in our data is, most likely, from Facebook's "social plugins". These are tools that link back to Facebook in some way, such as the "like", subscribe" or "recommend" buttons.They appear on other websites through the use of "iframes", a very common way of embedding content on to a web page. In order for this to load, Facebook's servers will know the page, the time and date it was loaded and the browser IP address.According to the December 2011Irish Data Protection Commission (DPC) audit(PDF) of Facebook, the cookies that are set and the data required by these plugins can differ.If you do not have a Facebook account and your browser has loaded a facebook.com page, then no cookie is set when you browse a page with social plugins.If you do not have a Facebook account but your browser has visited a facebook.com page in the past, three cookies would have already been set on your browser. One is for security purposes and the other two are used to track registration effectiveness. If a user later decides to create an account, the aim is to find out what convinced them to do it. This is done by recording the first and last Facebook pages the browser visited.If you have a Facebook account, you will have a cookie set on your browser containing a unique ID that relates back to your profile. If you have checked "keep me logged in", the cookie will also record this.When you visit a page with a social plugin,it will check that cookie. If you are signed in, it will use your unique ID to show you how many of your friends have clicked on the like button and whether or not you have liked the page yourself.Controversy erupted late last year around this cookie, as it was discovered that a user's unique IDwas not deleted when they signed out of Facebookand so could be read when a page with social plugins was loaded. Facebook says this has now been changed.Is the data ever matched to personally identifiable information?If you click on a Facebook "like" or "share" button, this is displayed on your Facebook wall. In order to do this, Facebook has to match this action with your account details. This is done through the log-in cookie.How is the data used? Is the data sold to third parties?Information about the social plugins you have clicked will be shown to your friends, both on Facebook or on the site that you clicked the button on. In itsvideo introduction to social pluginsFacebook says this is not shared with anyone else.Facebook say your information is not shared with third parties. If you add content to Facebook, you own the data.Due to concerns that Facebook may be using social plugins to influence its advert targeting,the Irish DPC tested web pages(PDF) with "like" or "share" buttons on them (p184-185). It concluded:- Browsing websites that had share buttons did not appear to influence the advertising targeted at a user.- Pressing the "like" button either on a Facebook page or on a page with a social plugin mayinfluence the advertising targeted at the user.- The advertising targeting appears to be focused on particular Facebook pages and/or veryspecific keywords.- Browsing to a  category of websites or interests (e.g. "parenting/childcare" or "motorcycles") did not appear to have any influence on the advertising targeted at a user.What other ways does Facebook track? What information?Facebook lists all the ways it receives information about users in itsData Use Policy.How long is the data stored for on Facebook's servers and on the individual's browser?Data associated with your Facebook account is stored for as long as that account is active. When you delete an account, it is permanently deleted from Facebook. It typically takes about one month to delete an account, but some information may remain in backup copies and logsfor up to 90 days.Can Facebook give one example of how tracking genuinely benefits the people being tracked?"We don't track people", says Facebook, adding that cookies are useful for:- Security and site integrity.- Optimising the way a Facebook page displays in your browser [by storing browser window dimensions].- Enabling a user to stay logged-in on a device they use frequently, such as a home computer.- Making it easy for users to sign in to Facebook – for example, by auto-filling the email field of the login form.- Recognising when a person is accessing Facebook from an unfamiliar device – this then enables additional security features.Further reading:The Irish Data Protection Commission Audit, December 2011IDPC Technical Analysis ReportBlog post by Nik Cubrilovicthat sparked controversy about tracking signed-out users (See also the official Facebook response in the comments)USA Today - Facebook Tracking Under Scrutiny(from November 2011)
