"With 2008 now more than two weeks old, it's a great time to look back at last year and see how the web has changed. What sites experienced a surge of traffic in 2007? Has anyone fallen off the map? We compared the top 1000 sites in December 2007 with those in December of the previous year to find out," says theCompeteblog.A couple of video porn sites are doing well -- Redtube and Youporn -- along with Veoh. The dating sites, iamfreetonight.com and datehookup.com, also showed huge growth. TechCrunch, the tech blog, grew by 3,240%, which is amazing.And although Facebook got most of the headlines in 2007, it's interesting to see that LinkedIn grew by 1,048% and the smaller Cafemom by 2,320%.Some big-hitters declined, including Nextag, Mcafee, Netscape, Xanga and Vonage.
The third and last CDW Windows Vista Tracking Poll, performed by Walker Information, shows that Windows Vista is getting some take-up. The number of organisations "evaluating and testing" Vista has increased from 29% in February 2007 to 48%, and "30% of organizations are currently implementing or have implemented Vista," against 12% last time. Of those using or evaluating, 74% expect to complete the move to Vista during the next 12 months.CDW also says: "Windows Vista is delivering on expected benefits, with nearly 50% of evaluators/implementers reporting performanceaboveexpectations on key features." Of course, we don't know what they were expecting. If they've been reading the hate on the web, they might be surprised to discover that the world'ssecond most popularoperating system is extremely stable and works well.The survey also turned up a strong move to Office 2007, with 24% having upgraded already and another 23% planning to upgrade.CDW is a US-based Fortune 500 supplier of computer equipment and services, and the survey was conducted at the start of November. The sample size was 772 "IT decision makers" including small and large businesses, state and local government, and K-12 and higher education. The margin for error is +/- 3.5% at a 95% level of confidence. Given three surveys conducted in the same way (Waves 1-3), thetrendsshould be pretty robust.CDW has posted apress releasefor the third Vista survey:Halfway Home: CDW Tracking Poll Shows Windows Vista Gaining Traction in the Mainstream Business Market.Meanwhile at ZD Net blogs, Mary Jo Foley has posted a summary of the state of play ot the next version,Counting to (Windows) 7. As she says:First off, Microsoft officially is refusing to say anything at all about Windows 7. They aren't confirming, aren't denying. They just aren't talking about it. Period. They want to talk about Windows Vista and -- to a much lesser extent -- Vista Service Pack (SP) 1.Quite what will be in Windows 7 is anyone's guess. Vista changed a lot of XP's subsystems, so Microsoft isn't going to change them again. The kernel will be basically the same as Server 2008. Microsoft can add a few features off theWindows wish-list, as described atArs Technica, but none of those are biggies.So the obvious thing to do is to spruce up the user interface and speed up or remove some of the animations supplied as standard (they'll still be there for those who want them, and yes, you can already turn them off). The animations mean Vista will always be "slower" on automated tests that basically open and close windows, while telling you nothing useful about the actual operating system.It just needs to have enough of anot Vistaappearance so that thenot Vista peoplecan adopt it, without actually downgrading the kernel, the usability or the security to the level of XP. Not that it makes that much difference to Microsoft. Companies on its Software Assurance scheme have already paid for Vista, and will pay for Windows 7, whether they use it or not, while OEMs want to sell the new stuff because that's how they make more money.
The Democratic debate in Nevada last week was all sweetness and light. Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards sat around the same table and smiled at each other. Praise for their rivals, not fresh attacks, was the name of the game.Which, of course, was exactly the impression all the candidates wanted to send out to the viewing public. Each campaign wanted to appear presidential and above the fray, not throwing low punches at rivals. However, beneath the calm a fierce and brutal proxy war is being waged across both the Republican and Democratic contests. It involves an intricate web of surrogate groups, websites, blogs and emails and its emergence into the day-to-day operations of an American election is a revolutionary phenomenon.This underground battle is fought mostly on the internet and involves attacking opponents every bit as much as pushing candidates. Unlike televised debates, on the internet no one needs to play nice. 'We are seeing candidates use these proxies as a political weapon,' says Jack Lule, a journalism professor at Pennsylvania's Lehigh University.Typical of this new tool is Hillaryis44.org. The website, which gets its name from hoping Clinton will be America's 44th president, has no provable link with the Clinton campaign. In fact, its creator is a mystery. But it is lavishly produced, slavishly for Clinton and virulent in its attacks on Obama. It has lengthy posts alleging his involvement in shady property deals in Chicago and urges visitors to publicise negative things about his campaign.But Hillaryis44 is hardly alone in the exploding new universe of negative campaigning on the internet. Similar websites have been set up against Republican candidates such as Mike Huckabee, Rudy Giuliani and John McCain. Some are vicious, some more subtle. They allege false positions or character assassinations. Some blog posts have even carried details of one male Democratic candidate's alleged extra-marital affair (for which there is no proof). They go far beyond what the mainstream media will report on and, just as importantly, what rival candidates themselves will say in public. Candidates can deny any link to the sites even as they do their job for them.It is this 'plausible deniability' that is key to their attraction because, while negative campaigning works, it is also widely despised by the electorate. 'It's all about getting someone else to do your dirty work. It has to be a subtle game. You plan this stuff but don't want it traced back to you,' says Lule.The phenomenon is just one other way the internet is changing how American elections are fought. Having already revolutionised the way campaigns make money, it is set to change how candidates get their messages out and take down rivals. Experts have compared it to the way that the emergence of TV and radio changed politics in the Twenties, when politicians realised these new media could be used for political purposes.'Society is reacting in the same way as it did to film, radio and TV. The science of communication simply cannot yet keep up with or predict the scale of the changes this will bring,' says Bruce Gronbeck, a communications professor at the University of Iowa.But neither can the campaigns themselves. Just as the internet is liberating candidates to put out messages they could not in traditional media, the freedom of the internet means they might also lose control of those messages.The main example of this has been the whispering online campaign which alleges that Obama is a secret Muslim. Many ordinary voters have received emails making the demonstrably false claim and it is unclear whether the origins of the messages were from Democrats, Republicans or just one individual. But they forced Obama to publicly restate his Christian faith.Whatever the source, emails have a life of their own, beyond anyone's control. Just receiving them has resulted in the resignation of several officials from Clinton's campaign when it became clear they had forwarded them on. 'That's the problem. They are viral. We don't know if they began that way or were planned,' says Gronbeck.At the moment much of the war on the internet is aimed at generating, or influencing, the election coverage of the mainstream media. It wants to force issues into newspapers and television coverage. But as the phenomenon develops and more campaigning takes place on the internet, it is possible that the old mainstream media will actually be sidelined by what happens online. That is when the proxy underground war might become the real thing.Even so far, that is not a pretty picture. But experts think that when the nomination process is over and the real Republican versus Democrat contest begins, it will be even nastier. 'The presidential race will be dirtier than the run-up. There will be even more of this stuff then,' says Lule.
Thanks to Vauxhall's new DualFloor system, smuggling things just got that little bit easier. At least, until the Customs people find out about it. But who's going to tell them? For now, it's our little secret.Here's how it works. You open the boot of your new, 1.3 diesel-engined, fabulously economical and altogether good-value Vauxhall Corsa, and everything looks perfectly normal. Just a stretch of grey industrial carpeting running all the way to the back of the rear seats.But wait. This is no ordinary grey industrial carpeting. This is grey industrial carpeting that lifts out. Or, perhaps better (to use the language of children's fiction), this is grey industrial carpeting that slides away to reveal another world - a snowy place, peopled by strange creatures of the ice and terrible lions. Well, another boot, anyway, dipping lower into the bodywork.And the public face of this idea is that, when you've got just a suitcase to put in the back of your Corsa, you will enjoy the stretch of grey industrial carpeting, which comes flush to the bottom of the boot lid, thereby enabling you to slide the suitcase in and out without doing any complicated lifting.When, however, you have several suitcases, or a particularly big suitcase, or perhaps a new dishwasher, or anything, really, requiring greater boot depth... well, then you'll be made up, too, and right to the very edge of smugness, because you have Vauxhall's patented DualFloor system, and therefore your grey industrial carpeting is actually a portal to greater load capacity.It's not the only surprise accessory on the new Corsa. You can also request the Flex-Fix system, which is invisible until you pop it out from behind the rear bumper, at which point it becomes a rack for stacking a brace of bikes - the kind of all-out, life-embracing announcement that you would commonly need an MPV or SUV, rather than a cosy hatchback, to make.I've got to say, I'm often tempted to strap bikes to my car - not because I often need to take bikes anywhere, but because I would like to give the impression that I was the kind of person who did. A bike on a car always says rugged and active things about the people within, as well as revealing them to be manfully fearless about straps and screws. It's a good image.Also, it's hard for even the most militant ecologist to take exception to a car with a bike on it. If the Bugatti Veyron, the world's fastest production supercar, had a bike rack on its bumper, with a partly disassembled mountain bike or two up there, people would cheerfully flag it through without a blink. My impression is that we could see a bit of vogue for bike-carrying on inappropriate vehicles in the coming years.Still, driving this new 1.3 diesel version of the Corsa, you wouldn't need to go to unusual lengths to claim a few of those important green credentials. Its perfectly forceful-enough engine seems to use almost no fuel at all - to the point where you wonder whether it is somehow using another car's fuel without telling you. And it expels carbon dioxide so meekly that it drops itself into the &pound;35 tax bracket. More good reasons to ignore those irritating knitted puppets in the TV campaign and welcome the Corsa warmly.
The US Army has announced that it will be holding a Halo 3 tournament in association with Microsoft, which is due to take place this spring on Xbox Live, its online gaming platform. As well as letting players compete, the army will be supplying training, with sessions on basic combat techniques, sniper school, heavy weapons and use of vehicles available to those taking part in preparation for the big event. Quite what the Pentagon hopes to gain from this has not been made clear, and any desire to create an army of videogame-trained super soldiers has not so far been confirmed via official channels. Since the British Army has made no similar moves, and this tournament is only open to American gamers, we can only remain spectators to the silliness on this occasion. For those still curious, additional information has been posted atwww.xbox.com/usarmy.
Michael Cross (We need vision for next generation broadband, not complacency, Technology, January 17) is unduly pessimistic. It is true that major investment is needed to support the seismic changes that we anticipate in the way we work, communicate and entertain ourselves. For policy-makers, however, the uncomfortable truth is that - for all our crystal ball gazing - we have little to go on in predicting the level of demand for super-fast broadband services. Until we do - and regardless of whether commercial sector or the taxpayer foots the bill - investment on the scale mooted looks a risky bet. Until a critical mass of people are living and working with such services on a day-to-day basis, anticipating demand is a highly speculative business.A policy catch-22? Not quite. Virgin Media already provides a highly versatile fibre-rich "next generation" broadband network to half of the UK, with the technical capabilities to match that of any other country. This network already supports over 140 TV channels, 4,300 hours of video-on-demand content, home phone services and a 20 megabit per second broadband service. But we've barely scratched the surface of this network's potential. That will change later this year with the launch of a new 50 megabit per second broadband service across 75% of our customer base.Daily use of this service will provide a real-world testbed for understanding consumer behaviour and demand. If consumers respond positively, it will stimulate competitive investment across the industry. If they don't, we surely have to conclude that the need for super-fast broadband is not adequate to justify a massive state handout.Howard WatsonChief technology officer, Virgin Media
NiGHTS: Journey Of DreamsNintendo WiiThe near-legendary original NiGHTS was released on the dear old Sega Saturn and came with one of the world's first analogue joypads. Its gameplay involved flying Harlequinesque character NiGHTS in a series of elegant loops and dives to eliminate enemies, fly through lines of hoops in the sky and pick up gems for higher scoring chains. The new version ought to be right at home on the Wii, with its pioneering, arm-waving control scheme, and indeed the levels that involve piloting NiGHTS, either to chase after a giant bird or score increasingly large chains to impress a blue octopus, work beautifully. Sadly, the other bits aren't nearly as accomplished, including those where you use NiGHTS to sweep up big blobs of water floating in the air or, worse, the ground-based platform levels, which feel like padding compared with the effortless grace of the flying sections. NiGHTS was always a quirky one, and so it remains in its latest incarnation.&#183;Sega, &pound;39.99Omega FiveXbox Live ArcadeFrom Japanese masters Hudson comes a very Japanesey, balls-out, side-scrolling shooter of the variety that was very popular in the 1980s. You fly with one stick and direct a relentless stream of digital destruction with the other, a familiar mechanic to the many fans of Geometry Wars or Smash TV. Everything has been pumped up to epic proportions, with vast powered-up ordnance creating even more screen-filling explosions and giant robotic beasts attacking from all sides, including the background. The two keys, as in most games like this, are to work out which weapon to collect when, and to learn the patterns of incoming enemies, who never deviate from their set routines. The other thing that feels distinctly old school is the savagery of its difficulty level and limit of two credits. Seeing even the end of level two will be a serious test.&#183;Hudson, 800 Microsoft Points (approx &pound;6.80)
Question:I've finally decided to get a personal DAB radio player, since I can no longer listen to BBC radio online at work. The trouble is that the shows I like most are on at times I can't tune in. Can you recommend a good device that can record?Answer:DAB is pretty power hungry, which means there aren't many pocket-sized radios with recording functions around. One good bet might be the Oono MiniDAB player (currently &pound;79 fromadvancedmp3players.co.uk), which can do on-the-go or timed recording and has MP3 playback. Many shows are available to download as podcasts, too, which could help you cue them up before you even leave the house.Question:I got an Apple laptop this Christmas and wondered what security software you'd recommend, if any: some people say Apple machines don't need antiviral and firewall software.Answer:Most malicious code targets people who use Windows, and Apple has a reputation for tighter security - but you should never assume that you are invulnerable. Your laptop has a built-in firewall which you can activate, and you can buy software such as Norton Anti-Virus for Macs. Make sure you download security updates on a regular basis, too: even if you're never troubled by viruses, you can still be a carrier.&#183;Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
I am reviewing the Motorola U9 phone today. It is a shiny clamshell in the old Motorola PEBL style, not unlike a soap holder in shape and feel. It has all the usual features, being a quad-band GSM phone with EDGE and GPRS for WAP and other data uses, and equipped with a 2 megapixel camera, Bluetooth 2.0 and the familiar flat and sexy Motorola keypad. The model I am using is that gorgeous violet colour Cadbury used for the foil on its Dairy Milk bars years ago. This is a perfect handbag phone: entirely cute, entirely serviceable. There's a calendar, a music player, Java games, templates and snazzy screensavers; it is very lightweight and has a good battery. Altogether a perfectly fine, well designed, reasonably eye-catching but frankly unremarkable phone. We move on now, surely?But wait! The U9 has two displays. Open the clamshell and there's the usual LCD screen, bright and clear, but close it and there's a screensaver flickering in the surface of the lid. Well, yes, but we've all seen that, too, haven't we, a small window or secondary screen on the cover of a phone? So what's new?What is new is that there is no secondary screen; the whole exterior of the phone is pure glossy violet plastic, giving no hint of display capability. The image appears to be going on somehow inside the very surface of the plastic cover. What's more, if I close the phone while playing a track, a music player now appears - a touch-sensitive music player at that. It is as if you are looking at a perfectly ordinary spectacles case that suddenly decides to show you a television programme and allows you to change channels by touching it. What witchcraft is this?Welcome to the world of OLED. You may well have heard that there is a new kind of display technology in the offing, and this is it. Organic Light Emitting Diodes will slowly be replacing Liquid Crystal Displays over the next decade. At the moment much of the technology is owned by Eastman Kodak and some of the big players have been reluctant to pay the licences required to use it (seeoled-info.com/tags/companies/kodak, but gradually more and more products are coming to market. Sony and Samsung both have OLED televisions ready to spring on the world and Nokia's new Prism and 8800 Arte phones also feature the technology.OLED, which sandwiches stacks of light-emitting layers of polymers to form ultra-thin displays, has the remarkable potential to be incorporated into fabric and the lightest of materials, famously raising the prospect of roll-up monitors, a new generation of electronic paper, and a world in which displays can be seen everywhere, in coffee mugs, handbags and neckties; in underwear, shop counters and car doors. OLED, which doesn't need a backlight, has the advantage of being bright enough to be readable in sunlight, while using less power than LCD. Applications range from holography to 3D video by way of every kind of display currently using LCD, LED, Plasma and CRT. It is even viable as a solid, low-consumption light source. Combine it with the accelerometers that have given the iPhone and the Wii such cachet this year, and a whole new world of human interface possibilities dances in our delirious imaginations.There is a long way to go yet: OLED technology, although hardly in its infancy, faces problems. Typically the displays last a fraction of the lifetime of LED and LCD, and the patent issue continues to hold back some developers and corporations. But good on Motorola for coming up with a touch-sensitive OLED consumer mobile at this stage of the game.If you want a sweet little phone that causes eyes to pop and mouths to drop, then the U9 is for you. If you can wait a few years... well, one drools. One positively drools.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
MondayCan the Xbox 360 do casual gaming?Free funFat is a gaming issueTuesdaySing, sign and be heardSpore to grow on Macs?Anyone for maths?WednesdayGame ad bannedCalling all interactive William CastlesThursdayBurnout Paradise ready to driveThe science and art of metacriticA scrabulous scandalFridayScience MuseumMark Rein answers your questions
Ultralight computers often use ULV (ultra low voltage) processors that are cooler but slower and more expensive than mainstream chips. Apple has compromised by getting Intel to produce an Intel Core 2 Duo in a smaller package "that was originally reserved for mobile Penryn due out in the second half of 2008 with the Montevina SFF Centrino platform. Intel accelerated the introduction of the packaging technology specifically for Apple it seems," reckonsAnandTech.Basically, the MacBook Air is running an Intel Core 2 Duo (normally generating 35W) at 20W, rather than using an off-the-shelf LV (17W) or ULV (10W) design.Anandtech says:The bigger concern however has nothing to do with packaging technology or operating voltages, but overall thermals. The MacBook Pro runs very hot and while the 20W TDP of the MacBook Air is significantly lower than the 35W TDP of the Pro, it's high for such a small chassis. We won't know for sure how hot the Air will get until it's in our hands but the SSD [solid state drive] route seems like an even better bet now that we know a little more about what we're dealing with. Cutting down heat in that thin chassis will be very important, and moving to solid state storage is the only real option you have there.Of course, the MacBook Air also has a smaller and slower hard drive than similar ultraportables, which will also reduce both heat and cost, allowing for a more competitive price.Charles Arthur adds:George Ou at ZDNetsaysthat the chip is a 65-nanometre product, not the 45nm "Penryn" chip that was announced earlier this month. The die is the Penryn size, though. Why? Probably because given the long lead times that would be needed for this product, Intel wasn't able to provide enough working samples at 45nm. To be certain of having something it could sell, Apple needed to go with the 65nm product. Shrunk like that, it'll have to run slower, else thermal problems in the chip would make it very unstable.But that also implies that the MBAir will be updated with the new working 45nm Penryn chips in the future. But probably not by the time it goes on sale in February...Jack adds: Actually, Charles, the die isn't Penryn size. The packaging is mobile Pennryn size. It's a kludge. ;-)If you see the quote above, the mobile Penryn package was "due out in the second half of 2008 with the Montevina SFF Centrino platform." If that's still true, Apple won't find it easy to slot in current 45nm Penryn chips. I expect these are (for PC compatibility) shipping in the larger Merom packaging.
Sure, you're still shaking your head at your credit card, wondering why you bought granny that chance to fly a Russian MIG. Still, don't worry. According to a breathless press release we received today, Christmas 08 is going to be a boom time for online shopping.Here you go..E-tailers enjoyed a record breaking rise in Christmas shopping online last year, according to the latest figures from the IMRG which revealed a £15.2 billion spend. And this growth is expected to continue, with over 50% of the UK's online shoppers intending to increase their online spend in the run up to Christmas 2008– according to the latest Logan Tod Online Shopping Index, out today."More than 80% of adults in the UK shopped online this year, which is a rise of 5% on last year's figures," says Matthew Tod, Chief Executive at Logan Tod. "We believe that the key drivers for Christmas 2008's predicted growth will be the older age groups. The over 40s and over 50s are still discovering the benefits of shopping online and this trend will doubtless continue to next year."That's if anyone has any money left to spend, after the joys oftoday's exclusive about a UK property fund, New Star'scredit crunch woes, thefuninthe USand therumbling concerns about monolines(you haven't heard of them? Follow the link, Nils Pratley explains).And remember, only 320 shopping days left until Christmas - it's a leap year, you see, so you get an extra day to click that link... and rack up the interest on your credit card.
Just a quick heads up for those who'll be in the London area next Wednesday. I've received notice from my friendly Upcoming friends list that a dinner and discussion event will be held at the Science Museum'sDana Centreall about the psychology of "Fun and Games". From the announcement:Dinner@Dana's new series explores the science and psychology behind fun and games. Why do we get competitive? What makes gambling so addictive? Come along, join in and find out why some people have all the luck!While the thrust of this particularCafe Scientifique/Dana Centre event is gambling, it kicks offa series of discussionsabout fun and games. I've joined in on several of the Dana Centre's events and they're always thought-provoking and fun.Even more fromthe website:Perhaps it's not all down to us... what about the game creators? Is it possible to design a game with the purpose of making it addictive? How do game designers go about it? Or maybe it's our environment that contributes to the addiction?
Well, I wasn't expecting that. An hour or two before I was due to speak to Epic Games co-founder Mark Rein, he visited theGamesblog post that asked for your questions, and answered every single one of them. Even the daft ones.I've tidied it all up a bit and re-presented the text below. My own hour-long chat with Mark will be transcribed over the weekend and put online sometime next week. We cover different ground to these questions so it'll be well worth catching.For now, though, if you ever wondered what Mark Rein thought about fighting bears, read on...Amipal: Is there anything missing from the current target hardware (PS3, 360) that you would consider essential to future developments?That's a little over my head technically but I think generally we're very pleased with the current generation of console gaming hardware and we feel we're just starting to get our teeth sunken into it with lots of potential headroom still left to explore in the next few years.Andc: Is there a release date for 360 version of UT3?No, not at this time.Also do they feel that UT3 can compete on consoles aready saturated with first person shooters? Is it relevant anymore?Absolutely. It's a great 'pick-up-and-play' experience. There are times when I want to play a more tactical, slower-paced, shooter and times when I just want to play a game like UT where I can just jump in and go crazy. I love the game and UT3 has rekindled my love for this kind of game.What do you think is the future of user-generated content on consoles? Will it always be a niche feature or do you think that UT3 mods (and to a lesser extent Forge &amp; LittleBigPlanet) are the beginning of something much bigger?I think it is fantastic. We're just barely scratching the surface of where this can go. We've had a great history of user-created content with the Unreal Tournament franchise and the chance to bring that to PS3 is just amazing. I could go on for hours about this. Part of the reason why I wanted to get through the fan questions here is so Keef and I could talk more about that in our interview.Would it be possible to make a version of UnrealEd that runs on a console, meaning a PC is not required to make levels and mods?Porting the editor to console isn't at all practical. You really want all the power, storage, and memory, of a high-end PC when you're creating content. Plus mod making tends to be in concert with other vendors' tools, not just our editor, such as 3D Studio Max or Photoshop, etc.Would a standardised gaming platform (or 'one-console future', as recently spoken about by Dyack, Jaffe, and others) stifle innovation or help developers to focus on the software?I don't have anything brilliant to say about this topic but if you believe in a one-console future I guess you have to ask yourself which two of the three console vendors you are asking to get out of the business? It's a rhetorical question, please don't answer it. :)Is Gears 2 coming this year? (probably won't answer this one but worth a try!)Gears 2? What's that?poozle: What was it like working with 3DBuzz to create the UT3 editor videos on the UT3 Collectors Edition?We've been working with the 3DBuzz guys for a long time. Jason Busby has assembled an amazing crew over there. During CES Zak Parrish, and Jeff Wilson visited the HP booth and gave demonstrations of how to make levels using the Unreal Editor and they did an amazing job. They provide true professional-quality training materials and it's an honor for us to be associated with themgrannycorp: If Epic made the excellent user-made third person Action CAM mutator in UT3 an official download (or included it in the 360 version) it might grab the attention of the whinging 'it's not like Gears of War crowd'. How about it Mark?I love that mod! I was just showing it to Rod Fergusson, the producer of Gears of War, this morning! He just bought a PS3 and was getting a copy of UT3 to take home so I'm sure he's going to check out a bunch of other cool mods as well. There's another 3rd person mod one where the camera is pulled considerably further back and that one is pretty cool as well. The site www.ut3mod.com has some pretty good mods on it. Rather than include user-created mods with the game (there will be far too many to choose from) I'd like to see us improve the user interface inside the game to make it possible to find, select, and install mods directly from within the game and make it easier to view and manage the ones you've already installed. This stuff would be a huge amount of work so I can't promise we'll do it anytime soon but that's what I'd personally love to see.iainl: Does he still see FPS as their market, or is the engine being made more general to encourage its use elsewhere? I noticed that the surprisingly good Surfs Up uses it for Penguin Surfing, but it's not anything like as common as Renderware yet.We love making shooters whether they're from a first or third person perspective. People are using our engine for all kinds of games. The real limit here is imagination. People tend to think of us as a shooter engine because we're known for some great shooters but you'll see all kinds of cool games made with the tech.widgetmaker: Will there ever be support for cross platform play between the PC PS3 and 360?I doubt it. Microsoft and Sony have very different strategies when it comes to online.BigVern: Does the current version of PS3 UT3 (which I imported, and is awesome BTW), have any integration with the upcoming Playstation Home? If not, will this be "patched in", along with Sony's version of achievements and such?No, there is no support for it currently in the game and it would require an update. I can't say for certain if we'll do it or not so we'll have to wait and see. There is support built-in however for the rumble features of the DualShock 3. It's a great controller that I think people are going to enjoy using with UT3. I'm lucky enough to have one already but I believe they go on sale pretty soon both here and in the UK/Europe.IvorB: How much space does UT3 take up on a disc and does he believe that DVD discs hold enough data to get us through this generation without stifling creativity/innovation?I have no idea how much space UT3 takes up on a disc but I think we're in pretty good shape this generation. We can always use more disc space but there are ways to work around that (multiple discs, downloadable content, etc.). For example, I expect that few would argue Gears of War is "stifled" by disc size yet if you combine the size of the game with the amount of FREE downloadable content and updates we've released it would not fit on a single DVD. So problem solved there.But having a big disc is wonderful as well. Wouldn't it be amazing if a future version of UT on PS3 included a couple extra gigabytes of the best-of-the-best of user-created content? That would be one heck of an amazing collection and an amazing value. I also thought it was really cool how Stranglehold on PS3 included the movie Hard Boiled with the game! Bottom line is we'll figure out how to use the available resources when it makes sense to use them.Also, does he really think the world needs any more first person shooters?Yes I do!BillyBrush: How are sales on PS3 holding up?We're very pleased with the early sales on PS3.Are you dissappointed by UT3 numbers on PC given that's Epic's traditional selling ground - seems Crysis and UT3 both did pretty badly when compared with the console big hitters around the same time (COD4 360 particularly).It is amazing how people can look at two weeks of sales (in our case) in one single territory in the busiest Xmas sales season the industry has ever seen and come to the conclusion these titles are doing "badly". I don't think either title is doing so badly.Crysis probably has 3-4x the marketing budget of UT3 and more mindshare because it is a PC-only, high-end, single-player oriented game. This isn't the fastest selling UT title ever but it's doing pretty well and we're going to support it with some pretty cool things to help it keep selling over time.Did Unchartered: Drakes Fortune piss Clifford off at all, it seems like the viewpoint and even aiming reticules are a bit similar to Gears Of War....both take inspiration from Kill:Switch, but do you find other devs can get a bit too close to your bone?Uncharted is fantastic and we have the utmost respect for the folks over at NaughtyDog. They always deliver a great game and this is no exception. If you have a PS3 you should own this game but not unless you already own Unreal Tournament 3 :)deftangel: You've said several times that the Xbox 360 version of Unreal Tournament 3 has been delayed because you're still working through the 'mods issue' with Microsoft...We said that we chose to do the game first on PS3 because Sony would allow us the freedom to do robust user-created content which we firmly believe in as an important thing.Having read several of thepresentationsfrom last year's Gamefest, specifically "Learning to Share..." by Zsolt Mathe, what barriers to this continued to exist? It would seem feasible to me that an LSP implementation to 'cook' mods from the PC fused with a web front end similar to that which Bungie employ for Halo 3 could address not only the mod issue, but also the distribution thereof with an in-game browser, which has oft been cited as an with the PS3 version.It seems a few people jumped to some incorrect conclusions based on that presentation. We want to support user-created content exchanged among users. Microsoft have not said "no" yet but unfortunately they have not said "yes" either and we need them to say "yes" it we're going to be able to implement that feature.But as a concept I would say User-generated content on the Xbox 360 is doable wouldn't you?No, not in the way we're doing it on PC and PS3 but hopefully that will change and we're still working to get there. It is still very early days but this is one area where Sony is clearly the pioneer and we're just scratching the surface of what we can do with this on PS3. Hopefully Microsoft will let us do the same but there is still no firm decision from them either way.bigbadsam: who would win a fight between a kodiak bear and a polar bear? (two legs, home and away)I don't even like to think about bears fighting each other. I think they should just try to get along.BillyBrush: What's the capital of gracemeria?Gracemeria is the capital of Emmeria in the game Ace Combat 6.Ogs39: Whats being done about the issues with Gears of War PC ? Theres are hundreds of users having problems and posting on the official forum, but are not receiving any updates from anyone official.We're working closely with Microsoft to identify any support issues.Assault mode was a very popular game mode, will it ever see an (official) light of day in UT3?Not officially but if mod teams want to tackle it they're more than welcome.What do you think of Crysis, and the supplied modding tools?Unfortunately I don't have a current high-end gaming rig at home right now so I've only played it a bit on my laptop which wasn't the best way to experience an awesome game like that so I stopped playing fairly early in to avoid cheating myself. I'm going to get a new high-end PC soon and I'm really looking forward to playing it with everything turned up all the way. From what I've seen at trade shows its really gorgeous game when you crank it up. I loved Far Cry, and I really enjoyed the bit I played even at mid-range settings so I'm looking forward to playing the whole game. I have not tried their modding tools.SatsumaJoe: Will the extra content for the PC version of Gears of War be made available on the 360?There are no plans for that.RobClarke: Does the preposterously camp art direction of Gears of War and Unreal Tournament 3 represent what Epic's designers think looks 'cool'? What are you, twelve?I think both games look 'cool' and, no, I'm not twelve.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
The first guffaw of Slapstick 2008 came five minutes into the opening film and, almost inevitably, the scene involved an irate father chasing a young man he had mistaken for his daughter's lover down the road with a great big stick. Fashions may change, films may become faster and louder and cruder, but it seems there is still a place - perhaps a growing place - for good old silent slapstick.Over this weekend thousands of people, from five-year-old children to twenty-somethings and elderly cinemagoers who can almost remember the silent classics from the first time round, will flock to Bristol to pay homage to Chaplin, Keaton, Laurel and Hardy, Jacques Tati et al.The festival director, Chris Daniels, said the audience was growing rapidly. "People are falling in love with the films all over again. There's something engaging with these images, these shadows. There's a romance there and more and more people want to celebrate it. Our audience is mainly young people. Children can enjoy them because they are very gentle and the students love them. They are becoming cool."It helps that there are an increasing number of films to watch. Every year more long-lost slapstick films are being discovered and great favourites cleaned up, restored and reworked.One highlight of Slapstick 2008 is a recently discovered French film called Fantasmagorie that is exactly 100 years old and may be the first animated movie. Another is a gala performance of Charlie Chaplin's The Gold Rush featuring a 15-piece orchestra playing a new version of the actor's score. Hosted by the comedian Paul Merton, a great champion of slapstick, the show is a sellout - not bad for a silent film more than 80 years old. Chaplin's son, Christopher, was in the stalls of Colston Hall yesterday as the orchestra rehearsed.The crowds will also be flocking to hear two-thirds of the Goodies, Tim Brooke-Taylor and Graeme Garden, discussing how Buster Keaton influenced their comedy, while Neil Innes, the comedian-musician best known for his work with Monty Python and as a member of the Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band, will collaborate with children to produce a song based on a Keaton film.Yesterday afternoon 21-year-old Kieran Byrne was at the head of the queue for the opening film, Extra Girl, starring Mabel Normand - often regarded as the female Chaplin. Like many of the younger generation of slapstick fans he came to the genre through the internet. "I saw one or two snippets of Buster Keaton and liked it. I did some research, saw some full films and grew to love it."Byrne admits he is a hardcore slapstick addict. He will attend every one of the 17 shows being put on during the festival - and buy the T-shirt. "I think silent films are still very relevant. They are both intense and subtle. And they are funny, of course. Many are also a lot more intelligent than some of the comedy films that get made these days."Like many of the films, Extra Girl was accompanied by a pianist. After the show many audience members were taken by how the live music brought it to life. Jean Hasse, a composer and musician, said: "Having live music with it gives it a little frisson, a little edge. It's a different experience. It's unusual."But did she laugh? "The comedy is curious and quaint. I laughed the littlest bit. I smiled a couple of times. I almost cried so that was fun."Most agreed that the stand-out scene was when the heroine had a close encounter with a lion. When she shot the scene Normand was badly clawed by the animal, and was stabbed by the director with a pitchfork as he tried to ward the lion off her.Charles Claxton, 66, a silent film buff, said he loved the genre. "It's a magical experience. I like the way the directors have to tell quite complicated stories in simple, visual ways. I laugh out loud with tears running down my face."Serge Bromberg, of Lobster Films in Paris, which specialises in hunting out lost films and restoring prints, was last night presenting his show, Retour de Flamme, a collection of rescued films. He plays to crowds of 10,000 in France and increasingly across the globe.Bromberg said he particularly treasured a compliment from one elderly satisfied customer. "He came up to me after the show and said: 'At last, something new in cinema.' "Genre: From clackers to Itchy and ScratchySlapstickis a translation of the Italian nounbattacchio, the wooden clacker used to dish out very loud beatings in thecommedia dell'arte, the popular improvised theatre that began in 16th century Italy. The genre's archetypal characters and physical acrobatic comedy resurfaced in England a century later as that most tempestuous of puppet partnerships,Punch and JudySlapstick's overwhelmingly visual attractions ensured its enduring cross-cultural popularity and made it an ideal choice for silent movies.Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle,Buster Keaton,Charlie ChaplinandHarold Lloydall found fame through their slapstick antics, whether flinging custard pies, ducking and weaving or hanging perilously from clock faces.The cruelty, violence and physical impossibility of slapstick found one of its most famous outlets in the sadistic interaction of a plucky mouse and a foolish but persistent cat. TheTom and Jerrycartoons, with their ingenious and gleeful use of weapons ranging from hammers and axes to dynamite and electricity, set a standard for cartoon slapstick that was not surpassed until the creators ofThe Simpsonscame up with their latter-day counterparts,Itchy and Scratchy. The pair's hideous behaviour satirised that of their forebears by taking violent slapstick to its limits; Tom and Jerry suddenly looked genteel when Itchy the mouse began kneecapping Scratchy the cat, throwing acid over him, beating him with a baseball bat and decapitating him with everything from a guillotine to a bazooka.
It is impossible to say that allowing the resale of tickets is at the expense of either the fans or the entertainment industries (Letters, January 15). The only way to serve fans is to give them what they want, which is the right to trade their tickets in a free market. Tickets often go on sale months in advance. Often fans are unable to make the event for legitimate reasons and the primary market does not offer a refund. Viagogo offers a service which is safe, secure and guaranteed. We agree that rogue operators should be dealt with. But it would not make sense to ban a necessary industry due to a handful of disreputable companies. In 2007, 97% of ticket sellers on Viagogo sold 10 or fewer tickets, so we are clearly not facilitating touting.The live entertainment industry still receives payment from the primary sale of the ticket, so the promoter, venue and artist do not lose out. In fact they are all better off, as fans who cannot make the gig can sell their ticket on, reducing the number of empty seats. About 50% of tickets sold on Viagogo in 2007 were sold at or below face value, so fans are not "priced out of the market".Regulated online secondary retailers eliminate the dangers of buying tickets from shady characters in car parks or over the internet without any guarantees. We have traded hundreds of thousands of tickets and are proud that our guarantee has never failed.Eric BakerCEO, ViagogoThis special pleading by the music industry is absurd. The secondhand car market is able to operate without paying Ford a tax every time a car is resold. Internet distribution increases liquidity and so makes the secondary market more efficient, lowering prices for the benefit of all, except the entrenched dinosaurs desperately searching for alternative revenue streams to replace the collapse in CD sales.Philip CunninghamLondon
The name BitTorrent has become part of most people's day-to-day vernacular, synonymous with downloading every kind of content via the internet's peer-to-peer networks. But if a team of US researchers have their way, we may all be talking about CarTorrent in the not too distant future.Researchers from the University of California Los Angeles are working on a wireless communication network that will allow cars to talk to each other, simultaneously downloading information in the shape of road safety warnings, entertainment content and navigational tools.The UCLA Engineering's Network Research Lab team, led by Mario Gerla and Giovanni Pau, hit upon the idea in 2004, when peer-to-peer networking took off fuelled by applications such as BitTorrent. "We had the idea from BitTorrent, and decided to extend BitTorrent to cars under the name of CarTorrent. One of our dreams had always been to apply the technology to civilian applications," says Gerla. "Imagine you're driving to a beach resort and want to find out what the best beaches are. You could stop at a gas station and download several video clips from an internet access point, but that's not very convenient."Wireless at the wheelGerla and his team instead propose to connect cars to one another using the wireless networking platform they're developing, which could be up and running by as early as 2012.The wireless network would allow moving vehicles within 100 metres and 300 metres of each other to connect and create a network with a wide range. The network would then allow drivers to download information from internet access points simply by driving by, and then share that information with other cars on the road.Gerla says the benefits of such a network are numerous: "There will be immediate benefits in driving safety as well as in content distribution. Car-to-car communications can be used to avoid accidents by alerting the drivers of imminent danger. To prevent a crash we must act in fractions of a second. We are currently collaborating with vehicle manufacturers to help reduce accidents and fatalities on the road. For this latter application, vehicles are equipped with sensing devices, such as radars and video cameras."The network uses standard radio protocols such as Digital Short Range Communication, or DSRC, combined with wireless LAN technology at 5.9GHz (not Wi-Fi's 2.4GHz) to create networks between vehicles equipped with onboard sensing devices. These devices can gather safety-related information as well as other complex multimedia data.By far the most essential aspect of this network, though, is that it is not subject to memory, processing, storage and energy limitations like traditional sensor networks. Instead, it relies on the resources of the vehicle itself, along with those vehicles around it.Under the scheme, cars would be able to use their onboard radios to exchange three categories of information: safe navigation (such as reporting on icy road conditions, traffic jams and possible collisions ahead), content distribution (locally relevant information, advertisements and videos of upcoming attractions) and urban surveillance (collecting information which could be used later by police for forensic investigations).Gerla and his team are already collaborating with car manufacturers such as Toyota and BMW on bringing the project to life. However, costs and industry standards are the more important hurdles that this network will have to jump before it can become feasible. Gerla says the network can be slowly implemented, just as GPS navigation systems and Wi-Fi-style radios have slowly started to become standard equipment."What will turn the tide will be the approval and widespread adoption of the emerging standards for car-to-car communications sponsored by the IEEE 802.11p Working Committee of the IEEE [the professional association for the advancement of technology]," says Gerla."A few years ago, leading car manufacturers decided to join forces with national government agencies in the Vehicle Information Infrastructure Consortium, which works closely with the IEEE 802.11p Committee, to develop communications architecture to help drivers anticipate hazardous events or avoid bad traffic areas."However, Gerla says the network is not without faults: "The two most critical aspects that could go wrong if the network is implemented are location privacy, because drivers do not want others to know where they are; and attacks where a driver could maliciously inject wrong traffic congestion information to persuade other drivers to get out of its way."Defensive driversWith costs currently estimated at around $500 (&pound;255) per car for the implementation of the equipment required to connect to the network, drivers probably won't be clamouring to get the kit."Most likely, there will be at least initially two types of drivers," Gerla says. "The drivers enamoured with high-tech features will immediately embrace this technology. But it's true that less aggressive drivers, probably a sizeable fraction of the population, will be reluctant to embrace the technology at first."That, of course, could present a problem for the growth of CarTorrent: for as anyone who has tried using BitTorrent will know, there's no point in being the only person on a peer-to-peer network. Being the first car to use CarTorrent will be an expensive and pointless exercise. But like a telephone - and the internet - it's the sort of technology whose benefits will multiply rapidly as long as more people use it.
Way beyond HD TVThe Japanese hope to start transmitting TV in NHK's SHV (Super Hi-Vision) format in 2015. The resolution is 33MP (7680 x 4320), which is 16x or 36x better than HD TV.tinyurl.com/39p79eService pickerSimplifydigital is a new site intended to help UK consumers choose their triple-play broadband/phone/TV service.simplifydigital.co.ukWidescreen touchphoneSamsung will launch the F490, its iPhone-style touch-controlled 5MP cameraphone with 16:9 widescreen, in the UK next month.samsungmobile.comETech 2008O'Reilly has published a schedule for its Emerging Technology conference in San Diego, March 3-8.tinyurl.com/2ul2ftWebsite builderWebnode has launched a free online website builder enabling users to create Web 2.0-style sites using drag-and-drop.webnode.com/enGot games?ELSPA, the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association, says that in 2007, Britons bought 75.9m games (up 16%) worth &pound;1.72bn (up 26%).tinyurl.com/2np9hnNeighbourly networkingA London company has announced a social networking service, ResidentsHQ, aimed at communities.residentshq.comThe spin on videoAvid's Pinnacle has launched VideoSpin, a free program "designed to make video editing and sharing fast, easy and fun".videospin.com
Something has happened to the videogame review score. The humble rating that used to conclude rather than define each reviewer's opinion has morphed into some monstrous online arithmetical totem. Sites like Metacritic and Game Rankings pull in scores from all over the web, as well as specialist newsstand press, combining them to produce an all-conquering metascore for every release.Last autumn, the Wall Street Journal ran a fascinating article on game score aggregation sites (tinyurl.com/yt3hd4), mentioning several publishers that hand out bonuses to development studios based on Metacritic or Game Ranking scores. Stockmarket pundits are also paying heed: "More and more businesses and financial analysts are referring to Metacritic numbers as an early indicator of a game's potential sales and, by extension, the publisher's stock price," asserts Marc Doyle, the site's co-founder.But developers and hardcore gamers aren't sure about the ramifications of the metascoring phenomenon. Chris Swann, a producer at UK publisher Blitz Games, says: "It naturally makes the process more democratic, which is good," he admitted. "However, you can run into problems when one review creates a 'cascade' as numerous other bloggers link to it. Opinions can then start aligning with each other." This phenomenon is only exacerbated by the metascore sites, which give game reviewers a quick and easy glimpse at the growing critical consensus. In an industry dominated by young writers who often lack the confidence to stand apart, the metascore (which, on Metacritic, begins to be generated after just four separate review scores are in) can become a sort of self-fulfilling prophecy.Others are worried about the homogenisation of score data. "Now, one rogue bad score can really drag down your average," says PR veteran Cathy Campos, who handles the press for developers such as Lionhead and Bungie. "I worked on a game which quite unusually had scores which ranged from 100 to 33 - the Metacritic average (75) did not reflect the fact it was evidently a love-it-or-hate-it title." In this way, quirky titles like Space Giraffe and Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games are lost in a grey goo of apparent mediocrity.The message is, use metascores as a guide but take the time to check out the individual reviews that contribute to the average (both Metacritic and Game Rankings list these). Although many publishers love the spreadsheet-friendly conformity of one universal score per game, don't allow your tastes to be subsumed in the fug of statistical massage. Just because the system works, it doesn't mean you shouldn't fight it.
Sun AgePC, &pound;19.99, 12+Vertex4/Lighthouse Interactive, 2/5For the first 10 minutes or so, Sun Age feels like Life on Mars - an RTS so resolutely old skool that you can't zoom in or out of the battlefield, scripted sequences last forever and proper 3D levels are still futuristic hokum.Once you get into the action, though, those mists of time peel away to reveal an enjoyable, if lumbering, beast of a game. Like Starcraft, you get three campaigns, one per alien race, littered with big, Meccano-style units that prove as unwieldy as they probably would in real life. But it's that close-up perspective that eventually defeats it, making it almost impossible to see enough of the action or scroll round at speed. Pity, as gameplay is otherwise well-balanced and compulsive.Mike AnderieszBurnout ParadiseXbox 360/PS3, &pound;39.99, 3+Criterion/Electronic Arts, 4/5Now in its fifth iteration, Guildford-based Criterion has treated this popular arcade-style driving game to a ground-up reinvention. Admittedly, it had an excuse - this is the first bespoke next-gen version of the game. So, unlike previous Burnouts, Paradise is a free-roaming game, set in a huge city crammed with shortcuts and hidden areas. To start one of the challenges necessary to progress, you merely stop at a set of traffic lights and press both triggers.At first, Burnout Paradise takes a bit of getting used to - the old chevron-delineated race circuits have been superseded by a map and compass and when you lose races because you get lost it's frustrating. But persevere and obsession will ensue.The level design is amazing, the graphics are mind-blowing, exploration proves to be rewarding and the best challenge types - Road Rage and Races - are still there. There are also excellent Stunt runs, survival-style Marked Man runs and car-specific time-trials. Particularly essential if you own a PS3, it's out on January 25.Steve BoxerSensible World of SoccerXbox 360, &pound;7 (download),3+Codemasters, 4/5Forget Fifa; back in the early 90s, Sensible Soccer was the only football game worth playing. The simple controls, cartoon visuals and wide-open pitch masked a game with a load of depth - especially in the 96/97 version.A decade on and the game has arrived on Xbox 360. Thankfully it remains easy to pick up and play, but still tricky to master. The subtly updated visuals are an excellent example of how to bring a retro title up to date while retaining the charm of yore. And yes, nostalgia does play a part - the data is an entirely accurate (albeit mispelt due to licensing issues) log of the 1996-97 season.Online play is the real draw, although lag and disconnections mar what should be one of the highlights of Xbox Live. Updates of classic games rarely work, but Sensible World of Soccer bucks the trend and is as valid now as it ever was.Greg Howson
Human Tetris, revisitedJust another soaking wet day in the business district of Guayaquil, Ecuador, and a group of people have turned out to play, of course, human Tetris. Disappointing high score, though.tinyurl.com/yuf4mr"Like it's from another planet"Some overdressed guy - Steve Jobs? - introducing the first iMac in 1998. Ah, 233MHz was "fast", plus that dire round mouse, "the most wonderful you've ever used". You'd not used it, Steve.tinyurl.com/2l2okuPlastic pal, fun to work withOK, it's a music video, but it's also a sci-fi story about what it would be like to have a humanoid robot in your office.tinyurl.com/292bxb&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
With just weeks to go before South Korea's presidential election at the end of last year, Seoul's newspapers were full of stories about historic North-South cooperation.Among the pictures of the departing South Korean president Roh Moo-hyun walking across the border to clasp hands with North Korea's Kim Jong-il and freight trains crossing between the countries for the first time in 56 years, there was just enough room on a few of the front pages for reports of a technology deal struck between the two leaders.Groundbreaking projectUnder the banner of "Hana Linux" - literally "One" Linux - the two countries have agreed to work on a groundbreaking IT development project that might shatter the final Cold War boundary.South Korea is one of Linux's biggest converts. Since discovering the free operating system in 2003, officials have unveiled plans to switch all government-run offices to Linux. Now under the terms of the agreement signed between the two states, South Korea will set up Linux training centres in North Korea.Lee Yon-nim, 28, is a former IT consultant at Posco, a South Korean steel exporter. "Why Linux? Because it's free. Government offices don't have to buy licences for it, unlike Windows, which can end up costing an enormous amount. In theory, having a standardised version for the North and South will help matters enormously if the countries do unify in the future."Moon Hwi-tak, chairman of Gongae Software, the South Korean company behind the development of Hana Linux, says: "Linux is widely used all over the world, and different countries, different companies have all added different functions and tools to suit their needs. If companies in Korea all use their own versions, it will waste time and money and cause confusion. A unified version will solve a lot of potential problems."Moon adds: "Political cooperation is already under way, and this is going to benefit IT development in a big way for the North and the South. Sharing technological knowhow and manpower will help us become more competitive in the international IT market."Sceptics believe they are being fed the dream that IT is going to magically lead to reunification. Optimists, meanwhile, are asking if technology is really about to produce light at the end of Asia's dark political tunnel.Many believe there is another, deeper reason for Korea developing Hana Linux. Says Lee: "Korea wants this version of Linux in order to be different. People here have had to fight for their political freedom from Japan, China and other countries since the beginning of Korean history. So they like having their own special way of doing things. It makes them feel independent."Indeed, when it comes to IT, South Koreans do things differently. Almost everyone in the country uses Korean search engine, Naver; Google is considered a poor man's substitute. MSN's Messenger plays second fiddle to the local Nate On service. Virtually the whole of South Korea snubs Windows Media Player for Gom Player. The list goes on.Hong Young-jun, 27, a Ph.D student at KAIST, a South Korean University dedicated to IT, thinks North Korea is making a bold move. He says: "Until very recently, Pyongyang has only used IT for military purposes. Opening North Korean society up to the internet and mobile phones will make it difficult for the government to control freedom of expression in the way it has done since the 1950s."Note of cautionHowever, Lee warns that IT collaboration may not be the golden ticket the South Korean government hopes it will be. "Hana Linux doesn't have a future," she says. "Trying to bind North Korea to one operating system will not work if the country opens up. Once they see other operating systems available, they will look elsewhere."Hong agrees. "One thing we can be sure of is that the North has no intention of being bossed about by the South when it comes to IT - or anything else."North Korea goes digital2003:North Korea says it has set up its first internet connection. It also established the Korean Computer Centre, with branches in Europe and China, with the assistance of businessman Jan Holtermann, who says: "North Korea is the India of the future."2004:Naenara, meaning "My Country", North Korea's first portal, is launched. It is banned by South Korea, which fears its use as a propaganda tool.October 2007:Kim Jong-il declares to the South Korean press: "I am an internet expert."End 2007:Pyongyang confirms that a South Korean-run industrial park in Kaesong, North Korea, will be allowed to use computers with internet access.Recently:South Korea has produced an "IT Terminology Dictionary for Inter-Korean use" in an attempt to prevent two different sets of technological jargon appearing on the two sides of the border.2008:The Pyongyang University of Science and Technology will enrol students for the first time this year. Officially a joint North and South Korean project, the institution was mainly funded by companies and groups from the South, as well as China and the US.
Wait, or Leopard?I am about to buy a new Mac. I have five cuttings from Technology Guardian bemoaning the failures of Leopard. Do I buy now, wait, or continue with my iMac running OS 9?Pat HeeryJS:At least wait until you can get version 10.5.2, which is expected at this week's Macworld. Apple has been updating Leopard at a rapid rate and this third version reportedly includes another 76 fixes. Note that Leopard has now discontinued support for "Classic" versions of Mac OS, such as yours, though you can run it virtually on Intel machines using SheepShaver (tinyurl.com/etqvf). You should also read the Apple Support article, Moving files from your older Macintosh to a new one (tinyurl.com/2o4zf4).What's up, docx?I have recently installed Microsoft Office 2007 on Windows XP. I can now open any attachment sent to me. However, no one can open attachments sent by me.June MouldJS:Office 2007 defaults to using the new and much improved Office Open XML file formats, such as docx, rather than the ones used for the past decade.However, you can still use the old formats. If you click the round Office button in the top left and mouseover Save As, you can then click the appropriate entry on the right pane. In Word, for example, it says: "Word 97-2003 Document". If you click Save As instead, you'll get a Save box where you can select from a couple of dozen options including Web page and WordPerfect. Rich Text Format (rtf) is usually a good choice, unless your document includes images. But people are using the new formats, so you should also tell your friends to download the Compatibility Pack for Microsoft Office 2000, Office XP, and Office 2003 (tinyurl.com/2xp8e3). This will enable them to read and write OOXML without buying Office 2007. Apple's Leopard operating system also supports the new formats, while iWork 08 and the iPhone can read them.Deluged with bouncesI recently became the "innocent bystander" mentioned in your reply to Peter Beaven last week: my private inbox filled up with tens of thousands of bounced, undelivered, and "out of office" emails. Is there anything that can be done, short of waiting it out or switching to another mailbox?Rob HarriesJS:You can handle small volumes of bounces by using Mailwasher (mailwasher.net) or Spam X (spamx.com) to delete the spam emails on the server. If you have a "catch all" mailbox, it may also help if your service provider changes it to one that only accepts email to a specific address. If you're getting more than a few hundred bounces a day, try pleading with your ISP to do the filtering, but otherwise, there's not much you can do.In the long run, everyone adopting SPF (Sender Policy Framework) should help, but at the moment you need your own domain name and too much expertise (openspf.org).Hearing voices?When on the internet (AOL), I sometimes get a verbal message, "You've got company," in a female voice that sounds the same as the AOL welcome message. What does it mean?Andrew RawlinsonJS:You probably have a buddy list on AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) and have ticked the box in Preferences that says: "Play sound when buddies sign on." You could also hear someone say "Later" when they sign off. Search your PC and you should be able to find two files called buddyin.wav and buddyout.wav, which you can play as a test. You can also search the web for alternative sound files.Backchat&middot; On tidying up a PC, Jerry Hathorn reminds me that I've previously recommended Spacemonger, a "fantastic gem for looking at space allocation on the hard disk," he says. True. However, Spacemonger 2.1 (sixty-five.cc/sm) is now a commercial program costing $19.95 (&pound;10). The old version is still available free (tinyurl.com/ykvhvk), but generally I'll recommend the latest free stuff, if it does the job.&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
What's depressing is the complacency. The sheer head-in-sand, not-invented-here, civilisation-ends-at-Folkestone complacency. I'm talking about Britain's broadband policy. And I confess that, until a few weeks ago, I was among the guilty ones.Ofcom's Future Broadband consultation (tinyurl.com/364agq, now closed) claims to propose "a policy approach to next-generation access". But what shines through 117 lacklustre pages is a complacent message that what we've done up to now has turned out pretty well, and with any luck should serve us through the next generation. As the parachutist who forgot his kit said, "So far, so good... so far, so good...".But Ofcom opens the debate by explaining why our strategy, of leaving things to the commercial sense of operators of bundled services, will not see us through. The reason is that the copper network infrastructure has had its day. It's time to get seriously fibred.As the document puts it: "Next-generation access will involve fundamental changes to the infrastructure of the underlying network ... this will involve the installation of new cables for at least part of the route between the customer and the service provider, which involves very high levels of investment." Ofcom's attitude is that this investment will happen in good time, as and when companies like BT find a commercial case.Two problems. One is that the current economic environment is not conducive to "very high levels of investment", especially if betting on new products and services. The other that the UK's position in the world broadband league (which five years ago was reasonable, hence my own complacency) is slipping. In Japan, one-third of Japanese broadband networks are already optical fibre to the home. On visits to the Netherlands and Sweden I've seen entire towns where multi-megabit broadband, fixed and wireless, is as much part of the local infrastructure as sewerage is.This is where Ofcom's complacency really grates. While observing that some countries may be ahead, it says: "We do not yet see evidence that the UK will be significantly disadvantaged economically or socially as a result."OK, we do not yet see hard empirical evidence - mainly because it does not yet exist. But in three years, five years or 10 years, it will.Consultation on the document has already closed, sadly, but several critics have got their cases in. One response worth reading is from Manchester city council's One Manchester project (tinyurl.com/yrqbv3, PDF). It condemns a "very cautious and risk-averse" approach which "does not exactly inspire confidence that we are able to aspire to be a global leader".In particular, the Manchester team points to the threat to social cohesion if a gap opens between those who have broadband and those who do not. This should concern a government relying on broadband to the home to underpin new policies in education and healthcare.No one sensible is suggesting that the taxpayer immediately start digging the trenches for a new national grid. But the state does have a role in encouraging innovation. We need vision, not risk-aversion and complacency.
The global growth in broadband connections has begun to slow - indicating that richer countries have almost reached saturation point with the present generation of the technology, while China and India have yet to see a comparable explosion in always-on users.Data from the broadband analysis group Point Topic, based in London, shows that in the third quarter of last year the number of global broadband connections grew by 4.72%, to 328.8m, compared to a 5.16% increase in the previous quarter."The rich countries have got broadband - there are none of them left behind any more," explains Tim Johnson, the company's founder and publisher. "But other sources of growth such as China and India have gone through a rapid phase and penetrated the middle class, but aren't nearly saturated in terms of the number of users."That may be down in those cases to geography more than demography, for both countries have potentially enormous middle classes, who are paid well enough to afford a broadband connection but might be too far from an equipped exchange to be able to get it. "India has perhaps 200 million middle-class people, but quality of service is very variable," says Johnson. "It's arguable how many of them can get broadband at all. And it's similar in China."However, another analysis company, Strategy Analytics of Boston, forecast that there will be more than 1 billion "discrete users" worldwide by the end of this year, assuming that the number of broadband connections grows to 391.4m by the fourth quarter, with an average of 2.58 people using each one."The upcoming year will mark an important milestone in broadband adoption," says Ben Piper, director of its broadband networks strategies service. He forecasts that the Asia-Pacific region will lead the world in terms of total users, with subscription growth of 27% this year, and emerging markets accounting for more than 60% of total broadband users.Point Topic's figures for last autumn show that North America was the only region to grow more quickly than previously, adding 3.29% more broadband connections (up from 3.14% in the second quarter). Eastern Europe still leads the world in percentage growth, with its subscriber base growing by 11%, with Russia, Romania and Poland leading the way.The figures do not distinguish between copper-based ADSL broadband, whose speed is limited to between 8 and 24 megabits per second, and fibre-based broadband where speeds can reach 100Mb/s. "What's happening less fast than we would want is the rollout of fibre," Johnson says. "It isn't doing what ADSL did, where there was huge growth a few years ago. In terms of fibre, it's in about the same place as ADSL was in 1998; it's not getting put in because of the cost. The demand initially for ADSL was because it made a huge difference to what you could do on the internet. Fibre doesn't yet do that."
In a small way, we made history. Last Saturday, an ad hoc group of citizens interested in improving an aspect of public policy sat down informally with the civil servants responsible and designed a web service to do the job. In all, it took less than five hours.The event was a barcamp held by the National Archives as part of its response to the Cabinet Office's "government 2.0" report, the Power of Information (PDF attinyurl.com/2umfpb). What's a barcamp? Dude, you've obviously been out of the loop for the past, ooh, seven weeks. It's the buzzword for a self-organising meeting to tackle an issue of interest. Everyone welcome, no timetable, no rules, no speakers' podium; lots of laptops, flipcharts and Post-It notes. You get the idea.This barcamp's purpose was to explore how the government can electronically collect and assess requests to re-use information gathered and held by public bodies. Last summer the government agreed to set up such a channel; the task fell to the National Archives, which is responsible for administering crown copyright and other public sector information, including encouraging information re-use.I went along for two reasons. First, the web channel is very much in line with Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign. We think there is vast potential for businesses and communities to build new services based on government information. It's our strongly held belief that this resource - possibly the government's most valuable asset - is underused because of the difficulty in finding data and negotiating its re-use. The proposed web channel would address both issues.The second reason for going along was a long-standing interest in the way governments design information systems. Too often, I have seen users consulted only after crucial design decisions have been taken. The barcamp approach offers an attractive alternative.In our case, it worked. Possibly not by chance, the 20-odd people there at some point of the day turned out to have a remarkably useful mix of expertise. Apart from the National Archives' John Sheridan - a walking Wikipedia on the subject of crown copyright - we had senior government insiders as well as campaigners experienced in extracting data from official websites in two hemispheres.Two entrepreneurs with hard experience of setting up businesses based on public sector information occasionally pointed out the gulf between good intentions and reality. Perhaps most conveniently, we had two people from the web activist group MySociety, including Tom Steinberg, one of the Power of Information's authors. (You can see the schedule and participants atbarcamp.org/BarCampPOIR8). Tellingly, apart from one of the organisers, the group was 100 per cent male and mainly under 40. Beards and slogan T-shirts were observed.Defining freedomWe opened with a couple of case-study presentations: the unofficial New Zealand parliament site and the latest MySociety effort, a site for automating and collating freedom of information requests from government. That led to a useful discussion on the difference between an individual's freedom to view official information and their freedom to mash or otherwise republish it - and whether that distinction can survive in the web age.The discussion revealed a couple of alarming gaps in most participants' knowledge. One was on the government's "click use" licence for re-using information (tinyurl.com/na3tj). Everyone agreed that more clarity is needed. There was also some confusion about crown copyright. While Sheridan assured us that a crown copyright notice was in effect a licence to reproduce, participants agreed that its wording tends to send the opposite signal. And not all government bodies are crown bodies - local authorities, for example, can set their own copyright terms. The barcamp's policy conclusion could be summarised as: "Some consistency would be a good start."Engineering a channelAfter lunch, barcamp really got down to business. With a bit of jollying along from Steinberg, we reached a consensus on what the web channel should aim to do, who the users would be, what sort of requests it should handle and very roughly what would be on the home page. Steinberg warned us against engineering for every contingency. "Let's deal with that when it gets to be a problem - but make sure it's in the contract," was his advice.By teatime, we'd pretty well covered it. Sheridan folded up the flip-chart sheets and promised to start work (after similar consultations with academics and IT suppliers). No one could quite believe it was happening. Even Steinberg marvelled: "No one in government IT will ever have done anything like this before."Are barcamps the solution to the government's IT programme woes? Probably not. Ours worked, I suspect, because attendees accepted certain rules of the game and genuinely respected each other's expertise. And strongly as some of us feel about public sector information, I admit that it is not an issue that inspires people to the barricades. Barcamps to design, for example, the NHS electronic care record or the national identity register might need different rules.In the meantime, though, I'm thinking of growing a beard and printing up a few "Free Our Data" T-shirts.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogwww.freeourdata.org.uk/blog/
Looking ahead ...So Apple covers most of the front page and Steve gets not only a picture but also his own index (Reading the runes for Apple, January 10). Still, at least there's the usual letter saying Leopard doesn't work. Balanced journalism!George Tripp,Northampton&#183;If I'm close, I'll come back after the keynote and profess my genius. If I'm not, I'll quietly delete all evidence I ever said anything.chuqui.typepad.com&#183;Something we have heard very little of, but gets mentioned a few times, is the Home Network Server. Apple could roll out a terabyte home server the size of a Mac Mini that could be used for backups as well as storing shared media across a family or workgroup.9to5mac.comImprisoned data?Ordnance Survey and the controller of HMSO brought civil proceedings for copyright infringement for which there is no criminal penalty (Prison threat after eco-company reuses OS mapping data, January 10). Remedies for civil claims do not involve custodial sentences and we have not made such a threat. Contempt of court is a potential risk of ignoring any court order - it is a warning of the court and not a "threat" at all, and certainly not by us or HMSO, as the article implies.Scott Sinclair,Ordnance Survey&#183;As the ubiquity of excellent map data becomes available for map mashups and web services through Google, Microsoft and other platforms, these actions might constitute a last gasp of the old-guard mapping agencies.vector1media.com/spatialsustain/Well done, MustekMustek should be praised for offering JPEG2000 instead of JPEG as a file output option (Technophile, January 10). Owners of scanners and digital cameras should be complaining to the manufacturers for their continuing use of JPEG, which has been rendered technologically obsolete several times over and should have been retired years ago.JPEG2000 provides significantly better file size/image quality trade-offs relative to JPEG. The exact advantage of JPEG2000 will always depend on the particular image, but experience suggests, as a rough guide, a 3:1 file-size reduction for similar subjective image quality on photographs. JPEG2000 also provides a number of interesting features not available with JPEG.JPEG2000 may not be supported natively by PhotoShop, but it is an optional install on recent versions (consult the Help system), and on other programs such as Corel PhotoPaint it is a standard feature. There is also independent software from Lurawave (lurawave.com) that handles conversions between JPEG2000 and other file formats.Richard Pickvance,LondonI have many A3 photocopies from the Public Records Office. I know one can now use a digital camera there but scans at A3 for many documents are still a better option, in my humble opinion if the PRO is still providing photocopies. As the USB 600 is not so hot on photos, perhaps you could review the Canon mentioned and others, up to say &pound;700 or so. Or at least vector your readers to other sources of A3 scanner reviews.Graham Davies,Over HultonSwitch overNick Carr's recent article (The big switch may turn off jobs, January 3) was misleading in its comparisons between YouTube and Plenty of Fish. All of Carr's numbers refer to the acquisition prices of Skype and YouTube, not the revenue they were/are generating relative to their employee base. YouTube had zero revenue when it was bought by Google.By contrast, Markus Frind at Plenty of Fish makes absurdly large margins on his ad revenue and has truly shown how technology can be leveraged to acquire and monetise a huge audience with minimal fixed cost.Daniel Gibbons,Vancouver
Apple on Tuesday revamped its attempts to colonise American living rooms, announcing the launch of online movie rentals in standard and high-definition formats and a revamped "Apple TV" to play them on which does not require a separate computer.Steve Jobs, giving the keynote speech at the Macworld event in San Francisco, also unveiled a new ultra-thin notebook, the &pound;1,200 "MacBook Air", claiming the crown from Sony of the world's thinnest computer, and an integrated network hard drive and wireless access point called "Time Capsule" which offers the capability to effortlessly back up files. The facility had been expected, but not was implemented, in the release of the Leopard operating system last October. A &pound;13 paid-for software upgrade for the touchscreen iPod Touch will give it email, mapping, shares, weather and notes applications.Jobs also announced that the iPhone, launched a year ago but only on sale since June, had already sold a total of 4m units. In its first quarter it garnered a 19.5% share of the US smartphone market, second only to RIM's BlackBerry, and dwarfing Palm's 9.8%. "When the December quarter numbers come out, we think we'll have done even better," Jobs said.The arrival of film rentals had been widely trailed, with leaks appearing in the media last month. Until now, Apple had only offered films for purchase via its iTunes Store, and Jobs said that while 7m films had been sold since the service was introduced in September 2006, "it didn't meet our expectations, I have to tell you".He said: "We think there's a better way to deliver movie content through iTunes. So today, we're introducing iTunes Movie Rentals."All six major film studios in the US have signed up to the service, which Apple is clearly aiming at rivals such as Netflix and Amazon's Unbox service in the US. On Monday, Netflix, which has 7m subscribers, announced a $9 per month scheme which would let people stream unlimited amounts of films to their TV or PC. The price for renting new films from Apple and Amazon is the same, at $3.99.In the UK, 20th Century Fox and Apple announced a new offering, "iTunes Digital Copy", in which buying a DVD also gives you a digital version in iTunes. However, the rental service for films does not appear to be available in the UK at present.Michael Gartenberg of Jupiter Research said that the introduction was "a really good move ... video rental is a business model that we know works". He added: "It isn't that Apple has invented something new here, it's how they've done it. Existing efforts have met a lukewarm response. We're likely to see something different in terms of consumer response to this."Key to that, he said, was that the Apple TV integrates the flow of TV and film content to homes. "The ability to flow content to all the screens that are important to consumers is strategically important to Apple and no doubt, Apple TV is going to go from 'hobby' [as Jobs called it last year] to strategic product in 2008".Jobs also showed off new versions of the Apple TV, which with a free software update can play back the rented films without a separate computer. It now has 40GB or 120GB hard drives, and Apple dropped the price, which now starts at &pound;199.But the announcement that left Apple fans salivating was of the MacBook Air, an ultra-thin laptop which dispenses with an optical drive and Ethernet port in favour of wireless connectivity. It has a single USB port, for which an  Ethernet adaptor can be purchased.Jobs said that Apple had not compromised in stripping down the machine: it has a full-sized keyboard and 13in display. "It's the world's thinnest notebook," he said, putting it into an envelope to demonstrate its dimensions. Even at its thickest, it is thinner than Sony's Vaio TZ, previously the thinnest machine, Jobs said. The MacBook Air uses a 1.8in 60GB hard drive, the same as an iPod, but also offers an option for a 64GB Flash memory drive: that version, with a slightly faster processor, costs &pound;2,030. "They are a little pricey," Jobs admitted, "but they are fast."Key to the development of the MacBook Air is a reduced-size version of Intel's Core 2 Duo chip, which made the battery life - claimed to be five hours - possible.Gartenberg commented: "After some hands-on time with the device, I know I want one ... this is going to win them some more customer sales. I expect demand for this machine to be strong, really strong."Jobs also unveiled Time Capsule, a network storage drive in either 500GB or 1 terabyte (1,000GB) sizes, which can be used as a wireless backup in conjunction with Time Machine, the automatic backup facility introduced with the latest version of Mac OS X, "Leopard", last October.Jobs also said that sales of Leopard had been "unprecedented", with 5m shipped so far: "We're really thrilled by this."Notably missing from the speech was any mention of upgrades to the Mac Mini, Apple's "headless" computer, or to its .Mac online service. Many observers think that the Mac Mini's days are numbered. Instead, it is the Apple TV that is now aimed squarely at the space beneath the living-room TV.Apple success stories4bn:Number of songs sold through the iTunes Store since its April 2003 launch.4m:Number of iPhones sold since the launch of the device in June last year.7m:Number of movies sold through iTunes Store: "didn't meet our expectations".
This year computer users will be more exposed to cybercriminals than ever before. It's not just because online crime is so attractive to identity theft gangs but, ironically, because the computer security industry that is supposed to protect users has deteriorated - from one which shared everything about newly discovered weaknesses to what some within it now call a "protection racket".It may sound alarmist, but researchers such as Paul Henry, vice-president of technology at Secure Computing, are using exactly that language to describe a move by a small minority of security companies now paying hackers for exclusive access to newly discovered vulnerabilities. This ensures their customers are protected while the software vendor works out a solution and rolls out a patch, a process that can take weeks."The security industry is fast becoming a protection racket. There's no other word for it," Henry says. "The tradition has always been for vendors to share information on vulnerabilities so we can all protect our customers. Now you've got hackers being given a so-called legitimate route of selling vulnerabilities to a single company who then protect their own."It's not only wrong, because it only protects one company's customers, it also gives a lucrative market for hackers. They don't have to run the risk of going to jail any more by actually using a vulnerability, they can just threaten you with it and they get paid. It's extortion."Growing weaknessesThe number of flaws that can be exploited in software is growing fast: last year alone the US National Vulnerability Database (nvd.nist.gov), a clearing house, noted 6,680 new ones across a huge range of products and operating systems. That represented a dramatic slowing of growth after two years in which it had grown from just 1,281 in 2003. A forecast by analysts Gartner suggested that the security industry would be worth $9.1bn (&pound;4.6bn) in 2007, up by 10 per cent from the $8.2bn of 2006 (tinyurl.com/yvjxgl). The rewards for getting an edge are therefore high.Henry claims he does understand how the market for selling vulnerabilities on an exclusive basis has come about, blaming well-known software companies for not treating security researchers better."There have been cases where people reporting vulnerabilities to software companies have been treated terribly and threatened with legal action because the vendors just don't want to look stupid," he says. "Security researchers that have found a vulnerability won't get paid by a vendor, and if they think they actually might end up talking to their lawyers and being threatened, then it's hardly surprising they end up selling vulnerabilities to security companies. It's just a shame as it's opened the door for extortion."The two companies that spring to mind when executives like Henry talk about extortion are Tipping Point and WabiSabiLabi. The former is the most notable security company paying "security researchers" for exclusivity on vulnerabilities and its patches, while the latter is unashamedly set up as an auction house for vulnerabilities. Security researchers - though others may prefer to call them hackers - can go to WabiSabiLabi to report a vulnerability they have found: it is then auctioned to the highest bidder. The site takes what is believed to be a 5% cut.According to Yuval Ben-Itzhak, chief technology officer of San Francisco security company Finjan, this approach of buying or auctioning vulnerabilities goes against everything responsible security businesses should believe in."I really don't like this paying hackers strategy. It rewards them and it leaves computer users more vulnerable," he says. "Responsible companies share information, they build up trust over years and have routes to share vulnerabilities, always acknowledging where the first report has come from, so that company or researcher concerned is applauded for their help. To my mind, you can't trust hackers, so if you're a responsible company you spend money on research rather than handing it over to extortionists."The middlemanTerri Forslof, manager of security response at Texas-based Tipping Point, defends the company's strategy, pointing out that it means security researchers can report vulnerabilities and be rewarded without being tempted to sell their knowledge to criminals - who can pay a lot more. "When you've got security researchers fearing they'll be threatened with legal action if they report vulnerabilities, it's not surprising they come to us," she says."We can deal with the software vendor for them and ensure they get rewarded for their vulnerability. The software vendor is informed of any vulnerabilities we buy and we do not release details of what we have bought to the outside world. It's true that our customers get protection from the problem before the software vendor rolls out a patch for the issue, but we don't see how that is a problem for our customers."We are an option that allows security researchers to be rewarded for their efforts without having to go to the dark side of criminality, which has to be good for everyone. We also believe that if the people coming to us don't find those vulnerabilities than someone else will, so it's better that they get reported to us than be sold to criminals."However, to security companies based around sharing information, the argument does not carry much weight. Mary Landesman, senior security researcher at ScanSafe and a former security expert at Microsoft, believes those who do not share vulnerabilities are deluding themselves."Do they really know that Hacker A is not also somewhere else selling a vulnerability calling himself Hacker B?" she asks. "Do they know they're not paying for something that hasn't been discussed with another hacker who could go on to exploit the vulnerability and damage the vast majority of computer users that won't have protection?"They talk about security researchers being harshly dealt with, but I can assure you at the hacker conferences they are well wined and dined. Software vendors only get angry when vulnerabilities are irresponsibly released to the public before they've had a chance to work on them. If a security researcher wants to report a vulnerability as an altruistic gesture they can do, but if they're motivated by money, blaming the software vendors is an easy excuse for selling the exploit rather than giving it away."Geoff Sweeney, chief technology officer of the Australian global security business Tier 3, agrees and points out that the security researcher market is far more clouded than the likes of Tipping Point would like to make out. "They talk about white- and black-hat researchers but there's a lot of grey in between," he says."I think there's some truth in the software vendors making a rod for their own back by treating researchers badly, prompting them to sell the vulnerabilities they uncover; but it's still extortion, it's paying someone to hand over something they're threatening computer users with. Plus, if money is their priority over reporting it to the software vendor, why offer them money? You can't compete with what the black market offers anyway, so why legitimise it so it looks OK to find vulnerabilities and sell them to security companies as exclusives?"Although the chief executive of WabiSabiLabi failed to keep to several interview slots to answer the claims against his Swiss-based company, a spokesperson insisted that the company was simply offering security researchers an alternative to selling on the black market. The spokesman did not agree that WabiSabiLabi has a conflict of interest doubling up as an auction house for vulnerabilities as well as marketing itself as a security consultancy which would, by definition, mean it were the only consultancy with access to details of undisclosed vulnerabilities which other companies have paid to have exclusive access to.
Probably the fastest laptop I have ever owned was the first: a Compaq machine with a screen that showed four shades of orange and had a gigantic 20MB hard disk. Yes: megabytes, not gigabytes. I don't recall it having a mouse at all. It did, however, have two programs that I still sometimes miss for their speed and simplicity. One was a little file finder and indexer called "Supersonic search tool" and the other was a diary and contact manager which would pop up instantaneously (it was resident in Ram) when the right hotkey was pressed. The speed and simplicity of these two little programs approached that of pen and paper. They did one small, useful thing well.That kind of simplicity must be terribly hard to do, otherwise Steve Jobs would not now be so rich. I know I've just been praising programs that needed typing, whereas the innovations for which he is famous involve less typing than their predecessors - the Mac allowed people to use a mouse, the iPod had few buttons to push, and the iPhone has only one and no keyboard at all. Nonetheless, these are all devices that make it almost impossible not to do what you want to do, or not to go directly to the information you need.The sad fact is that almost everything that attains simplicity invariably loses it over time. Sometimes this happens because the problems change. I couldn't use the old Supersonic search tool on this hard drive, even if I could find it, because there are just too many files on my hard disks to make a listing of their names very useful. I need something as complex as Google Desktop Search.There were all sorts of things my first laptop would not do that we now take for granted. I used it all one summer holiday to compile an anthology of the previous year's best articles in the Independent newspaper. Five years later, I would have had them on a CD; 10 years later and the company would have paid for access to an expensive online database; today, I would simply use the Essex public library's access to the same database for free. But when I had the Compaq, I worked sitting on the floor with heavy volumes of hard-bound broadsheet newspapers, two or three inches thick for every month. So I am not claiming that all progress is illusory - only that a great deal is.Often things drift away from simplicity merely for the love of ornament and distraction. The number of contacts that I need to keep track of has not changed much over the past 17 years - if anything, it has shrunk as I deal less with PR people, though everyone nowadays has more phone numbers and email addresses. I still don't have a way of looking up a phone number as quickly as the first contact manager I ever used. My mobile phone might qualify, but a keypad and joystick make a horrible interface.Sometimes, though, simplicity is rediscovered. I just bought a Bush digital radio and it is perfect because it is an almost complete replica of a 1950s wireless. It even has a tuning dial on the front, with station names like "Hilversum" and "Home" and "Light", which works in long and medium wave.The real simplicity, though, is on the top of the machine, where the digital bit shows you the station names as you tune. When you have found the one you want, you switch it on and adjust the volume with a wheel, an idea no one has ever had any difficulty understanding: it works like a tap to let the sound out. For people who listen all day to one radio station - and there are millions - this is all they need.In the spirit of that radio, here are two bits of software that are nearly as straightforward. Launchy (launchy.net) is a free and tiny Windows utility which lets you start programs just by typing their names, or bits of their names, into a box. It will also add appointments to a Google calendar by typing pretty much what you'd scribble on a bit of paper.Things to do can be sent in the same way to my other discovery,todoist.com, a very simple, very fast, online to-do list manager, also free. If you are going to use a computerised to-do list at all, this one is nearly as flexible, quick, and powerful as a biro and a sheet of scrap paper. I can't think of higher praise for any program. Get them before they are improved out of all recognition.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
So games are in trouble again, but mercifully, it's nothing to do with Rockstar. No, it's Scrabulous, the timewasting activity of choice for millions of office workers worldwide who like to combine gaming with stalking their friends. The 2.3 million users of the board-based word game have apparently reacted with shock and outrage that two corporations have threatened legal action against the makers and distributors of the game - I mean, who ever heard of companies attempting to protect their copyrights? It's insufferable.Come on. As Kate Bevanarguesin the Technology section today, the respective boards at Mattel and Hasbro could face potential legal action from shareholders if theydidn'tmove to guard their intellectual property. And what must EA think? The publisher has paid for legitimate use of the Scrabble brand - wouldn't they be a little upset if the licensers just turned a blind eye? It's also worth reiterating the point that the authors of the game aren't penniless bedroom coders - they pulling in $25,000 a month in ad revenue.The only weird thing is why it's taken so long - although as Fortune magazine's Josh Quittner pointed out onhis technology blog, "If I were running a board games company, I might do this: wait until someone comes up with an excellent implementation of my games and does the hard work of coding ... Then I'd sweep in and take it over. If I were compassionate, I'd even cut in the guys who did all the work for a percentage point or two to keep the site running."It would, of course, be sad to see the game shut down (I play the odd match) - and it's little wonder that Facebook users have rallied to save it, it's a lot more fun than looking at your friends' wedding photos or being 'bitten' by every prat who thinks Vampire/Werewolf/whatever is a really neat idea. Setting up Save Scrabulous groups and bombarding Mattel and Hasbro with vociferous hate mail seem to be the key methods of protest (morehere), although the former has surely been undermined by the propensity of Facebook addicts to join over 30 'hilarious' new groups a day.Mattel and Hasbro aren't stupid - they'll be working hard to solve the no doubt complex licensing issues between them to approve an official version. Everyone can win here. If not, if they just use their corporate might to smash Scrabulous to pieces, Facebook fans, robbed of a fun, free, intellectually stimulating experiencecouldjust move on to one of the many, many casual gaming communities that aren't tied to a social networking experiment.
The Economist newspaper has opened the third in its series of "Oxford style" online debates, where the proposition is: "Social Networking: does it bring positive change to education?"At the moment, the Pro side is ahead by 69% to 31%. Well, as the Con side admitted in advance, an online discussion is unlikely to vote against the value of online discussions....(Warning: don't go to the site with View|Text size|Larger set in IE7.)
Lawrence Lessig's book,The Future of Ideas, is now availablefreefor anyone to download under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial license, he says on hisblog.The book argues that the unconstrained Internet produced a flowering of creativity that is now in danger of being snuffed out:The cultural dinosaurs of our recent past are moving to quickly remake cyberspace so that they can better protect their interests against the future. Powerful conglomerates are swiftly using both law and technology to "tame" the Internet, transforming it from an open forum for ideas into nothing more than cable television on speed. Innovation, once again, will be directed from the top down, increasingly controlled by owners of the networks, holders of the largest patent portfolios, and, most invidiously, hoarders of copyrights.Lessig is now a Professor of Law at Stanford Law School and the lawyer behind the Creative Commons license. His books include Free Culture (2004), The Future of Ideas (2001) and Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace (1999).
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too.. and looks at the ethics and effects of paying hackers to tell you what they've found, analyses Apple's Tuesday announcements, looks at "CarTorrent" (you'll find) and why North and South Korea are cooperating on a version of Linux. Plus commentary and more. Click through for the full list, or just see the storieshere.Security breakdownAs the market for selling exclusive information on software vulnerabilities grows, Sean Hargrave reveals how the hackers' gain is your loss when it comes to PC securityWhy the quest for simplicity drives designers to distractionsProbably the fastest laptop I have ever owned was the first: a Compaq machine with a screen that showed four shades of orange and had a gigantic 20MB hard diskNewsbytesWay beyond HD TV | Service picker | Widescreen touchphone | ETech 2008 | Website builder | Got games? | Neighbourly networking | The spin on videoGamesSun Age | Burnout Paradise | Sensible World of SoccerIs Facebook's Scrabble game going to disappear?It might, because Hasbro, the toymaker which owns the rights to the famous board game in the US and Canada, has served a shutdown notice on the site which provides the Scrabulous feature to FacebookBroadband uptake slows along with progress on speedsAs richer countries reach saturation, there's little sign of the roll-out of enhanced fibre-based networks, says Charles ArthurApple pushes film rentals and takes to AirSteve Jobs wowed the faithful at Macworld with hardware updates, software tweaks and an almost wire-free size zero laptopIt's opinions that count, not just the ranking scoreSomething has happened to the videogame review score, says Keith Stuart. The humble rating that used to conclude rather than define each reviewer's opinion has morphed into some monstrous online arithmetical totemLetters and blogsLooking ahead | Imprisoned data? | Well done, Mustek | Switch overTechnophileSpock looks set to conquer new frontiers with its dedicated people-based search engineSocial sites develop a social conscienceOnline meeting spaces have dominated web news but they're not the only - let alone the most useful - social sites on the block, says Victor KeeganYouChooseHuman Tetris, revisited | "Like it's from another planet" | Plastic pal, fun to work withPeer-to-peer network invites drivers to get connectedCarTorrent could smarten up our daily commute, reducing accidents and bringing multimedia journey data to our fingertipsAsk JackWait, or Leopard? | What's up, docx? | Deluged with bounces | Hearing voices? | BackchatWe need vision for next-generation broadband, not complacencyWhat's depressing is the complacency. The sheer head-in-sand, not-invented-here, civilisation-ends-at-Folkestone complacency. I'm talking about Britain's broadband policy'No one in government IT will have done this before'Last Saturday, an ad hoc group of citizens interested in improving an aspect of public policy sat down with the civil servants responsible and designed a web service to do the jobCan Linux finally unite Korea?Along with political cooperation, Seoul's plan to help the North with IT could shatter the last Cold War boundary
In today's technology section, myGamesblog columnis looking at the metascore phenemonen, namelyMetacriticandGameRankings, which have become an enormously important element of online games journalism over the past few years. We all know how useful these sites are in exposing us to a range of critical opinions, but my short article looks at some of the downsides of relying on the metascore alone.Anyway, to get a look behind the metascoring process I interviewed Metacritic Games Editor, Marc Doyle, who provided lots of background info on how the score averages are calculated - and what sort of controversies the sites' methods have provoked. There wasn't room for a lot of this in the column so here's the interview in full.Have you heard of specific instances where a Metacritic score has affected the sales of a game - for better or worse?Not specifically. Of course friends and users of the site have informed me that they haven't purchased games (or seen movies or bought albums) with low Metascores, but I've never been told by a publisher or developer that they've been able to definitively make a causal connection between poor sales and low scores from my site.However, at least two major publishers have conducted comprehensive statistical surveys through which they've been able to draw a correlation between high metascores and stronger sales (and vice versa), but with a much tighter correlation in specific genres of games than in others.I'd prefer not to name the publishers or talk about those studies in particular[One of the publishers is Activision, which carried out a fairly well-publicised study of score data. More infohere- Keef]. But I do think that gamers are a much more informed group of internet users with respect to reviews than film fans or music buyers - not because they're necessarily smarter, but because games are much more of a time and money investment than other forms of entertainment.A moviegoer spends $10 and 2 hours of their life on a movie, so they don't necessarily feel "burned" by a highly touted film that turns out to be garbage. On the other hand, a gamer who shells out $60 USD and expects to play upwards of 30 - 50 hours on a game wants/needs to know whether that hotly anticipated title is going to deliver, and sites like Metacritic which survey a wide span of the best game critics can be a valuable tool in that regard.Is it true that you're often contacted by publishers who take issue with how you compile data to create metascores? Any recent examples?Absolutely. Some publishers feel I should include certain critics who I don't track or exclude other critics that I do - usually because the excluded critics are shelling out higher scores to their games, or the critics I do use are panning their games. The more savvy PR departments realise that I put a lot of time and effort into selecting the publications I track on Metacritic. I'm always looking for quality sites to add, but I have to be extremely careful in that process. I understand the impulse to chime in with me, however, when a certain critic comes down on a game on which a development team has invested a huge amount of time and effort.Another typical complaint I hear from publishers is that UK critics shouldn't be reviewing games based on essentially American sports such as the NFL, NBA or NASCAR. Conversely, many European publishers feel that American critics are not qualified or properly situated to review football, rally, F1, cricket and rugby games. My response to them is that if a publication decides to review a game, it's implicit that their critic has a degree of competence necessary to review the game, or at least can provide information to their readers that is helpful. More importantly, once I've decided to track a publication, I cannot pick and choose which reviews I list on Metacritic based on such individual judgments. If I did this, my credibility would immediately be called into question.One of the more controversial aspects of what I do is the conversion of the A - F scale to Metacritic's 1 - 100 scoring system. For example, when I convert a "B-" score to 67 on Metacritic, many users/fanboys/publishers/developers chime in to argue that a "B-" should be converted to the low 80s because that's how American schools tend to interpret a "B-". The problem is that most publications use a "full scale" without such counter-intuitive connotations, whether it's 0 - 10, 0 - 100, 0 - 5 stars, etc., and it would be impossible to put an A - F grading scale into a system with the others if I were forced to convert an "F" to 50. An "F" game is worthless, and everyone understands this.As such, I feel that ANY scale simply needs to converted directly with its lowest possible grade equating to 0, and the highest to 100. Long-winded answer, but reasonable minds can disagree on this point, and I fully respect other opinions on the matter. Most importantly, every score is converted exactly the same way on my site, so all games are subject to the same treatment. This consistency is key.Do you think review scores still have a vital role to play in the industry, given the enormous spends on advertising these days? How has their role changed in the web 2.0 era?I think reviews in general and sites like Metacritic in particular are MORE critical now that advertising budgets have swollen. Like many, I used to be suckered into seeing movies or buying games based on glowing review quotations in magazines or newspapers ("One of the year's best!") from critics nobody has heard of or from skilled PR department writers. A site like ours helps people cut through that unobjective promotional language.By giving consumers, and web users specifically, early information on the objective quality of a game, not only are they more educated about their choices, but it forces publishers to demand more from their developers, license owners to demand more from their licensees, and eventually, hopefully, the games get better. I don't want to overstate our role in this area, but we're highlighting the review process, which I don't think was taken as seriously when the pool was essentially 50 - 100 unconnected sites and magazines providing their own unique perspectives in isolation. Being able to capture the critical consensus a game receives in a simple two digit number which means something very specific to gamers, fanboys, publishers, developers, retailers, etc., is something that couldn't have been done 15 years ago, and I think it will continue to be valuable as promotional budgets continue to expand.I was watching the new Fox Business Network shortly after Super Mario Galaxy was released. The anchor was interviewing Reggie F-A of Nintendo, and across the bottom of the screen was a banner stating that the game has received a Metascore of 96. That floored me. More and more businesses and financial analysts are referring to Metacritic numbers as an early indicator of a game's potential sales and, by extension, the publisher's stock price. Apparently, they're able to use quantifiable review data as a predictor of a games success before the NPD sales data is officially released.
Human Tetris, revisitedJust another soaking wet day in the business district of Guayaquil, Ecuador, and a group of people have turned out to play, of course, human Tetris. Disappointing high score, though. (Compare last week's one. Class!)"Like it's from another planet"Some overdressed guy -Steve Jobs?- introducing the first iMac in 1998. Ah, 233MHz was "fast" and it had that dire round hockey puck mouse, "the most wonderful you've ever used". You can't have used it, Steve. (A year or so later Apple dropped it; Jobs cited the odious reviews it received in a keynote.)Your plastic pal who's fun to work withOK, it's a music video, but it's also a sci-fi story about what it would be like to have a humanoid robot in your office.Liked those? Hated them? Whatever - tell us your favourite technology videos. Post the links here!
Jan 25th sees the first big console release of the year - Burnout Paradise. The game, incidentally one of the first multiformat games with the PS3 as the lead development platform, sees the crash n' pile up "franchise" shoehorned into a GTA-style open city. Any initial fears over loss of focus seem to be misplaced withtoday's 4/5 reviewapplauding the, "mind blowing" graphics and, "amazing" exploration. But I'm still slightly concerned about the potential for aimless driving. Steve Boxer touches upon it in his review and I'm still worried that the intense action of the previous games may have been diluted. The game isn't out till the 25th so we'll all find out then.If you are the one person in the UK who was looking forward to "old skool RTS" title Sun Age (PC) then the review is here. But perhaps more interesting is Sensible World of Soccer for Xbox Live. The flaky online code is disappointing but this is a still a fabulous update. Having said that nostalgia does play a part, and younger gamers may fail to see what all the fuss is about. Personally I've enjoyed getting some 30-something revenge on the teenagers who normally cause me pain in Halo and Call of Duty 4.
It is Facebook's most popular game, giving 2.4 million Scrabble addicts worldwide a way to get their fix online. But the web addiction that is Scrabulous may be shut down after the makers of the board game claimed the electronic version was a breach of copyright.Created last summer by two brothers from Kolkata, Rajat Agarwalla, 26, and Jayant, 21, Scrabulous has become an internet phenomenon. Revenue from advertising alone makes the pair, the younger of whom is still at university, $25,000 (&pound;13,000) a month.There is no doubt Scrabulous plays like Scrabble. Users are randomly given seven letter tiles to form words on a board with light blue and pink squares denoting bonus scores. Devotees include the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and  the Hollywood scriptwriter and director Nora Ephron.Now the world's two biggest toy makers, Mattel and Hasbro, who own the rights to the game, want to shut down Scrabulous. Lawyers' letters have been sent to Facebook's US headquarters and the brothers. "We did try to contact Hasbro last year informing them of Scrabulous," Rajat told the Guardian. "I have no comment on the legal matter. Scrabulous is a homage to board games we played as kids."Jayant is a Scrabble addict who used to play an online version with his father. When the website started charging, he built his own.The brothers started a software company in their teens, then launched BingoBinge.com in 2005, later changing the name to Scrabulous. "It was a hobby then, just for us. It was last year that one of the users suggested moving it to Facebook, which we had never heard of," said Jayant."We were not too optimistic, but Facebook was programmer-friendly, so we put up the game last July. By August 200,000 people were using [Scrabulous]. The whole thing crashed. It was pretty stressful." Rajat said programmers who loved playing the game helped resuscitate it.Experts say the real risk to Scrabulous is legal, not electronic. Hasbro last year sold the rights to publish Scrabble online to another company, Electronic Arts. The game has been one of the biggest money-spinners in toy history: 100m sets have been sold since its debut in the 1950s.Pavan Duggal, a supreme court lawyer in Delhi specialising in cyber law, said that whatever "the noble intentions, the fact is that Scrabulous uses Scrabbles features, uses the same characteristics, has the look and feel of the original and therefore could be cause for copyright infringement".Duggal said the penalties under India's copyright laws, especially concerning information technology, were stiff: a 10m rupee fine (&pound;125,000) and up to three years in prison."You cannot copyright an idea, but you can copyright an expression of an idea. That is what Scrabulous appears to be."However, the Agarwallas say there are crucial differences. Unlike Scrabble, Scrabulous allows players to cheat by looking up words.  "We wanted to create a game that could be played while you were busy doing something else or your opponent was somewhere else. The whole point was to bring people together," said Rajat. The Agarwallas are undeterred: they have plans for a Scrabulous championship, as well as a Facebook version of chess.The online community is divided. Fortune magazine's Josh Quittner, who broke the story on his technology blog, said: "If I were running a board games company, I might do this: wait until someone comes up with an excellent implementation of my games and does the hard work of coding ... Then I'd sweep in and take it over. If I were compassionate, I'd even cut in the guys who did all the work for a percentage point or two to keep the site running."Facebook has produced a mini-industry in new programs for the social networking site's 60 million users. Companies have launched thousands of features, allowing users to swap reviews of books and music with their friends, build and race virtual cars, or buy virtual drinks. More than 1 million people a day use an application to compare cinematic tastes. Scrabulous attracts 600,000 daily users, and Texas HoldEm Poker has 435,000 players every day. Programmers profit from adverts next to their applications on the Facebook site. Many say that the Facebook programming boom is comparable to that sparked by Microsoft's Windows software, which saw thousands of companies spring up and produce packages. Silicon Valley has seen venture capitalists pour in, once again funding small companies with  big ambitions.
I am about to buy a new Mac. I have five cuttings from Technology Guardian bemoaning the failures of Leopard. Do I buy now, wait, or continue with my iMac running OS 9?Pat HeeryAt least wait until you can get OS X version 10.5.2, which is expected at this week's Macworld. Apple has been updating Leopard at a rapid rate and this third version reportedly includes another 76 fixes. Note that Leopard has now discontinued support for "Classic" versions of Mac OS, such as yours, though you canrun it virtually on Intel machinesusing SheepShaver. You should also read the Apple Support article,Moving files from your older Macintosh to a new one.
I have recently installed Microsoft Office 2007 on Windows XP. I can now open any attachment sent to me. However, no one can open attachments sent by me.June MouldOffice 2007 defaults to using the new and much improved Office Open XML file formats, such as docx, rather than the ones used for the past decade.However, you can still use the old formats. If you click the round Office button in the top left and mouseover Save As, you can then click the appropriate entry on the right pane. In Word, for example, it says: "Word 97-2003 Document". If you click Save As instead, you'll get a Save box where you can select from a couple of dozen options including Web page and WordPerfect. Rich Text Format (rtf) is usually a good choice, unless your document includes images.But people are using the new formats, so you should also tell your friends to download theCompatibility Packfor Microsoft Office 2000, Office XP, and Office 2003. This will enable them to read and write OOXML without buying Office 2007. Apple's Leopard operating system also supports the new formats, while iWork 08 and the iPhone can read them
I recently became the "innocent bystander" mentioned in your reply toPeter Beavenlast week: my private inbox filled up with tens of thousands of bounced, undelivered, and "out of office" emails. Is there anything that can be done, short of waiting it out or switching to another mailbox?Rob HarriesYou can handle small volumes of bounces by usingMailwasherorSpam Xto delete the spam emails on the server. If you have a "catch all" mailbox, it may also help if your service provider changes it to one that only accepts email to a specific address. If you're getting more than a few hundred bounces a day, try pleading with your ISP to do the filtering, but otherwise, there's not much you can do.In the long run, everyone adopting SPF (Sender Policy Framework) should help, but at the moment you need your own domain name and too much expertise.
When on the internet (AOL), I sometimes get a verbal message, "You've got company," in a female voice that sounds the same as the AOL welcome message. What does it mean?Andrew RawlinsonYou probably have a buddy list on AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) and have ticked the box in Preferences that says: "Play sound when buddies sign on." You could also hear someone say "Later" when they sign off. Search your PC and you should be able to find two files called buddyin.wav and buddyout.wav, which you can play as a test. You can also search the web for alternative sound files.
Sun Microsystems isspending $800m in cash and buying $200m in optionson the privately-held stock ofMySQL, the 400-strong company which makes and offers the free, open source database of the same name.Jonathan Schwartz, the chief executive, called the acquisition the most important in Sun's history. The reasoning seems to be to keep Sun in the running when it comes to selling its hardware:"This is really about one thing: reaffirming Sun's position at the center of the Web," Schwartz said. "We view ourselves as a platform for the Web economy and we certainly believe and can demonstrate that we have the hottest products and platforms."MySQL, founded in 1995, has become hugely popular because you can get it for free and it will handle pretty much anything, from a one-table database on your PC right up to an airline reservation system to, well, Google. MySQL makes its money selling support and customising versions of the database for clients, and also giving them advance use of new features.The opportunity is there: about 75% of MySQL installations run on hardware from other vendors than Sun. About 20% of them run Sun's Solaris operating system, although the majority of MySQL databases run on Linux, Sun executives said.The acquisition should take MySQL away from the threat of rival database vendor Oracle - which had bought an open source company whose technology is crucial to MySQL, but never seemed carried through any implied threats in doing so.From news.com:"I think that open source is becoming the business model that enterprises want to pursue...and there are legions of software engineers graduating from college who won't use anything else," said Kevin Harvey, general partner at Benchmark Capital and chairman of MySQL's board. "Open source and software-as-a-service are the only two viable software business models going forward."Wonder what Microsoft thinks of that. But Oracle might also feel miffed, as Sun has provided a lot of support for PostgreSQL, another open source database, and for Oracle itself. But Scott McNealy, when CEO, had floated the idea of Sun offering a FOSS (free open source software) database in February 2005, when he was still chief executive.Schwartz hasblogged about the logic behind the deal:Chief technology officers at startups and web companies disallow the usage of products that aren't free and open source. They need and want access to source code to enable optimization and rapid problem resolution (although they're happy to pay for support if they see value). Alternatively, more traditional CIO's disallow the usage of products that aren't backed by commercial support relationships - they're more comfortable relying on vendors like Sun to manage global, mission critical infrastructure.And:Until now, no platform vendor has assembled all the core elements of a completely open source operating system for the internet. No company has been able to deliver a comprehensive alternative to the leading proprietary OS.You know which OS he means, right?With this acquisition, we will have done just that - positioned Sun at the center of the web, as the definitive provider of high performance platforms for the web economy. For startups and web 2.0 companies, to government agencies and traditional enterprises. This creates enormous potential for Sun, for the global free software community, and for our partners and customers across the globe. There's opportunity everywhere.We'll be interested to see how this pans out. MySQL might just be the saving of Sun.
Oracle has finally bought BEA, reportsReuters, as Larry Ellison continues his "consolidation" of the enterprise software market. Basically the two companies split the difference. Oracle offered $17 last year, BEA said $21, and they did the deal for $19.375 per share in cash.In 2005, Oracle bought Siebel for $5.85 billion, and shortly before that, picked up PeopleSoft and J.D. Edwards for $11.1 billion, and Hyperion for $3.3 billion. It has also picked off a few dozen smaller companies such as Tangosol, AppForge, LoadStar, Agile, Bharosa, NetSure, Bridgestream, LogicalApps, Oblix, MetaSolv, Thor Technologies, HotSip, OctetString, Retek, G-log, Sleepycat Software, InnoDB, SPL WorldGroup and Collaxa, which are too small for anyone to bother about. (Even open source usersdon't seem too botheredabout Oracle buying up open source database vendors.)According toForbes, late last year Oracle president Charles Phillips said they'd bought 41 companies in the past 45 months:"At this point in our history, acquisition makes a lot more sense," Phillips said. "Companies are cheaper than in the Internet bubble. We can bring in innovation outside of Oracle. Anyone remotely thinking about selling their company is going to come to us. We've become the IPO market for the enterprise software industry."Of course, Oracle's main rival, IBM, is also hugely rich and acquisitive, and will probably gobble up almost anything Oracle misses. So it looks as though the market will be split between IBM and Oracle, with SAP standing alone. But there are still a few tiddlers, such as Sun (which hasjust bought MySQL, after it turned Oracle away) and Microsoft.
Apple has already made waves with its iPod, iPhone and trendy desktop computers, but last night the company threw out a new challenge to its competitors, the world's thinnest laptop.The secretive Silicon Valley company confirmed the launch of the &pound;1,199 Macbook Air, which measures just three-quarters of an inch (2cm) deep - thin enough to fit inside an envelope.In his Macworld Expo keynote speech,  speculation over which has been rife for weeks, chief executive Steve Jobs said Apple would try to take control of the video industry with movie rentals and a revamped Apple TV to stream films direct to television screens.Until now iTunes customers have been able to buy movies outright, a business which has not been as successful as Apple's entry into music. Apple TV, which allows video to be streamed from a computer to a television screen, has struggled to make an impact. But Jobs predicted that a relaunch of the device would mark a significant shift in the film industry."On iTunes we've sold 125m TV shows, and we've sold 7m movies - it's more than everyone else put together, but it didn't meet our expectations," Jobs said. "I think we've got it right this time."We've all tried to figure out how to get movies over the internet and on to the TV - but we've all missed, no one has succeeded yet."We tried with Apple TV, but it's not what people wanted. So we're back with Apple TV take two - no computer is required. You can rent movies directly on your widescreen TV and you can rent them at DVD quality or you can rent then at high definition quality."Costing $229 (&pound;116), the system hooks into the company's plans to offer films to rent over the internet through its iTunes store, also confirmed yesterday. The company said it would join film studios including 20th Century Fox and Sony to allow iTunes users to stream movies direct to their computer or TV for a one-off payment of between $3 and $5.The system will have 1,000 new titles and back catalogue films available by the end of February. It will start immediately in the US and in other territories later this year. "We're dying to get this international as well," Jobs said.Similar in concept to the the BBC's iPlayer and Channel 4's on-demand service, Apple's systems will make downloads usable on iPods and iPhones as well as television sets.
Big Thinkis a Web site that's just come out of private beta, where you can watch videos of "thought leaders" and have your say on global issues. Itspress releasesays:Combining journalistically produced interviews with user-generated content, and playing both moderator and mediator, Big Think bridges what was an evident gap between credible, informed editorial opinion and the less controlled freestyle of online social media -- thus creating a dynamic and wholly unique breed of engagement platform.One of the backers is the newly-famous (to Guardian readers)Peter Thiel(PayPal, Facebook, Clarium Capital), though "David Frankel, South African venture capitalist, is lead investor."I've been racking my brains to think of similar ventures, but can only come up withEdge, which now looks very much like a relic from a previous century. Any other suggestions?Obviously the site has commercial motives. From the press release, again:A portion of Big Think's value is derived from its design as a cutting-edge commercial platform, offering advertisers an array of opportunities for visibility and creative integration of corporate perspective in the form of banner ads, interstitials, sponsored content and featured interviews with executives and principals.But I can't quite see where it scores over group blogs such asThe Huffington Postor our ownComment is Free.
The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) hasbanneda TV ad for Stranglehold, the John Woo shooter that was myguilty gaming pleasure of 2007. The ad, previously cleared for broadcast after 7.30pm, attracted two complaints - one from the parent of a 3 year-old boy and another from a viewer who felt that it glorified gun crime. ASA's main objections were the realistic visuals, continuous shooting and a voiceover which was seen as "condoning violence".Check out the adand see what you think but clearly there needs to be a greater understanding by all regulatory watchdogs that most console owners, especially PS3 and Xbox 360, are aged 18 or over. Oh, and some parental control too.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
