In theory, yes. In practice, it's very unclear, and has turned into an online cause celebre ranging two security experts, David Maynor and Johnny "Cache" Ellch, against pretty much the whole of Mac-dom, including high-profile Apple enthusiasts and Apple Computer itself.To recap. At the start of August Brian Krebs of the Washington Post wrote a blog post (tinyurl.com/khpvg) titled Hijacking a MacBook in 60 seconds or less, about a video showing Maynor (who works for a security company called SecureWorks) and Ellch plugging a third-party Wi-Fi card into an Apple Macbook, and apparently hacking into it wirelessly from a Windows machine. Why use the third-party card rather than hacking Apple's internal Wi-Fi drivers? Because, Maynor implied, he wanted Apple to have the details of the weakness first, to patch it - a common practice in security circles. However, he added: "We're not picking specifically on Macs here, but if you watch enough of those Get a Mac commercials, it eventually makes you want to stab one of those users in the eye with a lit cigarette or something."Apple users lined up to return the compliment, furiously questioning Ellch, Maynor and Krebs's integrity. Apple insisted the demonstration did not relate to any flaws in the Wi-Fi drivers on Apple's system. It said SecureWorks had previously told Apple about a flaw in the Wi-Fi drivers used in FreeBSD, the form of Unix that is a basis for its OS X operating system. That flaw "was not exploitable" on any Mac products. But Apple then launched its own internal investigation of its Wi-Fi drivers - and found exploitable flaws. It issued a patch for them two weeks ago.With Maynor and Ellch due to give a demonstration at another security conference on Saturday, everything seemed set for a conflagration. Then SecureWorks told Maynor to stay away. And Apple and SecureWorks declared that they were "working together" on "any reported security issues". A furious Ellch said: "The fact that SecureWorks and Apple managed to compel [Maynor] not to [appear] means that they must have had something very compelling to stop him." His job, perhaps?Occam's Razor suggests the following: Maynor and Ellch found a generic flaw in the way that Wi-Fi drivers work. But they didn't demonstrate it on Apple's systems in a way that Apple accepted. Apple fixed one set of flaws; others probably remain.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Perhaps, but only if your laptop comes from Dell, Lenovo, Toshiba, Fujitsu or Apple. Which covers almost all the main portable manufacturers except HP and, oddly, Sony, whose battery manufacturing plant in Japan made millions of lithium-ion batteries that have now been recognised as a potential fire hazard - so much so that a number of airlines refused to allow computers containing them on board, even in the hold.Last week Lenovo, the Chinese manufacturer which recently took over IBM's personal computer division, told the owners of more than half a million Thinkpads built between February 2005 and September 2006 to check them to see if they were harbouring potentially dangerous batteries.This week Toshiba added 500,000 more computers to its existing tally, and Fujitsu said an unconfirmed number of its own machines were affected. Dell added 100,000 to its recall. Two months after Dell kicked off the affair by calling in more than 4m batteries, more than 7m are now affected. All are captured under the umbrella of "Sony's global battery exchange program".What began as a large but limited recall is now sweeping across the industry, and Sony is talking to the US Consumer Product Safety Commission about whether portable DVD players and gaming devices should also be included. However, a commission spokeswoman told the FT that only 47 battery fires have been reported out of billions in service.So why are HP and Sony not recalling batteries that must have been made at the same time as those which are being recalled, and which one would expect might be at risk from the same manufacturing defect (of tiny metal shards in the battery electrolyte) as others?HP said in a statement that "to date HP has received no reports of overheating causing a battery failure in Sony 2.4 or 2.6Ah [amp hour] cells used in some ... HP notebook PCs. Sony has communicated that HP should not be impacted by the Apple or Dell replacement programs. HP believes it will not be impacted by the latest Lenovo or Sony recalls."And Sony itself? The VAIO division is still deciding whether to join its parent company's recall program. The company itself says that the latest additions are a line in the sand, an end to the fiasco. Unfortunately, we've heard that before - after Dell, then Apple, then Toshiba.Sony's reputation with millions of laptop owners is in tatters, as customers grapple with the logistics of sending back their potentially dangerous batteries, and the Japanese electronics giant tries the act of metaphorically - and in some cases literally - firefighting.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Imagine you're at a protest - at a nuclear plant, perhaps, or a military installation. You approach the perimeter fence, carrying your placard. The loudhailers warn you to keep away. But you ignore them; this is a protest, after all. And then it happens. Your skin feels as if it's on fire - a burning, relentless, intense pain as if you were touching a frying pan. You scream and jump back, trying to escape the sudden agony. You scrabble a few metres away and it stops. Then you look closer at the buildings that are the object of your protest. Did it come from there? You approach the fence again and the pain starts again - until you jump back.That's the sort of scenario envisaged by Raytheon, an Arizona-based defence company. It has developed what it calls a "less-than-lethal directed energy projection system", trademarked Silent Guardian, and says it is "available now and ready for action".The question is, action against whom? The $10m Silent Guardian weapon is part of a family of Raytheon's directed energy weapons, which also includes the larger Vigilant Eagle System, a high-powered microwave antennae the size of an advertising hoarding designed to fry the electronics of incoming shoulder-launched surface-to-air missiles up to 60 miles away, and the vehicle-mounted Active Denial System, which operates beyond small arms range (about 500 metres).All are in the business of handing out pain. The human effects were evaluated by Sandia Laboratories and the Air Force Research Laboratories. Their findings: "This technology is capable of rapidly heating a person's skin to achieve a pain threshold that has been demonstrated by AFRL human subject testing to be very effective at repelling people, without burning the skin or causing other secondary effects." The device, it adds, "is an alternative to lethal force."Skin deepThe human testing showed that the beams will penetrate even tiny openings and cracks in any physical barrier, including clothes, walls and shields. It is as though it wraps around corners to affect any piece of exposed body - the fingers or face, say, of those trying to hide.Silent Guardian works by projecting a beam of microwave energy at a frequency of 94GHz up to a range of 250 metres. Raytheon says there is no comparison with radiation from a microwave oven, with a much higher frequency, and that it only penetrates the first skin layer, the epidermis, to a depth of 0.4mm, no matter how close to the beam you are. That's deep enough to trigger the sensory nerves in the skin. However, Andrew Rice, a consultant in pain medicine at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London, told New Scientist last year that "even if the use of temporary severe pain can be justified as a restraining measure, which I do not believe it can, the long-term physical and psychological effects are unknown".What is clear is that this weapon ushers in a new era of paralysing weapons for urban warfare and, potentially, a techno-politics of border exclusion and crowd control. Raytheon insists that although pain is produced instantaneously, it will cause no damage, apparently on the assumption that targets will move away at once.It is a big system, about 2.5 metres high and weighing more than 4,500kg, intended for static operations including checkpoint security, perimeter, road clearing and point defence, embassy protection, homeland security and peacekeeping missions. The marketing video shows a stationary firing position controlled by a joystick that Raytheon says shoots two-second bursts of energy and has an automatic tracking facility, useful for targeting individuals, although it also opens up the possibility of future automatic systems.The first users are likely to be nuclear power installations or other high security zones where lethal force is already authorised, according to the Nuclear Control Institute (www.nci.org/g-h/hirschtb.htm). Raytheon says that since the level of skin penetration is so low, the weapons is harmless and "fills the gap between shout and shoot". But what's not known yet is how much energy is transferred to the target, which might open up physical weaknesses. Tests carried out with the Active Denial System at Kirkland Air Force Base in New Mexico between 2003 and 2004 raised questions about the safety of this technology in practice, since volunteers were asked to remove glasses and contact lenses to avoid the possibility of eye damage. Volunteers were also asked to remove metallic objects next to the skin to prevent hot spots forming. Demonstrators might not be so cooperative.Raytheon says that to experience a true burn, you would have to be exposed to the beam for 250 seconds - more than four minutes. The antenna on Silent Guardian that projects the beam also contains infrared sensors: these are claimed to be sensitive enough to detect any excessive skin heating and alert the operator to move off that target.But are they? And would they? Amnesty International has repeatedly expressed concerns about "push-button torture". UN special rapporteur on torture Theo van Boeven warns of a generation of "non-lethal weapons" that he describes as "including devices which employ high-decibel sounds and microwaves ... these technologies have the potential to be used for torture and ill treatment if abused".In Britain, the Threshold Group has been set up at Leeds Metropolitan University, with experts on sub-lethal and unconventional weapons, to monitor and challenge unconventional military technologies. The group is worried these weapons will come to redefine existing standards of cruelty and democracy and undermine legal arrangements, and that existing oversight controls and international humanitarian law is not yet developed enough to adapt. But where might the weapon be used first? According to a 2004 article in the Stars and Stripes magazine (tinyurl.com/naa4x), the US army wanted to use it in Iraq.Deployment decisionFor a time nothing happened. "We know the army has requested it. No decision on deployment has been made," a Pentagon spokeswoman said in January. Jack Fischer, a Raytheon spokesman, told the US Air Force's newsletter: "I don't know of any issues that would cause a problem," and speculated that the military might just be deciding where in Iraq to put it.Then last month in an interview with the US press, the US secretary of the Air Force, Michael Wynne, offered an equivocal opinion about the use of non-lethal weapons. "Non-lethal weapons are still being reviewed by the medical group ... Basically my point to them was [that] we need to start using that here in the US on Americans. And if we start using that here on Americans ... the first thing they will do is cry out that you have hurt them medically in a way that is pejorative."Crucially, the secretary added: "So I think we should use it, if we're not willing to use it here, against our fellow citizens, then we should not be willing to use it in a wartime situation." His statement was interpreted initially as recommending the use of non-lethal weapons. But a more careful reading suggests that he was may have been warning against their use.All that's clear at present is that Raytheon has not yet sold its Silent Guardian to the US military. But that doesn't mean it won't. "Right now it's the stuff of great novels," chided Wynne. But so, once, was the idea of erasing the past and watching the population via remote cameras. Just because a technology sounds futuristic doesn't mean it won't be used.&#183;Steve Wright is a Reader at the Praxis Centre, Leeds Metropolitan University&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Turns out that WGA (Windows Genuine Advantage) was just a pussycat compared to what's coming down the line:Microsoft's Software Protection Platform.This will apply to Vista and the next version of Windows Server (ie Longhorn). It will also, in the future, probably be extended across Microsoft's product line and even tothird party applicationswritten by independent software houses. If you use Windows, there will be no escape.At the moment, it's possible to operate a PC that has what Microsoft believes to be a pirated copy of Windows XP. That will be much harder with Vista:Reduced functionality mode in Windows Vista will allow the user to use the browser after the reduced functionality mode has begun. Reduced functionality mode can occur as a result of failed product activation or of that copy being identified as counterfeit or non-genuine.TheSPP white paperspells out what RFM means. After a 30-day grace period:There is no start menu, no desktop icons, and the desktop background is changed to black. The Web browser will fully function and Internet connectivity will not be blocked. After one hour, the system will log the user out without warning. It will not shut down the machine, and the user can log back in. Note: This is different from the Windows XP RFM experience, which limits screen resolution, colors, sounds and other features.Fun, eh? The white paper also contains another extremely interesting paragraph:the Software Protection Platform also has a set of technologies to determine whether a copy of Windows Vista is genuine or not. When Windows Vista detects an invalid product key, tampered license files, attempts to hack products activation or other indications that the software is not or is no longer genuine Microsoft software, it will display messages to the user and some functionality will be affected. Once in a non-genuine stateIn other words, the fact that you bought Vista and had it approved as genuine, or bought a machine pre-activated in the factory (as most are nowadays), does not mean it will stay genuine forever. Tampering with core code could make it non-genuine, presumably even if the tampering was done by a hacker or virus....Of course, you should then be able to revert to a genuine state by reinstalling the operating system ... assuming you have a CD or other copy of Vista.One obvious problem with all this -- as WGA has shown -- is that Microsoft's checking software can mistakenly decide that authentic copies are pirate copies. (Maybe you changed the motherboard?) And when that happens, quite a few paying customers will get seriously annoyed.Unfortunately we have no idea how many "false negatives" are being or will be generated. Let's suppose it's only 1%. That error rate would produce at least a million angry Vista customers in 2007, and probably 2 million in 2008. Unless Microsoft handles those customers with some care (and with more care than it's managing at the moment), then it's going to take a publicity beating. A high error rate could quickly make the whole operation unsustainable.But if it works, there's potentially a $5 billion prize. Software piracy rates can be anything from 20% to 90% or so, and if 10% of Windows installations are pirated, that's more than 50 million copies worth at least $100 each.You can be absolutely sure Microsoft has "done the math" on this one, but putting a price on an angry customer is not an exact science. Microsoft could find out that SPP actually amounts to a free marketing campaign for Ubuntu.
This week, David Cameron's green taskforce adviser Zac Goldsmith told the Conservative party conference that, instead of taxing "good things" (such as trust funds), it was time to start taxing "bad things like pollution". I couldn't agree more - and I'm sure the editor of The Ecologist magazine would concur with me that when it comes to pollution on our roads, mopeds and motorbikes are very bad things.No? Dear me. It seems Goldsmith is often seen doing the rounds from his house to the offices of The Ecologist, and visiting friends and family, all in and around Chelsea, not on a bicycle but on a black Vespa. Somehow, then, it must have escaped his notice that, per passenger kilometre, powered two wheelers (PTWs, in the jargon) produce about six times more methane and carbon monoxide, seven times more particulates, and a whopping 11 times more benzene than cars. What's more, even though their engines are smaller, the crude two-stroke engines of mopeds are more polluting than the four-stroke ones of motorbikes. So if pollution is a bad thing we should charge for, Zac, then that Vespa really ought to be - as fellow Tory conference speaker Jeanette Winterson so charmingly put it - "taxed up the arse".Why am I so exercised about scooters all of a sudden? It is not so sudden, really. With growing congestion, more and more people seem to be using these infernal machines. To begin with, I thought to myself, let's be tolerant - they're also on two wheels, after all. As relatively vulnerable road users, like cyclists, perhaps there is some common cause to be made. Now I realise this was terribly naive: scooters are simply a public nuisance.And it is not just the fact that they make clouds of choking blue smoke that I have to breathe in. Their owners must number among the most inconsiderate and irresponsible drivers on the road. They make red light-running, pavement-riding cyclists look like pillars of the community.I exclude motorcyclists from this charge because they have to undertake training and testing, whereas anyone with a car driving licence can hop on a moped. This presumably explains why so many of them seem to think they are entitled to drive in cycle lanes and weave in and out of traffic like maniacs (because no one has specifically told them not to). The greater premium there is on road space, the more mopeds compete with cyclists: they want to use the same bit of road that we do. And the problem is that they think they can ride like cyclists - with no sense of consequence from the fact that they are bigger, heavier and faster (as well as infinitely noisier and dirtier).Taxing? Very. In short, the moped is the best argument ever mounted for making the polluter pay.Bike doctorYour cycling questions answeredDear Matt,My daughter's partner is a cycle courier in Berlin, so he obviously clocks up a high mileage in the course of a day. The only way he seems able to keep his energy level up is by eating sweet things. Is there a better way to maintain energy?Penny Wallace, via emailMy favourite sports science finding recently is that athletes performed better when, instead of drinking hi-tech sports drinks between bouts of exercise, they slugged back chocolate milk. Milk has a virtually ideal balance of protein, carbs and fat, apparently. Even with quite a bit of added sugar, it still came out on top.It would be better if your daughter's courier friend sometimes ate an apple or banana instead of a pastry. Assuming he needs to keep working through the winter, this would be better for his immune system. But to a certain extent, he just needs calories to fuel the engine; if he eats a square meal at either end of the day, with all the major food groups, he should be fine.&#183;Email your bike-related quesries tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
This week has seen two major studies into the use of videogames as a teaching tool, both reasonably interesting if you're into this kind of thing. First up, EA has got itself involved with a one-year research project entitled 'Teaching with Games', conducted in the UK by 'education innovator',Futurelab.The findings suggest that off-the-shelf gamesdohelp with the usually cited areas: "computer skills, strategic thinking and problem solving." For the trials, which have taken place over the last year in four schools, The Sims 2, Knights of Honour and RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 were employed. Interestingly a poll carried out as part of the research found that 59% of teachers want to use computer games for educational purposes.You can read the reporthereAnd today, ELSPA has revealed details of another report, catchily titled, 'Unlimited Learning: The role of computer and video games in the learning landscape'. Produced in association with the Department for Education and Skills, the document aims to provide, "a resource for teachers and educationalists, games developers and publishers".One interesting chunk from the press release:"One college in Nottinghamshire, for example, has seen achievement in key skills increase dramatically to a 94% success rate, compared to the national benchmark of just 22%, through incorporating commercial game 'Neverwinter Nights' into its teaching plan. Many other teaching institutions across the UK report video games ability to motivate and engage, particularly with younger learners."An electronic version of the report can be foundhereI'm not sure what has inspired this rash of educational propaganda - are we due another 'games are evil' scandal?
On Monday,Boing Boingreposted something byDouglas Rushkoffalerting people to the plight of Robert Anton Wilson, the author of Cosmic Trigger and co-author of the Illuminatus trilogy. There's an update from RAW's friend, Denis Berry:Sadly, we have to report that wizard-author-intelligence increase agent is in trouble with his life, home and his finances. Robert is dying at his home from post polio syndrome. He has enough money for next months rent and after that, will be unable to pay. He cannot walk, has a hard time talking and swallowing, is extremely frail and needs full time care that is being provided by several friends-fans-volunteers and family. We appeal to you to help financially for the next few months to let him die at his home in peace.Donations can be sent directly to Robert's PayPal address, olgaceline@gmail.comAnupdate from Denissays:Anyway, this morning Bob's daughter showed up at his house in tears because she had checked his PayPal account and found money for next month's rent plus more. Bob called me to say that he couldn't believe people would care so much about him and as we talked (which isn't easy for him at this point) he was overcome with emotion more than once. He is so touched and RELIEVED at the possibility of staying in his home. He kept repeating to me his deep felt appreciation and disbelief that people would care so much about him.People who remember myTop 20 geek novelsposts will know I'm a huge Illuminatus fan. It's not just a great story, and wildly entertaining, it's also extremely clever. Inan interview with Conspiracy Digest, Wilson said:It's the first novel deliberately written from the viewpoint of the multi-model agnosticism of modern quantum physics. The novelist sitting on a pedestal watching the world with the allegedly Objective Eye of God is as obsolete as the tinhorn preacher bawling, "Come to my church, I've got the true true religion." The only philosophy one can honestly embrace at this stage of evolution is agnosticism, or ontological pluralism. The mosaic of competing conspiracies in Illuminatus! is a parody of popular demonology on both Right and Left. It's also a serious proposal for a more Einsteinian, relativistic model than the monistic Newtonian theories most conspiracy buffs favor.There are a billion people on the net, and it only takes a few thousand to send $1 or $10 to help one of our great writers to die in peace.
"Here's how it works: using your mobile phone, you create a group, maybe your close set of friends, your urban tribe, your family or some people from work. Whenever you want to send a message to everyone in the group, just compose it in Slam as you would an SMS and hit send. Everyone in the group gets the message instantly. Sending a photo is just as easy: simply snap and send, and it is automatically delivered to everyone in the group. If someone in the group wants to respond, they simply respond to the message and, again, the message or photo is automatically delivered to everyone in the group. This works for group members with smartphones or via SMS for everybody else," saysMicrosoft's Photography Blog."Sounds a lot like a e-mail mailing list, doesn't it? The magic happens when it all happens on your mobile phone."Further....As a bonus to Seattle-area users with the right kind of phone, Slam uses something like cell-tower triangulation and Virtual Earth integration to show you where people in your group are in real-time (with their permission, of course). No need to wait for your friends to check in, just look them up on a map.SLAM stands for Social / Location / Annotation / Mobile and it has a Web site athttp://www.msslam.com/where you candownload the codefor any Windows Mobile smart phone.It's a research project, not a product.Also, the site warns:The Slam smartphone client does not use SMS to send and receive messages, it uses HTTP to post messages to the server and to poll for new messages from the server. Because Slam uses the data pipe to send and receive messages, it is very important that all smartphone client users be on an unlimited data plan . We can not stress this strongly enough. Smartphone client users not on an unlimited data plan can expect bills up to $600 / month or more. SMS users will only have to pay for the SMS messages they send and receive per the plan they with their carrier. There are no special charges associated with Slam.
Clear your appointments for Saturday October 28, you're coming to Nottingham. As you may already know, theGameCityfestival is taking place in the city from the 25th to the 29th offering a series of events, talks and demo sessions with some of the brightest stars in the UK industry in a range of unlikely venues.As part of it, Gamesblog is hosting a special event entitledGrumpy Old Games Industry, gathering together three veterans of the UK dev scene to share their thoughts on the state of interactive entertainment. Our three gurus are David Doak of Free Radical Design, Ian Livingstone of Eidos and Andrew Eades of Relentless Software. And your compere for the evening? Erm... me.Even more enticing is the venue...Grumpy Old Games Industry will be taking place at the sizeable Mogal-e-Azam Indian restaurant and attendees will be able to enjoy a curry while the heated industry analysis goes on. You can book your seatherefor just GBP12.50 (including booking and transaction fees and a curry!).It would be great to see as many GamesBlog readers there as possible - I'm sure we can all meet before or after the event itself for a drink or two.
So I've been on the other side of the globe for the past few weeks and have missed the homespun furore over theNight of Bush Capturing"radical jihadist" video game, in which players are challenged to snipe the US president and UK Prime Minister using a first person shooter interface. According toGamepolitics,Night of Bush Capturing is an first-person shooter based on the Quest for Saddam engine. The game features six levels with names such as "Jihad Beginning", "America's Hell" and "Bush Hunted Like a Rat". A soundtrack of Jihadist music loops during play.The comments and coverage at Water Cooler Games and Gameology are excellent. Briefly:radovan says,- It is an Al Qaeda propaganda game, a media message to the world as any other video tape portraying their mission worldwide, I think gamers will not get interested in it and it will not affect their believes for sure.- I think it was developed using old version of torque engine called V12, or maybe a new mod of some old game???.- I think it was developed by one or two programmers with no graphic artist involved.- I was surprised that it wasn't available in Arabic, English only??????- It reflects the view points of the most extremist Moslems in the world, I am really disturbed about such game, the game was full of hate to any opposing side.Gameologyhas got a bit deeper into this issue, and reports that the current game is an adaptation of a 2003 game called Quest for Saddam.Apparently, UK tabloids have jumped into the fray, withThe Sun(who alsoslamthe creators of the satirical board gameWar on Terror) and theDaily Mailthrowing in their two penneth about "entertainment" which deals with controversial subjects.As I posted yesterday, there is a fine line between what is culturally acceptable and not acceptable with regards to controversial events. In the past, I've been slammed formy thoughtson a game which recreates the tragic Columbine massacre in the USA. Yet, as games become viable means of protest and interactive sense-making just how far is too far, and do we have the right to control the content?
"I really don't understand what Sony are offering and I don't understand whatKutaragitalks about half the time." UK and Northern Europe Xbox boss Neil Thompson told it like it is when I interviewed him last week during the X06 event. He also defended the HD-DVD drive - "something we needed to do" - while admitting the focus on core gaming content over casual may have had an impact on consumer perception of the 360 as a console for hardcore gamers.What are your thoughts for the Xbox this Christmas? Can Microsoft reach the 10 million worldwide sales target?This Christmas is important, especially as it is the first Christmas with general availability of 360. I don't think there will be stock issues. We've planned well for it and feel we are now in the 2nd generation of hi-def games. The quality of the games is better than those at launch and those were pretty stunning at the time. Titles like Gears of War, Viva Piñata and exclusive HD football. Then there are things like Guitar Hero and Totem Ball which broaden the appeal base of what we can offer people. Likewise Arcade is proving to be a runaway success and will further widen the appeal. We just hope people check out the Xbox without any bias this Christmas and we'll think they will like what they see.How does Nintendo's launch affect your plans? Do you see it as a complementary offering to yours?There are certain customers out there who will see Wii as a compatible offering with ours as it offers them a different gaming experience. But we see Wii as a strong competitor and one that can take a share of revenue that we would like to get. They are offering a very different product to us. They will sell their Zelda's and appeal to the fanboys and yes, they will do well but they are not an intense focus for us this Christmas.How do you convert the remaining 40% of Xbox 360 owners to join Live?Our aim is to get as many people as possible onto Live. The 60 % stat of 360 owners joining Live is a global one, in the UK it is slightly higher. Probably the biggest barrier is still broadband access in the home but that is decreasing daily. The silver service is important as it lets users see what Live is all about. Once they see and experience it we think they will love it. Our ambition is 100% and to get that we need to offer a diversity of content, such as Arcade, that will get the audience onto it. We don't want to Live to be seen as just a hardcore offering for hardcore gamers.The 360 line-up still seems skewed towards the core 16-24 male audience and not the casual market that is supposedly so important?Everyone always says to me that we don't have a Buzz or a Singstar but if you look at the platform we have Banjo coming out and Viva Piñata too. Arcade has a lot of games that appeal to the casual audience as does Guitar Hero and Totem Ball. On top of this content we have things like next-gen football which is also child friendly, plus all the racing titles. Apart from singing quiz shows we have a broad platform. Don't get me wrong, Buzz and Singstar are great products but I don't think they define what you would term as a broad platform or family gaming. Perhaps we need to present our family offering and other more casual games more clearly. But such is the visual quality of titles like Gears and Bioshock that we focus on these more.Last year at X05 you made a big deal of titles like Hexic but there was little casual games focus at X06. Are you embarrassed or worried that a core gaming media will give you poor coverage?Gears and Bioshock and the other top games look so good that you can't not show them. But did we get the clarity of delineation in the content genres right at the X06 presentation? I didn't think we did. We have a much stronger variety than we did a year ago and it makes sense to clarify this.How important is the camera?It lets us enter a new area of interactive games and is potentially exciting. Obviously it is a bit of an unknown at the moment it depends on what the developers can do with it. But when you hear them talking about adding more emotion to games then the camera can play an interesting role in this. For example putting your face onto in-game characters, obviously with all the right safeguards. We need to offer new experiences if we are going to grow the market.How important is the HD-DVD player to the 360? Are you worried it will deflect focus from the gaming?We felt HD-DVD was something we needed to give consumers the choice of but it is not core to what we do. For the next year HD-DVD will be in its infancy but maybe by next Christmas the market will have grown and become more important. If you want to offer the definite high def entertainment platform then you have to have HD-DVD, but I don't want us to lose sight that fundamentally at our core we are a gaming machine. The other platform holders may be a little schizophrenic about what they are offering but we are focussed on the gaming experiences. Once this is nailed we can look at attachments like music and movies but gaming is core.Do you regret having two different 360 offerings? Doesn't it just confuse customers?No, not at all. We're selling both and customers like to have a choice and build their system in their own way. Parents may buy the core system and tell little Johnny to save up and build up his system. The more power you give to consumers generally, the more positive brand experience you generate. Rather than forcing something on them we would prefer to offer a choice. We think it was the right strategy and we are sticking with it.What do you think worked and what didn't work in the 360 launch period?One of the things we were most proud of is Live. No one has done it before and we have delivered on what we said we would do. Live is a great achievement. Things we would do again? Perhaps we should have lessened the focus on the hardcore and chased broader content earlier. Maybe persuaded developers to develop content in this area more quickly that we did. That's now hurting us in some ways as people are still left with the impression that 360 is a platform for hardcore gamers only. The reality, of course, with Live Arcade and the others, is different. Also I would have reduced barriers to entry in the first generation of Live by removing the need for credit cards. But we're in a healthy position now and attracting really good IT to Live. We don't have to go out and debate with people to get on the platform, they are now really keen to get involved creating content for Live. It's pretty easy to develop for now and allows developers the freedom to express themselves.Has the gamerpoints system become more important that you expected?Not really. Community is at the heart of what Live is. It's part of the currency, along with friends list and identity that glues the community together. Without it online gaming becomes quite random and you could be anywhere. Gamerpoints was a conscious decision and has become a really important of the gamertag. Gamertag is now such an important personal brand and could easily be used across other things in the future.Do PC games have a future or do you think the PC will gradually become the home of the sim, leaving the console as the home for all other genres?No, I think PC gaming has a very strong future. When we launch Vista in January it will really re-energise that that category. And when you look at the interoperability between Windows gaming, console and mobile platform you can see how strong it is. People naturally want to play different games in different environments with some games simply more convenient to play on a PC. I saw Crysis at E3 and thought it was amazing. I would play that on a console if possible but it will be fantastic on the PC. It's all about giving people a choice.Sony's PS3 launch problems have given you a chance but how do you make the Xbox the gaming console of choice, especially when looking at the next round of console launches in 5-6 years time?Sony has strong brand loyalty and we have never underestimated that position. All we can do is as clearly communicate as we can what we have to offer. We have a fantastic product that has unique services on it and fantastic content. The challenge is to get that emotional attachment to the console and get a number of users who will evangelise the console to their friends. Maybe things like Pro Evo 6 will help persuade tilt the balance toward us. We will rely on having the best games and the best services, like Live, as well as keeping all our commitments. If we fail to meet a commitment then we will have trouble as I think people would be hard on Microsoft quite quickly.What do you think about the PS3 and what it will offer?I really don't understand what Sony are offering and I don't understand what Kutaragi talks about half the time. He's incredibly bright and has done amazing things but I'm very confused when I look at transcripts and am unsure of what they are positioning where and who they are going for. You can't really go head-on with them as I don't know what I'm going head on with. So we are just going to concentrate on creating great games and constantly improve Live and ultimately whatever will be will be. That's all we can do.
The news that World of Warcraft willappear in an episodeof South Park is interesting, if only because it shows how huge WoW is."We were excited to hear that the creators of 'South Park' were interested in featuring World of Warcraft in the opening of their new season, and we really enjoyed collaborating with them to make this happen," said Mike Morhaime, president and cofounder of Blizzard Entertainment.Let's face it though, the audience demographics for South Park and WoW are fairly similar. We'll know that WoW has really crossed over when it pops up on Eastenders or Corrie.
"What can you do in ten seconds in a toilet?" was the teasing question from James Dyson, the design guru who pioneered the bagless vacuum cleaner, as he prepared to launch his company's latest product.With much fanfare, surrounded by attentive journalists, the renowned innovator unveiled ... a trouser press. Except it wasn't, although it looked like one. The slimline wall-mounted silver gadget was a hand dryer.But it wasn't just any hand dryer. This one, it was claimed, is more hygienic, more energy-efficient and more than twice as fast as any conventional electric washroom hand dryer currently in use.And it does indeed take just ten seconds to dry your hands using the Dyson Airblade, dipping your hands in and out of the stream. A sheet of air acts like an invisible windscreen wiper, silently wiping moisture from your hands and leaving them completely dry.As Mr Dyson explained yesterday, in addition to being noisy and hard to control, existing electric hand dryers use 60-year old technology that relies on "painfully slow" evaporation to dry hands.Washroom air, which contains harmful fecal germs and is laden with bactera, is heated and blown onto people's shoes, clothes and freshly-washed hands."The problem is that existing dryers can take up to 35 seconds to dry your hands, but most people don't wait," he said."They [people] rub their hands together to try to speed up the drying process, drawing bacteria from skin and fingernails. Then they wipe their damp hands on their clothes, causing further cross-contamination of bacteria. We thought there must be a much better alternative."In its first move out of household products (which included a short-lived foray into washing machines), Mr Dyson's company has already trialed the Airblade in hospitals, restaurants, petrol stations, schools and universities.He said there were now huge concerns about infection in hospitals through superbugs. Two Bristol hospitals are experimenting with the dryers, for example, using them in nurses' changing rooms and food preparation areas.The product - which companies can buy or lease from next month - is also being offered as an alternative to expensive and environmentally unfriendly paper towels. In the US, for example, 2% of total landfill consists of paper towels.Mr Dyson said the hand dryer was the latest in a series of new products he will be launching over the next 12 to 24 months, but he admitted a shortage of skilled staff threatens progress.The company has taken on 170 engineers to boost its research and development complement to 420, and is still looking for up to 100 new graduates and experienced staff."This is not just a Dyson issue but a British one," Mr Dyson argued. "This country is in danger of losing its manufacturing prowess and becoming a nation of consumers. We produce 24,000 engineering graduates a year, while China produces 350,000 and India 450,000."The new hand dryer was developed in Wiltshire, but will be built in Nanjin at a relatively hi-tech factory that currently makes radar for the Chinese military.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Ars Technica has an interesting piece onHow the Wii was born, and Nintendo's attempt to reverse the decline in its console sales.
Jon Lech Johansen, known as DVD Jon, "became famous for hacking encrypted DVDs so they would play in Linux when he was 15, making him the target of criminal charges for which he was eventually acquitted," reportsGigaOM.Now he has moved to San Francisco, "reverse-engineered Apple's FairPlay and is starting to license it to companies who want their media to play on Apple's devices. Instead of breaking the DRM (something he's already done), Jon has replicated it, and wants to license the technology to companies that want their content (music, movies, whatever) to play on Apple devices. This may not be good news for iTunes the store, but it could make the iPod even more popular."DVD Jon's company isDoubleTwist Ventures, and its Web site says it "focuses on the development of interoperability solutions for digital media and the reverse engineering of proprietary systems for which licensing options are non-existent or impractical."Comment: In 2004, RealNetworks introducedHarmony, which allowed protected songs from its RealPlayer Music Store to be transferred to iPods while preserving the DRM. Apple did not sue but has repeatedly changed FairPlay to break Harmony. It seems reasonable to suppose we could be in for more of the same....
/.reports that the fitness industry is pulling in digital technology to attract the "yooth" to exercise emporia in Southern California. According toArsTechnica:In addition to the standard array of cardio equipment and weights, Overtime Fitness has several gaming-oriented machines. Perhaps most familiar is In The Groove 2, a Dance Dance Revolution knockoff. The center features a few In The Groove 2 arcade machines, along with a few Cybex Trazers. The Trazer is a "virtual reality" fitness machine that "puts you in the game," as Neale-May describes it. The kids put on an infrared belt which then maps their movements to the action onscreen. They play games that involve lunging, jumping, and other vigorous movements, which show up on the monitor as the user reacts to virtual dodgeballs and other stimuli. "We had kids try out the Trazer. They'd have a blast and come out completely drenched in sweat after ten minutes," said Ferrell.Tapping the exercise craze (literally) is a no brainer. Nike's EyeToy Kinetic kept me active during the cold winter months last year, and increasingly future-thinkers in the UK school system (and in other countries) are incorporating game technologies into physical education classrooms. It appears to bridge the gaps between gameplay and public acceptance.
According to comScore World Metrix ratings for August, the Party Gaming site had 11,252 unique visitors with 49% coming from the US and 5% from the UK. Sportingbet PLC had 3,275 unique visitors with 50% coming from the US and 6% from the UK."The bill recently passed by the US congress which aims to curb Internet Gambling will undoubtedly impact the health of the industry," says Bob Ivins, managing director of comScore Europe, in a press release "That these sites depend on the United States for so much of their traffic certainly leaves them vulnerable to significant revenue loss if US banks and credit card firms will no longer process payments to their sites."
There's more on than I realised, but head over to Ellie Gibson'slist at gamesindustry.bizfor details such as descriptions, dates and times. For a quick run-down, the main events:London Game Developers Conference: BAFTA London Game Career Fair: Café Royal London Games Summit: BAFTA BAFTA Video Games Awards: The RoundhouseCONSUMER EVENTSGames Showcase: HMV, 150 Oxford Street Lizards' Lair: 2 More London The World Series of Videogames: Trocadero Video Games Live: Hammersmith Apollo Game On: Until February 25 at the Science MuseumFRINGE EVENTSGame / Play: Monday - Wednesday, 10am - 4pm, Trocadero Artful Gaming Exhibition: Monday - Friday, 10am - 6pm, Science Museum Insync: Games You Should Have Played: Monday, 6.30pm - 8.30pm at 01zero-one The Secrets of Game Production: Tuesday, 10.30am - 4pm at 01zero-one, Mind Games (The Art of Videogames): Wednesday, 1pm - 9pm, Prince Charles Cinema Artificial Intelligence for Games: Wednesday, 6pm - 8pm, Imperial College London Play Time!: Wednesday, 10am - 5pm, 01zero-one Jump Start: Thursday, 10am - 5pm, 01zero-one Sense of Play: Friday, 9am - 5pm, Soho Theatre, Dean Street Playing Films, Watching Games: Saturday, 1pm - 2pm, National Film Theatre The Games Den: Sunday, 3pm - 8pm, Karamel Club, 4 Coburg Road
Experts today questioned claims that a new screaming mobile phone device would put an end to mobile phone theft.The new system ensures that stolen phones emit a squealing sound that can only be stopped by pulling out the battery and wipes data from stolen handsets.Under the new system, a phone owner who has their phone taken can dial a 24-hour call centre and have it registered as stolen.The system's manufacturers, Remote XT, claim that if the system is widely taken up it will make steeling phones pointless."By making mobiles unusable to anyone but the rightful owner, the phones become worthless and we'll see [the] market for stolen handsets stamped out once and for all," Mark Whiteman, the Remote XT managing director, said.However, Dr Carsten Sorensen, the senior lecturer in information systems at the London School of Economics, was sceptical."There must be ways of getting around it," he said."Mobile phones are like modern purses. They contain so much valuable information, people will find ways of getting rounding blocking systems."He also said the new system would be open to pranks."A lot of these kind of devices are based on the assumption of rational behaviour on the part of the users. Over the years, mobile phone technology has had to adapt to users abusing it in all sorts of ways."Dr Sorensen said blocking devices for stolen phones already existed, but there had been no reduction in phone theft.However, Jack Wraith, the chairman of the Mobile Industry Crime Action Forum, said: "Any product which adds a level of security for the user and a barrier for the thief has to be good news."
Just in case you haven't seen this, Gamasutra haspicked up ona report from the US Official Nintendo Magazine, suggesting that Commodore 64 games may be emulated for the Wii Virtual Console. According to the rather fact-thin piece, "Although no specific titles were named, the only indications so far are of titles from now defunct U.S. developer Epyx, maker of the likes of Impossible Mission and the Summer/Winter/World/California Games series."Doom on Xbox Live Arcade and now this? Justtoo muchnostalgia. It's probably just a piece of highly creative supposition though so I won't get overly excited (and, of course, if I was less lazy I could get all this for free via emulation...)
Apologies, but I'm going to have to pull out of tonight's Guardian gaming session. My wife has food-poisoning and my baby is teething so I'm run off my feet, nursing casualities on the battlefield known as family life. Sadly, this does not allow time for two hours of shoot-'em-up action.I'll re-schedule for 8pm next Monday, but if any of our readers fancies hosting a Gamesblog game tonight, feel free to do so. Volunteer via the comments section of this post then simply invite everyone who gave their gamertags in last Friday's post.
Now you may feel that 'tag clouds' et al are soooo 2004, but there is still a certain appeal when you come across a site that does it nicely.Such a site (in this writer's eversohumble opinion) isroomformilk, offering "fresh skimmed Slashdot headlines", the work of web designerGeoff Gaudreault. It shows what Slashdot has been fussing over, in colour-coded squares (which can range from "fresh" to "stale", though "curdled" doesn't seem to be in there).Hot topics at the moment? Hmm, seem to mention "computer", "Microsoft", "company", and "service". Surprised? No, but you never know.One thing this does get around is that Slashdot's RSS feed is notoriously fussy - many RSS readers are refused by it because (the site complains) they poll it too often.
You've probably noticed that if you're watching a play on ITV, the adverts sound much louder than the programme. That's because the audio has been compressed* to hell, raising the average sound level, while the sound peaks (which would be too loud) have just been chopped off. This is called "clipping".Update: as "raising the average sound level" should have made clear, this is aboutaudio level compression, notaudio data compression.If you still have any sensitivity in your ears, your immediate response is most likely to turn the sound down, or hit the mute button. Highly compressed sound is offensively "in your face" and bearable for about 45 seconds. It's extremely tiring: it leads to "listening fatigue". But suppose you had to listen to 63 minutes of this sort of crap?Well, you probably do. The dirty little secret of the music world is that pop singles have long been mastered to sound "loud" on cheap transistor radios and tape cassettes with limited dynamic range, and over the past decade, a growing number of CDs have been mastered that way too.This is no secret in the recording industry, but from time to time, information leaks out to a few consumers. A recent example is an article by Joe Gross in XL Recording Studio Guide 2006,Everything Louder Than Everything Else. This kicks off with a quote from Bob Dylan:"You listen to these modern records, they're atrocious, they have sound all over them. There's no definition of nothing, no vocal, no nothing, just like -- static."It's backed up by a quote from an A&amp;R man from Sony's One Haven Music company:There's something . . . sinister in audio that is causing our listeners fatigue and even pain while trying to enjoy their favorite music. It has been propagated by A&amp;R departments for the last eight years: The complete abuse of compression in mastering (forced on the mastering engineers against their will and better judgment)."As the article says, one reason given for the systematic abuse of people's ears islifestyle. "We listen to music in completely different ways than we did 20 or 30 years ago. For most people, music is listened to on the go, in cars, on headphones while running, on computers at work. Music has to compete with the sound of your car's engine, has to punch through the background noise of street traffic or a loud office." Doesn't make it true, of course.What actually happens is that the pre-distorted CD sound gets compressed again byradio stations(including Classic FM) and by devices such as iPods.The idea is that louder recordings automatically sound better on low-quality reproduction systems, but this isn't really true in practice. MP3 players such as iPods have their own compressors and limiters, further reducing the dynamic range of recordings, as do computers. A CD doesn't have to be mastered loud; the iPod can make it as loud as everything else it plays.One interesting side-note comes from Alan Bean, a recording/mastering engineer in Harrison, Maine, who says it's one reason why some people are still fanatical about vinyl. "It's not necessarily that vinyl sounds 'better,' " Bean says. "It's that it's impossible for vinyl to be fatiguing." (Well, I agree it's a lot less likely.)Comment: I've recently come in for a bit of joshing for still using Sony WM-D6C Walkman Pro and TCS-470 stereo tape recorders from the 1980s, but one of the reasons is that they generally sound better. Technically they shouldn't, but if you use your ears, they often do.I used to think that one reason music companies could get away with selling crap was that most people didn't know any better. If they have little or no experience of real instruments and have grown up with TV sets and ghetto blasters, they might think their mobiles make quite nice playback machines. So I tried playing a UK garage fan True Love Ways from the 1985 CD,Buddy Holly -- From the Original Master Tapesand the title track ofWater from An Ancient Wellthrough my reasonable (Quad/Rega/Harbeth) hi-fi. It was not a success.Now I wonder if one of the consequences of making your music reproduction intentionally sound crap (ear-bleeding sound systems, overcompressed CDs) is that it encourages forms of music that intentionally sound crap too.
"Internet search leader Google Inc has added a landmark to its rapidly expanding empire -- the Silicon Valley home where co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin rented a garage eight years ago as they set out to change the world," reportsAP. In fact, they bought the house as well.The company's astounding growth has imbued its birthplace with the same kind of mystique attached to other hallowed Silicon Valley spots like the Palo Alto garage where Hewlett-Packard Co. started in 1938 and the Los Altos garage where Steve Jobs and his partner Steve Wozniak first began to build Apple computers in the 1970s.Google asked AP not to publish the address of the garage, but as the story points out, you can find it using Google....
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
I've been flirting with the 360 for a while now - smiling coyly as it served up corkers like Oblivion, backing off when the truly terrible Saints Row appeared - but such was the quality on display at last week'sX06 eventthat I've finally fallen head over heels for the noisy beige beast. Who can resist a line-up that includes Alan Wake, Mass Effect, Sensible Soccer or Gears of War? Not me.Alan Wakein particular left me grinning like a loon, and reminded me why gaming is so damn marvellous. The psycho-thriller, set in a gorgeous Twin Peaks/Washington state environment, was only demoed but such was the quality shown that I went up and shook the hand of the guy from the developer Remedy like an overexcited teenager. It wasn't specifically the graphics that blew me away - though they looked astonishing - or the gameplay potential - probably survival horror style albeit marred by a horrible running animation - but rather all of the above plus the potential of the atmosphere and story.Remedy- if you're reading this please please please don't muck this one up.I spent a blissful month in 2003 ensconced in Bioware's Knights of the Old Republic, so their new gameMass Effectlooked right up my conversation tree. The demo highlighted the lovely graphics and lovely space exploration - I can't wait to spend time with this - but one of the most interesting elements was the ability to interrupt NPC chatter - yes finally you can tell your virtual comrades where to go. The combat side looked fun too, but both this and Alan Wake are exciting because they potentially offer something new, or least more sophisticated, than the gaming norm.A little more prosaic is Gears of War - the gaming equivalent of a smack in the face. Yes, I was initially underwhelmed - shooting stuff is still shooting stuff, no matter how gritty - but a good 45 minute session at X06 finally woke me up to its visceral charms. Whether it was the thud of the bullets as they flew around or the bumpy camera as you crouch run to cover, Gears of War felt far more brutal than the likes of Halo. In fact it appeared to have more in common with war sims like Brothers in Arms, with tactics like flanking and cover essential for progress. Of course, this is only half the story, with the nifty chainsaw weapon ("hold down B, hold down B" was constantly shouted in my ear by the demo team) likely to become an online favourite, especially with the teen/early 20s audience this game will appeal to. So, alright then, Gears of War appears to warrant Microsoft's hype.Next year's Live launch of Sensible World of Soccer was great news too - though sadly it will lack the licenses that made the 94 original so compelling. It wasn't all good - Crackdown and Alone in the Dark looked bloody awful - but right now the 360 is red hot.
TheLondon Games Festivalkicks off today, which is good news if you're interested in games and live/work in the capital. The festival mixes industry and consumer events, with the highlights probably being the BAFTA awards ceremony on Thursday. The week is a brave experiment, especially considering the UK's patchy history when it comes to game events, and it will be interesting to see how it all goes. So, fancy it then? Read on for a for an UPDATED reminder of the consumer events - with full details of how you can play Pro Evo 6 on Friday.Cinema Showdown Vue Cinema, Leicester Square - 7th OctoberPlay this year's hottest new games on the biggest and best format available. Hone your skills and get ready to play against and in front of up to 400 fellow gamers. Tickets are free although subject to a small booking fee. (Probably best left to teenagers this, but probably worth it thanks to the big screen)Tournament Stage HMV Oxford Street - 2nd-7th October(Press release to follow, but essentially Pro Evo 6 is on display this Friday - I'm guessing FIFA won't be...) Xbox 360 and Konami are teaming up to bring the first ever UK preview of Pro Evolution Soccer 6, which will only be available on one next generation console, Xbox 360, on Friday October 6th - weeks before the official launch. There will also be a PES6 tournament running throughout the day, with the chance to win exclusive Xbox and PES6 prizes.The showcase will also provide the first chance to play next instalments in the popular Tom Clancy series, Rainbow Six Vegas and Splinter Cell: Double Agent, from Ubisoft. Both games are playable before their final release during the London Games Festival.From Xbox 360 there will be an 'Xbox Live Arcade' section in the games department that will provide the opportunity for people to indulge in retro classics such as Pac-Man, Street Fighter II and Gauntlet, as well as new games such as Geometry Wars and Lumines. (Lumines is worth the trek alone...)Keen golfers have the chance to 'putt' their skills to the test in Pro Stroke Golf on Thursday night, courtesy of Oxygen Interactive. Those that prefer the nineteenth hole to the green will prefer to try PDC World Championship Darts, also from Oxygen Interactive.The London Game Career Fair Café Royal - 3rd-4th OctoberThe London Game Career Fair will provide the opportunity for games industry professionals, recent graduates and individuals from related industries, such as computer graphics, animation and film, to speak with leading companies in the game industry about career opportunities.
I recently came across some rather uninformed comments onanother blogbased upon a post I made to the gamesblog earlier this year questioning the perceived absence of British culture in British-made games. Some of the more eloquent responses suggested that games aren't made for an American market, but for a Japanese market (fair enough). Other, more colourful responses argued that I had no right to argue this and that I should "get back into the kitchen" as a metaphor for...something. As an aside, I'd just like to say once again that it's great being female in this industry (for more on this, checkthisout).Last week I discovered another cultural fracas that reminds me how important it is that people be aware of the underlying messages and agendas that are designed into games, particularly in this international market and globalised digital world. Wired reports that there is a controversy raging through China about a Japanese game which has apparently adapted an historical Chinese story, and has used it as inspiration for a "lewd" computer game.From the article:While the game's setting has little to do with the epic novel, its Chinese critics believe the main character -- a pallid young girl called Lin Daiyu -- is a direct take-off of the novel's heroine. They say the story's character has been slandered; she's described in the game as an illegitimate child born after her mother had an affair with a foreigner....China is very sensitive about Japanese interpretations of its literary landmarks, and anti-Japanese sentiment regularly spills over into the virtual world.I'm a sensitive soul, and like to think I'm quite empathic. After all, I'm still miffed that the Hollywood system has co-opted a phenomenal number of international histories for its own ends. Regardless, I appreciate that adaptation happens, but where does the line between political statement and entertainment begin and end? And when does the use of properties that are culturally owned stop being diffusion and start being offensive?
VW Fox&pound;6,590Miles per gallon:46.3Seats:4Good for:TerriersBad for:Great danesAs a man who has shimmied through life believing the best cars are usually the cheapest, I've always been perplexed by the artery-thickening sums people happily splash out on a new motor. These days, the second-hand car is one of the best bargains to be had on the high street, yet many still insist on paying inflated prices for factory-fresh cars which hurt a lot more than a backfiring football bung. My first car cost just &pound;15. Not because I am so old that I was born when people still earnt 2p a day for winding cotton on to bobbins by hand, but because that was all it was worth. It was a 1972 Renault 5 with Algerian plates, no heating, an erratic starter motor and algae sprouting on the dashboard. After a year I traded up to a &pound;400 Fiat 127 - pure luxury, it even had a stereo. A year or two later I broke the &pound;1,000 mark on a VW Polo that took me to Inverness and back.This week I've been tootling about in what is in effect the new Polo. The actual new Polo is now, like most of us, much bigger than it used to be, so VW has introduced a lower first-step on the motoring ladder - the Fox. There was the lovable Lupo for a while, but that didn't seem to cut it with vehicle virgins. So now we have the Fox, which is the same size as the old Polo, but is even cheaper than the Lupo. It's a three-door runaround which sits high on its chassis, giving it a jaunty, spaniel-like quality, as if it is about to press its wet nose into your hand.It feels very roomy for its size and being a VW it's sturdy and stoical. The interior is crafted in no-nonsense plastics. The various controls all do just what you'd expect, there's nothing fancy here, which comes as a bit of a relief. In some new cars it can take all week to discover how to open the petrol cap, but the Fox is a soothing caress of simplicity on the bunched shoulders of every technophobe.Don't make the mistake of thinking it's dumb, however. The Fox comes with anti-lock braking, air bags, electronic engine immobiliser, a dust and pollen filter, speed-sensitive power-assisted steering... Cleverest of all is the rear bench seat which operates as a single sliding unit, a bit like a front seat. You slide it backwards to decrease the size of the boot and give your rear passengers more leg room. The baffling thing is that it only has two seat belts - its central part has been turned into a stupid double cup holder. What is this obsession with cup holders?The car is built in Curitiba, Brazil, and VW makes much of the factory's environmentally friendly credentials - though of course the car then has to be shipped round the world. VW expects to sell around 9,000 Foxes in the UK this year, mostly to young people. There's the basic version which will cost &pound;6,590, and then there's the Urban (urban Fox, geddit?), with a slightly higher trim, for &pound;7,795.But that's still far from being an entry-level price, it's almost as much as the average &pound;8,300 which we Brits spend on a car. And &pound;6,800 more than I spent on my last car - a stalwart Volvo with 150,000 on the clock and more staying power than Tony Blair.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Photo: Tom's HardwareOne of the things that Intel chief executive Paul Otellini showed off during hiskeynote at last week's Intel Developer Forum (above)was the Classmate PC, which is part of the company'sWorld Ahead Program. Essentially it's what Intel calls a UMPC (Ultra Mobile PC) which is similar to Microsoft's Origami. The Classmate PC runs the Embedded version of Windows XP (which is also what the Xbox's operating system is based on).Riyad Emeran of Trusted Reviews has had a look at one, with photos, inIntel Classmate PC - EXCLUSIVE.Photo: Trusted ReviewsComment: This is an idea that seems to have been around forever, and predecessors include the Apple eMate (though that wasn't specifically for the third world) and Negroponte's One Per Child. But so far, there have been vastly more words written about the idea than machines sold....
Better late than never dept: In a long posting on his blog,Rahul Soodannounced that HP was taking over his small, 15 year old games PC company, and he was going to become "Chief Technologist of the Worldwide Gaming Division at Hewlett Packard".It was, in a sense, predictable. HP is trying to compete with Dell and become the world's biggest PC manufacturer, and Dell had already picked up Voodoo's main rival, Alienware. However, Voodoo shopped the company to HP, rather than HP looking round for a comparable acquisition to Dell's.HP has also introduced some high-def HD-DVD products: a 17-inch widescreen notebook PC, an HD-DVD Media Center TV PC with 7.1 surround sound, and an HD-DVD external drive for PCs. See thepress releasefor more info.
Ever wanted to unite two love-lorn friends in a romantic tryst with a single, well-phrased text message? Or perhaps scare an irritating colleague with a threatening text from your boss. Maybe sacking your grumpy Chancellor has crossed your mind.If so, technology is at hand to help. A service provided by two websites now allows people to choose both the originator and destination for a text. As a result, you can send a message, via the internet, to one mobile that appears to have come from someone else's phone. Your identity is kept secret.Thus you can send a message to your employer, declaring your undying love - or possibly total hatred - that apparently comes from a colleague's mobile. If the boss replies, perhaps reciprocating such feelings, it will go to the colleague's mobile.Or if you felt the need, you could use the service as bait with which to entrap a philandering partner. The crucial point is that the only way a sender's true identity can be revealed is if he or she owns up, or police seek the information from the site owner.It is a prankster's dream come true, though for those who prefer texting to talking, the service could spell the end of civilisation. You will never be able to trust a text again.Danny Fletcher, the creator of theSharpmail.co.uksite, which enables people to send the anonymous prank texts at &pound;1 a time, said it is intended only as harmless fun, but added: 'We keep a full log of every text sent and if someone receives a menacing message that they think might be from a crank, they can contact us and we will be able to tell them whether it has come from us.'
Microsoft's 10 hasa video demo. Also: "We will be interviewing someone from the Zune team next week so let us know what questions we should ask, or any particular feature that you'd like to see covered."
"In six terms representing a wealthy swath of southern Florida, Representative Mark Foley, a Republican, became well known for his ardent efforts to safeguard the young and vulnerable, leading the House caucus on missing and exploited children and championing laws against sexual predators," reportsThe New York Times.On Friday, Mr Foley resigned abruptly after being confronted with a series of sexually explicit Internet messages he is reported to have sent to under-age Congressional pages. He stands accused of being the very kind of predator he had denounced.The story says:But by Friday, other pages had come forward with more blatant instant messages. "What ya wearing?" Mr. Foley wrote to one, according to the network. "Tshirt and shorts," the teenager responded. "Love to slip them off of you," Mr Foley replied.ABC News said it had read him other messages that were far more graphic. Within hours, Mr. Foley resigned in a one-sentence letter to Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida. He left the Capitol without answering questions.Comment: Quis custodiet ipsos custodes?
You can now read this week's blog posts on one page by clickinghere. Highlights include:Fortune does Google -- Chaos by DesignGoogle comments on Belgian papersApple iPhone coming from CingularFacebook opens floodgates, loses coolGoogle's birthday manifesto -- on contentSony Reader finally ready to hit... for $350Movie director Peter Jackson signs Xbox 360 deal, and moreApple iPhone revisitedBBC and Microsoft reach an understanding -- no idea whatZune experience due November 14 at £249.99Google returns with a much improved RSS readerIt's the Robert Scoble ShowAlso, those interested in gaming should read Keith Stuart's excellent post on our Gamesblog:The science of Gamerpoints: what developers think of Microsoft's big idea. Read the readers' comments, too!
MondaySix in Videogames book outWhat women want: horrorTiger TigerTuesdayGran Turismo HDRockstar goes noirePS3 galleryX06WednesdayLooking for a job in videogames?Vice City trailersThursdayX06 first impressionsX06 titbitsThe science of gamerpointsFridayCollective behaviourMoore envisages 'Wii-60' revolutionTrain sim gets ready to rumbleDo you dutyFIFA 07 in "good" shocker
Lego Star Wars II: The Original TrilogyXbox, Xbox 360, Nintendo DS, PS2, PSP, Gamecube, PCLike its wonderfully funny predecessor, the charm of Lego Star Wars II is derived from its cute but knowing reenactments of all your favourite scenes and its puzzles, which rely on a tightly defined tool set of Force powers, switching among characters and use of reconstructible contraptions made of Lego. Features include the ability to mix and match characters before taking on the Empire (either alone or with a friend, using the neat co-operative mode), meaning you're at liberty to create a bastard Darth Leia chimera, and once you've unlocked their village, go and smash up Lego Ewoks to your heart's content. A treat for juveniles of all ages and a welcome reminder that children's games don't have to be limp, soulless exercises in vacuous item collection - they can be like this.&#183;Activision, &#163;30-&#163;50 (reviewed on Xbox 360)Just CausePS2, Xbox, Xbox 360, PCIf leaping off a cliff on a motorcycle, before parachuting into the azure sea below, diving to avoid the attentions of a boatmounted machine gunner, swimming ashore, taking out the local militia, jumping on to and stealing a car, then heading calmly to your rendezvous point appeals to you, Just Cause is going to be right up your flaming-tyre strewn alley. Exuberantly stylish and relentless in its pursuit of pyrotechnic destruction, your firepower combined with what can only be described as Latino rock, makes every mission feel like a steroid-infused scene from a Robert Rodriguez movie. The controls often feel a bit wobbly, it's a nightmare getting hero Rico to grab hold of ladders, the camera will regularly leave you wanting to punch it, although rarely during moments that count, and missions don't feel varied enough. It delivers wholesale on the explosions though.&#183;Eidos, &#163;30-&#163;40 (reviewed on Xbox 360)
Having declared its intention to treat videogames with the seriousness an emergent artform deserves, Bafta is making good its promise with the announcement of nominations for the 2006 games awards.Listed in 17 categories including Innovation, Multi-Player, Children's and Character, some games are already at the front of the queue, none more so than delightfully surreal eat 'em-up Loco Roco, which, along with Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter seems present on an indecent number of shortlists.Coveted Best Game nominees include EA's spectacular shooter BLACK, Nintendo's apparently unstoppable demographic-transcending Brain Training and Guitar Hero, everyone's favourite way to feel like a rock god.Find out who wins on Thursday, in what promises to be the glitziest ever games awards ceremony.
BT has become the latest company to enter the growing market in helping consumers struggling to install the latest technology.Those signing up to one of its broadband packages can now pay an extra &pound;50 to get a technician to carry out the installation on their behalf. The company is also offering anyone with a BT line home assistance with any other IT-related problem for &pound;75 for the first hour, and &pound;25 for each subsequent half-hour.Until recently, broadband suppliers have largely relied on customers to install the product themselves. More than 10m UK homes now have a super-fast internet connection, but as anyone who has tried to install it knows, it rarely happens without a hitch. A long wait on an expensive phone line as you then try to enlist the help of customer services only compounds the sense of frustration among consumers.In an attempt to cash in on growing "technology rage" BT has joined rivals in offering the home visits. In the summer, Sky announced it would offer to install broadband for its customers for &pound;50. DSG, the company behind the Dixons and PC World brands, has also launched a service offering home visits to those struggling to get a connection.BT has set up a team of 2,000 engineers who will visit customers' homes. Technicians will be able to help set-up a wireless router and help with a host of other problems. However, in a move clearly designed to add value to its own products, the company warned that its engineers will not be allowed to help connect customers to a rival broadband network.Emma Sanderson, director value added services for BT Retail says: "People are becoming increasingly dependent on broadband to help run ever busier lives but not everyone has the time or the expertise to set things up or maintain them on their own."• Go to:bt.com/homeit
Where do you stand on the great footy debate? Saints or Pompey. No argument there clearly, but what about the videogame equivalent. FIFA or Pro Evo? For me it's always been Pro Evo. Yes, it lacks FIFA's licensed glamour and yes the team responsible for the menus and music should clearly never work again, but Pro Evo has always triumphed where it matters most - the pitch. A session on the 360 versions of FIFA 07 and Pro Evo 6 has done little to change my mind - Pro Evo still plays better. But, you know what? The gap was a lot closer than I expected.FIFA07 felt a load better than FIFA 06 - not hard, admittedly - and has finally become a viable option for hardcore gamers. For a start the ball feels more like a ball now and less like the extended body part of older FIFA games. Ricochets and dodgy bounces are now far more common. It also plays a lot more like Pro Evo, with patient build-ups and a more natural ebb and flow.Sadly the tendency to over dramatise is still present. For example most crosses seemed to be met by attempted over head kicks rather than the more straightforward and realistic headers - and yes I know Crouch scored a scissor kick the other day, but you know what I mean. Also the players still don't respond as quickly as Pro Evo's do - you still don't feel as in total control. But still, I actually enjoyed my games of FIFA which is something I haven't done since Matt Le Tissier was in his prime. It'll be hard to avoid EA's FIFA 07 marketing juggernaut over the coming weeks but for once they may actually have a point - FIFA 07 is the best one yet.
Greenpeace has produced afake Apple sitethat berates the company for its failure to do more to protect the environment. It says: "A cutting edge company shouldn't be cutting lives short by exposing children in China and India to dangerous chemicals."This is an area where Dell, onGreenpeace's evaluation, is the leading green PC manufacturer.Apple has previously been targeted by the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition, which produced anunApple brochure (PDF)as part theComputertakebackcampaign.And according to research "conducted by an independent Danish laboratory,"reported in ZD Net last week, "HP and Apple have come top in an investigation into the levels of toxic chemicals used in the production of market-leading laptops."Apple's new MacBook range was also criticised by the environmental researchers for the high amounts of a toxic flame retardant, tetrabromobisphenol. Greenpeace acknowledged that Apple has stated it is looking for alternatives to the substance but said that right now it is using far higher amounts of the chemical than competitors.Comment:Apple paints a glowing pictureof its environmental efforts, and gets widespread support from the Mac press, which is still in the denial phase. Sure, you can make excuses. There are plenty of other people to point fingers at. But a company that spends gazillions on marketing itself as "cool"and has Al Gore on its boardshould be leading the way on environmental issues, and Apple isn't.
Who's up for some Xbox 360 Call of Duty action on Monday night? Usual time - 8pm. I haven't played before so I'll be my typical competent presence on the field of battle. Activision are very interested and I've been speaking to them about maybe getting a Gamesblog vs Activision challenge organised sometime in the future so let's look at this as a practice session. In fact, I think we should get a Guardian clan together...For now though, let me know if you're interested in a Monday night sesh. Remember, this is for absolute beginners as well as experienced COD veterans so don't feel intimidated if you have all the shooting skills of Dick Cheney brandishing a rusty flintlock pistol.
Now, I'm not the type of person who sees conspiracy theories everywhere (after all, if you know they are true, they're nottheoriesat all).But...Yesterday, aswe reportedandJack blogged, the BBC announced news of its rather confusing agreement with Microsoft for developing Auntie's new internet-based services (what they've called a "memorandum of understanding").And what are the top three stories on itstechnology pagestoday? "Microsoft announces Zune pricing", "Director Jackson signs Xbox deal" and "BBC and Microsoft sign agreement".One could remark that, if you're Microsoft at least, the nature of this understanding seems perfect.(Just joking, chaps).
Robert Scoble, former Microsoft geek blogger, used to troll around the Microsoft campus with a video camera making casual talking-heads vlogs showing what developers were doing, and for developers and Microsoft watchers, this putChannel 9on the map big time. It also got him a job withPodTech(which is still the name, until Apple's lawyers get around to sending their silly letters), where he is now doing the same sort of thing for a wider audience. Sadly he ducked out of calling it Robert Scoble Show (RSS) as that was "too corny".This week,ScobleShowkicked off with a flurry of posts, including four in a series of Photowalking with Thomas Hawk and an interview with pony-tailed blogger Jonathan Schwartz, CEO of Sun Microsystems.In aScobleShow post mortemon his blog, Scoble says: "I think my show is going to suck for the first two months. Why? I'm still playing around. Learning what works. Listening to people who are watching. And brainstorming. I see all the flaws in what I'm doing. Even if you all are too nice to point them out to me for now (thank you, that's much appreciated)."You won't want to watch every show, but it's worth a look....
Google's entry into the RSS reader market last year brought the company a pretty universal slagging, partly because it really was bad, and partly because it seemed like a display of arrogance -- as though the company was saying: "We're Google so of course you'll love it." But Google chose the best possible response: it listened to the feedback, then went away and did it right.Now theOfficial Google Reader Blogsays:As of today, Google Reader has a new look -- and even more important, a lot of new features that we think you'll like. We've listened to your feedback, done usability research, and examined all the ways that people consume content on the web, from feed readers to email clients. With a clean interface and some JavaScript wizardry, we think we've built an application that accommodates a wide range of reading styles while being fun and easy to use.So what's new? First, we've added some things you've been asking for, such as unread counts and "mark all as read." Folder-based navigation makes it easier to organize your subscriptions, and the new expanded view lets you quickly scan over several items at once. And we've made sharing much easier -- with a single click of the "shared" icon, you can publish an interesting item on your public sharing page for your friends to see. So givethe new Readera try. We hope you like it!There's even a video to show it off.This is a Google Labs product, which means it's coming in at a lower level than a standard Google marketing beta. It's a lot like Gmail (good) but not as integrated with email as Yahoo's RSS reader. It probably won't get too many people desertingBloglines. Still, it's a huge advance on last year's version, and will get lots of praise for that.If you have spent a year saying things like "Just because it's from Google doesn't mean it's not rubbish: look at their RSS reader for example!" then you'll now have to find a different product to encapsulate duffness.As a Google product, it now fits my favourite description of what Microsoft does all the time: It hasn't raised the bar, but it has raised the floor.
If you had the misfortune to install the reportedly bug-ridden and unstable new iTunes 7 (not me) then Apple has rushed outversion 7.0.1that "addresses stability and performance issues with Cover Flow, CD importing, iPod syncing, and more," says the company. Yours for only 25 megabytes.....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Philips has announced that Kuju's forthcoming train game, Rail Simulator, will be one of the first titles to support the company'samBX technology- a system of enabled devices such as LED colour-controlled lights, rumble peripherals, heat and fans, which can be placed strategically around a player's room to 'enhance' the experience. As the press release explains:"By amBX-enabling the game, all the familiar sights, sounds and feelings of the railway experience will be recreated around the player, including wind, track rumble and lighting - both in and out of the tunnels. Signals, tracks, points, buffers and the experience of driving in the cab will come to life through the energy of amBX locomoting the world of the simulated railway out into the real world."Sadly, it seems amBX will be unable to simulate the discomfort and soul-destroying monotony of being jammed in a commuter carriage for five days a week. Neither is it likely to capture the uniquely unpleasant odour of a sweaty sales exec chomping down a burger and chips on the last train home.Still, it's an interesting development, somehow quaintly old fashioned and William Castle-like. Apparently THQ, Revolution and Sumo Digital have all committed to supporting the system, the latter perhaps with a forthcoming OutRun title? Imagine actuallyfeelingthe wind in your hair as you surge along those Californian freeways...
