Staring at those leakedXbox 360photos all weekend got me thinking about console design and about how refreshing it is when someone deviates from the 'black box' archetype we've seen so much of over the last two decades. Okay, so the concave centre makes it resemble a throat lozenge, but at least it's not an enormous dark lump with green slime on like its predecessor.But how does Xbox 360 compare with other slightly offbeat designs from the vault of videogame history? And how far will I really go to file a story on a slow Tuesday afternoon? Well, you're about to find out, because here are the ten most interesting examples of games hardware design so far. Sadly,Paul Ross, Kate Thornton and Iain Leewere all unavailable for comment, so I've had to go it alone. Feel free to elaborate and/or tell me I've missed something obvious.Magnavox Odyssey (1972)White, minimalist, a hint of Kubrick's 2001. When you weren't playing with it, it probably watched you from the corner of the room. 'Dave, please don't take me to the car boot sale. Dave, I'm afraid…'.Atari 2600 (1977)Wood panelling. Isn't it about time someone tried this again? The Xbox 360 design really would have surprised people if it had, in some way, incorporated reclaimed timber.Intellivision (1980)Looked like some kind of telecoms device used by seventies businessmen, perhaps for making suggestive comments to a secretary in the next room. I also liked the way the controllers could be slotted onto the console itself for easy storage.Vectrex (1982)Torn straight from the control desk of the Nostromo. Absolutely unique retro futuristic design and the perfect finishing touch to that minimalist converted warehouse studio flat. If you're a horrible interior design bore, that is.PC Engine GT(1990)Lovely chunky handheld version of the PC Engine. Hardcore, tinged with sordid glamour and yet socially unacceptable to own, it is the Hustler magazine of portable gaming.Panasonic 3DO(1993)So far, the only videogame console to feature Corinthian columns.Dreamcast (1998)If not for the machine itself, then for the offbeat peripherals – namely, the spiky joypad with twin analogue triggers and (drum roll) the Virtual Memory Unit! Is it a memory card? Is it a teeny handheld gaming device? It's both, you philistine!Sega 32X (1994)"What you do is, you plug it into the top of your Mega Drive and you get… a big, black plasticky double decker 32bit games console! What's that? Sony has released the PlayStation? Oh forget it then…" (sound of footsteps returning to drawing board)PlayStation 2 (2000)Scale model of a brutalist sixties office building with the inspired addition of a seductive blue LED. And the Dual Shock controller is arguably the finest joypad ever designed. I saidarguably.GameCube (2001)While the rest of the console-manufacturing world was going dark, sleek and sexy, Nintendo created a cute little box that you just wanted to pat. A primary coloured two-finger salute at the PlayStation generation.You can find images of most of these delightful machineshere.
Another one from those guys at Wired - this time a look inside the Applelawsuitsagainst the likes of Nick Ciarelli.Ciarelli continues to protest that his information gathering activities were legal, so why should Apple be so controlling about rumour sites?Wired has its tin foil hat on:"Usually, a rumor like this is good news for a company because you get the story twice," says Gary Fine, a sociology professor at Northwestern University and coauthor of Rumor and Gossip: The Social Psychology of Hearsay."You get the rumor about the new product, and then you get the official announcement. But in this case, maybe Apple wanted to get the story three times: the rumor, the lawsuit, and then the announcement."
The Pulitzer prize-winning author Norman Mailer has sold his papers to the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Centre at the University of Texas for $2.5m (£1.3m).The archive contains manuscripts and other materials on Mailer's work from the mid-1930s to the present. It includes first editions and foreign editions of his books, materials he used for research and books given to him by other authors. It also includes correspondence with such literary figures as Allen Ginsberg, Lillian Hellman, Aldous Huxley, and Truman Capote.Speaking at the university earlier today, Mailer, whose works include The Naked and the Dead, and The Executioner's Song, recalled being a young writer in the 1950s and said he might have been a blogger if there had been an internet back then."In the '50s, you couldn't get anything interesting published," he said.The author said he chose the university's humanities research centre to house his archive because of its world-class reputation and because of his feeling of kinship to Texas, where he was stationed in the army before being shipped out to fight in the second world war. Later, in the 1960s, he lectured at the university.The centre raised $1.25m (£660,000) of the purchase price from individual and foundation gifts. The university is providing the rest of the money. Mailer will donate $250,000 (£132,000) for cataloguing, maintenance and support of the archive.The university will take charge of more than 900 boxes of Mailer's material in July. The collection contains more than 10,000 letters, alongside essays, notes and unpublished works, which include screenplays, short stories and a novel, No Percentage, written when Mailer was a student at Harvard University. The collection also includes two further stories - Adventures of Bob and Paul and The Martian Invasion - written when Mailer was eight and 11, respectively.There are also files from his accountants and lawyers and old report cards, tax returns and car repair bills. The conservation and cataloguing of all the documents is expected to take several years.Mailer won the Pulitzer prize twice - for The Armies of the Night in 1968 and The Executioner's Song in 1979.
Accordingto Gamesindustry.biz, Namco and Bandai are planning to merge this september, thereby creating Japan's third largest videogame company after Nintendo and Sega Sammy Holdings. However, Namco should perhaps be cautious before ordering lots of stationary with the joint company's new name on it - eight years ago,Bandaiwas involved in avery similar situationwith Sega, but it all fell apart due to 'differences in corporate culture' - which is a little like the 'creative differences' that have forced many a pop band to dismantle. Except not as exciting.So what will this merger mean to gamers? Well, although Bandaidoeshave a games division it is much more well-known for its toy and TV brands such as Power Rangers, Gundam and, of course, Strawberry Shortcake - so we could perhaps see more videogame translations of those. There may also be a few interesting franchise crossover possibilities. In fact, all of the properties mention above could easily be incorporated into the next Tekken title:HimvsHer. Fight!
Hearty congratulations to our parent site, Guardian Unlimited, which today scooped aa Webby award for best newspaper on the net.Competition was tough - from the New York Times, Washington Post, Wall Street Journal and Variety - but I won't pretend I don't think the best site won.Now can I get that pay rise?
It's our busiest day of the week today, so posts are likely to be light. In an attempt to fill the void, I've been invited to compare and contrastour Arianna Huffington spoofwith one in the LA Timesyesterday.I know which one I'd vote for.And I promise that's the last time I'll mention Huff. Promise.(thanks toScalawag Hooch)
This is brilliant. I picked thegamicsscent up fromLudologya couple of weeks ago: comics created from screen grabs of computer games. PartDierdre's Photo Casebook, part Machinima. I think I'll make this my new project.Genius!
Last week Tim Dowlingwrote a piecefor the Guardian spoofing Arianna Huffington'snew webloggy venture, which we ran on the Online site."Does anyone know how to get red wine stains out of a wool carpet? posted by NORMAN MAILER on Mon May 9 at 10:14 PDT I'm screwed if my wife sees this. I'm not even supposed to drink in that room. I've been scrubbing but that just seems to spread the stain around. A quick answer would be most appreciated. ""Re: Does anyone know how to get red wine stains out of a wool carpet? posted by BarryDillerCEO.IAC/InterActiveCrop on Mon May 9 at 11:17 PDT pour white wine over it &amp; then blot GENTLY with a clean cloth. Rinse with warm water &amp; repeat until gone. Whatever you do, don't rub. Who's got a good sourdough bread recipe, btw? The last loaf I made was like a paving stone. ""Dear hopeless liberals, Posted by David "Axis of Evil" Frum on Mon May 9 2005 at 11:45 PDT Unless you got to that stain right away, white wine ain't gonna do jack. You need BLEACH and plenty of it, and you need to rub hard. Hope this doesn't shatter your cosy little worldview. "It proved to be something of a hit, with links from TheDrudgeReport, TheVolokhConspiracy and numerous other places.The result is that we've had some really quite amusing email response - mainly from American readers who can't quite get over the idea of reading somethingfunnyin a pinko Brit paper.Anyway, we're an open handed organisation. So here are a few examples of the love/hate mail we got:NJ from Colorado:"very clever; my gosh, did i laugh out loud!  that, in spite of the guardian sucking as a whole, being little more than a university-style project, with comparable intelligence."TR from Tennessee:"The Guardian is usually reactionary, leftist tripe, but the lampoon of Huffington was a delight. More of this and you might ruin your reputation. "Happy bank holiday, people.
The Final Fantasy "Dear Friends" concert has spawned asequel(as all success stories in the games industry appear to do) and a spin off. Reported last week across theinterweb, the Los Angeles Philharmonic will be performing "Video Games Live at the Hollywood Bowl" on 6 July 2005, including "hits" from Halo, Tomb Raider and various arcade classics.Hmm. Not convinced.
The battle for TV viewers is set to move to a new level with a BBC plan to allow mobile phone users to watch video clips - and possibly whole programmes - on a large scale. Under the initiative, people will also be able to use their mobile phones to schedule their television sets and PCs to record BBC shows.For the BBC, the development of new platforms such as mobile phone networks is merely following its public service remit to offer its content to as   many people as possible. But for the mobile phone operators, the BBC's idea has one major flaw - it is free.When a non-commercial TV broadcaster meets a profit-hungry distribution platform, it is time to clear the ring and expect the main bout. The two sides are now circling one another and throwing out a few jabs, but the BBC's bold strategy couldforeshadow full-scale fisticuffs.The BBC says its three-phase "appointment to view" plan for mobiles will begin in the next two months and should climax at the end   of 2005 with the ability to use a mobile phone to record TV shows either by using it to programme a personal video recorder (PVR) or an interactive media player (IMP) on a PC.In the US people can already programme Tivo PVRs remotely over the internet. In the UK, Sky is developing a way for subscribers to remotely schedule their Sky+ PVRs to record, either over the internet or via a phone text message. Sky says it has not yet talked to the BBC about the corporation's aspirations in this area. "Sky+ is our product and we have the customer relationship, so if the BBC is talking about remotely scheduling Sky+ to record their programmes, then they will need to talk to us," says a Sky spokesman.Angel Gambino, the BBC's controller of business development and emerging platforms, says the BBC's ambitious new mobile services will effectively turn a mobile phone into a portable TV and TV remote control all rolled into one."It is our attempt to create a mobile browser service to aggregate all BBC content from radio to video, stills and graphics, all of it, for the consumer. It is still very much clip-based but will over time move into full programmes to the mobile as well," says Gambino, who presented the plans at the MIP TV programming market in Cannes earlier this month.She says promotions for BBC programmes - be they on posters, TV, radio or the internet - will increasingly include mobile short-code numbers to direct audiences to mobile content and services. "The mobile operators have an incredibly dominant position in terms of managing the mobile gateways," says Gambino. "We want to ensure that we stay as close as possible to our audiences by maintaining and building our own mobile gateways."The BBC has already run tests by offering lengthy video streams to mobile phones of high-profile events   such as last summer's Olympic games from Athens and the Grand National last month. In the case of the Grand National, some 5,000 users accessed the streamed video of the race on their mobile phones, but at least two mobile operators, Vodafone and O2, blocked its subscribers from viewing the service. Gambino claims this is because the operators cannot charge a premium to their subscribers for BBC content because it has already been paid for by the TV licence fee.Graeme Ferguson, Vodafone's director of global content development, admits it is more difficult working with the BBC because of the corporation's public service remit, but he says Vodafone is "more than happy" to work with the BBC on "relevant consumer offerings".Ferguson adds: "The BBC needs to appreciate some of the commercial realities and notice periods for mobile operators. It is not just putting content on a dumb pipe. This is a mobile network, a communications network and they need to engage with us properly."A spokesman for mobile operator O2 said it decided to block the video stream of the National because O2 did not have enough time to plan a proper service."To make sure something like the Grand National is offered well we need more time to plan it and to test it. There is no way you can deliver a service confidently with two days' notice," says O2's press spokesman. "We are more than happy to talk to any content provider. It is in our interest to provide   as much interesting and exciting content to our subscribers as we can."The problem with rich media content like a 20-minute horse race is that it involves huge downloads that cost the operators and have to be packaged correctly to avoid billing consumers unrealistic amounts. For example, one operator calculated that if a UK mobile subscriber had watched the BBC's video stream of the Grand National from outside the UK, the bill could have been as high as &#163;2,000.Patrick Parodi, who chairs a mobile industry group called the Mobile Entertainment Forum, says blocking content or keeping it off the mobile operator's portal (such as Vodafone's Vodafone Live! and O2's O2 Active) is all about commercial considerations. "It is all tied to economic systems and it has to be worked out," says Parodi.But he cautioned that mobile operators should be careful about blocking content, because there are other technologies that will compete with the mobile operators' current networks, potentially including wireless networks and a new broadcast technology called DVB-H, which uses TV broadcast frequencies to transmit to handheld, wireless devices."DVB-H bypasses the traditional mobile voice networks," says Parodi. "So the message to operators is that if they don't find a way to offer all kinds of content, they could create demand for DVB-H and not their own networks."The mobile operators are gatekeepers to their networks in much the same way that Sky and the cable operators control access to their pay TV platforms. In the TV world the gatekeepers are bound by Ofcom regulations to offer access to channels on fair commercial terms. So far, the mobile networks have been self-regulated, but that may have to change.
Imagine listening to The Archers at 3am, waiting for the night bus. Or how about Chris Moyles' breakfast show while sitting on a beach in Tobago. The idea would have sounded fanciful even a year ago, but the podcasting age is here and with it the opportunity, in theory, to do just these things.For those still to catch up with the "pod" revolution, podcasting allows full programmes to be delivered from your computer to your MP3 player while you sleep, eat, drink and be merry. The MP3 player downloads a pre-selected programme whenever it is available, ready for listening at the time and place of the listener's choice.It is early days yet but already there are some initial moves taking place which will prove to be fascinating barometers. The BBC is making a significant amount of Radio 4 programmes available for podcast, including the Reith Lectures. For the moment, music shows are out of bounds, while the record industry (as ever) takes stock. At the same time, Virgin Radio is also now offering a free 40-minute "best bits" podcast of the Pete and Geoff breakfast show.However, most interesting is the establishment of the first commercial podcasting company, Podshows.com, launched by the former Virgin jock Daryl Denham and Wes Butters, the recently deposed DJ of the Radio 1 chart. For up to &#163;1.50 per programme, they are offering a wide range of music shows from Wes's Official Top 40 to Paul Gambaccini's The Jazz 40. But, full tunes cannot be aired while, yes you guessed it, the record industry takes stock.For the BBC and Virgin to make their programmes available to more people can only be a good thing, and all radio operators are sure to be watching keenly. But Denham and Butters's operation raises more questions than it   answers. The idea of listeners paying for exclusive content they can't access elsewhere seems right. But the issue that may need further consideration is what constitutes "exclusive", particularly when attempting to persuade listeners to pay for something that historically they expect to receive for free - music shows fronted by radio DJs. Is Wes enough of a draw for the paying customer, when he wasn't that much of a draw when he was free-to-air?Without doubt, the ability of listeners to listen to their favourite programme whenever they choose could be a huge revolution. But maybe the content on offer needs to go further. Followers of The Archers or Start the Week would doubtless leap at the chance to catch up with a missed edition, but would even the most ardent fan of Chris Moyles really want to listen to the Radio 1 breakfast show after it was originally broadcast?Perhaps the key will be to create exclusive or premium content that cannot be found elsewhere. Exclusive interviews with top film stars, edgy DJ shows freed from the shackles of Ofcom restrictions or boundary-pushing comedy programmes could all be the sort of content to persuade the punters to part with their cash.&#183;Downloads have arrived in the Radio 1 chart and commercial radio's Hit 40 UK. In the first weeks of their inclusion, many tracks have charted that would not have done under the previous system. Acts such as Gorillaz, the Rakes and the Cribs have benefited to a huge degree from their download sales being included.Many music stations have always based their playlists on release dates of singles. Perhaps the implications of downloads will be wider than just nudging a few acts up a few more places in the charts. Could the download influence now start to extend to the playlisting of stations and, therefore, in turn start to change the entire dynamics of the relationship between the radio and record industries? That act alone would immediately raise the importance of the charts as a barometer of taste.&#183;The Sony awards are with us once more. This year, independent production companies account for 17% of the nominations for which they are eligible - a much higher figure than the amount of programming they supply. Interestingly, these nominations cut across all national BBC networks, commercial radio and even digital radio. Indies have proved they can exceed the quality threshold on a consistent basis. Does this signal a coming of age for the indie radio industry and the strong creative role it can play within the broader radio landscape?&#183;Steve Ackerman is director of commercial radio and talent at Somethin' Else
Interesting battle lines were drawn with the family entertainment and copyright bill, 2005, signed into law by President Bush last week. American drafters habitually smuggle in tough regulation under the skirts of something beguilingly innocent. On the face of it, the "Family Movie Act" (which the new measure incorporates) is all motherhood and apple pie.Specifically, the act opens the way for companies like ClearPlay legally to sell their product. The firm operates out of Utah (the most straitlaced state in the union). You get a DVD, from Blockbusters or wherever, and ClearPlay's little black box, sitting like a benign leech on your DVD player, sucks out "objectionable" material of a violent or sexual nature.Fourteen levels of filter are available. Teams of "movie professionals" have pre-identified questionable scenes and dialogue which are duly muted or skipped. ClearPlay monitors all the latest releases and most in-stock titles. The black box can be fitted, like a chastity belt, on junior's bedroom TV. It can be programmed to peremptorily block anything certified PG13 or harder. The package costs a mere $80 a year.There was anxiety that the bill might open the way to ad-skipping - something that Congress (at the behest of commercial lobbyists) dislikes. The last thing lawmakers want is to keep the honest salesman from getting his foot in the door.That settled, the act was passed with acclaim. What congressman was going to oppose family values? ClearPlay's stock soared. Senator Orrin G Hatch (Republican, Utah), the moral dinosaur who had introduced the measure, hailed it as a mighty "shield" for the American home. The Brady Bunch could sit down of a night and watch The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Mysteriously, of course, the movie might only last half an hour - but, early to bed, early to rise.Hatch noted in passing that there were, attached to his family bill, some piddling "intellectual property" provisions relating to "rampant piracy" from the internet. In fact, tagged-on clauses now make illicit downloading and file-sharing tantamount to domestic terrorism.It is now a federal crime to use a video camera to record films in cinemas, punishable by up to three years in prison for the first offence. It is 10 years for sharing a movie or a song prior to its commercial release. These draconian penalties were clearly the result of lobbying by the Motion Picture Association and the Recording Industry Association of America. Without the smokescreen of family protection, such excessive penalties would never have passed into law - at least not without opposition.One breach in the copyright dam is staunched. Another, even more gaping, opens up.Technological advances in music-delivery systems have developed at bewildering speed over the last five years: from Walkman, through MiniDisc player, to iPod. Apple's device is itself increasing in power by 20 gigabytes a year. The latest models can hold nigh on 10,000 tracks: all instantly retrieved, shuffled, and playlisted.Nature abhors a vacuum. Where can you get a thousand albums' worth of music to fill the iPod's vast archival capacity? Commercial downloading will cost five grand. And there is all that time and hassle involved in the loading procedure.Students simply swap archives. One loaded Apple laptop in a college dorm will stock any number of iPods in neighbouring bedrooms. Crossloading of this kind, without charge, is, I think, not illegal. But it is not merely the latest hits one wants. Nor does one want someone else's preferences. I am fond of 1950s jazz. My iPod could contain the whole of the Vogue, Blue Note, Vanguard, and Verve catalogues. But where would I find those gems? Not in a student dorm.Three solutions are emerging. Last monthwww.jayci.comlaunched its range of "pre-populated" Super iPods. Jayci will preload music of your choice at $1.29 a track. Alternatively, they'll customise your iPod with a package of 100 tracks in some preferred style (blues, classical or whatever) for $119. The Jayci concierge service is convenient but pricey.For the more freebootingly inclined, pre-owned and pre-populated iPods are appearing on eBay. How long before "faux" pre-owned iPods appear, artfully customised for a whole spectrum of tastes, at budget prices? Not long. Nor will it be long before the lawmakers realise that copyright is being massively evaded. Before the legal chopper comes down, perhaps I'll get my 50s jazz archive. Any help in that direction appreciated.
Wired's sex columnist Regina Lynn, an avowed fan of teledildonics, has been to seeHighJoy, which combines "a dating database, a proprietary chat client and teledildonics." Shereports:"With us, you can do everything you would expect at an online dating site," says Lynn. Members fill out profiles, in varying degrees of detail. You download a proprietary chat client that supports text and video. You can search the database by characteristic or member name, contact people through anonymous e-mail and have private chats. A favorites list lets you keep track of people you're most intrigued by; a blacklist lets you block others from contacting you anywhere in HighJoy.And, of course, you can invite someone to control your vibrator while you control theirs.
as an "Activist Co-ordinator". But on hisblog, he says he "will still be carrying on withNTK".
"A three-tonne humanoid figure made out of electronic waste is being unveiled on London's South Bank. To illustrate the size of the e-waste problem, the Royal Society of Arts (RSA) has built the sculpture, which weighs three tonnes and stands seven metres tall," reportsBBC News."It is made up of the average quantity of WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) an individual disposes of in a lifetime, including five fridges, 12 kettles and 35 mobile phones."The 'WEEE man' will be displayed outside City Hall on London's South Bank for 28 days before touring other parts of the country, including the Eden Project in Cornwall.
When the inimitable Meat Loaf sang that he 'could see paradise by the dashboard light', he was, I'm sure, talking about the magical, opalescent glow cast on the creased-leather benchseat of a classic Chevy or, possibly, being a 'person of size', he might have had in mind a big Dodge, or a fork-lift truck ... Either way, he'd have been flummoxed by the light cast by Citro&euml;n's C4. For a start there isn't really a dashboard and, secondly, its LCD numbers float in a transparent frosted block which is backlit when driving into the sun, frontlit when the sun's behind you, and internally lit at night.It's just one of the technical evolutions that Citro&euml;n's engineers have loaded into their all-new C4. Having been stuck in the doldrums over the past few years with the deadly dull Xsara and Xantia, the French giant has decided to stop giving its cars unpronounceable names beginning with X and rediscovered its Gallic flair. Despite sounding like a social demographic, Citro&euml;n is so sure that it's on to a winner with its C4 that it has attempted to cover all vagaries of taste by producing 22 variations, with a choice of eight different engines, as well as a dramatically different three-door coupe. Prices start at &pound;11,495 for the 1.4i and head up to &pound;17,995 for the 2.0 HDi VTS Coupe - and it's with this model that the maker will really hit pay dirt.It's the first car to feature the new 'corporate nose' - the revamped chrome double chevrons (which every Citro&euml;n has been adorned with since 1919) now integrated into the bonnet. From there, the eye follows the boomerang headlamps up to a graceful, curving roof line and then down to a pert derriere (think Kylie or Jason Robinson, depending on your orientation) and a vertical tailgate with a twin-glass hatch featuring the dinkiest rear-wiper in the business. The shape is highly aerodynamic - it's as 'slippery' as a Porsche 911, which helps explain how the C4 achieves a wallet-caressing 50mpg.Inside, the fun and games really begin. The steering wheel doesn't turn. Well, not the central part of it. The rim spins independently, creating a central mount for all manner of fingertip switches. The C4 also comes with a built-in air freshener. Where you might once have been content to put up with L'air du Ashtray or Scent de Sock, the C4 allows you to choose from Lotus Flower, Cinnamon Ginger and Citrus Passion. These represent three different moods: relax, escape or energise. Or maybe a heady combination of all three.If you select 'relax', combined with the almost total absence of road noise brought about through the use of laminated acoustic side windows and double door seals, there could be a danger of drifting off. But the safety conscious folk of Citro&euml;n have thought of that. Their Lane Departure Warning System automatically warns a dozing driver that he or she is drifting across lanes via sensors located under the front bumper, and wakes them up. How? By vibrating their buttocks. Maybe Mr Loaf would get to see paradise in a C4 after all.martin.love@observer.co.ukBraking newsAfter a home, your car is the biggest purchase of your life. Yet Network Q has found customers spend only 23 minutes checking a vehicle before buying it. And how long to shop for a dress? On average, 66 minutes ... on a good day
Since re-establishing its footing several years ago, Apple Computer has been on a roll. From hardware to software, no company has delivered more products that turn heads and set standards across the entire computer industry.To many consumers, Apple has become synonymous with iPod, the digital music player phenomenon that has sold more than 15 million units and now encompasses four distinct product lines. But the iPod has also succeeded in opening doors for Apple that have previously been closed. Now many PC users are turning their eyes to Apple's secure, stable, and elegant computer offerings.As part of its attempt to satisfy existing customers and woo new ones, Apple this week delivered Tiger, the fourth major upgrade to its operating system, OS X.Since releasing the first version of Mac OS X in 2001, Apple has been working around the clock to ensure that its operating system consistently tops the competition. Whereas Microsoft's next-generation operating system, code-named Longhorn, has been in development for several years and isn't expected until the second-half of 2006 at the earliest, Apple has released major upgrades to Mac OS X at the rate of almost one per year. Tiger is the latest and, it claims, the greatest.While the list of improvements is numerous, current Macintosh users may be underwhelmed by what the Tiger delivers in terms of tangible benefits to how they use their Mac. To seasoned aficionados, this most likely isn't too surprising, as Apple has already been delivering a truly first-rate combination of performance and ease of use for years.Such was the challenge Apple engineers faced in coming up with the more than 200 new features packed into Tiger: how to improve on a phenomenal product that already met the vast majority of its users needs.Two new technologies that have come to symbolize Tiger are Spotlight, a new system-wide search technology, and Dashboard, a feature that puts dozens of convenient utilities one keystroke away.Think of Spotlight as Google on steroids for your own Mac. Type "skydive" as the search term in the Spotlight menu (accessible from every application in the top right of the screen) and, almost instantaneously, it finds and categorises every file on your computer that has that term. The functionality extends far deeper than mere file names, too: thanks to a rapid and robust indexing feature, Spotlight can find all your emails in Apple's Mail program that have word "skydive" in them, for example, as well as pictures in iPhoto and from inside the text of documents. Remember that list of life goals that you unhelpfully saved as "Untitled.doc" and forgot about? Spotlight found it with your "skydive" search.The latter example represents one of the more convenient applications of the robust search technology delivered by Spotlight, but is also telling of its fundamental convenience to you, the user. While  search is the current buzzword in operating system circles - Microsoft will deliver a similarly powerful solution in Longhorn, while Google is vying for Windows users' local PCs with its Google Desktop Search program - the value of searching depends on how organised (or unorganised) you keep your digital life.Dashboard's benefit is more widespread, but its underlying capabilities are more evolutionary than revolutionary. With a single keystroke, Dashboard "widgets" take over your screen, offering quick access to such information as stock quotes, flight information, yellow pages, weather, dictionary, and even a mini iTunes controller. Like all aspects of Mac OS X, Dashboard widgets are marvellously elegant and attractive, and by using established web technologies like HTML and CSS, Apple has made it possible for third-party developers to turn their own ideas into widgets.Tiger delivers a greatly improved version of Apple's Mail software, but the application remains largely targeted for personal use. A lack of Microsoft Outlook integration, for example, means that many Mac users in corporate environments will still want to turn to Microsoft's Entourage X, sold separately and available as part of Microsoft Office 2004 for Mac.The Tiger version of Apple's iChat audio/visual instant messaging software, which ties into the AOL Instant Messenger network, now supports four-way video conferencing, so you can see and converse with your grandmother in Glasgow and your brother in Brighton all at the same time; provided, of course, that they too have the necessary video hardware and copies of Tiger.But, arguably, the biggest improvements Apple has made to Mac OS X with Tiger are tucked away under the hood. Every Mac OS X upgrade that has been released to date has improved overall performance across virtually all supported systems, and that list of supported systems has barely shrunk with Tiger.If your current Mac runs Mac OS X, chances are it will run even better with Tiger. If you have a newer Mac - a Power Mac G5 or iMac G5, or a relatively powerful video card with 64MB of video RAM - new technologies in Tiger will deliver even more impressive performance gains.Installation is quick and painless. On a 17-inch PowerBook G4 system running at 1.5GHz, the entire procedure took about half an hour and required virtually no configuration beyond selecting a default language from the 15 languages Tiger supports out of the box.Apple's ability to pack an ever-increasing number of powerful features into Mac OS X without extending its system requirements is one of the company's unique and often overlooked high points. While Macs remain dollar for dollar more expensive than PCs, a three-year old Power Mac G4, which was the lowest-end Power Mac at that time, ran all of Tiger's features fantastically smoothly.Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger is a worthy upgrade that most Mac users will feel justifies its £90 price tag, provided expectations are kept in line with what Apple has detailed. On its own, Tiger is unlikely to provoke any mass exodus of Windows users to the Mac, but instead will serve as another reminder of Apple's dedication to delivering powerful solutions that its customers enjoy using on a consistent basis.
Midnight Club 3: DUBPS2, XboxAfter the shock of seeing a Rockstar-published game without an 18-certificate has worn off, Midnight Club: DUB turns out to be another racing game in the increasingly popular "tuner" genre, in which you win challenges to buy parts for your car to make it progressively more pimped. Races take place on city streets complete with oncoming cars and cross-traffic, although anyone expecting the adrenaline bath that was Burnout 3 will be disappointed. Although DUB achieves an excellent sensation of speed, your competition's blatant cheating (often rather patronisingly in your favour), the disconnected feel of the handling and ease with which most collisions are avoided make for a curiously mellow experience.&#183;Rockstar, &#163;40Lego Star Wars: The VideogamePS2, Xbox, PCWatching the plots of Star Wars Episodes I, II &amp; III re-enacted by Lego men is worth the price of admission alone. However, unlike so much software aimed at children, there's a lot more to this than charming cut sequences. From the elegantly destructible (and, being Lego, reconstructible) surroundings to the cutesy movie-style wipes between scenes, whatever it is that makes some games magical, this has it in large quantities. Laugh at the floating Yoda-head load screen, marvel at the secrets around every corner and don't be surprised if this present becomes one that the kids have to wrestle from you.&#183;Giant, PS2/Xbox &pound;30, PC &pound;25Halo 2 Version 1.1Xbox LiveIn a manoeuvre virtually unheard of in console gaming, Bungie, the developer of Xbox killer application Halo 2, has released a patch for the title via Microsoft's online service Xbox Live, which rebalances the game's vitally important multiplayer mode. After the download, regular players will notice that grenades are more powerful, melee attacks (where you clobber opponents with your gun rather than shooting them) have been made more effective, and some of the more lethal combinations of weapons have been toned down slightly. The net effect is an experience that feels noticeably more like the original Halo in multiplayer mode, and is very subtly better for it.&#183;Available to Xbox Live subscribers
As The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy opens in cinemas a debate is raging among fans of the original book and TV series about whether it's any good or not. Fortunately everyone seems to agree that Hitchhiker author Douglas Adams was a genius. His official site, though,www.douglasadams.comremains cryogenically frozen with all his forum messages. Elsewherewww.floor42.comhas information on his textbased games; babelfish.altavista.comis an online version of his language translator;anotherchancetosee.blogspot.comis an update on the species he wrote about in his book Last Chance To See;liff.comegetsome.at/index.phpcontains strange definitions of place names in the spirit of Meaning Of Liff andwww.bbc.co.uk/dna/h2g2is an ever-growing, real-life guide to everything, written by smart arses.
Catch up on what you missed and, as all good PR's say when they've sent you a dull press release for an Eastern European strategy title, have a great weekend!MondayExtreme wi-fi gamingDo we need to cotton on?E3 1000 games on showTuesdayPSP - 1st SeptemberA sense of placeGame for a GoogleWednesdayEA reveals mobile plansIn-box censorship may offer solution to parental worriesRevenge of SNKThursdayTechnical photos would suit cookbook360 vs RevolutionAnother nail in the coffinReviewsFridayProject Massive looks at gamers' offline livesAttack of the Star Wars gamesScarface
GTA: Vice City certainly took some of its drugs 'n palm trees inspiration from themovie Scarface. I went to the press event for theScarface gametoday and can confirm that the debt has been repaid. The game itself wasn't playable, but the footage - all guns, cars and synthpop - bore a huge resemblance to Rockstar's opus. The game itself has been held back until next year, so it can launch on the next gen platforms, but it's obvious that GTA has influenced yet another game. Even the other title shown today - Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction - was a free-roaming affair. Anyone bored of this yet, or are go-anywhere-do-anything games what everyone expects now?
The productive pranksters over at The Register may not be our closest friends but, being lily-livered liberals, we don't bear a grudge.So it was with interest that I readthis brief storyon a Trojan attack using the red-hot combination of search giant Google and the human inability to type.Hackers have set up malicious websites designed to infect the Windows boxes of surfers who mistype the name of popular search engine Google.com. If a user opens one of the malicious websites, such as googkle.com, his PC box may be hijacked with malware including Trojan downloaders, backdoors and spyware.Should the Googsters buy more domains with their $97 squillion to try and stop this kind of thing? Or should ICANN step in and stop malicious sites from preying on the inept? Or should people just learn to touch type better?Reminder: I'm sure I don't have to tell you this, but do not visit googkle.com unless you fancy getting a shedload of spyware.
Each year the geek's bible, Wired magazine, comes up with a list of what it thinks are the most interesting, innovative and exciting technology companies.This year's list has already done the rounds for those who have got their copies of the mag, but unfortunately mine hasn't arrived in the post. I try to be on the pulse, but it just doesn't work.Now that this year'sWired 40has arrived online, however, I thought I'd share a rundown of it with you.Top spot goes toApple, who were a new entry at third last year. Certainly it goes a long way to underline the phoenix-like rebirth of the company, who have drawn good headlines and bad over the last 12 months but seem to be unable to put a foot wrong for consumers. Wired - like most of us - wonders "with such a foothold in music, can an assault on TV be far behind?".In second place comes last year's winner,Google, which continues to lead the search market in many areas and just seems to get bigger and bigger. What price Google browser this year?And in third - and somewhat surprising in terms of its somewhat underdeveloped identity - comes South Korean tech manufacturer Samsung. It's been a great year for the Seoul firm, which threatens to kick Sony in the battle for consumer electronics mindshare.Big winners include General Electric (a new entry at 17) and medical technology firm Medtronic, which arrives in at 18. The biggest losers include Nokia, which has bounced back from a bad year but dropped to 29th place, and eBay, which lost five places but just kept in the top 10 by the skin of its teeth. Advertising group WPP dropped out completely from 23rd last year, and a number of lower-ranking firms lost out this time round.Take a look, if you have the chance.[There is a vague irony here which I'd like to point out to you, however: I typed out a much more in-depth version of this about ten minutes ago. But my Macintosh - from, of course, #1 firm Apple, crashed and I lost it. I shall be marking them down points.]
Marconi was dealt a fatal blow yesterday as BT snubbed the telecoms equipment manufacturer and instead picked eight of its rivals to help with a crucial &#163;10bn five-year refit of its entire UK network.Marconi, which pulled itself back from the brink of collapse two years ago, looks set to hoist the "for sale" sign over its business after losing out in the race for the contract because the price it was asking was too high.The loss of business from BT, which is Marconi's largest customer and accounts for about 27% of revenues, immediately puts 2,000 research and development jobs at risk at the company's plants in Coventry, Liverpool and Beeston, near Nottingham.Marconi, once a powerhouse of British engineering, employs 4,300 people across the country and last night union leaders said they feared up to two-thirds of the workforce, almost 3,000 employees, could be axed.Peter Skyte, national officer for Amicus, warned Marconi's failure would "seriously damage" Britain's high-tech industry. The union called on the Department of Trade and Industry to intervene as not a single British-owned company is among the eight contractors chosen by BT."No other advanced country would allow such a strategic investment decision affecting its national infrastructure to be contracted to foreign-owned suppliers," he said.BT yesterday picked Japanese IT firm Fujitsu, Chinese networking company Huawei, France's Alcatel, German electronics group Siemens, Sweden's Ericsson and US groups Ciena, Cisco and Lucent to build its so-called "21st century network".Investors had expected Marconi to clinch a contract in at least one of the five areas that BT filled yesterday. But news that Marconi, whose equipment is installed across BT's network, had failed to secure any involvement at all prompted shares in the company to drop almost 40%.The stock closed down 184p at 298p, wiping more than &#163;382m from the value of the business.Marconi's chief executive, Mike Parton, who has pocketed millions of pounds in share options over the past year and a half as the business has repaid the debt it accrued when it nearly went bust, described the failure to clinch a deal as "very disappointing"."It will have an impact on jobs in the UK," he admitted, although he said it was still too early to estimate how many could be lost.The company has invested heavily in designing new internet-based network technology, hoping that winning a deal with BT would open the door to similar contracts across the world.BT is the first major former state-owned telecoms provider to completely upgrade its network and its progress is being keenly watched by rivals across the globe.Mr Parton admitted yesterday that the loss of BT's business, which will disappear as the new network is built, means "we are going to move as fast as we can to maximise value for our shareholders".Investors said this was a hint that the company, which has &#163;300m in the bank, is effectively up for sale. Mr Parton would not comment.Analysts reckon China's Huawei is a likely buyer of the business. In January Marconi announced a marketing deal with the company covering Britain and China.Paul Reynolds, head of BT's wholesale business that chose the new network partners, yesterday refused to comment on why Marconi was not picked.He also denied that failing to include a British-owned company would hurt the country's position in the high-tech economy."The suppliers we have chosen will have research operations and technical jobs in the UK and all these suppliers will be hiring new people - and that will be good for UK plc," he said.Several of the successful companies are already planning to create jobs. Among them are Fujitsu, which already employs 700 people in Solihull, and Siemens, which has 20,000 staff across the country.Andrew Taylor, UK managing director of Lucent, said he would also be looking to hire more people. The American company has more than 1,000 employees in Swindon, Bracknell and London.Mr Taylor described winning part of the BT contract as "critical"."More than anything this consolidates the position we have as an employer in the UK, but we will obviously be growing our operations as a consequence," he said.
THQ has revealed its opening suite of Star Wars mobile phone games after securing the rights to the movie series earlier this year. I'll do a few reviews later, but for now, here's a quick rundown of what's on offer.The key release will probably be Star Wars Revenge of the Sith, a side-scrolling light sabre hack 'em up which allows you to control Obi-Wan, Yoda or Darth Vader. Then there's Star Wars: Battle for The Republic, which – from the brief press release – would appear to be a multiplayer battle strategy game where you guide either Separatist or Republican forces into turn-based battle. Advance Wars meets Star Wars? Oh go on then!Star Wars: Grievous Getaway seems to be a sort of flight racing game where you play as Obi-Wan Kenobi on his varactyl beast, hunting down General Grievous. Next we have Star Wars: Jedi Arena, which is like Pokemon Stadium, only you select, customise and train a Jedi or Sith warrior instead of a silly monster. You then shove your combatant into light saber battles against other players in over-the-air bouts. Another Star Wars take on a previously successful title is Star Wars Puzzle Blaster, based around the popular shareware puzzler, and Bust A Move clone, Snood.Finally, there are two lighter weight offerings. Star Wars Trivia speaks for itself, while the curious Ask Yoda is a sort of Magic 8-ball simulator, where you ask a cartoon depiction of Yoda any 'yes' or 'no' question you like and he responds with 'wise advice'. I asked if Manchester City would secure a third home win under Stuart Pearce on saturday, to which he replied 'You will know when you are calm and at peace'. Thanks you daft Jedi midget. He'll also impart random phrases of Jedi wisdom and Star Wars trivia if you ask. This, I think, is not aimed at hardcore gamers. Do you remember Yoda Stories on the PC, by the way? Terrible game, but I loved those cute little super-deformed Storm Troopers.All of these titles will be probably be released as excitement surrounding Episode III reaches a crescendo – rather than afterwards when it deflates like an enormous stinky inflatable Jabba the Hut.
A gamble on the fledgling ringtones market paid off handsomely for Independent News &amp; Media yesterday when the newspaper group reaped a &euro;75m (&#163;51m) profit on the sale of mobile content company iTouch.Japanese firm For-side.com said yesterday it would buy its British rival in a &#163;180m deal as it seeks a foothold in the European market. Initially dismissed as gimmicks, mobile ringtones have become the bane of passengers on public transport but a key feature of a wireless content market that is worth &#163;400m in Britain alone.Dublin-based Independent News &amp; Media, publisher of the Independent newspapers, said it would receive &euro;100m for its 37% stake in the company.Ivan Fallon, iTouch chairman and a senior INM executive, said iTouch had to choose between being predator or   prey in a consolidating market. Non-voice mobile content generated global revenues of &#163;34bn last year."This is an iTouch-driven deal and not an INM-driven deal," he said. "The iTouch management was aware that it had to grow very rapidly or be taken over. They felt that the best thing for the company was to go with that offer and INM decided not to stand in the way."Mr Fallon added that the corporate giants of new media have expressed an interest in mobile content and might launch a further wave of takeovers once the present phase of consolidation is over."There is no question that people like MSN and Google want to get into this area but they will be waiting for it to become a significant-sized business. We know this because they have talked to us about it," he said.INM said the proceeds would be invested in paying down debt and in its newspaper portfolio, although Mr Fallon would not be drawn on investment plans for the Independent, which underwent a redesign recently. Any spending plans at INM, which owns more than 200 titles, including the Irish Independent, would be well covered by the group's balance sheet following a financial restructuring two years ago, he added."We are not exactly short of a bob or two," he said. "If we wanted to invest even more we could. It does not alter the picture. It strengthens the financial position of the company and it's a nice windfall really."For-side said it was offering 44p a share for iTouch, a 27% premium on the closing price of 35p on Wednesday. Since it launched 10 years ago, iTouch has become one of Europe's largest mobile content companies, offering games, news updates and phone voting as well as ringtones. It made revenues of &#163;78m last year, up from &#163;60.3m in 2003."The acquisition of iTouch ... marks a major step towards our goal of becoming the pre-eminent global provider of mobile digital content," said Yukinaa Ajima, president of For-side.The range of mobile content is expanding rapidly as wireless technology develops. Text messages were a surprise growth product at the beginning of the decade, followed by an explosion in demand for ringtones and digital "wallpaper" for handset screens. The next generation of content for 3G phones, which can carry music downloads and video clips such as football highlights, is expected also to feature gaming and gambling.Matthew Pearson, analyst at Investec Securities, said &#163;180m was "a fair value for the stock".He added: "It will give For-side a stronger European foothold; iTouch is the dominant player in Spain and has a strong European presence. There is no surprise For-side acquired them. It reiterates our confidence in the space."
Microsoft last night said its third-quarter profits nearly doubled, chiefly as a result of lower legal costs as the software firm wraps up the anti-trust lawsuits that have dogged it for years. It reported earnings of $2.65bn (&#163;1.4bn), up from $1.32bn in the same period a year earlier.In the most recent quarter, Microsoft booked charges of $768m to cover settlements with the likes of Gateway. A year ago it recorded legal charges of $2.53bn, over half of which was due to a settlement with Sun Microsystems.Revenues missed Wall Street expectations but Microsoft gave an upbeat assessment, saying revenues for the fiscal year beginning July 1should reach $43.3bn."The outlook for fiscal 2006 is better than we expected," said Brendan Barnicle, analyst at Pacific Crest Securities. The forecast offset the impact of disappointing revenues. Sales for the three months ending March 31 were 5% higher than a year ago at $9.6bn.Sales of network software   rose 12% to $2.45bn. Growth was driven by sales of the Xbox games console. In the home and entertainment division, which includes the Xbox, revenue grew 11.9% to $593m.Revenue in the client division that includes Windows rose only 1.8% to just under $3bn. The Office suite showed little growth, 2.5% to $2.8bn. MSN sales fell 4.6% to $564m. Microsoft forecast revenues for the current quarter of about $10.1bn. Microsoft shares rose in after-hours trading but then dropped to $24.01, down 41 cents on the close.
Last week's caption competition went so well that I thought we could have another.I rifled through and picked out a prize - a copy of Salam Pax'sBaghdad Blog book, courtesy of Guardian Books. Not new, but great reading.But to get some ideas, I went to search around the web for a bit. It's amazing the stuff you can find on Google, you know. Just type in something and search. Whoever came up with this stuff is a genius.What's that you say? One of the guys behind Google is called Larry Page?Would that be the same Larry Page who was responsible forthis albumin 1969?Do. Your. Worst.PS: If you're wondering who won last week's competition, I think the prize has to go toBenfor his effort, which just sounded so much like Steve Jobs that I couldn't turn it down: "It looks like an apple - and it is! That's form following function for you".
Carnegie Mellon University'sProject Massivehas released the second wave of results from their ongoing research examining the massively multiplayer online gamer and has launched the third survey. LikeNickYee's work, the team aims to understand what draws people to these thriving virtual realitieis, what keeps 'em there and what happens to their real lives while they're kicking around in digital utopia.This latest approach aims to understand how real life is effected by online play, a topic close to my heart as the motivation for returning to the hallowed halls of academia.Previously, Project Massive has investigated player communication and organization in PC based, Massively Multiplayer games. While this work continues, the inquiry has been expanded to address the impact of online play on the players' real life activities, perceptions, and experiences.If you're an online gamer - and not just a MMOG player - you can take the new surveyhere.via/.
The iPod's reign as the must-have accessory for everyone from tube-travellers to round-the-world backpackers may be about to come to an end.Apple's phenomenally successful music player faces a new challenger in the shape of a musical mobile phone made by Nokia.The company's "jukebox" handset, which was launched yesterday and is known formally as the N91 mobile, will store 3,000 songs and allow users to download new tracks on the move through wireless internet technology.Nokia said the phone would cost about &#163;475 and take an industry standard 3.5mm stereo headset jack - meaning users can plug in any type of headphones. It should be on sale by the end of the year.It will also allow buyers to transfer music files from their PC or download them from specialist websites.Jonas Geust, the vice-president of Music at Nokia, said: "What sets the Nokia N91 apart is the fact that it is always connected - you can download new music on the move, add it to your favourite playlist and then share your playlist with friends."It's truly the world's best mobile-connected jukebox."The new mobile will include a two megapixel camera, a web browser and video phone technology.Since iPods were introduced in October 2001, Apple has sold more than 10m, with four million sold last Christmas alone. Earlier this month a survey showed it was considered the third most essential item for commuters between London and the home counties, ahead even of books.Adam Vaughan, the managing editor of the consumer magazine Stuff, said: "This is definitely the beginning of the end for the iPod."We are now going to see this technology move towards the music mobile, allowing people to have all sorts of features on one handset. The new phones will store 3,000 tracks, about the same as a mini iPod and more than enough for most people's needs."
An amusing one from the BackBytes column in this week'sComputing, with a rather strange result fromGoogle local."The new Local Google service works a treat," says Tony Carter, from Servomex. "Type in 'brothels' and 'Maidstone', and you get just one hit - Kent Country Constabulary. Complete with map and everything."Turns out the top responses for brothels near Online Towers are, in order, the British Humanist Association, the Institute for War &amp; Peace Reporting and Amnesty International.If, however, I search for a local "drug dealer", I'm directed towards the charity Childrens Express.Of course, all these make sense in terms of Google searching, but it's all a bit of a larf, innit.Any other bizarre results?
This studyof the PC browser market shows some interesting stats.Janco have been running their study from September 1997, so even if it turns out to be a little off base they've got a lot of context. As of April 2005:Internet Explorer : 83.07%Firefox : 10.28%Mozilla : 3.81%Netscape : 0.92%AOL : 0.85%MSN : 0.67%Opera : 0.41%Personally, I use a mixture of (hang on, let me count on my fingers) four browsers for different things on different machines - IE, Firefox, Netscape and Safari (for Mac, obviously) so I don't know where I'd fit into the scheme of things.
Sad news for those who like a bit more substance to their games - British independentdeveloper Elixir is closing. Founded by the youthful Demis Hassabis, the company produced two titles - the ambitiously flawed Republic and critically acclaimed Evil Genius. Neither sold in great numbers, despite the hype surrounding Republic, but both were imaginative and interesting. "We gave it everything we had but ultimately it wasn't quite enough." said Hassabis. "It seems that today's games industry no longer has room for small independent developers wanting to work on innovative and original ideas. Perhaps there is no longer any need for them." And with FIFA Street and Midnight Club 3 clogging the top of the charts, who can disagree?
So, in the frenzied run up to E3, we now have leaked photos of the Xbox 360 together with J Allard'stalkabout entering the era of 'High Definition gaming', where communities of online users personalise game content to their own unique specifications. And we have some wild speculation about the Nintendo Revolution and its supposed3D display, which may feature stereoscopic technology similar to an Imax cinema, allowing the videogame image to float in front of the screen.Corporate bluster? Wishful thinking? Utter fantasy? Who cares! This is a hell of a lot more interesting than previous console wars where we were invited to compare outlandish and ultimately meaningless polygon-per-second counts, or ridiculously named graphics processor units (*cough* emotion engine). Are we really at a stage in the evolution of console technology where manufacturers can no longer boast about 'even better 3D performance'? It's about time! I know I'm being utterly unrealistic, but I sort ofexpectDoom 3 quality visuals from next gen hardware, Iexpectadvanced AI, Iexpectsome form of seamless online multiplayer mode. But a console that makes things come out of the screen? I wasn't expecting that.It may all be fantasy. Microsoft's big talk about powerful online communities may just turn out to be what PC gamers have enjoyed for over a decade. The Nintendo Revolution may be of the1905rather than1917variety. All will be revealed next month. Whatever happens, it doesn't look like there'll be a polygon count in sight.
Urban street racer, oriental RPG and cutesy puzzle game -this week's reviewsare certainly varied. First up is Midnight Club 3: Dub Edition, which gets five stars from reviewer Mike Anderiesz. Five stars?! Yes, I was surprised as you - this is good but not THAT good - but Mike was seriously impressed. "Shooting off into oncoming traffic, smashing through trees as you go, ranks as one of the great gaming experiences and renders most other racing games pedestrian by comparison" he said. Phew. Less frenetic, but certainly the better game is Jade Empire. This role-playing game from the guys who made Knights of the Old Republic made Steve Boxer go weak at the knees. "BioWare set out to create an RPG that equals the revered Final Fantasy series, yet features real-time combat. It has succeeded brilliantly". The other review was mine - Zoo Keeper a puzzle game for the Nintendo DS. Yes, it has been out for a few weeks, but it was only recently I managed to grab a copy. It was worth the wait though - Zoo Keeper is addictive and relaxing handheld gaming, although it has one unfortunate side effect. My wife now monopolises the DS.
Has anyone else noticed that the Xbox 360 photos "leaked" online look like they were snapped by the same folks who docookbookphotography?
The manufacturer of the popular BlackBerry, Research in Motion (RIM), has announced an agreement with Microsoft to offer instant messaging (IM) to business users. Under the agreement, users will be able to connect to Microsoft Office Live Communications Server 2005 (LCS) for IM and "presence" services. IM allows users to text chat interactively with other IM users and "presence" lets them see  if someone is available before making a call or initiating a chat session.The move is intriguing in the light of the fact that the two firms are competitors in the race to become the favoured provider of the software on wireless devices, including mobile phones. RIM has also announced similar deals to provide IM for customers using IBM's Lotus Notes and Novell's GroupWise. It will  begin customer trials of the Microsoft service in September.According to Neil Laver, head of sales and marketing for Microsoft's Real Time Collaboration (RTC) Group, it's a pragmatic move: "We compete with RIM but we also recognise that BlackBerry devices are used by our customers, and it will obviously stimulate sales of Live Communications Server." But, perhaps hinting at Microsoft's strategy, he said the user experience would not be as functionally rich as on Windows Mobile phones.For RIM, the move appears to be all about increasing the range of applications offered to subscribers, of which there are 2.5m worldwide and, according to IDC, about 120,000 in Europe. As the software is free, it is also a way of adding a new feature at low cost. However, users will have to pay a client access fee to use LCS.RIM is unusual in the mobile arena because it manufactures devices and develops its own software. It has entered into a key phase of broadening its user base by licensing the software to other manufacturers, and it has also moved into the smartphone arena with the 7100 series. This drops the BlackBerry's distinctive Qwerty keyboard to offer a slimmer device with a numeric style keypad.David Werezak, vice president of RIM's enterprise business unit, says he believes the BlackBerry has an extra attraction for IM users. "Firms want IM that can be tracked and audited as well as fully secure," he says. "That is what we offer as standard."But on the question of how "presence" might actually function, he was undecided. "The BlackBerry is an always-on device, so presence will probably be configurable, so the user can decide what they want it to mean, and when they want to show their availability for calls or chat."Werezak disagrees with cynics who say Microsoft might be using the move to learn more about a major competitor. "Any large company is a group of divisions. In the case of Microsoft, we compete against some, work with others and sell to others. That's the way this industry works."Some analysts suggest the deal is a sea-change in policy for Microsoft. Robin Simpson, a research director at Gartner, says: "This is dancing with the devil for the likes of RIM. I think the guys at Microsoft Windows Mobile must be pretty upset."RIM's president and co-chief executive, Mike Lazaridis, dismisses such talk. "We have been supporting Microsoft products for over five years, so this is not about a new relationship," he says, "it's about how important IM is as an application."He adds that new applications are a key to RIM's success: "Through our partners there are now 500 applications including a few games. We fully expect more business and even games software over the next year."But perhaps the key to RIM's strategy is the desire to encourage people to make more use of their devices than typical mobile phone users. This makes the BlackBerry more attractive to mobile operators, and it is a selling point that must be sustained.RIM is keen to downplay the impact of Gartner's estimation that the average cost of ownership of a BlackBerry is &pound;1,300 per user per year. "It's not such an important figure," says Lazaridis. "What is important is that firms are realising they need to be providing wireless services, and that by having it they are accelerating the speed at which they are able to do things. We are well beyond having to think about return on investment to justify having BlackBerrys."None the less, mobile operators are the kingmakers in the wireless industry, with their increasing control over branding and services. RIM markets its devices indirectly through operators, who offer a wide choice to customers. Vodafone, for example, supports BlackBerrys, but has just announced plans to roll out a similar service using software from Visto. It has launched the service in four EU countries and will be launching in the UK later this year.RIM pioneered "push" email services to mobile devices, but it is converging with an industry where email and IM are joining SMS as standard mobile applications for business users. It will have to keep up the pace at which it develops the BlackBerry if it wants to stay ahead.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Fantastic story of control freakery from Apple in today'sIndependent.The company has tried to veto an unofficial biography of Steve Jobs, even to the point of dropping other books by the author, Jeffrey Young (left), from being carried in Apple stores.It is not exactly clear what in the book is so upsetting to Apple, although even the title is double-edged. iCon, Steve Jobs: The Greatest Second Act in the History of Business is expected to be published within the next few weeks and has been written by Jeffrey Young with William Simon. It does include passages about Mr Jobs' struggle and recovery from cancer and his divorce. He is notoriously secretive about his private life.The trouble started after John Wiley dispatched a proof version of the book to Apple headquarters in Cupertino, California, with the simple request that the company survey it for any factual mistakes. According to Mr Young, the company's response was blunt. We don't like any of it and we demand that you cancel its publication.But Wiley decided to stand behind the book and its author. It was then that other publications by Wiley began to vanish from the shelves of Apple's 104 retail outlets worldwide.Whoops.
Experience pays off with FlashplayerApple's iPod Shuffle might be the most infamous of all Flash memory-based music players, but it is the company's first stab at this market - unlike Sony, which has been making Flash players for years. It shows, too: the one gigabyte NW-E407 is a contender for the best of its kind. It may be larger and heavier than the Shuffle, with not very intuitive SonicStage 3.0 software, but the E407 has two knock-out punches. First, it boasts a neat OLED screen, which, with a pull-out-and-twist menu controller, makes finding tracks a cinch. The Shuffle, on the other hand, has no screen. Second, it has a battery life of more than 30 hours for MP3s, and 50 for Sony's ATRAC format. This makes the Shuffle's 12 hours MP3 playback seem rather poor. The sound quality is excellent, and it will play WMA tracks, too. If you have dabbled with the iTunes Music Store, then the Shuffle at &pound;100 is your only option. For everyone else, however, the E407, at &pound;120, is worth that few extra quid.www.sony.co.ukGaming consolesPlaying the fieldSony has finally announced the European launch date of the PlayStation Portable, which was delayed earlier in the year. The handheld gaming device is being positioned to dominate the Christmas market by launching on September 1, with the "value" package - incorporating a 32MB Memory Stick, case and other accessories - retailing for &pound;179. Sony will celebrate the announcement on Sunday with an event at London's Great Eastern Hotel, where gamers are invited to play with the unit while enjoying live music from the likes of Art Brut and Kill City. Admission is free if you register at the PSP Union website.uk.playstation.comwww.psp-union.comSee the lightThere are plenty of add-ons and accessories for the PSP, but few are as bizarre as the Light Magnifier from Hong Kong-based company Brando. The $10 magnifier clips on to the PSP, enlarging the on-screen images up to 1.6 times. The company apparently ships the magnifier internationally, too. For something even stranger, Japanese company Div has a waterproof housing for the games console, which was displayed at recent trade show. Sadly, there's no news on an official launch date for either product.shop.brando.com.hk/psplightmagnifierMobile phonesCalls for a new lookBritish product consultancy PDD has invented a new design for mobile phones. The prototype clamshell-style handset, pictured left, has been christened the Helix, and features a multi-purpose screen that revolves 180 degrees on its vertical axis. PDD claims the advantage is that when the Helix is closed and being used as a camera or an MP3 player, users can see a large screen on a compact phone. If users want to make a call or send a text, they open the clamshell hinge in a traditional way, and flip the screen around.www.pdd.co.ukDigital camerasShoot to thrillNikon is to ship its latest entry-level digital SLR camera, the D50, in June. The &pound;550 model boasts a 6.1 mega-pixel sensor and a two inch LCD screen, and stores images on SD memory cards. Shutter speed options range from 30 seconds to 1/4,000th. The latest budget digital SLR from Canon, the &pound;469 Powershot S2 IS, is due in stores at about the same time. It has a 1.8in LCD screen, a 5 megapixel sensor and can capture up to 60 minutes of video with stereo sound. It also stores still and video images on SD cards.www.nikon.co.ukwww.canon.co.ukSoftwareEye of the TigerTomorrow, Apple releases Tiger, the new version of its OS X operating system. It is packed with interesting features, and some of the shinier baubles could tempt those considering making the move from PC to Mac. Headline features of the Tiger system include Spotlight (integrated desktop search), Dashboard (real-time information widgets), scripting application Automator and four-way video conferencing. Online will be publishing a full review in next week's issue, but in the meantime, visit Onlineblog, which attended a preview of the new features, and join in the debate.www.apple.com/macosx/tigerblogs.guardian.co.uk/onlineHardwareRoom with a viewSony has unveiled a pair of Windows XP PCs integrated into LCD screens. The Vaio VGC-V3S, pictured above, and VGC-V3M boast a range of entertainment features, including a DVD recorder, TV tuner and digital video recording using Sony's GigaPocket software. They also feature a 250GB hard disk and 512MB of SDRAM. The V3S, which retails for about &pound;1,700, includes a 20in LCD screen, a 4GHz Pentium 4 HT processor and built-in wireless networking facilities. The VSM, which will retail for about &pound;1,500, has a smaller 17in screen, slower processor and no wireless.www.sony.co.ukContributions from Ashley Norris and Bobbie JohnsonStat of the week - Spam filters delay deadlinesA third of workers say they've missed deadlines because their spam filter has blocked legitimate email, with a survey from Mirapoint and Infosecurity Europe finding that two thirds of subjects reported so-called "false positives".
We've squeezed out another print edition of ourweekly technology supplementfor your delectation. And it's a cracker.Highlights include our lead story on howtactical votingusing the internet could prove crucial in the upcoming general election.We also got advance warning of Nokia's newN91phone - it's attempt to take on iPod.We're running interesting features oncomputer forensicsand why the police are struggling to keep up with technology, as well as theresignation of a key NHS IT executive, Microsoft'sdeal with BlackBerry.Ingames, we look atSwedish researchinto the effect of gaming, and review the likes ofJade EmpireandMidnight Club 3: Dub Edition.Incomment, Dave Birch looks atvirtual economies, Jack Schofield watches theFortune 500and Michael Cross worries about the problems oflocal politics on the web.As usual, there's a great deal more on top of that - justclick herefor the complete contents.
Webbies returnHave the people spoken? If not, they had better get a move on, because voting ends tomorrow. Yes, it's the ninth annual Webby Awards for the best websites, and anyone can vote in the People's Voice section - assuming the PV page is working, which, earlier this week, it wasn't. The winners will be announced on May 3 in New York.&lt;A HREF="http://www.webbyawards.com"webbyawards.compv.webbyawards.comYahoo NewsI must have visited Google News more than once a day since it was launched, but I am tempted to switch to Yahoo, which has just redone its news page. (Both are still at the beta test stage.) Yahoo uses a tabbed format that lets you check news from different sources, and if you sign in, you can customise the sources used. It's an entirely different approach. Google News fishes out clusters of stories from thousands of sources. The appeal of Yahoo News Beta is that it provides fast access to stories from sources of known value, such as Reuters, AP, USA Today etc. Just hovering the mouse over the link lets you read the start of each story.beta.news.yahoo.comTuring testedSome students at Simon's Rock College of Bard in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, just ran a Turing Test under the guise of a guessing game. They used ALICE., a well-known chat-bot unlikely to fool anyone who's awake, but the experiment gave rise to an amusing debate on the "news for nerds" site, Slashdot.theguessinggame.netwww.alicebot.orgSlashdotGoogle HistoryGoogle Labs has rolled out another interesting service, My Search History, in beta test form. Sign up for it with a Google or Gmail email account, log in, and Google will record all your searches. You will then be able to look at them later, using the built-in monthly calendar, or look at clusters of similar results. There are privacy issues, however, a "pause" button lets you tell Google to stop recording searches, and you can also delete searches you don't want in your history. If you use it, Search History adds a new button labelled Search History next to Search Web.www.google.com/searchhistoryYaGoohoo!gleI found YaGoohoo!gle on April 1, and it looked like a good spoof. It is still running on someone's home PC, but it has turned out to have more staying power than expected, and now there's even a YaGoohoo!gle search plug-in for Firefox. The site splits the browser window vertically and shows you search results from Yahoo on one side with Google's on the other. Developments will no doubt be covered on the new YaGoohoo!gle blog.yagoohoogle.comyagoohoogle.blogspot.comPark here"Using just a cell phone, you can now access the SpotScout network to find a parking spot, on-street, off-street, anytime, anywhere. SpotScout's patent-pending technology creates an information marketplace connecting drivers looking for parking spots with available spots in garages, driveways or even on-street, all in real time," says the SpotScout site. If you have found a space, you can sell it (or, more accurately, the information about it) to someone before you leave it. If you have a handy driveway, you could be in the money. The service is starting in Boston and New York.www.spotscout.comIconoculture on SpotScoutGroup bloggingBlogging is good, but for the past few years, I've been suggesting that group blogging could be even better. Instead of one blog, you set up a dozen or a hundred for a company, a school or university group, a fan club, or just a group of friends. Now 21Publish, a spin-off of 20six, is offering that service free, with up to 100 blogs, and 2MB of web space for each blog. It is a lure to get you into its commercial service, but it's a great idea.www.21publish.comPenny watchYou might be surprised to find you can build a sophisticated bridge out of pennies, but Mitch Fincher has the pictures to prove it. His "penny page" is a current fave, having been featured on the Boing Boing blog and in USA Today. He's hoping to make enough from Google Adwords to pay the bills.www.fincher.org/Misc/PenniesSix of the bestMy Search Historywww.google.com/searchhistory/My Yahoo Searchhttp://mysearch.yahoo.comMy Jeeveshttp://myjeeves.ask.com/A9http://a9.comFurlwww.furl.netMSN Search Spoofwww.msnsearchspoof.com
According to Simon Janes, international operations director for the computer security firm Ibas, less than 1% of UK police have been trained to gather computer evidence, and there are fewer than 100 experts in the country capable of analysing computer evidence to court standards. Because of the lack of skills within the force, police often have to outsource investigations to companies such as Ibas."Ten years ago, computer forensics was a very niche thing," says Janes. "Today, nearly every crime the police are encountering has some sort of evidence that involves digital media." Digital evidence may be held on a mobile phone, for example, or a Flash memory stick on a keyring.There's also commercial e-crime to deal with. A recent survey conducted by National Opinion Poll for the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU) found that 89% of UK companies were targeted by e-criminals last year. The loss incurred as a result was estimated to be more than &pound;2.4bn.Although this is the first time a figure has been put on the cost of e-crime, Mick Deats, NHTCU deputy head, says: "All indicators show an increase. It's the uptake of broadband that hackers and botnet herders are exploiting."Botnets consist of thousands of compromised computers networked together. The combined processing power of the hijacked PC networks is harnessed &mdash; the "herding" processes are used to send huge quantities of spam or carry out denial-of-service attacks.Deats says there has been a sustained increase in the professionalism of cyber criminals, and police investigations into these cases require skilled professionals."These are complex, expensive investigations," he says. "We have just finished a trail at the Old Bailey that took six months, and much longer to investigate."However, Janes believes it is the volume of digital evidence that is the problem, not the complexity of the crime. "If there's a multimillion pound fraud or serious hacking or internet paedophiles, yes, there's a case there to say 'spend the money'," he says. "The problem is when it's your everyday burglar or minor drug dealer &mdash; in those circumstances, that's when it's going to be difficult to get the funding for it."And it's not just the UK that is feeling the pinch &mdash; France and Germany also suffer similar skills shortages. In the US, the FBI regards recruiting trained personnel as key to fighting digital crime. Until now, few universities have offered courses in computer forensics. Recently, the University of Strathclyde began an MSc in forensic informatics, and Canterbury Christchurch University College will offer an MSc in cybercrime forensics from September.Although university courses alleviate some of the skills shortages, Janes believes they are no replacement for experience. "From a recruitment point of view, I'd rather have someone with six months computer forensics experience than a three-year degree," he says. To add to the problem, as soon as police officers have the requisite training, private computer forensics companies, such as Ibas, will be there to recruit them."The more police go to outsource this type of work, the more companies there are thinking about getting into this type of work," says Janes. "The more companies get into that type of work, the more people they want to recruit. Who are they looking to recruit? Serving police officers who have the experience." Janes should know &mdash; the team of forensic investigators he is in charge of are all former police.Deats is more sanguine on the issue of skills shortages. "Every new police officer, as part of their initial training, receives training on the collection of computer evidence," he says. But this training only began in 2003.To remedy the situation, the National Specialist Law Enforcement Centre (NSLEC) &mdash; the organisation that provides training to, among others, the NHTCU &mdash; has developed an e-learning module on hi-tech crime that will soon be available to all police. The training module, which includes dealing with a variety of digital evidence, will be rolled-out from next month. But where will already over-stretched police find time to sit in front of a computer, updating their skills?"One worrying consequence of the government's relative inaction on e-crime is the under-funding of law enforcement agencies, and the lack of computer forensic investigators. This leads us to the question: do we need an e-crime minister?"Janes believes an e-crime minister would ensure the government is providing the police with enough resources and training for them to combat e-crime adequately, and would help provide legislation on what action should be taken.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Man's best friend may be a dog, but that hasn't stopped millions of people trying to find more mates of the human variety. A few years ago, social networking sites &mdash; which are used to virtually connect friends or business partners &mdash; became the place to go for those in search of social solace. Friendster was the hottest ticket to popularity, providing an online portal to meet friends and, more often, find dating partners. But since then, the site has stalled and MySpace, launched in September 2003, is the new favourite.MySpace attracted 8.9m visitors in February, compared with Friendster's 1m, according to Media Metrix. But as more such sites launch and expand &mdash; such as Yahoo 360, Google's Orkut, LinkedIn and Friend Of A Friend &mdash; there is a need to stand out from the crowd. Unlike Friendster, which has maintained a similar service since its launch, MySpace is regularly updated. From the initial act of finding friends, it reaches into every part of modern communication, allowing users to blog, send instant messages, join chat rooms and set up school homepages or HTML profiles.Last year, musical artists were even allowed to create band profiles and post streaming MP3s of their songs. The site has launched many musical careers, says MySpace chief executive, Chris DeWolfe, and music is one of the most popular sections. "It has allowed smaller bands to go from having a regional reach to becoming national, if not international," says DeWolfe. Bands are "using the site to find places to stay on the road &#91;and&#93; find someone to produce their records".Independent bands, such as Jupiter Sunrise, can reach a wider fanbase, while established acts, such as Oasis and REM, have launched new material there before selling it in stores.MySpace also showcases TV shows, and last month, it presented the first webcast of the US version of The Office. "Music labels and TV outlets are working with us because of the viral nature of our site," says DeWolfe. "The word of a new feature or project spreads very quickly."MySpace's international appeal aids this communication culture. The site is most popular in the US, Australia and the UK, and these users are rewarded for their commitment. UK members can even enter their postcode to locate friends nearby and be notified when favourite bands are playing gigs in their area.The end of the affair with Friendster, on the other hand, is blamed on a lack of innovation. Clay Shirky, adjunct professor of the interactive telecommunications project at New York University, says that when Friendster arrived in early 2003, "it was like potato chips: tastes good, but is not very sustaining". Says Shirky: "After a while, people realised nothing really happened there."Any social interaction can create tensions, especially if an individual acts in a way that defies a common philosophy &mdash; inappropriate posts or unrelated threads, for example. However, on social networking sites, this tension can also exist between users and their host, leading to an abandonment or "churn" effect.  Ex-Friendster users blame poor server production, lost content and the crackdown on fakesters &mdash; members pretending to be people they're not &mdash; as reasons for their departure.But Friendster's general manager (international), Joe Hurd, says you can't compare the two sites. Friendster is more personal because it is a closed network: "The core difference is that we focus on true friendship." Friendster marketing director Michelle Wohl agrees: "The friends in your network are really the friends in your network and not just the people who like the same music as you."Recently, Friendster has added features such as chat, blogs, birthday notifications and horoscopes, and Hurd is adamant they are satisfying their 16m members &mdash; which include John Kerry and Pamela Anderson.Both visually, however, and in terms of content, MySpace is trendier than Friendster. David Brake, internet consultant and doctoral student in media and communications at the London School of Economics, says MySpace has a keen eye on its key demographic. "It claims to be for people for a variety of reasons &mdash; for example, social, business and all ages &mdash; but if you go to their home page, you get a very teen, pop feel to it," he says.While Friendster aims for an older demographic, MySpace trades on its youth-culture credibility, with 70% of users aged between 16 and 34. They host regular parties, and let users have intimate online chats with up-and-coming bands.Social software expert Tom Coates says: "MySpace has demonstrated effectively that if you give people things to do with their friends online, then that is significantly &#91;more&#93; compelling than just having software that organises who your friends are. Teenagers and young people tend to use a lot more pop culture stuff to describe themselves, it's a lot more important to their identity."www.myspace.comwww.friendster.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Next Thursday, Christine Allison will visit her local polling station in Guildford, Surrey, and vote according to the conscience of someone she has only met on the internet. On polling day, she will go to her local village hall and place her cross next to the Liberal Democrats even though she is a lifelong Labour supporter. The  42-year-old teacher has agreed to swap her vote with a partner nearly 200 miles away, in the small market town of Selby in north Yorkshire, who will in turn cast a vote for Labour even though she is an ardent Liberal Democrat.There are thousands more like Allison - strangers in constituencies across the country meeting online and trusting each other to vote on their behalf. Think of them as the electorate's avant-garde: a network of smart voters striking deals across tactical voting networks with the aim of circumventing the UK's venerable voting system that has rendered their votes irrelevant in previous general elections.Like other vote swappers, Allison lives in a marginal constituency with little chance of her preferred candidate winning. Rather than "waste" her vote on a candidate almost assured to come third, she has decided to swap with someone in a similar boat. What both have in common is a desire to keep the Conservatives from winning in the seats where they live. In effect, Allison gets to vote Labour in Selby while her partner gets her preferred choice in Guildford, and both get to cast an anti-Tory vote where they live. Two votes for the price of one.The pair struck their deal on Tacticalvoter.net, a kind of virtual clearing house that pairs Liberal Democrat and Labour supporters who live in different constituencies. In simple terms, Tactical Voter - the political equivalent of internet dating - matches up anti-Tory voters in marginal constituencies where the centre-left has a decent chance of unseating the Conservatives - in other words, in the 230 seats where the Conservatives are vulnerable to a clear challenger.The practice of vote swapping surfaced in the UK during the last general election, when such organised, online tactical voting helped unseat at least two Conservative MPs in Cheadle and Dorset South. In Allison's case, the aim is to help keep out the Conservatives in Guildford, where the Lib Dem hold is an extremely marginal 538. Her preferred choice has practically no chance of winning. Labour polled just over 6,000 votes in the last election - well below the two other main parties. "I have never been fortunate enough to live in a constituency where my vote would have made a difference to the result," she explains. "Vote swapping is a way of circumventing that system."Britain is yet to see the likes of Vote-Auction.com (although ballots have been for sale on eBay) but it is no stranger to tactical voting. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the first known use of the phrase appeared during the general elections of 1974. But it took the light of the internet to formalise the practice into a sophisticated network.In the US election of 2000, the US Green Party developed vote-swapping exchanges that allowed supporters of Ralph Nader living in safe Democrat states to exchange votes with Democrats in swing states. Despite a number of legal challenges and a flurry of site lock-downs, up to 36,000 voters were paired in this way. It was not enough to stop Bush winning in Florida, but it was not far off, either.According to Professor Stephen Coleman, of the Oxford Internet Institute, the UK is perhaps more susceptible to vote swapping than the US. Because of the large number of elected representatives (659) in Britain, the chances of affecting the course of an election is potentially far greater. "I think what we are seeing here is do-it-yourself proportional representation," he says."This is essentially a case of people deciding that the electoral system doesn't satisfy them. Increasingly, people's preferences are no longer  on the basis of loyalty and tradition, but on the basis of volatility and antipathy and lots of people are saying, 'I don't care who gets in as long as it's not a Conservative' or sometimes the other way around."The UK vote-swapping community may still be small, but it only takes a few thousand tactical voters to swap seats in targeted constituencies to cause major upsets. Shadow chancellor Oliver Letwin, with a majority of 1,114, is ninth on Tactical Voter's "hit list". Tory grandees David Davis (majority 1,903) and Theresa May (3,284) are not far behind. It would take more than the entire vote-swapping community - thought to be about 5,000 active participants in 2001 - to unseat Michael Howard (5,907), but even he could lose his seat if two in every three Labour supporters in Folkestone &amp; Hythe switch to the Lib Dems. Indeed, the Conservatives hold more votes than the combined Labour and Lib Dem vote in just 63 seats.For vote swapping to steal such outstanding scalps it needs people to painstakingly match up potential swappers in constituencies where the tactic might actually affect the result. There are, as yet, not enough people to achieve this, but what the resurfacing of vote-swapping networks proves is that the controversial practice is here to stay. It is, moreover, already developing new, potentially more effective, strains that threaten to hurt Labour just as much this time around. Sites such asBackingblair.co.uk, which actually urges you to sack him, andLibdemthistime.co.uk- backed by the music producer Brian Eno - are attempting to mobilise the anti-war protest vote to give Blair a bloody nose - or worse.Vote swappers such as Allison might be electoral pioneers, but she laughs off any suggestion that she's a geek. She doesn't even have an internet connection at home. According to Jason Buckley, campaign manager of Tacticalvoter.net, most vote swappers are politically aware individuals with clear party allegiances - often with a history of political activism. Naturally, they also have a good grasp of the electoral system, most are motivated mainly by self-inter&shy;est and some are extremely picky about who they are prepared to swap with. Allison exchanged several emails with her partner before deciding to commit to a swap.According to the Tactical Voter database, 65% of vote swappers are male and few match the profile of the typical floating voter. "What's interesting from my correspondence is the age of the users: lots of middle-aged couples and silver surfers," says Buckley. "About a fifth of our registrations come from couples or family groups. Our typical tactical voter user is a  40-something professional, not happy about the war but far unhappier about Michael Howard."A few disgruntled Conservatives questioned the legality of vote swapping in 2001, citing rules, set down by the Electoral Commission, that it is illegal to exchange your vote for a "consideration". In other words, to sell your vote for money or payment in kind. Although it has yet to be contested in the courts, the Electoral Commission has indicated that swapping does not constitute a consideration as - ultimately - what the parties are doing is swapping the pledge to vote, not actual votes, a subtle difference."Last time, we had a lot of people trying to abuse the system," says Buckley. "We had a lot of spam registrations and quite a few instances of Tories registering on the site and then revealing, when they were paired up with their partners, that they were not serious vote swappers. It is a typical spoiler tactic but such a stupid thing to do because what else is going to make absolutely certain that somebody votes tactically against the Tories than someone wasting their time like that?"What is also surprising, given that at least two Conservative MPs fell prey to vote swapping in 2001, is that the Tories have failed to mobilise vote-swapping sites of their own.According to Ian Bruce, the former Conservative MP for Dorset South who was a victim of tactical voting  in 2001, the party needs to think seriously about adopting such tactics. "There are things we should have done prior to this election to get ourselves into a position where we can make exactly the same sort of tactical voting appeal," he says. But according to Conservative Central Office, there is "no party line" on the development of such tactics.Above all, what vote swapping is really doing - aside from scourging the Conservatives - is giving people the chance to alter Britain's electoral system without an act of parliament. Despite Conservative whispers that tactical voting is being secretly backed by Labour - Tactical Voter is funded in part by the New Politics Network, an organisation born out of the ashes of the Communist Party of Great Britain, while the musician Billy Bragg, a committed socialist, bankrolls a similar network in Dorset - many of its participants desire electoral reform as much as anything else.Indeed, if you want to call Jason Buckley anything, call him the leader of the Proportional Representation Party. It is worth remembering that a move away from Britain's venerable first-past-the-post system - recently hinted at by the prime minister - would make the practice of vote swapping redundant.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
Children from poorer homes are becoming victims of a "digital divide" because their parents lack the skills to help them use the internet as effectively as their middle-class counterparts, says research.A study of internet use among more than 1,500 youngsters, conducted by the London School of Economics, revealed that children from better-off backgrounds not only had greater access to the world wide web at home but were more likely to exploit its array of resources.The authors warn that, while "internet-literate" parents produce web-literate children because they can guide and support them, youngsters whose parents are less well informed could harm their education and job prospects.The socio-economic differences are striking: 88% of middle-class children but only 61% of working-class youngsters have accessed the internet at home. The data suggests that well-established advantages enjoyed by many middle-class children, such as access to books and help with their homework, also extend to technology.The two-year study, based on interviews with youngsters aged nine to 19, also raises   concerns about how youngsters actually use the internet.While 90% of those who go online daily or weekly use the internet for homework, a fifth admitted having copied something from it for a school project and passing it off as their own.Perhaps more worryingly for parents, 57% of daily and weekly users access pornography. Most said they had seen it by accident, mainly through pop-up adverts or accidentally clicking on to porn sites. Fifty-four per cent claimed not to be bothered by the encounter.The study also found that parents underestimate the negative experiences of online communication for their children, despite being wary of the dangers.A third of daily and weekly users aged nine to 19 said they had received unwanted sexual or nasty comments online or by text message, though only 7% of parents were aware their child had received sexual comments and only 4% that their child had been bullied online.Parents surveyed said they were concerned about how to manage their children's internet use, although almost a fifth admitted not knowing how to help their children use the web safely. Nearly two-thirds of 12- to 19-year-olds reported taking some measure to hide their online activities from parents.Sonia Livingstone, professor of social psychology at the LSE and co-author of the research with Dr Magdalena Bober, said parents could be targeted for internet literacy support, and suggested that going online with their children could help improve awareness of risks.But she warned they also needed to balance this with respect for their children's privacy, since this would improve trust and ensure safety issues were discussed more openly.A group of youngsters dubbed "disengaged youth" in the report were least likely to engage with the internet, least likely to have access at home, and were least expert internet users, Prof Livingstone said."Now that many young people rely on the internet for information, homework help and careers guidance, the more it matters that some of them are getting left behind."Not knowing how to best use the internet may have a negative impact on their education and employment opportunities."
Not many people know this, but there's an election next week. Across most of England, voters will go to the polls to decide who should run their county councils. (Along with the rest of the UK, they will also elect the next Westminster parliament, but I expect that's mentioned elsewhere.)County councils are important. Their responsibilities, such as education and social services, matter to people. They can also claim to be the logical tier of local government: large enough to be viable, yet maintaining a bond with their citizens. Nearly everyone knows which county they live in, which is more than can be said for some newer government entities.Yet the democratic accountability of counties, along with the rest of local government, could be doomed unless local politics gets on the web. Today, elected council members are e-government's orphans. While authorities across Britain are committing hundreds of millions to e-enabling their services, few are serious about plugging councillors into the process.In theory, by the end of this year, every English local authority is supposed to provide elected members with facilities to post a website. Most councillors need  the help: they are usually from a generation that doesn't naturally turn to the web, and are too busy to learn. But many authorities provide the bare minimum: a poorly signposted static page containing little more than a name, photograph and contact details. Not surprisingly, such sites get few visitors: 70 a month is typical.Scarcely anyone would use  their councillor's home page as a portal to local, let alone national, government.One reason for the local democracy's poor web presence is legal uncertainty. This shows up dramatically at election times. For example, Lancashire councillor Tony Martin normally has a lively, regularly updated site. However, during the campaign it has been replaced by a "vanilla" version showing just a photo and an email form.For good historical reasons, local authorities are banned from funding political activity. It would make sense for the law to be changed to allow the fair provision of web facilities. This need not be the thin end of a dangerous wedge, so long as all sitting councillors (and candidates, at election time) were offered equal space.Even under the existing law, however, we could go a lot further. Councillors could be encouraged to create dynamic sites but required to keep overt political campaigning on a separate link. For a start, members' websites should be clearly signposted on council home pages, rather than several pages down.The fact that so few authorities do even this suggests that the real problem is not legal but attitudinal. In the modern consensual world of customer-centric local government, feisty politics can be an embarrassment. A web team promoting Market Snodsbury as Britain's finest holiday spot is not inclined to give space to a tirade about teenagers urinating in bus shelters. But if that is important to Market Snodsbury's elected representatives, they should be given e-space to say it.
Assault on sensesMidnight Club 3: Dub EditionPlayStation 2/Xbox/PSP, &pound;39.99 Rockstar/Take 2, *****Not content with the Grand Theft Auto series, Rockstar has been tuning up a second killer franchise, as this Dub edition of the urban street racer proves. If you missed out on the series (as I had), prepare yourself for a serious assault on your senses.The game borrows from every great racer worth mentioning: the cars and customisation of GranTurismo, the real city navigation of Project Gotham and the "race-against- the-traffic" madness of Burnout. But it also adds two distinctive elements: fluorescent waypoints visible from afar, allowing you to head in a vague direction and find shortcuts as you go; and the ability to slipstream racers to build up nitrous oxide charges.Shooting off into oncoming traffic, smashing through trees as you go, ranks as one of the great gaming experiences and renders most other racing games pedestrian by comparison. And with three US cities to explore, complete with police to run you off the road, there's never less than too much going on.In fact, the least successful part is customising your car, which fails to capture what MTV's Pimp My Ride does so well &mdash; making you want such outlandish upgrades. Ironically, after years of glamorising gun crime and ghetto culture, Rockstar has finally produced a genuinely subversive game... and one where swear words are bleeped out. But an hour after buying it, you, too, will want to steal a fast car and hot-ride it round your 'hood.Mike AnderieszFull of fightJade EmpireXbox, &pound;39.99 BioWare/Microsoft, ****BioWare established itself as one of the finest developers of role-playing games (RPGs) after its work on Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic. Having decided to leave that franchise to another developer, it focused its attention on Jade Empire, a game that, like its predecessor, is innovative and beautifully crafted.Jade Empire is set in a mystical Far Eastern land, and you play a student at martial arts school whose village comes under threat from brigands.Soon you find yourself at the centre of an apocalyptic plot, exploring large and well-observed worlds, performing quests and sub-quests, or merely roaming around at your leisure. What sets Jade Empire apart from peers is its real-time, as opposed to turn-based, combat engine.Combat, unusually for an RPG, is fast-paced, tactical and precise, more like what you would expect from a beat-'em-up. Starting with a base of heavy attack, light attack and clearing attack, you start to accumulate "fighting styles", any four of which you can assign to the D-Pad. Switching between them during battles becomes vital.You pick up side-kicks, one at a time, and you can also work on your conversational skills. One of the first lessons Jade Empire teaches you is that with a bit of judicious chatter, you can avoid a fight. BioWare set out to create an RPG that equals the revered Final Fantasy series, yet features real-time combat. It has succeeded brilliantly.Steve BoxerRelaxing riddlesZoo KeeperNintendo DS, &pound;29.99 Ignition ****The Nintendo DS may lose out to Sony's PSP in the looks department, but when it comes to games, the DS more than holds its own. A case in point is Zoo Keeper, a puzzle title that will appeal to everyone.The premise is simple: by using the stylus or D-Pad controls, players must match different animals in an eight-by-eight grid. Get three of the same species and they disappear, creating space for new ones to take their place. The aim is to clear the board, and a relatively relaxed time limit means you shouldn't have much trouble doing this. Things hot up as you progress, although the action is more therapeutic than tense. Other modes introduce time limits and story-based elements. The latter adds depth, with varying tasks (link 15 pandas etc) that change your style of play. But time attack, with its emphasis on getting the highest score quickly, is probably what you will concentrate on.Multiplayer is possible, but there are more exciting ways to compete with friends on the DS. The graphics are simple, childlike and perfect for the job, although the dual-screen use is gimmicky.All the action takes place on the touch screen; the main upper screen is a glorified scoreboard. But the simple objectives, colourful and clear graphics and relaxing gameplay make Zoo Keeper a perfect example of handheld gaming.Greg HowsonKeep up with the latest from the gaming world with our Gamesblog atwww.blogs.guardian.co.uk/games.Top 5 gamesNintendo GameCube1.Resident Evil 42.Mario Party 63.Baten Kaitos4.Mario Power Tennis5.Fifa StreetLeisure software charts compiled by ChartTrack, (c)2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
CD saverOver the past few years, I saved JPeg files on to CD using Roxio Easy CD Writer with Windows 2000. Now I've bought a new machine with Windows XP, I can't open the CDs with treasured picture files. No software can detect the files and all access to the CD refers only to UDFREADER. Dell's help line doesn't know about this, and the Windows XP website barely acknowledges it.Alan RentonJack Schofield replies:UDF Reader is part of Roxio/Adaptec's Easy CD Creator and allied programs. It is used with the DirectCD and "drag to disc" functions, which I always recommend people not to use. If Dell still supplied, or if you installed, a Roxio CD program then I assume UDF Reader would load in the background to provide access to these CDs. However, you can download a standalone copy of UDF Reader. I couldn't find it on Roxio's site but there's one atwww.versiontracker.Alternatively, you could get a copy of CDRoller fromwww.cdroller.com. The fan mail on its site suggests this is good at reading UDF and other discs. It is not free but it could be a good investment, depending on how many CDs you have. You should now transfer all your files from UDF discs to good quality CD-Rs (not CD-RWs) written in standard ISO9660/Joliet format. For maximum reliability, only write to each CD once (ie write the whole disc and close the session). In this case, an 80-minute CD-R will hold 703MB. Multisession writing is possible but provides an extra thing to go wrong. However, make sure you do not use "packet writing" or a "drag to disc" system that treats a CD-R/RW disc as though it were a floppy drive: this is too unreliable to be used for back-ups. CDs are optical discs, designed to be written as one long continuous track. Treating them like magnetic disks is asking for trouble.The new ZipYour column (April 14) was timely, as I am thinking about buying a new desktop. I also have floppy and Zip drives, but you didn't say what these should be replaced with.Bill OverendJS:The "new floppy" or Zip drive is a solid state USB "thumb drive" which usually holds 128MB but can store up to 1GB. One day, I'm planning to copy things from my old Zip disks to CD. However, I still have some 8in and 5.25in floppy disks to rescue first...Which discs?CD-Rs were launched in three quality levels: blue (bad), silver (OK) and gold (good). Is there a similar system for grading writeable DVDs? The ones available seem to be equivalent to blue CDs.Andrew HealyJS:There wasn't a formal system, but the quality of CD-Rs varied according to the stability of the dye used. Greenish-gold phthalocyanine is the best and blue or greeny-blue cyanine the worst. However, this is an unreliable guide as deep blue CD-Rs, from Verbatim, for example, are good, while some cheap "gold" CDs have the gold surface on the top (which isn't used for recording) to fool customers who aren't sure what they are buying. My advice is to buy CDs made in Japan (rather than made by Japanese companies in other countries), and stick to recognised brands such as Maxell, TDK, Kodak, Verbatim and Fujifilm. I follow the same policy for DVDs, with a bit of input from the Video Help site, which has a page where users report on disc quality and compatibility. See:www.videohelp.com/dvdmediaHowever, cheaper discs should last 10-20 years if stored in a cool, dry place and kept out of direct sunlight. By then they will be obsolete, and if you still care about your data, you will have moved it on to a new type of storage.Backchat&#183;Last week I dealt with thinking up memorable passwords. Adam Funk comments: "I believe the consensus among security experts is that passwords should not contain intact words of more than two letters. The examples you gave (jobs4boys and swan2sing) are very susceptible to a dictionary attack. Breaking words up with digits and other characters (eg jo4bs?bo4ys) is much better, and mixing upper and lower case also improves the entropy of the password (eg sW1aN!si!nG)." All this is true, but we live in an age where people use words like secret, or password, and the names of their pets or their companies, and you don't even need a dictionary attack. There is a trade-off between security and memorability. Of course, if you are protecting an important account (eg one containing money), you should use the hardest password you can handle.&#183;In a recent Backchat about converting MOV files to something useful, Marc Baldwin mentioned re-encoding AVIs with DivX or XviD codecs. TV producer/director Jonathan Sch&uuml;tz says his "excellent, newish DVD player can't cope with these codecs, reading only standard MPeg 1 &amp; 2 files". He thinks it may be simpler to create VCDs using Nero, "though some of the conversion has to be done beforehand". Another reader adds that the MainConcept MPeg Encoder (www.mainconcept.com/mpeg_encoder.shtml) will now convert MOV to MPeg 1 or 2 files, though he has experienced audio problems doing this. However, the download version costs $149.Send questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but include full details.
A good maxim for dictators is: don't invade Russia. The equivalent rule for NHS computing is: don't start with London. All the foibles that make computerising healthcare difficult anywhere are magnified by the capital's ancient teaching hospitals, transient population and high political profile.Eighteen months ago, the &pound;6bn NHS national programme for IT went against that wisdom when it picked London to be one of the first of five regions across England to introduce new systems. It may now be regretting its decision. Far from being a pioneer, the programme in London is lagging amid technical and financial worries and the resignation of one of its top officials following his suspension from duty.Connecting for Health, the agency responsible for the national programme, said on Tuesday that London's chief information officer, David Kwo, had resigned. Kwo had been suspended from duty since April 14 "to enable proper investigations into a serious allegation". A spokesperson for the agency said that Kwo's resignation letter did not mention his suspension. No further details were available.Kwo was one of the five key individuals implementing the world's largest civil IT programme. He was well qualified for the role. An American former management consultant who has lived in the UK for 20 years, Kwo was the first NHS IT director to sit on a hospital board, at Chelsea and Westminster trust. At the flagship hospital, he was responsible for installing an electronic patient-record system based on software from a US-based specialist supplier, Phamis (now IDX). Although the mainframe-based system had a high upfront cost, it was seen as a rare success story for London.In December 2002, Kwo was appointed chief information officer for the whole of London, one of five "clusters" of health authorities created to procure systems under the national programme. The idea was to create contracts large enough to attract "world class" IT suppliers, but not to become reliant on any single firm.In December 2003, the London cluster signed a &pound;966m contract with BT to provide systems across the capital, based on IDX software. IDX's share of the contract is estimated to be worth &pound;200m.The same software was later chosen for a region covering the whole of southern England, from Cornwall to Kent. (The other three regions, covering England north of the Severn, picked software from iSoft, a UK-based firm which is a close partner of Microsoft.)By last winter, the new software for London and southern England was running late. A specialist online news service, E-Health Insider, reported that it had seen documents showing that the new system's basic clinical functions would not be ready until June 2006 at the earliest, nine months behind schedule. In February, the NHS signed a "shared governance arrangement" with BT and Fujitsu, the prime contractor for southern England, to get the programme back on track.London's woes are not fatal to the whole programme. It was designed from the outset to cope with local setbacks. Contracts provide for successful suppliers in one region to "step in" to replace contractors that are failing elsewhere. Connecting for Health's chief executive, Richard Granger, hinted last month that he may use these powers.However, delays provide ammunition to critics who say the whole programme is flawed. A Conservative-leaning thinktank, Aediles, has called for NHS contracts to be renegotiated and put in the public domain. The programme is also under scrutiny from bodies as diverse as the BMA, the National Audit Office and the Worshipful Company of Information Technologists, which is worried about the damage that failure would do to the IT profession.Concern is also growing in the IT industry. At least two suppliers, Indian-based services firm TATA Consultancy Services, a partner of Fujitsu, and Accenture, prime contractor in the north of England, have reported that delays to the programme are hitting their balance sheets. One of the programme's innovations was that suppliers would not be paid until systems are in place and working. The industry is now putting pressure on the government to reconsider those terms.Senior officials were unable to comment this week because of the election campaign purdah surrounding civil servants. The programme has posted a "12-week forecast" on its website showing that new systems, such as a web-browser for electronic booking, are still being installed in London. But a new brochure suggests that the NHS is in for a long slog. "Systems and services will be gradually phased in across England over the next six years". It also notes that: "As with all major projects there will be difficulties ... along the way."Kwo's resignation is without doubt a "difficulty". Colleagues point out that, with so much money and credibility at stake, many vested interests have a motive for sabotage and backstabbing. But anyone familiar with the NHS in London would have known that all along.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
As I have pointed out before, the scale of the trading that goes on in virtual worlds is astonishing. There is an entire economy growing in  cyberspace. Professor Edward Castronova, the economist who conducted the first in-depth examination of the topic, found that the virtual worlds he studied were the equivalent (in GDP per capita and population) of Namibia, which has about 2m people and, according to World Bank figures, a national yearly income of $1,790 per capita.Just as in the real world, most of the virtual economy is built around "domestic" (ie in-game) consumption: Professor Castronova estimates that external trade accounts for about 5% of the total trade in a typical virtual world. Since we know, for example, that about $400m of external trade went on in Asia last year, we can estimate the total in-game economy at about $8bn.Just look at EverQuest. Avatars from Sony's massively multiplayer online game trade for hundreds of dollars, and while Sony Online Entertainment has opposed such trading for more than six years, there hasn't been much it could do about it.Although it negotiated an agreement with eBay to prevent the trading of EverQuest items, it didn't stop the trading (which immediately moved elsewhere) and it is not clear how it would legally be able to stop people from trading anyway.When the publishers of one US online game, Anarchy Online, did sue some people for "grinding" (ie creating new characters and then building them up for sale), they lost.So Sony has taken the only sensible course of action. Instead of going down the music industry route of filing lawsuits against customers, it has decided to set up its own trading centre. The Sony Station Exchange will open in June. Not only will it benefit Sony (40% of its customer service calls are related to fraudulent out-of-game trading) and the players who want to trade, I suspect it will spur the development of new games where a secure trading exchange is integral to the platform, and will actively encourage secondary markets between financial institutions. Why shouldn't my online bank offer me platinum pieces as well as euros?The economies of EverQuest and other American and European games are small by comparison with their Asian cousins. Lineage II has 3m players who pay around £15 per month: that's £540m in revenue per month. With this kind of money involved, virtual worlds are a real business, and the boundary is becoming fuzzy.In South Korea, gift cards for the virtual currency used in  Cyworld, known as dotori ("acorns"), are sold in more than 10,000 retail outlets as well as online and via mobile phones. Players use the currency to buy avatars and media to decorate their virtual space. Since one dotori costs approximately 10 cents, this market is obviously limited. Indeed, it amounts to only about $200,000. Per day.
