What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Unfortunately, I'm going to have to say the iPhone. It's the most used piece of machinery I own. But it's a love-hate relationship with the typing – if I didn't go back every three words to fix a typing error, it would look like an alien language. And not a good one, it would be an alien race that never left the planet and still hadn't figured out fire.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I'm using it to answer these questions. But not without switching over every couple questions and playing a tower defense game. geoDefense is what I'm addicted to now. It's like thumb crack.What additional features would you add if you could?Well, a physical slide-out keyboard, but that'll never happen so I'd settle with – I know this sounds crazy, but – SPELL-CHECK!!! It's ridiculous without it. It's like if when they brought out the mouse, when dragging it around it went whatever direction it chose to go.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No. Unfortunately I will be obsolete before it will.What always frustrates you about technology in general?That it's business. I get it. But it sucks. They have to let it out slowly, so we don't get all the goodies all at once. They make us buy 17 new models before, let's say, "cut and paste". You can see a theme here, right?If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Wait until the second generation. Play with someone else's until the new one comes out. Warning: this idea can't be used with sex toys.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Yes. But I mask it well staying unshaved, which they make me lose for any role I play so I look more like a nerd. It's a tough cycle.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I don't go crazy buying expensive technology. I'd probably say my laptops and TVs  are the most expensive things I've bought. Although I once got a gold-plated Nokia phone from a gifting suite one time. It may have been worth a lot but I sold it cheap on eBay. If someone bought it let me know if it works – tweet me@joeldavidmoore.Mac or PC, and why?As you've guessed by now, Mac. But I've always used Mac – my family had Macs growing up. On a PC I'm like a monkey trying to hump a football.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download?Whatwas your last purchase?Download. I haven't bought a CD since Milli Vanilli. And then Charles Shaw and John Leland, the actual singers.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Great idea, if they will respond to verbal abuse and can know how to stave off lonely late-night advances.What piece of technology would you most like to own?The clapper.•Joel David Moore's new film,Spiral– which he stars in, as well as co-writing and co-directing – is out on DVD on Monday
Facebook's privacy problems have been widely reported this month, but most people probably can't be bothered to snoop on people they don't know. A new search site could change that. WithYouropenbook.org, anyone can enter potentially-embarrassing search terms and see what turns up.Youropenbook.org uses the Facebook API (applications programming interface) and works whether you are logged on to Facebook or not. Of course, you can also run the same searches from your Facebook page, but that doesn't make quite the same point about privacy.Youropenbook is not aimed at helping snoopers but shaming Facebook into action. The site's creators say: "Our goal is to get Facebook to restore the privacy of this information, so that this website and others like it no longer work."If you are a Facebook user and you're concerned about this, check the details of your privacy settings --here's how.
A malware attack is being spread via Twitter using "zombie" accounts to push a site which claims to link to a fun video.Using the tagline "haha this is the funniest video ive EVER SEEN!", and a wide variety of Twitter hashtags, the website instead uses a Java exploit to drop a keylogger program and a banking Trojan (which will search your hard drive for any banking details and watch when you log in to online banking sites) on Windows computers that visit it.The large number of accounts are being used to try to push the link onto trend-mapping sites that show popular links on Twitter.F-Securespotted the emergence of the threat today, and explained how it works. And it had a suggestion for how to avoid the problem: "Lesson of the day is probably this: do youreallyneed Java in your browser?" asks the company. "Seriously, do you? If not, get rid of it."The breadth of the attack indicates that the linked problems for Twitter - that it doesn't seek any authentication of accounts beyond an email - and URL shorteners, which can make it hard for people to know where they are going mean that users of these services have to be cautious when using Windows systems.Bit.ly has been alerted to the threat from the link; presently its statistics indicate that there have been more than 1,630 clicks on the link - each of which means an infected computer and someone whose banking details are therefore at risk, and whose computer is a potential spam generator and botnet member.If you have clicked on the link, you should immediately take your machine offline and scan it with an antivirus system.If you need to check the final destination for a bit.ly URL, it's easy with bit.ly links: add a + to the link you're offered (eghttp://bit.ly/b6Z3BC+, which shows the statistics for the URL for the dangerous site).Other URL-shortening services can make it harder to check where you're being sent. Tinyurl offers a "preview" function, but it's always wise to look at any available information before continuing to a link from a source you don't completely trust.
The UK's information commissioner says he does not want to "declare war" on Google over its breach of the Data Protection Act by collecting data about home wireless networks – even though Germany, Spain, France and Italy have all announced that they will investigate the company under the same European laws.Christopher Graham, who heads the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), told a meeting on information governance in London on Thursday  that it was better to act quickly to ensure that the data collected by Google was destroyed.However, prosecutors in Hamburg have opened a criminal investigation into Google's activities over the way that it collected private data from wireless networks while its Street View photo mapping car was driving around European countries – including the UK and Germany.Google has insisted that it was trying to map the existence of the networks, which use the Wi-Fi standard, but that it accidentally left in computer code which collected actual data from unsecured networks.German prosecutors have requested access to one of the hard drives used in the data gathering – though Google has so far refused. German data protection officials have given the company until 26 May to hand over the system."We are absolutely at an early stage," Wilhelm Mollers, a spokesman for the Hamburg prosecutor's office, told the New York Times. "This isn't something that will be wrapped up in two or three weeks. We have to analyse whether there is reason to file criminal charges."In German law, a conviction for illegal data-gathering carries a two-year prison sentence or a fine. Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg data protection supervisor who made the original request to Google to inspect one of the hard drives, said he met Google executives on Wednesday to discuss Street View and the improperly obtained data.Google admitted on Friday that it collected 600GB of data from unsecured Wi-Fi networks around the world while collecting photos to Street View. The company has offered to destroy the data – an offer that has been accepted by the UK and Irish regulators.Meanwhile Spain, France and Italy are also investigating whether Google broke national privacy laws in the collection of data. The Spanish agency "will call on Google to explain whether it has captured data without the consent of citizens in Spain," it said in a statement on Wednesday, and sent a formal request urging Google "to block the data associated with wireless networks gathered in Spanish territory."Yet although data protection laws are broadly similar throughout the EU – because they implement the 1995 EU Data Protection Directive – the UK's ICO has decided not to investigate the company, and remains satisfied with its decision to destroy the data relating to UK networks which it collected."Google contacted the ICO, and it was better to act quickly to ensure the data was destroyed than declare war," Graham said. "It was proportionate and in the public interest."Google co-founder Sergey Brin said this week that the company "screwed up" by collecting and storing information from Wi-Fi networks while gathering data for its Street View mapping service, while the chief executiveEric Schmidt said that privacy is "paramount" but dismissed concerns about the data collection, saying that "what really matters is actual harm".Google is coming under increasing pressure from European government agencies over the question of privacy and data protection. On 11 May officials from 30 European countries adopted a common approach under which they want Google to improve blurring techniques used to disguise images in Street View and to make faces and car numberplates harder to recognise. "The [Street View] product as such is not in breach, but more measures have to be taken to improve how images are gathered and used," Gerard Lommel, a Luxembourg member of the so-called Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, said at the time. The group is made up of the European Union's 27 nations, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.Switzerland's data-protection agency sued Google in November for allegedly failing to comply with proposals to make it harder to identify people and cars on Street View. That case is pending.The German investigation, which will determine whether prosecutors bring criminal charges against Google employees, came in response to a complaint filed on Monday by Jens Ferner, a law student from Alsdorf, Germany. Ferner said he wanted to clarify German law regarding the collection of data from unsecured wireless networks.
Nvidia has been showing off a new Android touch-screen tablet powered by its Tegra 2 processor, albeit only running an American football game (BackBreaker by Natural Motion), rather than showing the full user interface. It's a generation ahead of Apple's iPad in using a dual-core ARM Cortex 9 processor, with a lot more memory (1GB), a front-facing webcam and microphone, and a selection of ports. These include a MicroSD card slot and two USB ports, which are sadly lacking on the iPad. (OK, they're not needed, and will remain not needed until Apple brings out a new iPad that includes them.)The Nvidia tablet has a smaller screen at 8.9 inches, and it's widescreen (WSVGA) where the iPad is old skool 4:3. (I prefer 4:3 myself but the market has gone widescreen.)Unlike the iPad, Google Android tablets will be able to access most web sites and play games such as FarmVille, because they can run Adobe Flash.AtNetbook News, Nicole Scott says: "The unit measured around 1cm in thickness, but talking to Andrew Edelsten from Nvidia he did remind me that it is a prototype and there are much thinner and lighter versions behind closed doors."Nvidia's tablet has reportedly been made by Foxconn (Hon Hai), which also makes the Apple iPad. However, bear in mind this is not a product launch. Real products should appear at theComputex trade show in Taiwan (June 1-5), with up to 50 companies targeting the market. Most of these tablets will probably disappear leaving little trace, but Taiwanese companies such as MSI and Asus have the distribution networks and advertising money to reach a wide audience. This doesn't guarantee they will be successful, but it does mean they have a fighting chance.Other coverage:Gizmodo:Nvidia's Android Tablet: Okay, I Could Want ThisEngadget:Foxconn's Tegra 2-powered Android tablet hands-on (video)
Facebook and Zynga, the company behind games such as Farmville, have buried the hatchet, announcing a five-year strategic relationship and "shared commitment to social gaming".The two companies have been at loggerheads over Facebook's attempt to make its virtual currency, Facebook Credits, the only one players of games made by Zynga and others can use.Farmville, the hugely popular game where players cultivate their own farm, is free but players can buy virtual currency with real money to boost their plot.Facebook takes a 30% commission every time its currency is used, leading Zynga –which reportedly makes as much as $100m (£70m) a year from selling virtual items such as barns– tothreaten to quit the social networking website.The two companies, which did not reveal the details of the deal, said that the agreement "provides a solid foundation for both companies to continue to work together to provide millions of people with a compelling user experience for social games".Zynga has more than 230 million users of its games and spends a huge amount as an advertiser on Facebook. The New York Post estimates that Zynga could account for 10% to 20% of Facebook's revenue, while the social networking website's 400 million-plus global users have been a huge part of why games like Farmville have taken off."Facebook was a pioneer in opening their platform in 2007 and in just three years tens of millions of Facebook users play our games everyday, from FarmVille and Cafe World to Treasure Isle and Mafia Wars," said Mark Pincus, founder and chief executive at Zynga."We are excited about Facebook's long-term commitment to social gaming and Zynga, and look forward to working with them and other platform providers to bring the best social gaming experience to users worldwide," Pincus added.Zynga, which also has its games on websites including MySpace, MSN and Yahoo, is "testing" Facebook Credits in selected games. The company said it would expand the use of the virtual currency to more titles "in the coming months".
You want to take control of your Facebook privacy settings. That's an excellent idea. The first thing to do is not to think of them as "privacy" settings. Think instead of them as "publicity" or even "celebrity" settings: they decide how public or how much of a "celebrity" you're choosing to be.The links below will take you to Facebook: if you have an account there you'll be able to edit your settings directly.Facebook divides its "Privacy" (think: publicity) settings into five main categories: Profile information, Contact information, Search, Applications and websites, and a Block list.Each of those then has sub-settings: Profile information has 12, Contact nine, Search two, Applications &amp; websites six, and Block list is open-ended (you can choose people to block.)Then there are choices within each sub-setting: generally, a choice of four - between "Everyone", "Friends of friends", "Only friends" and "Customise" - where the latter lets you restrict visibility to "Friends of friends", "Friends only", "Specific people.." (who you then have to specify), and "Only me". That means there are literally hundreds of possible ways to combine your private/public information.However a growing number of people are uneasy about the fact that Facebook keeps adding new elements to what it shares – and assumes that you will want to share it with the world. However as Ofcom noted in a study carried out last year and published this week, people are increasingly wary of giving out personal data on social networking websites.Here's your guide to how to control your Facebook privacy settings according to the sort of personality you want to be online.1) Tell the world that I'm here! I want my name to spread far and wide!Facebook - specifically, its management - love you. Put all your settings to share with "Everyone". It may not be wise to provide your mobile phone number, other phone numbers, hometown and address, but that's your decision.Facebook search: define how visible you are inside and outside the network2) Um, there are some things, such as what events I'm going to, that I want to keep to just my friends. And their friends. But I don't mind people finding me on Facebook through search engines outside it.In the"Profile information"page, leave "Bio and favorite quotations" at "Everyone" but work your way through the rest of the settings and change them to "Friends of friends"."Contact": change settings to "Friends of friends"."Search": leave "Facebook search results" at "Everyone". Tick the box (if it isn't already) for "Public search results"."Applications and websites": click through to "Application settings". Look at the list there -especially"Events". This will almost certainly be at "Everyone" (so anyone can see what events you're going to). Change this to "Friends of friends" or "friends"."Block list": unless there are people you particularly don't want to interact with, you don't need to tinker here.3) I want to keep things to just my friends, and I don't want to be found via search engines."Profile information": Work your way through the settings and change them to "Friends "."Contact": change settings to "Friends"."Search": change "Facebook search results" to "Friends". (There's no way to turn this off completely). Untick the box (if it isn't already) for "Public search results". That should mean that your data will, in time, disappear from search engines' caches where they store information."Applications and websites": click through to "Application settings". Look at the list there –especially"Events". Be sure to change this to "Friends".Lock down your Facebook photos' visibility here4) I don't mind my name being there, or being found through search, but I don't want my face named in any photos anywhere"Profile information": The key ones here are "Photos and videos of me" and "Photo albums". Set both of these to "Customise" and choose "Only me". This may prevent your profile picture being shared - though from speaking to Facebook it's not certain that this will indeed be the case. If you want to be really sure, don't have a profile picture, or put up a placeholder.For the other categories, choose according to your preference from above (or below).5) Only let my friends know about me, and let nothing spread beyond themIn the"Profile information"page, change the settings to "Friends"."Contact": change settings to "Friends". (This will mean that you can't get new friends - though you will be able to invite people who aren't so locked-down.)"Search": change "Facebook search results" to "Friends". (There's no way to turn this off completely). Untick the box (if it isn't already) for "Public search results". That should mean that your data will, in time, disappear from search engines' caches where they store information."Applications and websites": click through to "Application settings". Look at the list there –especially"Events". This will almost certainly be at "Everyone" (so anyone can see what events you're going to). Change this to "Friends"."Block list": unless there are people you particularly don't want to interact with, you don't need to tinker here.Facebook lays on the guilt if you dare to 'deactivate' - not even delete - your account6) Actually, get me off Facebook. Let's get rid of my profile.There are two ways to do this:deactivate your account, or delete your account. Deletion is permanent (Facebook says) and is done at this"Delete my Facebook account" page. There is also aFacebook group which will help you make sure it really, really is deleted."Deactivating" means your account just sleeps – all the data about you remains (and can be found by those who are allowed by the privacy settings). Yet if you try to deactivate your account, Facebook will lay guilt on you by showing a page of people who, it says, "will miss you". Then again, it's not as though you've ceased to exist, is it?Facebook will demand to know why you're trying to close your accountStill, Facebook will demand to know why...If you've got other models of sharing or not sharing your information that this hasn't answered, put them into the comments – and we'll try to update the article as Facebook tweaks its services too...
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Horror games – I mean,really scaryhorror games – are rare these days. The problem is that, as with the best horror movies, they rely heavily on dictating and specificallylimitingthe user experience. In the original Resident Evil titles you couldn't run from the zombies because the awkward controls just wouldn't let you, while the fixed viewpoints meant creatures could creep up on you unnoticed until the very last second. But modern game design is obsessed with intuitive controls and dynamic camera systems – the subjective wrinkles that defined the survival horror genre have all been gracefully ironed out.ButDead Space, EA' 2008 sci-fi terror romp, provided a frightening example of how horror can still work, tied to a contemporary interface and within an explorable 3D environment. Space engineer Isaac Clarke's fight against the alien Hive Mind and its gruesome army of mutated human corpses – the necromorphs – provided dozens of chilling shock moments as well as some spectacular gore. And this year, it's coming back to grab us again. "Horror and terror are things we take very seriously," says executive producer Steve Papoutsis while demo-ing the latest code at last week's EA Showcase event. "The previous game won a lot of awards for the compelling atmosphere and sound design - we're going to bring that back in Dead Space 2…"Set three years after the events of Dead Space, the sequel takes us to Titan, Saturn's largest moon, and the site of the first planet crack – an invasive mining procedure that uncovered the Hive Mind monster in the original game. Here, a huge city known as The Sprawl has fallen prey to the necromorph sickness, its citizens transmogrifying into hideous multi-limbed space beasts. And here too, is Isaac Clarke, though EA will not reveal how or why.Whatever's happened, Isaac is a changed man – and apparently a more rounded character. As Papoutsis explains, "because he went through some pretty nasty stuff in the previous game, we thought it made sense for Isaac to have a voice. So in this game, the helmet will retract and you'll actually see his face – you'll get to hear what he thinks about the situation. And we're putting him in more of a controlling position this time. In the last game, some players felt like he was the errand boy, so this time he's going to be taking the initiative a little more. That's not to say he's become some kind of wisecracking super soldier guy – that's not the case. He's going to have the same personality, but we'll get to know a little bit more about him and hear a little more through his voice…"But of course, what he'll be doing should be very familiar: dismembering and slaughtering necromorphs by the dozen. There are, however, some neat new tricks in Isaac's armoury. "In the original game dismemberment was our core mechanic," says Papoutsis. "It was the idea of removing limbs from enemies in order to defeat them. You'd shoot off their legs, they'd keep crawling at you, shoot off their head and they'd go into berserker mode. There was a lot of strategy around how you'd take out the individual necromorphs."This time we're introducing impalement – the idea of using our new weapon, the javelin, to pin enemies to a surface. Once you've filled an enemy with these javelin darts you'll be able to use the alt fire on the weapon to electrocute or ignite them. A stray javelin that hits the environment also creates an opportunity for strategy. So if an enemy is coming toward Isaac, and there's a javelin bolt through the ground, you can use the alt fire and create an area effect that electrocutes them as they approach. It's another way to strategise."And alongside this, key game systems have been improved. Take kinesis, a feature of Isaac's RIG suit that remotely grabs and then chuck objects – rather like the Half-Life 2 gravity gun. In the original game, it was a cumbersome process and difficult to use in the heat of combat. In Dead Space 2, though, it's instant, just aim at an item and it whips up in front of you ready to be speedily discharged at an incoming foe.At the same time, developer Visceral Games has made your surroundings more interactive, so there are plenty of objects around to manipulate into weapons. If there's nothing conveniently available, it needn't be a problem – a greater degree of environmental destruction means you can often blast chunks from scenic features to be used as kinesis projectiles. Our demo takes place within a mine deep beneath the surface of the moon; it's a dank semi-industrial complex where steel structures combine with outcrops of slimy rocks. Papoutsis shoots up a lighting rig, and a large metal shard crashes to the ground. He then uses the kinesis power to blast it into the chest of an onrushing beastie.Beautifully, you'll also be able to use severed necromorph limbs against them. Simply dismember one monster, grab its blade-like arm and use kinesis to fire it at another. "It's a way that, if you're out of ammo or down to your last shot, you can still defeat the enemies," says Papoutsis.There will be other, more amusing and dramatic ways to dispatch aliens via environmental interplay. In another area of The Sprawl, this time, a bright office complex, Isaac is running down a corridor approaching a huge glass window that hasn't yet been strengthened against the hostile Titan atmosphere. Suddenly a group of necromorphs tumbles round the corner straight for him – but Papoutsis aims at the glass, pulls the trigger and the window shatters, causing a dramatic decompression. The enemies are sucked out, but to ensure Isaac doesn't follow them, he's got to shoot out a panel above the window to bring down the emergency shutter. It's a nice, frantic piece of stunt violence, and apparently, there are loads more scenes like it. "It will hopefully create some tension and some good scares for players, as well as mix up the pacing of the game quite a bit," says Papoutsis.Visceral also showed us a selection of new necromorphs. First up were the stalkers, a group of hulking Velociraptor-like monsters, that hunt in small gangs. "They're a little different, a little smarter and they'll actually try to flank Isaac," says Papoutsis, as right on cue, two of them burst in from either side. Of course, one of the minor criticisms of the first game was the patchy, sometimes rather stupid AI, so those who wanted some more intelligent foes to dismember should be happy. Crawlers, meanwhile, are bulbous beetle-like things that scuttle around in the dark, looking relatively harmless. Shoot their heads off, though, and their bodies become grenades, which can be picked up and lobbed at nearby enemies.Later, in the office section we meet another new enemy, The Pack, a group of small yet extremely unsettling beings who rush in like demonic children. "By themselves, they're not super difficult," says Papoutsis. "But the idea is they come at you in numbers so suddenly there's three, for five of these guys. Throw in a couple of slashers and it gets pretty hectic."Isaac finds a nasty cyst. Sadly, squeezing it is unlikely to make it go away...The team also introduces a new hazard, the cyst, a plant-like alien organism that sticks to walls and floors, shooting out explosive pods when anyone gets too near. They're there to maintain the sense of impending peril, and to ensure that the game doesn't become a run and gun shooter. Players need to continually look AND listen out for them, so carelessly sprinting about the place is only going to lead to a messy end.On the plus side, you can employ kinesis to grab pods in mid-air, and use them against the cyst or other enemies. "Where there's a field of these guys, and then there's a bunch of necromorphs close by, you can use stasis to slow those cysts down and then lure the necromorphs into the area so they all get taken out," explains Papoutsis with considerable relish. Again, it's all about using the environment to your strategic advantage.Visually, this looks to be what we expect from a Dead Space title. Claustrophobic corridors, carved through sheer darkness, clever use of dynamic and deferred lighting to create distorted expressionistic shadows. But the addition of the semi-organic mine levels, and the brashly lit office areas with their awesome views of the Sprawl and of Saturn looming on the skyline, suggests that the Visceral team is branching out in terms of tone and feel.And Isaac, too, is branching out. It seems that, in Dead Space 2, he's not just some average Joe fighting for survival, despite his lowly status in the galactic pecking order. From what Papoutsis says, this game will fully embrace the character's specialist abilities: "We really want to play up the fact that Isaac's an engineer. It's unique to our game - we want to make sure we have interesting puzzles and activities that relate to his skills." One modest example is that Isaac can use his knowledge of electronics systems to unlock doors. In a new hacking mini-game, he'll be able to open a control panel, use the left analogue stick to search for a sweet spot in the wiring, then with right stick, yank out the circuit. Do it wrong and you take damage, get it right and you override the door.Elsewhere, the controls have been tightened up and re-mixed to provide a smoother more responsive experience. Isaac also has a whole new range of advanced RIG suits, and the store and workbench features are retained so you can purchase items and upgrade your RIG and weapons. Plus, players will still be rewarded for exploring the environment fully, rather than legging it through: digging about might uncover valuable items like power nodes.As for multiplayer, it's definitely coming, but that's the limit of what EA is prepared to reveal before E3. "Youwillbe able to strategically dismember your friends," is all Papoutsis will say, which is more than enough to get us interested. Team deathmatch + kinesis + limbs flying all over the place? Uh, okay!So yes, horror is still the irresistible black hole at the centre of the Dead Space universe. This is no watering down of the core components in the quest for mass appeal. This is no Resident Evil 4. It's going to be bloody and scary. It's going to be horrible fun.Dead Space 2 is expected to be released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 later this year.
Scraping. (You'll see why.) Photo byiantmcfarlandon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 14 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWelcome &gt;&gt; ScraperWikiEver wanted to scrape a web page for data? ScraperWiki is what you need. It'll even teach you Python. (Well, it'll help you teach yourself.)Adobe - Error pageIf you go tohttp://www.adobe.com/m/nexusone/you find a link to "Content for the Google Nexus".. and then you find you're on an error page. Why?YouPorn Goes HTML5, Gets on the iPad &gt;&gt; NewTeeVeeSo much for "freedom from porn", Mr Jobs.Sweden's Pirate Party hosting Pirate Bay in pro-P2P political gesture &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaWe did wonder who was supporting The Pirate Bay. Seems that the political party that grew out of it has taken its baby in.Expenditure over £1,000 &gt;&gt; Greater London AuthorityA juicy load of CSV files showing all accounted expenditure over £1,000 by the GLA since April 2008. Come on, this is just begging for a visualisation.Has @Twitter Declared War on Traditional Retweets? &gt;&gt; Ray's 2.0In effect, because you won't find them via the search interface - it filters out tweets that begin with "RT". They appear fine in tweet streams, though.The havoc the XML purists wrought &gt;&gt; Scripting News"To the theorists, XML is an infinitely expressive language, and the processors are magic engines that extract meaning from a messy maze of incomprehensible gobbledy gook. To the pragmatists, XML is a file format, a way of providing compatibility between applications written in a diverse set of applications and environments. XML provides a way of giving everyone choice without sacrificing the ability to talk to each other and be heard. Corporations looking to lock-in users favor the former approach because they can claim to be complying with "standards" and at the same time be impenetrable to competitors."Microsoft sues Salesforce.com over patents &gt;&gt; CNET News"The patents cover a variety of back-end and user interface features, ranging from one covering a "system and method for providing and displaying a Web page having an embedded menu" to another that covers a "method and system for stacking toolbars in a computer display."&#10;&#10;"Microsoft sells its own online CRM software, though none of the patents it is suing over are specifically related to that product. "OFT clears Project Canvas &gt;&gt; GuardianSo... Kangaroo isn't OK, but Canvas is. See if you can understand the OFT's reasoning.By the Numbers: Facebook vs. Zynga &gt;&gt; GigaomInteresting graphic about the Farmville people and the "publicity" peopleApple, Adobe, and Openness: Let's Get Real &gt;&gt; Michael MaceA former Apple employee takes a longer run through the histories of Apple and Adobe - and points out that they're both in it for the money.Because Every Country Is The Best At Something &gt;&gt; Information is BeautifulTurns out the UK is best at CCTV. Huh. Then again, the US's leadership is in "serial killers". Cancel that plane ticket.. And you'll be surprised by who is top of World Cup wins.Campfire &gt;&gt; xkcdIf you've never realised that you can get an *extra* joke on XKCD by rolling over the image, then there's an extra treat in store.Which Company Has the Most "Social" Employees? [INFOGRAPHIC] &gt;&gt; MashableMicrosoft, obviously, but the rest of the Top 10 has some surprises...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The most frustrating videogame I've ever played has to bethe 1998 X-Files game. It wasn't that it was too tricky, or contained bugs. The problem was the game design. About half an hour before the end, the player had to choose whether to pick up a cattle prod. I was playing with a friend and we were paying close attention. But the choice wasn't signposted as important. We didn't bother to save our game before that point. And that choice turned out to be so pivotal that we had to go back and replay the whole game to get the "good" ending. Deeply frustrating.Everyone will have their own most-frustrating genre – trying to time perfect platform jumps can make me shriek with rage. ButPenn and Teller's Desert Bus minigametook the crushed-to-frustrated-smithereens biscuit. To "win" the game, players have to drive a bus without pausing on a featureless road for eight real-time hours. If they complete this boring, useless feat, they're rewarded with one point.These are old games. Games designers in today's competitive field tend not to risk this much irritation. And great games win the player's trust by demonstrating that effort will be met with carefully calibrated reward and that sudden death won't come out of nowhere.But learning to manage frustration, to return to a difficult element until you've finally mastered it, has always been an important part of gaming. I sometimes amuse myself by wondering what our culture's attitude would be to TV if it had been invented after videogames, not before. I imagine the media would fulminate over this new medium's passivity, its lack of interaction and, above all, the fact that it doesn't teach children the value of overcoming frustration.
Google has just made a lot of geeks happy by doing what most of us had predicted but nobody could guarantee: it has released On2's video codec, VP8, under a BSD-style, royalty-free open source license.Google is combining with Mozilla (Firefox) and Opera in theWebMproject to create a Matroska file format using VP8 and the Ogg Vorbis open source audio codec. It should enable any HTML5 web browser and any video player to play video.Mozilla and Opera have declined to use the H.264 codec heavily promoted by Apple because it is encumbered by numerous patents and expensive to license.Adobe Flash has been a major user of On2 codecs as well as supporting H.264 videos, so it has no problems handling the new format. Adobe has already announced its support.Microsoft has addedthat: "In its HTML5 support, IE9 will support playback of H.264 video as well as VP8 video when the user has installed a VP8 codec on Windows."When Google was said to be purchasing On2, some commentators suggested this was a possible course of action.As I noted at the time, one of them was Christopher Blizzard, Mozilla's Open Source Evangelist. InHTML5 video and H.264 – what history tells us and why we're standing with the web, he said:"I, like many others, have reason to believe that H.264 will not be Google's final choice. There's good reason to believe this: they are purchasing On2. On2 has technologies that are supposed to be better than H.264. If Google owns the rights to those technologies they are very likely to use them on their properties to promote them and are also likely to license them in a web-friendly (ie royalty-free) fashion. Google actually has a decent history of doing this."There were attempts to include theopen source Theora video codecin the HTML5 specification, until Apple refused to support it. Whether Apple will also try to kill VP8 remains to be seen. However, the company has already got far too much of a reputation for being overly restrictive and decidedly uncool, so it would be better off siding with the geeks.
Smartphone sales increased by 48.7% to 54.3 million units in this year's first quarter, according to research companyGartner, Inc. Smartphones are a small but extremely profitable sector of a mobile phone business that sold 314.7 million units, a 17.0% increase on the same quarter last year. Nokia remained the top supplier in both categories."This quarter saw RIM, a pure smartphone player, make its debut in the top five mobile devices manufacturers, and saw Apple increase its market share by 1.2 percentage points. Android's momentum continued into the first quarter of 2010, particularly in North America, where sales of Android-based phones increased 707% year-on-year," said Carolina Milanesi, research vice president at Gartner, in a statement.Gartner also confirmed what NPD had said earlier: in the US, more smartphones shipped with Google's open source Android operating system than Apple's closed proprietary iPhone OS.Worldwide, Symbian was the most popular smartphone OS, selling 24.1m units for a market share of 44.3%, down by 4.5 percentage points. RIM came second with 10.6m sales and a 19.4% share, ahead of Apple's iPhone OS with its 8.4m sales and 15.4%. (Symbian is used mainly by Nokia, while RIM makes BlackBerrys.)Sales of Microsoft Windows Mobile phones were almost flat at 3.7m units, which meant its market share fell by 3.4 percentage points to only 6.8%. Linux dropped 3.3 percentage points to 3.7%.In the phone market, the top three suppliers -- Nokia, Samsung and LG -- took almost two-thirds of the market. Nokia sold 110.1 million units in the quarter for a 35% market share, though this was down by 1.2 percentage points compared with last year's first quarter. Nokia was followed by the two South Korean rivals, Samsung (20.6%) and LG (8.6%), then by RIM (3.4%), Sony Ericsson (3.1%), Motorola (3.0%), and Apple (2.7%).Although RIM did well to make the top 5, its total sales (10.6m units) were still smaller than Nokia's increase in phone sales (12.7m units). However, Nokia's growth wasn't enough to get it back to its 2008 level, when it sold 115m phones in the first quarter.Gartner's Roberta Cozza, principal research analyst, said that e-mail, rich messaging and social networking will continue to drive demand for smarter phones. "To compete in such a crowded market, manufacturers need to tightly integrate hardware, user interface, and cloud and social networking services if their solutions are to appeal to users," she said.
The BCS (formerly the British Computer Society) has launched a website atpioneers.bcs.orgto "highlight the achievements of the often forgotten and unacknowledged Information Pioneers". You can vote for a select 150. From 27 May, when the campaign starts, you'll be able to watch "celebrity films" featuring five pioneers: Ada Lovelace, Alan Turing, Sir Clive Sinclair, Hedy Lamarr and Sir Tim Berners-Lee.The films also feature celebrity presenters, with cricketer Phil Tufnell presenting Sir Clive Sinclair, and comedian Dom Joly advocating Sir Tim Berners-Lee.At the moment, Turing (52.5%) has a huge lead over Hedy (15.8%) with TBL (11.9%) fourth, but expect this to change when more people vote.The BCS says it "believes IT is undervalued by the public. This campaign will change the way people see the IT profession and its contribution to society."
A growing number of commuters are abandoning books and newspapers in favour of mobile games, according to research announced today. Okay, so the research has been carried out byPopcap, a social gaming publisher that has something of a vested interested in the market, but nevertheless, the figures are reasonably interesting.Based on a survey of more than 1,500 adults, the company discovered that more than a quarter of Brits aged between 16-24 are playing mobile games rather than reading to pass the time on journeys. That's compared to just 11% a decade ago. There's no breakdown into specific gaming platforms as yet, but the figure takes in mobile phones, smartphones and handheld consoles.I think we need to test this with some anecdotal evidence: onyourcommute to work this morning, how many people were playing games? I haven't noticed a drastic increase, but then I live in Somerset and tend to travel offpeak, so I'm hardly in the middle of commuter hell.Meanwhile, will this be read as a damning indictment of modern culture? Is it bad that we're using downtime to play, rather than catch up with current affairs or take in a chapter or two of the latest Booker winner? We're seemingly hardwired to see the decline of print media as a tragedy for the collective intellect, but then, is playing Professor Layton any less valuable than doing the crossword? Will we get a richer narrative experience from Dissidia: Final Fantasy, or from the latest blockbuster crime thriller inexplicably hogging the bestseller list?And while we're on the subject, have you ever initiatied a local multiplayer gaming sesh with a fellow passenger? This apparently happens all the time in Tokyo, where Monster Hunter has made beast-slaying pals out of complete strangers. Could that ever happen here? According to Popcap's research, only 7% of us are willing to chat to fellow commuters, so I guess it's highly unlikely.Also, what are your top commuting games?
Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt, has defended his company's record on privacy in the wake of the discovery that its Street View camera cars had accidentally recorded data from unsecured domestic Wi-Fi networks, insisting that Google has the "most consumer-centric privacy policy of any service online".Speaking at Google's annual Zeitgeist Europe forum yesterday, Schmidt dismissed the description of the discovery as a "crisis" and would not say whether any member of staff had been dismissed over the issue. "What really matters is actual harm," he said, repeating that the problem involved a small amount of fragmented data that was not used by the firm in any way.He was backed up by his co-founder Larry Page, who talked of concern over the much more comprehensive data on Google's logs – which include users' emails and search history. "There is lots of interest in Google's logs, but no one can prove any harm [caused by that data], at least not that I'm aware of."Google has faced mounting pressure from regulatory authorities over the Street View Wi-Fi controversy, and has beenordered by the UK Information Commissioner's Officeto destroy the data.Schmidt confirmed that "changes have been made" to Google's procedures to ensure privacy issues are discussed "well ahead of time. It's an absolute mistake to think about this the week before a product comes out."Schmidt admitted Google has struggled with the question of consumer confidence in online privacy because of a much wider, generational shift in behaviour."We are not in any sort of denial or lack of understanding of how important this question is, and this is not just a European issue," he said. "Society as a group has not decided what is appropriate and what is not appropriate in the privacy sphere, and each society and group will differ."Schmidt added that Google is continuing to talk to legal authorities to decide which information should be kept and what should not."It is clear life has changed – the internet has affected people's lives in many new ways and we don't know where this is headed," said Page. "Social networking has created a ton of data that has been made public and semi-public that didn't use to be … this is a very important, very complex issue for society that is going to be debated for the next 50 years."Schmidt confirmed Google is discussing these "shared issues" around privacy with companies including Facebook – another example of what he described as "a modern communication system that generates a fair amount of data".He denied that Facebook presents a threat to Google, saying Microsoft "was, is and continues to be our primary competitor"."People tend to think of the internet as a zero sum game, but the internet allows multiple winners who can win in different ways; Apple can win with a completely different model to Google. We think of Facebook as a growing new market of a lot of new information."
Join Aleks Krotoski, Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss as they dissect the latest fracas surrounding the privacy policies of web giants Facebook and Google.  How much information do they have on their users and what are the business alternatives for these companies?The team is also joined by Professor Stephen Coleman from University of Leeds who explains exactly what it is about government websites that makes e-participation more or less likely.Charles grills Yahoo! chief executive Carol Bartz on the company's search and content intentions, while Jack Schofield talks to Microsoft corporate vice-president Jeff Teper about the latest version of the company's Office software.There's also the latest on the Apple-Adobe soap opera, and company highlights of YouTube now that it's hit its fifth year.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Ok, calling upcoming space trading/combat gameDarkstar Onean "Elite for the Xbox 360" is going too far. For a start it has a storyline and is a lot more forgiving thanEliteever was. If anything Darkstar One - originally released on PC in 2006 - is more reminiscent of games likeFreelancerandPrivateer.  However the Elite-style trading element is important and there appears to be a large of amount of freedom to simply roam space, picking up side missions and trade opportunities.Most importantly of all Darkstar One is coming out for the Xbox 360. Normally found on PC, and even then they are a dying breed, the Elite-style space game is incredibly rare on the consoles.  You can blame complex controls and slow-burn gameplay, as well as changing gaming fashions, for this absence.  Darkstar One is the first release of this genre on a console for a decade at least, so for this reason alone I had to take a look at it.After a drab opening story segment the action starts and sees you learning the basics of flight, combat and trade.  Flying through the pretty – but not mind-blowing – space vistas you get to down some pirates, grab some cargo and make some cash. The game itself is not open from the start. Players will need to upgrade the ship and progress through certain story missions to unlock the next section of the galaxy. The better news for Elite fans is that there are plenty of trading and side-mission opportunities in unlocked areas of the galaxy which mean you needn't rush on to the next section.  Missions too seem varied and included spying runs as well as escorts and shoot-outs. Quite how varied they will seem after 15 hours in is another issue of course.You only get one ship in this game but as you would expect there are a stack of upgrade options.  For example you may want to max out your cargo hold and embark on a trading career. The downside is a lessening of ship mobility. Alternatively you can add on new weapons and go down the mercenary/private route. Even in the limited time I had it was fairly obvious that the ship handled differently depending on your modifications. For example it felt noticeably sluggish when towing cargo. Your craft can also morph and gain new skills when you find the relevant inter-galactic loot.Combat was always going to be one of the trickier elements in the transition from PC to consoles. Luckily then it seems the developers have succeeded. Yes, you are still tracking an arrow around the screen before lining up your kill, but there is a nice feeling of damage when you get a hit and start to whittle away the health bars.There is also a pleasing feeling of a universe carrying on around you.  Using the panorama view when docked you can see ships coming and going. All of these craft can be hailed for missions even if most of the pilots appear to look the same.  Actually the pilot popup image in the top left corner bought back memories of Starfox on the SNES.What else then? Well, Elite veterans will have no problems but docking is occasionally tricky. Seat of the pants docking is to be expected until you get a computer. Also the Germanic origins of the game are shown via the unflashy interface – there is a lot of text to digest in the space stations – and the lifeless character dialogue.  Also the accents and voice-acting are comically bad.The interface is fiddlier than your average console game, with plentiful use of the shoulder buttons and d-pad. Generally though, it looks like the transition from PC to console has been fairly smooth.  For example the inclusion of a "match speed" cockpit option – which allows you to, er, match the speed of your target – is a welcome addition for console gamers.Ok, it isn't likely to appeal to your average FIFA or Gears of War fan, and sorely misses an online element, but by offering something unique to the current consoles Darkstar One has the potential to be a sleeper hit.What do you think then? Interested in Darkstar One? Or are these games best left to PCs?•DarkStar One is released on Xbox 360 on 4 June
I promise this is the first photo that came up under a CC search on 'Hotmail' on Flickr. Photo byA_Kardekon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 18 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRe-inventing Windows Live Hotmail – the next generation of personal email &gt;&gt; The Windows BlogIn the latest installment of the Wave 4 roll-out, Microsoft has rethought Hotmail based on the contents of users' inboxes.Why I became an Android fanboy &gt;&gt; Deep Tech CNET NewsStephen Shankland on his four months in the Android realm. He likes: "Then I got a Desire to test. It was one of those "Aha!" moments. The performance of the phone is stellar, and that performance made the phone a delight to use."Mobile phones and brain cancer &gt;&gt; NHS Behind the HeadlinesRebutting articles that suggest that the landmark research found any evidence of a link between mobile use and brain cancer.Privacy International responds to Google's Wi-Fi grab &gt;&gt; Privacy InternationalSome questions for Google to answer, such as: how did the code get there?Facebook's Zuckerberg Says The Age of Privacy is Over &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebFrom January, a reminder: "Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg told a live audience yesterday that if he were to create Facebook again today, user information would by default be public, not private as it was for years until the company changed dramatically in December."13 New Interactive Vizes &gt;&gt; Tableau SoftwareIncludes a visualisation showing how many people now have to share every pub in Britain. Can you believe that more than 1,000 people would have to crowd into each one if we all decided to have a drink at once?Facebook and Zynga enter into long-term relationshipThe Farmville people fall into the embrace of Facebook's internal currency, Facebook Credits. The house always wins.Flash Co-Creator Jonathan Gay Responds to Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; Cold Hard FlashAn interview with the co-creator. A useful history.The Truth about CCTV &gt;&gt; Heather BrookeThe journalist who uncovered the MPs' expenses scandal notes: "Although it's widely supposed that over the past decade there has been a significant increase in the number of surveillance cameras in the UK, it wasn't until last year that hard numbers emerged via a Freedom of Information request. Big Brother Watch (bigbrotherwatch.org.uk), an anti-surveillance campaign group, found that the number of council-owned cameras had risen from 21,000 to 60,000 in less than ten years — equal to one CCTV camera for every 1,000 people in the country. Its report demonstrated a trebling of investment in local CCTV — even though Home Office research published in 2002 suggested that CCTV has a negligible impact on reducing crime."Yahoo Buys Associated Content &gt;&gt; Business InsiderIt's a $100m deal. "Associated is in the business of generating lots of content—stories such as "Guide to Reducing Stress in Daily Activities" and "Five Hollywood Career Revivals Waiting to Happen"—produced by freelancers that can earn as little as $5 a story, and optimized for search." So, not buying FourSquare.. yet?Mobile operating systems and browsers are headed in opposite directions &gt;&gt; O'Reilly RadarThe number of different mobile phone operating systems is growing but browsers are increasingly using WebKit.Individual gang responsible for a third of all phishing attacks &gt;&gt; The H Security NewsThe team is called "Avalanche" but its activities have tailed off from 26,000 last October to none last month. Unless, of course, they've changed their method.Now a million on SoundCloud – This startup is scaling globally &gt;&gt; Techcrunch EuropeWe interviewed its founder on Tech Weekly a while back; now it's really spreading its wings.Paywalls: why papers' websites could be the next iTunes or Amazon &gt;&gt; Guardian MediaBeing able to do transactions with people on your website is the key element. The paywall may just be the first step in getting them to the next, really profitable, stepTop Flash Misperceptions : H.264 Video is going to kill Flash &gt;&gt; Mike ChambersThe Principal Product Manager for developer relations for the Flash Platform at Adobe deals with a few misperceptions.Early sales data suggests iPad cannibalizing iPods, not Macs &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"We believe in the long run Mac cannibalization will exist, but will be minimal," reckons analyst Gene Munster. "Apple has successfully limited the iPad functionality to primarily content consumption, versus content creation on a Mac."Web Browsers Leave 'Fingerprints' Behind as You Surf the Net &gt;&gt; EFFThe Electronic Frontier Foundatin links to a paper that shows most people can be identified by their PC's unique combination of operating system, browser, browser plug-ins etc.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Both the Playstation and 360 have movie download services for the blockbusters but what about more leftfield titles? Sony have now got that covered too. Form this autumn PS3 owners will be able tostream films from MUBI. Described as an, "online 'cinemateque' for movie lovers, packed to the rafters with acclaimed independent, foreign and classic films", MUBI will have around 300 films available at launch.European Playstation boss Andrew House is keen:PlayStation is about great entertainment, from games to content, delivered straight to the living room or enjoyed on the go.  Today this ranges from VidZone, the free on demand service music service, through to PlayTV where you can watch, record and rewind live TV at your leisure.  MUBI offers the perfect independent counterpoise to our box-office blockbuster, hi-def, video delivery service, catering for the tastes of an ever broader customer base.  Add in PS3's DVD and Blu-ray disc player and we have the perfect ticket for film lovers.PS3 owners will simply need to download the application from the PS Store, pay up - prices TBA, though some films will be free - and then watch away. The question is, will they want to? Is there really a huge audience for this kind of movie content on the PS3? Probably not but I'm still keen and I'd think a sizable niche will be too.What about you though? Want to stream "independent, foreign and classic films" on your PS3?
Photo byraymacleanon Flickr.Some rights reservedA simple solution to the Flash Player on iPhone problem (row? endless black hole of argument?) has been suggested. It's so simple it's marvellous.To recap: Apple won't allow Adobe's Flash on the iPhone, iPod Touch or iPad. It won't add a Flash plugin to the browser, MobileSafari. It won't allow Flash Player to be offered through the App Store.So there's no way for the Flash Player to get onto the iPhone/iPod Touch, right? Wrong.Because - asScott Earle (aka @poorlyrendered) points out- thereisa way for Adobe to show that Apple is wrong, completely wrong, and that Adobe is right, completely right, about how Flash will runsowell on the iPhone. Assuming it will.It's this: write a version of Flash Player and offer it to owners ofjailbrokeniPhones.Asthe blog writer (who remains anonymous..)Earle[who gave his permission to use his name after this went up]points out,"On a jailbroken iPhone or iPad, you you can install anything, from bash to a clunky multitasking implementation, to background apps that monitor the way the phone is being used. Absolutely anything.""Go on Adobe – you are saying that your Flash Player is so good, and how it will work so well on the iPhone, despite the fact that you have not yet managed to get it working to "release" quality on Android, or any other mobile platform yet. Lets see what you've got!""Apple say that Flash content relies on mouse-hovers, and that won't work so well on an iPhone or iPad – so prove them wrong!""Apple say that Flash Player is unreliable (and the videos you can find of it dying horribly during a demo on the Android OS don't help, frankly), so show them that it's not!""Apple say that the performance would suck on the lesser CPUs used on mobile devices, so lets see how well it performs!""Finally, there is the issue of battery life. Adobe say this would not be a problem, and Apple say it would. Show us!""Adobe: Please release a Flash Player for the iPhone and iPad OS, that can be installed on a jailbroken iPhone or iPad. Prove to us that what you are saying is true, and that Apple are telling lies for some evil purpose."It's a brilliant,Gordian knotsolution to this whole row. Adobe doesn't have to argue with Apple because it doesn't have to submit it through the App Store - it can just let people download it directly from its site. (Check those MD5 hashes, of course: criminals will love to pretend that they've got a "Flash Player" to offer you, which will probably root/kit your phone.)Go on, Adobe -stop with the advertising campaignsthat do nothing except give people something to snark about, and get your developers onto it. Because it really is true: there are thousands of owners of jailbroken iPhones out there who would love to be the first to show off theirs running Flash Player. Nothing persuades like success.Weds 19 May: Updated with Scott Earle's details.
The UK Information Commissioner's Office has ordered Google to destroy personal data that was collected from British home wireless networks in 2008.But the ICO says it will take no action against the company, bringing condemnation from the pressure group Privacy International, which says the ICO is "10 steps behind the game" in monitoring privacy intrusions and breaches by US companies operating in the UK.The row comes amid concern over the erosion of British individuals' control of personal data held by US companies, which has been highlighted at the social networking site Facebook, with about 450 million users worldwide. Campaigners are urging users to quit the site from 31 May in protest at its continual revision of its privacy policy which makes it harder for users to limit the spread of information about themselves.Google admitted last week that it collected Wi-Fi data from millions of homes and businesses around the world while it was taking pictures for its Street View product. The collection came to light following enquiries in Germany.Simon Davies, the director of Privacy International, said: "Google is going to be the target of a criminal prosecution somewhere in the world for this. But if the evidence is destroyed, there's no way to examine whether a crime has been committed." The Irish Data Protection Authority has alsoordered Google to delete the data collected while getting Street View pictures.The ICO said: "It appears that while not all information collected necessarily identified individuals, there has been some unnecessary and excessive collection and storage of personal data."However, because Google said it was unlikely that anything other than fragments of content had been collected, "there does not seem to be any reason to keep the data concerned for evidential purposes".Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, defended his company's record on privacy, saying it has the "most consumer-centric privacy policy of any service online".Speaking at Google's annual Zeitgeist Europe forum, Schmidt said: "We are not in any sort of denial or lack of understanding of how important this question is. Society as a group has not decided what is appropriate and what is not appropriate in the privacy sphere, and each society and group will differ."He repeated that the Street View problem involved a small amount of fragmented data that was not used and he confirmed that "changes have been made" to Google's procedures to ensure privacy issues are discussed "well ahead of time. It's an absolute mistake to think about this the week before a product comes out".Facebook's users are meanwhile showing increasing concern about its repeated rolling back of privacy provisions.More people aresearching for details on how to delete their account– although some have complained that when they leave the site their data is not deleted.A growing number are signing up at a site calledQuitFacebookDay.com, which urges people to delete their profiles permanently."For a lot of people, quitting Facebook revolves around privacy," says a statement on the site by Matthew Milan and Joseph Dee, who are web designers based in Toronto. "This is a legitimate concern, but we also think the privacy issue is just the symptom of a larger set of issues. The cumulative effects of what Facebook does now will not play out well in the future."Richard Allan, director of policy for Facebook, responded: "We know that people inside Facebook are taking that [criticism] very seriously with the concerns that people have been expressing."Allan indicated that the company may try to make it simpler for people to control the privacy settings on their accounts – which have 50 different settings with a total of 170 options.The ICO says it will investigate any complaints about Facebook's revised policy, but that none have been made so far. It said it was satisfied that Facebook does delete data when a profile is completely removed – but that some people make their profile "dormant", meaning it can be revived at a later date.Davies commented: "Facebook's privacy has been in slow corrosion mode for three years. Its ethical compass has slipped at the same rate as Google's."Last week the European commission's data protection working party wrote to Facebook saying that its recent changes, which made previously private information publicly viewable by default, were unacceptable. The letter said: "Providers of social networking sites should be aware that it would be a breach of data protection law if they use personal data of other individuals contained in a user profile for commercial purposes if these other individuals have not given their free and unambiguous consent."Allan said that Facebook will respond to the letter presently.Davies urged the ICO to investigate Google's use of systems to collect data about wireless networks more closely.In its blogpost, Google said: "In 2006 an engineer working on an experimental project wrote a piece of code that sampled all categories of publicly broadcast Wi-Fi data. A year later … our mobile team … included that code in their software – although the project leaders did not want, and had no intention of using, payload data." However, said Davies, "code doesn't just get mixed with the main system like raspberry cordial. Someone must know how it got there. There's more to this than meets the eye".Secure surfingSafer Wi-Fi:All Wi-Fi systems offer built-in security – but almost all leave it off by default. To stop strangers hacking into it (and possibly planting malware or changing settings), connect your computer to it via an ethernet cable and enable wireless security, which will either be WEP (Wired Equivalent Privacy) or WPA (Wi-Fi Protected Access). WEP is now considered weak, but you may find it easier to set up. Every computer and device connecting to the network will need to know the password you use, so don't lose it. Your communications are all encrypted over the air. You can also restrict access to the network by limiting it to the hardware numbers – known as the MAC addresses – of your devices: no one else will be able to join your network to see its contents.Facebook:Go toyour profile settings: you'll see there are settings for your profile, contact information, applications and visibility in Google searches. As there are 150 possible options for the 70 tabs, it's impossible to give a one-size-fits-all recommendation. Just ask yourself: is there anything here that I don't want shared with the world? If so, limit its visibility to "friends" – and be careful who you befriend. You can even limit which friends see specific information – handy if you have too many distant "friends" who actually aren't.
Bridging the gap between 2003's classicThe Sands of Time, on which the forthcoming Disney film is based, and its darker, less enjoyable sequel,Warrior Within,The Forgotten Sandscertainly feels like a spiritual successor to the game which reinvented the eponymous royal for a modern console audience.However, it does raise the question of whether echoing a seven-year-old game is such a wise idea. It's certainly easy on the eyes, if less visually striking than the cel-shaded style of the attempted series reboot in 2008, with opulent palace locations reduced to crumbling masonry as a powerful, otherworldly force (unwittingly unleashed by the prince's brother) tears the place apart.The athletic traversal of these huge, intricately constructed rooms is fluid and fun, with elemental powers allowing our hero to halt the flow of water, creating solid surfaces to run, swing and jump on. As ever, mistakes can be reversed with the ability briefly to rewind time.Unfortunately, combat is once again the prince's achilles heel. A materialising army of skeletal foes is more likely to make eyes roll than widen, while the graceless, attritional boss encounters serve only to exacerbate the battle system's shortcomings. With sword sheathed, the prince is still fun to be around; it's just a shame he still hasn't lost those bad habits.
Now that we've become used to the concept of the franchise reboot, Ubisoft has thrown a curveball with what can best be described as a deboot. 2008's unsubtitled Prince of Persia was a reboot, adding a female djinn who saved you from ever dying and a complex fighting mechanic; The Forgotten Sands dumps both and returns to the PoP format of yore.This time around, the nameless Prince, visiting his brother Malik's city, walks into a full-scale invasion, thwarted when Malik releases King Solomon's zombie army, which then proceeds to swamp the city, while Malik becomes possessed by their demon-leader. Cue classic Prince of Persia platform-style action: the Prince can run along and up walls, swing from poles, slide down banners using his knife as a brake and so on, which is just as well since he must get to countless seemingly inaccessible places.Mechanical puzzles abound, most of which are very good indeed (that is, challenging but not baffling), the level design and graphics (at least on the next-gen consoles) are simply stunning. The Prince's swordfighting has been dumbed down since his last outing, but he still has some nifty moves and the more enemies he kills, the more special attacks and upgrades he gains.As the game progresses, the gameplay cleverly acquires extra dimensions, with the Prince becoming able to freeze water (turning jets into poles on which he can swing), leap great distances using enemies or vultures as a sort of magnet, and rebuild missing bits of the environment. The classic Prince of Persia blades, spiked poles and traps are present and correct, leaving you thankful that the Prince, as ever, can rewind a period of time (using the energy that his special attacks also consume).Disappointingly, the boss-battles are too easy and consequently utterly lame, and you don't have to use much strategy when fighting, although there are enemies which summon extra zombies (so must be dealt with first). The storyline is a bit flat, and the Prince somewhat lacking in personality, but the focus of the game – death-defying athleticism which out-Laras Lara Croft – is so well executed that you feel inclined to gloss over such flaws. It also bucks the trend towards short single-player experiences, which is just as well since it has no multiplayer element.With no credible new Tomb Raider instalment on the horizon, The Forgotten Sands provides action-adventure game fans with the fix they will have been craving. It's a judicious mix of the inventive and the familiar.
Nikon's new Coolpix S3000 is a lovely little camera, very easy to use, and reasonably priced at £109.99 or less. I liked it a lot, until it came to viewing the pictures. The results were mixed, but disappointing compared with the two Nikon digital cameras I actually own – an older, bulkier Coolpix 5600 and a D40 DSLR.The Coolpix S3000 follows the style established by Canon's Digital Ixus line, the Pentax Optio, and earlier Nikons such as the Coolpix S220. In other words, it's thin and flat when you carry it around, but the lens comes out when you turn it on.The S3000 looks just last year's S220, but provides a moderate advance in specification. You get a 4x optical zoom instead of a 3x zoom, a 2.7in LCD screen instead of 2.5in, and 12 megapixels instead of 10. Both cameras include Nikon's Smart Portrait software. This offers face-priority focusing, will take the shot when the subject smiles, and is "blink proof" – it takes two images and automatically saves the one with the eyes open. It also has a bright focusing light on the front and, unlike many small cameras, doesn't seem to produce a "red eye" effect with flash.The zoom covers 27mm to 108mm, in terms equivalent to a 35mm camera, so you get a usable wide-angle. However, I found it almost impossible to frame pictures precisely. You can push a little lever to make the motorised lens zoom in or out, but you can't make it stop where you want it.I also missed having an optical viewfinder. Using the LCD in sunlight, it can be hard to see exactly what's in the frame, and you can't keep the camera still by holding it against your face. I wasn't happy with the sharpness of some pictures either because the focusing wasn't quite right (sometimes it was a long way off), or I moved the camera slightly (despite the built-in "electronic vibration reduction"), or the sensor/software combination didn't resolve enough detail. (The S3000's 1/2.3 sensor is small – 11mm in diameter – but respectable by compact camera standards.)It didn't help that the S3000 tended to overexpose, leading to a loss of highlight detail and a corresponding lack of colour saturation. But flash shots showed the lens was capable of producing sharp pictures, and pictures taken in slightly overcast conditions showed good colour.To be fair, it's very easy to use exposure compensation on this camera, and you can set an option for Vivid Color instead of Standard Color. But it's a point-and-shoot camera, and I suspect few users will experiment with the menu options, even if they know what's where.The S3000 comes with a small removable lithium-ion battery, which is charged inside the camera via a USB cable that fits into a mains plug (supplied) or into a computer. Nikon reckons a charge should provide about 220 shots. If you want to recharge a battery outside the camera, you can buy a separate MH-63 charger.The price does not include a slipcase or an SD card for photos, but the S3000 has enough internal memory for about a dozen photos at the maximum resolution of 4,000 x 3,000 pixels. These 12MP photos typically take up 2.5-3.0MB each, which is twice as much as snaps taken with my 6MP (3,000 x 2,000 pixels) Nikon D40, but in this case, bigger isn't better.Pros:Well made; very easy to use; 4x glass lens starts at 27mm wide-angle; good results with flash; available in different colours; reasonably priced.Cons:Picture quality can be disappointing; no optical viewfinder; no fine control over zooming; SD card costs extra.Nikon.comHard data• CCD sensor size: 1/2.3in (6.16 x 4.62mm; 0.28cm²)• Effective pixels: 12m Pixel density: 42MP/cm²• Maximum resolution: 4000 x 3000 pixels• Lower resolution options: 3968 x 2232 (16:9 widescreen), 3264 x 2448, 2592 x 1944, 2048 x 1536, 1024 x 768, 640 x 480 Movie formats: 640 x 480, 320 x 240 ISO range: 80-1600 (auto); 80-3200 (manual)• Accessories included: USB/charging cable with mains plug; audio-video cable; software on CD-Rom Dimensions: 94 x 56 x 19 mm (3.8 x 2.2 x 0.8 inches)• Weight (with battery): 116g (4.1 oz)
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
'Private eye'. Photo byscary toy clownon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWorking on a fix for Hotmail on iPad &gt;&gt; The Windows BlogApparently Hotmail doesn't work on the iPad. "Specifically, composing and replying to an email is not working for some of our users." Mystifying. As Ed Bott put it, with a neat historical reference, "The iPad ain't done until Hotmail won't run".Report: Apple iPad Not Robbing Mac Sales &gt;&gt;| AllThingsDThough it might actually be too early to tell.Google's German screw-up &gt;&gt; BuzzMachineJeff Jarvis has an opinion about Google's grabbing of data from open wireless networks while it took its Street View pictures in Germany. And about the German media.Facebook Privacy Scanner &gt;&gt; Reclaimprivacy.orgOne of a burgeoning number of sites (this one's a bookmarklet) that will investigate how much privacy you're leaking from That Site.Privacy Check &gt;&gt; Rabid GremlinYet another way to investigate what you're giving awayHosting with GoDaddy? New Wordpress means you might want to rethink that &gt;&gt; Smackdown!GoDaddy claims to be the world's largest hosting service. But when there's a Wordpress hack going on (as there is right now) that's not necessarily a good thing.What backlash? Facebook is growing like mad &gt;&gt; Fortune TechGeek "boycott" fails to make visible impact (so far) shock.Openbook - Connect and share whether you want to or not &gt;&gt; Facebook SearchTry doing a search on "going to a strip club". Marvel. Quail. Look up "deleting my Facebook data".Personal Declarations on Your Behalf:  Why Visiting One Website Might Tell Another You Were There &gt;&gt; OUseful.Info"With the release of Facebook's "Like" button that has started appearing on many websites, Facebook is now developing the capacity to track who of its users are visiting "Likeable" websites. If you've logged in to Facebook, Facebook will have placed a cookie in your browser to identify you. Whenever you visit a website that has installed anyFacebook for Websitesutilities (see alsoFacebook widgets), the Facebook code inserted into the page tells Facebook that you have visited that site..."And then it can sell it. For money.Semi-Debunking Wikimedia 'In Chaos' and Jimmy Wales "Resignation" &gt;&gt; Seth FinkelsteinSeth, a longtime watcher of Wikipedia and Wikimedia, says: "'chaos is the wrong word - 'intense factional infighting' would be more accurate". A bit like the Labour party, really.Another suicide rocks Foxconn &gt;&gt; China Daily"Foxconn is a Shenzhen-based thriving tech firm linked to Taiwan electronics giant Hon Hai Group, as well as a major manufacturer for US-based Apple Corp." (Foxconn also makes Xbox 360s for Microsoft, and many other products.)It has more than 300,000 workers in Shenzhen.WHO study has no clear answer on phones and cancer &gt;&gt; Reuters"A study by the World Health Organisation's International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), the largest ever to look at possible links between mobile phones and brain cancer, threw up inconclusive results but researchers said suggestions of a possible link demanded deeper examination."Diaspora's curse &gt;&gt; 37signalsDiaspora, the "open Facebook alternative", "has all the wrong things at the wrong time. Competition that kills isn't pre-announced — it catches as unsuspecting incumbent by surprise."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
"It was supposed to be EASY," explains Akira the Don, the British Hip Hop artist and producer on his blog. "A simple, quick, fun thing I could do in a day and fulfil April's mixtape quota. A mix of Street Fighter related music. There's tons of it – Redman's joint from back in the day, Ras Kass, Double, and so on..."But quickly the project took off on its own crazy tangent when I found myself sampling the original SF joints wholesale and making new songs with them, rather than just arranging them all together. Then I discovered the newer themes (S4 has some mind blowing music on it) and the movies' music…  So the project took almost 3 weeks, instead of the intended day..."The project isA Tribute to the Music of Streetfighteran awesome 50 minute mix of Street Fighter soundscapes, released for free on Akira's site last week. It's eccentric, discerning, fascinating stuff, rolling in snippets from most of the games and even one of the movies, together with some classic electro and rap tracks, all of which namecheck SF or similarly grab chunks of sound from Capcom's defining series. Definitely, definitely worth checking out.And if you have any favourite fighting game-themed music, feel free to add it to the official Gamesblog Spotify playlist. You'll find ithere.
Despite approximately 3,519 press reports to the contrary, Acer says "Acer will not launch a Chrome OS netbook at Computex" (an important trade show in Taiwan) and it "has no short-term plans for such a product". The statement adds:Acer believes that Google Chrome OS is without doubt an exciting product announcement and deserves it's [sic] full attention as well as an in-depth study of its potential from a consumers perspective.Acer is naturally interested in any product or service that enhances the overall experience of its products and will of course be following the development and progress of Google Chrome and the evolution of Google's overall product strategy very closely.Me too! I'm keen to find out whether a Chrome OS netbook will reliably load Google's home page in less than a minute or two, or whether it will suffer from Chrome's long-standing cross-platform "Resolving host" hang-up.Currently, of course, Chrome's recurring inability to actually, you know,load web pagesis a bit of a drawback for a browser, but it's not a big problem on Windows because you can load them in Internet Explorer instead. What do you do if your Chrome OS notebook can't load web pages? Any ideas?
Which would be the best mobile broadband option to go for for decent coverage in both Leeds and the Lake District? So far I've not been able to find one that's good for both, but I may have missed something.Hugh JarvisYour guess is probably better than mine, but if there's a proper mobile broadband coverage map that combines all the main services -- 3, Orange, Vodafone etc -- on a single map, I can't find it.Ofcompublished a PDF of 3G coverage last year, but this still uses separate maps.Since there's a consumer need and it's an obvious candidate for a Google Maps mash-up, either people can't get good enough data or there's a legal barrier to using it. (Well, the operators own their coverage data.)That means you'll need to check each map separately, and often the best approach is to enter a post code. There are sites for checking3,Orange,Vodafone,T-Mobile,O2etc.(In fact, I've now found thatBestmobilebroadband.co.uk has a page with linkswhich is more likely to be updated than my answer.)Unfortunately, coverage-checkers have their own problems. There's no guarantee that each supplier is showing the same thing (GPRS, 3G, HSPDA etc), and it's a safe bet that the coverage maps are not equally up to date.Also, coverage maps are based on computer models, so there is no guarantee that users will get any reception at all in a specific area. Even if there is mobile broadband reception, the real-life speed will vary according to whether you are indoors or outside, and if indoors, on things like wall thickness.In the end, the best way to find the answer is to try it yourself or, failing that, ask other people in the area which service offers the best coverage.Based on my own recent experience in Greater London, plus the odd excursion to the wilds near Milton Keynes, mobile broadband is still very patchy inside the M25. I wouldn't expect reliable coverage in rural areas -- unless you can afford something likeBGAN, Inmarsat's satellite-based Broadband Global Area Network.
The Pirate Bay has (briefly) vanished beneath the internet waves again, after several Hollywood film studios won an injunction against its bandwidth provider CB3ROB via a court in Hamburg.Update:the site is back up, though it's not clear who the carrier is:traceroutedoesn't resolve, and there's nothing in the name servers to indicate who's hosting it - probably for good, injunction-related reasons.The injunction (whichTorrentfreak sayswas granted without an oral hearing) prohibitedCB3ROBfrom "connecting The Pirate Bay website and its servers to the internet".A Pirate Bay source told TorrentFreak that it is already working on a backup solution to bring the site online; the servers themselves haven't been touched (or moved) rom their well-guarded - and highly secret - location; they simply need to be routed through another provider.That will be hard on both Pirate Bay and CB3ROB - the latter being sympathetic to the Pirate Bay's position on copyright, backing the Pirate Party in the Netherlands (here's atranslation of CB3ROB's page on the Pirate Party manifesto).The Pirate Bay's four co-founders weresentenced to a year in jail and a $3.6m fine in April 2009after being found guilty of assisting the distribution of illegal content online. Charges against the site, which allows web users to access music, movies and TV shows without paying for them and claimed 22 million users during February, were brought by a consortium of media, film and music companies led by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry.A Stockholm court found the four defendants guilty of making 33 specific files accessible for illegal sharing through The Pirate Bay, which means they will have to pay compensation to 17 different music and media companies including Sony BMG, Universal, EMI, Warner, MGM and 20th Century Fox. It is not known whether the reparations have yet been paid.A Whois search on thepiratebay.org presently shows that it has no connection - the name servers (which provide the lookup for the domain) point recursively to thepiratebay.org, while the traceroute (to the address 194.71.107.15 - assigned to The Pirate Bay) fails at Level 3 hosting.This is surely not the end of The Pirate Bay - but it may be forced to increasingly desperate measures to keep the site online as film companies keep pursuing it to new territories.[Update:A note to commenters: the music and film industries ceased saying some time ago that there is a 1:1 correlation between illicit downloads and 'lost' sales. They use what's called a "substitution factor" which suggests 1 lost sale per 10 downloads. Arguably, that's high - you could argue it should be more like 1 per 100 - but please don't misattribute such things when there are published reports just a web search away.]
The battle between Apple and Google for the lion's share of the smartphone market is due to heat up with the arrival of a new phone aimed squarely at taking the online search engine group's Android mobile platform to the mass market.The arrival of the HTC Wildfire, in the UK in July, will also come hard on the heels of a new version of the iPhone in San Francisco. Leaked reports of the 'iPhone 4G' on the internet suggest it is designed for the 'high-end' of the smartphone market.Certainly, Apple's share of the mobile phone market will be eroded as more and more devices are launched that use Google's platform. Apple must decide whether it wants to remain a trend setting niche player - though admittedly a highly profitable one - as it has in the home computing world, or grab a greater slice of the market by producing a wider range of devices, as it has with personal digital music players.Despite a shaky start when the first device, the G1, went on sale more than a year after Apple's iPhone had launched, Android has gained real traction in the last few months in its battle with Apple. In the first quarter of the year,phones with Android outsold Apple's iPhone in the US for the first time, according to market research by the NPD Group. The market for phones that can send emails, access the web and download applications is still dominated by the BlackBerry, made by Canada's Research In Motion and a brand which last year celebrated its 10th birthday. But Android is closing the gap. In the UK,almost one in every five smartphones sold now uses Android, according to retail experts GfK.Google is expected to unveil the latest version of Android ata two-day developer event in California starting on Wednesday. Previous iterations of Android have been named after pastries - such as donut, cupcake and the latest version 2.1 eclair - but it has now switched to other foodstuffs: the new 2.2 version is called 'froyo', or frozen yoghurt.The rise of Android has been helped by the recent release of the HTC Desire,which has been favourably compared with the iPhoneand lauded by critics as better than Google's own-branded Nexus One device. Android devices have been aimed at the same, expensive, segment of the smartphone market as the iPhone, but the HTC Wildfire, in contrast, is expected to be free in the UK on monthly contracts priced at about £20, making it available to a much wider audience.The Wildfire, with a 3.2 inch touchscreen, is smaller than the Nexus One and Desire, which have 3.7 inch screens, but has the same 5 megapixel camera. Its processor is slower than the Desire and Nexus One which include Qualcomm's Snapdragon chip.HTC, which is currently embroiled in a bitter patent dispute with Apple,has placed its HTC Sense user interface on the Wildfire, but with some additions. The phone aggregates all the different ways in which a person can communicate and pulls them into one place - rather like Vodafone's 360 service. So Wildfire users can see all their interactions - from text and email, to Facebook and Twitter updates - through that individual's contact card in the phone's address book.The HTC Wildfire also allows users to recommend applications - or 'apps' - that they have downloaded onto their device, to their friends, either by sending them a text or email with a link to the 'app' on the Android marketplace, or by broadcasting details of the 'app' on Twitter and Facebook.Drew Bamford, HTC's director of user experience, said it is just the first step in making Google's Android marketplace, which includes many thousands of downloadable programmes, easier for people to navigate."This is our first foray into 'app' sharing so it is pretty straightforward at the moment - it makes it easy to recommend apps to friends. I think in the future you will see more sophisticated tools for tracking this kind of stuff."While Apple has a stranglehold over the iPhone's 'app' store and RIM keeps a tight rein on its equivalent for Blackberry users, Google exerts very little control over the Android Marketplace. As a result, consumers are effectively left to navigate the store themselves, relying upon comments from other users to gauge whether a particular 'app' is useful or not. That may be fine for gadget fans and other early adopters, but the lack of control over the store is likely to leave many consumers confused.The app explosion, caused by the iPhone, has caused a dramatic increase in traffic for the mobile phone networks but no corresponding increase in revenues. As a result, many of the networks are looking at ways of getting a slice of the action and because it is an open platform, Google's Marketplace offers them the potential for aligning themselves more closely with customers by helping them pick the best 'apps'. So with its app sharing widget, HTC is making a fast early grab for what could be the next battleground between handset manufacturers and mobile phone operators in the fight for the hearts and minds of consumers.
Losing yourself in Redemption is no bad thing. An open world extravaganza, your playground is the dying days of the Old West replete with deserts, cacti and homestead grasslands. As the in-game clock ticks by and day changes to night, the vivid hues of orange and brown are replaced with a star-studded sky interspersed with the glow of campfires.A fully fleshed-out living world, events unfold around you. You can step in and stop gunfights, lynchings and rustling or choose to leave well alone. With fame and honour an integral part of the game, your every action affects your reputation. Be kind and become loved by the settlers, or turn outlaw and find your travels marred by run-ins with local sheriffs.Compared with the preceding Red Dead Revolver, you gain a much stronger bond to the main character thanks to an immersive narrative. Reformed outlaw John Marston is on the path to redemption but gets dragged back into his old ways by The Bureau. Holding his family hostage, they force him to hunt down and kill his old brother in arms.Cue missions involving the gameplay's mainstays – shooting and horse riding. Combining the two aspects takes a while to master, but overall the controls are generally straightforward with triggers used for aiming and firing. Use of cover will help you survive shootouts, while ease of targeting depends on your chosen difficulty level. The Dead Eye mode – one of the few remaining features from Red Dead Revolver – will help you face off multiple opponents. This slow-motion shooting mechanic lets you tag multiple enemies before downing them in a blaze of glory.Along with the main narrative there are side missions and challenges galore, giving you even more reason to explore the epic landscape. If you choose, you can happily spend hours honing your sharp-shooting skill, treasure hunting, or simply raking in the cash by playing poker in the local saloon. Throw in an online multiplayer experience where you not only fight, but can free roam with up to 16 friends, and you've got a heavyweight package with something for everyone.Redemption is a slow burner with lots of travelling and exposition, but the engaging gameplay will keep you hooked. Comparisons will inevitably be drawn between this and Rockstar's GTA series, but even with structural similarities, it stands out as one of the best open world gaming experiences to date and is a clear contender for game of the year.
A burly soldier slides across a concrete surface, kicking another trooper into the air, before blasting him with a shotgun; the victim flies backwards and is messily impaled on a giant cactus. Two machine gun-toting enemies run past a gigantic plant; it swoops down and crunches one to death in its quadruple jaws. Welcome toBulletstorm, a shooter that Epic Games' design director Cliff Bleszinski helpful tells us "doesn't take itself too seriously".At EA's enormous showcase event in London last week (a chance for European journalists to see the publisher's line-up before the madness of E3), this title could hardly be described as one of the key draws. Amid the likes of Crysis 2, Medal of Honor, Dead Space 2 and Star Wars: The Old Republic, a fresh brand from a little known Polish studio was always going to struggle for attention. But struggle it did, and an awesome demo given by Adrian Chmielarz, the founder of People Can Fly, provoked much laughter and applause from a sceptical audience. Chmielarz described the game as a "symphony of carnage." He pretty much smacked the nail on its soft bloody head.The plot is familiar hokum. In the future, a corrupt galactic confederation is protected from allcomers by an army of elite mercenaries known as Dead Echo. When two of those gun-slinging maniacs – Grayson Hunt and Ishi Sato – realise there's something rotten in the state of Denmark, they're exiled to an abandoned planet on the far side of the star system. Once a decadent pleasure resort, it's now an overgrown hellhole, populated by cannibalistic flora and psychotic gangs. Grasping control of Hunt, you've got to get off this rock, and strike back at your old boss.But forget the detail, feel the insanity. People Can Fly earned its stripes with the back-to-basics hardcore FPSPainkiller, before turning out a barnstorming PC port of Gears of War. Now the team has taken these experiences and used them to craft what could well be the most intense and ridiculously macho first person shooter since Duke Nukem. You're given huge, enormously powerful sci-fi guns, as well as brutal kick and slide attacks, and players are rewarded for using these in various imaginative combinations. There is for example, an energy whip that grabs enemies and yanks them toward you. So you ensnare a victim, and as they're flying in, kick them backwards, then blast them to chunks with whatever over-sized shooting stick you have available. It's all rendered in a hyperreal, super fluid visual style, like some crazed Yoshiaki Kawajiri anime.Gruesome skill kills don't just get you points (used to upgrade your weapons naturally), they get you gore. Blast someone in the head and it detonates, sending fountains of blood splashing from the gaping neck of the slumped corpse. In our demo, creative director Chmielarz plugs an enemy in the leg, and as the victim staggers about leaking copious amounts of ketchup, Hunt walks forwards, kicks him to the floor and blasts him from nightmarishly close range. "That's a mercy kill,"  explains Chmielarz without a hint of irony. The point counter goes into overdrive.For a big dumbass game, the art direction is unexpectedly beautiful. The action rolls out in a sort of wrecked neo-classical metropolis, filled with beautiful stately buildings and vast glass atriums, all collapsing in on themselves and covered in bizarre alien vegetation. The latter, as we've already seen, plays a key role in the action, with Triffid-like plants swooping unexpectedly to take out unwary soldiers. It's also possible to shoot at huge seed sacs that send out billows of psychotropic chemicals; if an enemy is within pollen distance, he goes insane, shooting at his allies.It looks as though the indigenous greenery will also provide part of a boss battle structure. We're shown one section where Hunt and Sato, come across a colossal plant towering above them, complete with snapping jaws, and roots that smash out from the ground. The aim is to shoot the throbbing sacs on its body, and as you do, gallons of green gunk sprays from the writhing pulsating vegi-beast.During the action, there's an endless stream of crass, expletive-ridden wisecracks between the two characters that makes  Army of Two's Salem and Rios sound like Little and Large. "The shit I've seen down here would turn your asshole purple!" shouts Ishi at one point. I mean, what the hell does that even mean? It doesn't matter. It's the sort of surreal, stilted hard talk you get from badly translated kung fu flicks – except here it's being constantly yelled into your ear amid bullet fire and flying limbs. After several minutes of this, the effect is like being caught in a panicked conversation with Jerry Bruckheimer, Quentin Tarantino and Eli Roth during a crystal meth-fuelled prison riot.The developers have even invented an entirely new weapon for the game (or at least an interesting over-powered hybrid of several classics) – it's a gun that fires out a spinning length of chain with a metal ball on each end. This can be used to trap, tie up and incapacitate enemies from a distance, so they can be polished off with a profitable mercy kill. It'll also wrap around cover objects, trapping anyone cowering behind. You can then saunter around and finish them off at your leisure.And however insane the weapons are at the outset, powering them up just adds exponentially to the crazed slaughter. Boost the energy whip, for example, and it'll eventually have the power to send several enemies flying high into the sky, where they can be picked off like clay pigeons.So from something of a showcase also-ran to a scintillatingly hyper-violent must-see, Bulletstorm could well prove one of the sleeper hits at next month's E3, where it'll be playable for the first time. Amid a growing range of earnest military sims, it's rather refreshing to be returned to the era of Duke Nukem and Max Payne. Bulletstorm is not going to win any awards for subtly. It would just blow them to pieces with a grenade anyway.• This article was amended on 12 July 2010. The original referred to "psychotic gangs". This has been corrected in line with Guardian guidelines that counsel: "Terms such as schizophrenic and psychotic should be used only in a medical context."•Bulletstorm is out next year on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
If you get a posting on your Facebook wall telling you "this is without doubt the sexiest video ever! :P :P :P" which seems to be accompanied by a video titled "Candid Camera Prank [HQ]" then don't click on the video: it's a lead-in to malware.Clicking the link will take you to what seems like a Facebook application which then tells you that your video player is out of date – and encourages you to download a file.If you do, then the same "video" plus link gets posted usingyouravatar to al your friends on Facebook -– meaning it is spreading virally.It's not clear at present whether Facebook has acted to halt it. You should, however, expect that it will mutate in the coming hours/days (depending on how determined the virus writer is), so it might not be exactly that message or video frame. The key element in the attack is that it tells you to download a file.AtSophos, Graham Cluley notesthat:"Judging by the number of messages posted on Facebook, thousands of people received this attack. If you were one of them, you should scan your computer with an up-to-date anti-virus, change your passwords, review your Facebook application settings, and learn not to be so quick as to fall for a simple social engineering trick like this in future."The file seems to install a piece of adware calledHotbar, which thus generates revenue for the malware writer. (About Hotbar: "displays a dynamic toolbar and targeted pop-up ads based on its monitoring of Web-browsing activity. The toolbar appears in Internet Explorer and Windows Explorer. The toolbar contains buttons that can change depending on the current Web page and keywords on the page. Clicking a button on the toolbar may open an advertiser Web site or paid search site. Hotbar also installs graphical skins for Internet Explorer, Outlook, and Outlook Express. Hotbar may collect user-related information and may silently download and run updates or other code from its servers.")Microsoft is, separately,strongly encouraging people and companies to stop using Internet Explorer 6, using the argument that "you wouldn't drink 9-year-old milk, so why use a 9-year-old browser?"Though aimed at the Australian market (possibly IE6 has a higher prevalence there due to some geographical quirk), the arguments for abandoning IE6 are stronger than ever, and have been repeated many times – not least on this site (the browser that won't die,why the NHS can't get its browser act together). And of course it is widely believed – though so far not confirmed – that IE6 was the vector for anattack against Google by Chinese hackersat the end of last year.
No one at Electronic Arts will admit it, of course, but the crisis at Infinity Ward couldn't really have come at a better time forMedal of Honor. Earlier this year, when EA announced its decision to reboot the military FPS series and move it into the modern era, many pundits questioned the decision: the billion-dollar Modern Warfare brand seemed to have this sub-genre tidily sown up.But since then, Infinity Ward has been haemorrhaging staff, and those left behind must be feeling conflicted and rudderless – lord knows when we'll see MW3, or if Infinity Ward will even be involved. In the meantime, we'll get a re-built, re-envisaged version of the series that started it all off. I got a look at the game last week during an EA showcase event in London, and like the elite soldiers it seeks to represent, Medal of Honor is looking lean, committed and dangerous.The broad set-up should be familiar by now; EA's Los Angeles studio is building a mission-based shooter set amid the ongoing conflict in Afghanistan. Players switch between a variety of roles through the course of the single-player campaign, but the main focus is on the Tier 1 operatives, a crack squad of highly trained special forces personnel who spend months embedded in the war zone tracking down key Taliban targets. Between precise hit and run tasks with these guys you'll also step into the boots of SPC Dante Adams of the US Army Rangers for larger, noisier fire fights. '"Tier One represents the more precise, deliberate surgical instrument of war, " summarises executive producer, Greg Goodrich. "The US Army Rangers represent the sledgehammer…"A couple of months ago, EA started showing journalists the first in-game demo, a mission in which a group of four Tier 1 operatives take out a ZU-23 anti-aircraft gun emplacement, high up on a mountain ridge near the Shahikot valley. During our demo we get another playthrough of this, and it's a tense, occasionally explosive ride. At first, we're scaling along an icy mountain path, avoiding large enemy patrols. As in Modern Warfare, there's lots of chatter between the squad members, and you've always got a commanding officer grunting out orders. His regular insistence to "let them pass" will be hugely familiar to fans of Modern Warfare's similarly sneaky sniper missions.Further up however, we come across a small patrol group huddled round a campfire. The Tier 1 squad splits into two to form a sort of mini pincer movement and the Taliban soldiers are dispatched in a rapid belch of Colt Commando fire. After this, charges are set on the ZU-23, and the soldiers retreat, seconds before it blasts to pieces - another familiar Modern Warfare mission element. From here, we learn from a US Army Rangers squadron further down the valley that a convoy of trucks is heading in our direction. They've been tagged with strobe devices, and now the Tier 1 chaps need to use an IR laser to mark them for air attack. When that's done an AC 130 gunship zooms in overhead and decimates the vehicles with an M61 cannon. It's all beautifully staged, the tracer fire arching through the night air like meteors, and the distant sound of the impact explosions echoing through the hills.Next, Greg Goodrich shows off a completely new piece of in-game action, this time a mission centred on the US Army Rangers. In a deliberate homage to the classic Normandy beach opening of Allied Assault, you're thrust into the middle of a massive land offensive, with helicopters and shellfire filling the glowing desert sky. With most of the US forces pinned down in the Shahikot valley, the player becomes part of a six-man team tasked with clearing a nearby machine gun nest. On the way, however, you have to clear out a wrecked village, teeming with Taliban soldiers. It's all shacks and scrublands, rendered in pinpoint detail, with a sort of hazy, gritty patina of dust floating in the air. Gun sounds are suitably authentic, with bullets ricocheting off the crumbling bricks and lose sandy ground, and a distinctive dull slap noise when anything impacts too close to you.As he demos the level, Goodrich switches between a semi-automatic rifle, shotgun and grenades. There's a crouch option, of course, and hitting the Square button puts in an ammo request. When he reaches the heavy machine gun, it's time to call in an F15 strike, and it's another awesome show of military power, as the aircraft rockets in and blows the camouflaged and inaccessible gun emplacement to smithereens. From here, the squad makes its way to an evac point, but the rocky road is lined with Taliban troops. Through the glowering sunlight, you see silhouetted figures scuttling along the ridge – when you hit them, mists of blood explode into the air. Again, it looks tense and ultra authentic, with lots of sudden ambushes as soldiers gingerly explore battered huts and snaking pathways, only to run straight into screaming enemies (who apparently use genuine Taliban tactics). Run and gun bravado appears very much off the menu.Further on, and higher into the hills, there's a moment when you look down into the wadi and see a group of US aircraft bombing a target far below. It's another visually impressive set piece, and one that adds to the feel of being a small cog in a large-scale offensive. Then Goodrich reaches a small group of battered farm buildings, the squad moves in to investigate, and behind one door a mobile phone goes off, seconds later, there's an enormous explosion, and the screen blackens…So yes, the game shares many similarities with Modern Warfare. The single-player mode is based around linear missions (Goodrich says they wanted to get back to the origins of the MoH series, and away from the more open – and less successful – later titles), and players take on a series of roles within different fighting units. We've now met the Tier 1 operative (codenamed 'Rabbit', judging by the name on screen during our demo) and Dante Adams, but there are several more, including a helicopter pilot. Similar too, is the sense of a wider conflict, and the urgent communication and co-operation between computer-controlled squad members. Of course, the original Medal of Honor laid down many of these facets, but it's Call of Duty, and more specifically the Modern Warfare offshoot, that's refined them for the current hardware generation – comparisons will be inevitable.But Medal of Honor, clearly wants to be more authentic and grounded than Infinity Ward's flashy series. You're not buzzing around the world putting down fictitious Russian overlords. The MoH design team has tracked down several Tier 1 veterans and is crafting the story around their experiences. "We're working with these guys, our consultants, who've spent a lot of time there and most if not all of our environments are based on photos and materials that they've supplied to us from the region," says Goodrich. "Most people think that it's all dry arid desert terrain, but Afghanistan is a very diverse country and it surprised a lot of us; the photos of lush green valleys, snowy mountain peaks and squalid city slums – all that is in the game. We're able to give the player a cascade of different environments without ever leaving the country."As a result of this geographic stability, we're probably looking at a contained and coherent plot, rather than a head-scratching series of inconclusively linked set pieces.  As Goodrich explains, "It's a single story thread, and [the player characters] are all involved in the same narrative. It's almost like a relay race, they hand the baton to each other – each time you meet up with a different unit as part of the narrative, you assume that next character, so the story comes back and forth."What we still haven't seen anything of is the multiplayer component, currently being constructed by EA's DICE studio. There just has to be a decent tactical co-op mode, and plenty of more strategic team deathmatch options to exploit the game's apparent plausibility. As the studio has provided some of the finest multiplayer experiences currently available to humanity with the Bad Company series, we probably don't have much to worry about in this area.Other than that, Medal of Honor looks to be an intriguing proposition, its gritty visuals and rigid authenticity, putting it more beside the likes of Ghost Recon, Operation Flashpoint or Rainbow Six than Modern Warfare in a lot of ways. John Riccitiello, the outspoken CEO of Electronic Artsrecently said that, "we're not going to be happy until we've taken the leadership back in the first-person shooter category." With Medal of Honor, Crysis 2 and Bulletstorm on the way, plus ongoing DLC support for Bad Company, you've got to fancy their chances.Out of all those, Medal of Honor will be the hardest to predict in terms of public reaction. Goodrich continually asserts that this is a character-driven story, which uses Afghanistan as a convenient backdrop; it is not a political comment on the war, or an analysis of allied tactics in the region. But while other modern shooters have often side-stepped the issue by adopting fictitious Middle Eastern settings, or placing the action slightly in the future, MoH is approaching a controversial, expensive and unresolved conflict head-on. Video games need to be able to explore these situations if they are to grow into a mature entertainment medium. Soon we will have a test case; we will know if games are ready or not.Medal of Honor is released on October 12 on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360.
So did you get Alan Wake then? The five years in development – and it shows – action thriller was released on Friday for the Xbox 360.Reviews have been mainly positive but for me it isn't the 5/5 smash it may have been if released in, say, 2007. The run-from-a-to-b action and iffy cut-scene animations work against it. However the beautifully dark atmosphere makes the forest in Alan Wake one of the prettiest gaming environments ever created. The combat too is surprisingly effective – reaching the light haven is always a relief. And clichés aside the story does make you carry on. I found myself caring a lot more about the characters than I ever thought I would.Alan Wake won't appeal to the average Modern Warfare 2 thrill seeker, but if you like your gaming at a slower, more atmospheric, pace then I'd recommend it.  But what do you think? Got Alan Wake and loving it? If not, what else have you been playing this weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Facebook: become a fan. Photo byTeX HeXon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 18 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamjoin diaspora &gt;&gt; diaspora.com"A privacy-aware, personally controlled, do-it-all distributed open source social network". Could be interesting. Does 'distributed' mean 'peer-to-peer' and so not need for tons of servers?Staying in Control of Your Facebook Logins &gt;&gt; Facebook official blogBetter notifications of people trying to log into your account who aren't you. Plus a system which will show a photo of a friend (hard to spot for fakes; easy for you).Video: Facebook Privacy Settings: How To Fix Your Profile In 2 Minutes &gt;&gt; Huffington PostTwo minutes of your time. "Here's everything you need to know to go back to the old days when you could control your privacy on Facebook with just a few clicks."Conficker: The Enemy Within &gt;&gt; The Atlantic magazineIt first appeared on 20 November 2008, hit 500,000 Windows PCs in its first month and grew to more than 6m computers. Possibly the patch that fixed it - which appeared before the worm - gave its writer a clue to what to create.&#10;&#10;But it goes beyond that: the second version of Conficker used MID-6, a new and super-secure encrpytion system that had only been proposed a month earlier.&#10;&#10;In short: Conficker is infecting an unknown number of computers (perhaps 100,000; perhaps 12 million) and nobody knows what it's about or who wrote it or who controls it.Facebook is a utility; utilities get regulated &gt;&gt; Danah BoydMicrosoft researcher Boyd writes: "Your gut reaction might be to tell me that Facebook is not a utility. You're wrong. People's language reflects that people are depending on Facebook just like they depended on the Internet a decade ago. Facebook may not be at the scale of the Internet (or the Internet at the scale of electricity), but that doesn't mean that it's not angling to be a utility or quickly becoming one."However, even with that, Facebook still isn't a utility.Facebook and "radical transparency" (a rant) &gt;&gt; danah boydYes, her again. "The battle that is underway is not a battle over the future of privacy and publicity. It's a battle over choice and informed consent. It's unfolding because people are being duped, tricked, coerced, and confused into doing things where they don't understand the consequences."Is there a happy ending to Scotland's Minority Report? &gt;&gt; Guardian Law blogScottish police are identifying events "such as Rangers matches" when domestic violence levels tend to peak... and then showing up at [peoples'] homes. Yes, it is a bit pre-crime.. though without the telepaths. Philip K Dick would laugh quietly.Facebook's Sheryl Sandberg: Growing Something Big Out Of Something Small &gt;&gt; ForbesFacebook COO "Sandberg spoke to ForbesWoman Publisher Moira Forbes about keeping up with the tech world's furious pace of change while still making time to meet with every employee at Facebook."Do computer screens upset your sleep patterns? &gt;&gt; CNN"There's growing concern that these glowing gadgets may actually fool our brains into thinking it's daytime. Exposure can disturb sleep patterns and exacerbate insomnia, some sleep researchers said in interviews."Steve Jobs Offers World 'Freedom From Porn' &gt;&gt; ValleywagSteve Jobs apparently exhanges emails with Ryan Tate, from Valleywag. It looks as though Jobs doesn't like being on the geek hate listNew Entry-Level MacBook Leaked [Video] &gt;&gt; Mashable"The machine's CPU was upgraded to a 2.4GHz Intel Core 2 Duo processor, increased from 2.26GHz in the previous generation, and graphics were given a shot in the arm with a NVIDIA GeForce 320M GPU. These updates will be the first for the MacBook since October 2009."Apple Responds &gt;&gt; Jeffrey ZeldmanA simple explanation of how Apple responds to Adobe's "We Love Apple" advertising. (Zeldman doesn't work for Apple.)How secure is Flash? Here's what Adobe won't tell you &gt;&gt; Ed Bott at ZDNet" In talking to Adobe representatives, reading interviews with Adobe executives, and reading Adobe's public statements, I've found a steady stream of denial where there should be transparency. One of the key issues in this discussion is security."26 reasons Apple fanboys have got it all wrong &gt;&gt; TechRadar UKLinkbait, but possibly amusing for people who aren't mindslaves in Kim Il-Jobs's one-party dictatorship...QuitFacebookDay.comCan a handful of geeks make an impact on a site that has half a billion users? Will it be followed by a "Quit iPad day"?Acer to launch Chrome OS devices in two weeks (exclusive) &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"We've learned from multiple sources that the Taiwanese computer manufacturer Acer will launch Chrome OS devices at the Computex Taipei show, which will be held from June 1 to June 5," says VentureBeat100 Famous Writers You Can Follow on Twitter &gt;&gt; Online University ReviewsA lot of them are not primarily writers (Arnold Schwarzenegger, Mariah Carey) or don't actually use Twitter themselves, but there are still plenty of interesting names.Can Microsoft beat Google in the battle to rule cloud computing? &gt;&gt; CNNWith the launch of Office web-apps, Microsoft is going head-to-head with Google....You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google has been forced into an uncharacteristic U-turn, announcing plans to halt direct sales of its Nexus One mobile phone through its website as it admits that consumers prefer getting their hands on a device and trying it out before they part with their cash.When Google unveiled its first ever own-brand mobile phone, the Nexus One, it hoped to revolutionise the way that phones are sold.Its head of mobile Andy Rubin said in February, a month after the phone went on sale in the US, that there would be a series of Google phones but "the real innovation here is the distribution of cellphones on a web store".He said the company had been able to use the launch to create logistics technology which meant that "when Nexus Two comes out we will just put it on the website and it will instantly go worldwide to all the operators that are hooked into our system".But while early adopters seem to have been happy to use a website to buy an unlocked mobile phone, Rubinadmitted in a blog post late last weekthat "it's clear that many customers like a hands-on experience before buying a phone, and they also want a wide range of service plans to chose from".While Google's mobile phone software platform Android is proving a hit with consumers and mobile phone networks, Rubin admitted "the web store has not".As a result, as the Nexus One rolls out in more countries, Google will follow the model it has adopted in Europe,where its network partner Vodafone has made the device available in its own shopsand it is free on certain long-term contracts."We'll shift to a similar model globally," said Rubin. "Once we have increased the availability of Nexus One devices in stores, we'll stop selling handsets via the web store, and will instead use it as an online store window to showcase a variety of Android phones available globally."Despite a shaky start when the first device, the G1, went on sale more than a year after Apple's iPhone launched, Google's Android platform has gone from strength to strength with a slew of new handsets appearing from HTC, which also makes the Nexus One, LG, Samsung, Sony Ericsson and Motorola.In the first quarter of the year,phones with Android outsold Apple's iPhone in the US for the first time ever, according to market research by the NPD Group. The market for phones that can send emails, access the web and download applications is still dominated by the BlackBerry, made by Canada's Research In Motion and a brand which last year celebrated its 10th birthday, but Android is closing the gap.In the UK, almost one in every five smartphones now sold uses Android,according to retail experts GfK.The HTC Desire, which is ranged by four of the five UK networks, has been particularly successful andfavourably compared with the iPhone.But sales of the Nexus One have been sluggish, partly because of the way in which it was being sold and partly because the HTC Desire is essentially the same device but better. Web analytics firm Flurry estimates just 135,000 Nexus One handsets were sold in the first two months in the US.To add insult to injury, Google's intended American partner Verizon Wireless recently turned its back on the Nexus One in favour of promoting another Android powered smartphone the Droid Incredible by HTC.T-Mobile, Google's original launch partner for the G1 in the US, is the only American network offering a price plan specifically aimed at the Nexus One. The device, which normally costs $529, is $179 for T-Mobile customers willing to sign a two year contract.
Apple appears to have run out of its stock of iPads for British customers, even though it will not start shipping the device this side of the Atlantic for two weeks.The Californian company said just over a week ago thatthe iPad would go on sale on May 28in the UK starting at £429 for the basic version with the top of the range 64GB device with both Wi-Fi and 3G network access costing £699. It opened up pre-orders on May 10.But eager iPad owners visiting its website over the weekend were being warned that if they ordered an iPad nowit would ship "by June 7th".The delay is believed to have been caused by Apple running out of its initial supply of devices in just three days, with pre-orders being far higher than the company originally forecast.Market research firm GfK NOP, whose pronouncements about the retail sector are well regarded, estimates that Apple will sell more than 2m iPads in the UK. It has carried out research that suggests around 5% of British consumers intend to buy an iPad.Those gadgets fans who had registered for an iPad by the middle of last week are expected to receive their device on May 28, but anyone who has bought it more recently is likely to face an increasingly lengthy wait.Apple has alreadydelayed the launch of the iPad in the UK once, blaming "surprisingly strong" demand in the US, where it sold more than a million in the first month.The device is already a faster seller than the iPhone in the US. It took 74 days for Apple to shift a million of its first mobile phone. It sailed past that milestone with the iPad in just 28 days.There is also concern that shipments of the iPad could be further delayed if the cloud of ash spewing from the Eyjafjallajokull volcano in Icelandcauses further disruption to international flights.
It is the most over-hyped device since the iPhone and now that the iPad is finally nearing its UK launch date of 28 May, there's just one question: is it worth buying? If you already own an iPhone or an iPod Touch and wish it had a much bigger screen, the answer is probably yes – if you can afford £429 for even the most basic model. If you already own a notebook PC and would like something smaller, the answer could well be no; you'd be better of with a netbook at less than half the price.Such rationality may not stop you from succumbing, however. The iPad is a wonderfully shiny new toy from a company that understands seduction. And it's cunningly designed to fit in between your smartphone and your laptop without replacing either.The iPad is the latest and most popular example of what Intel calls mobile internet devices or Mids. There is a battle between devices that are mobile phones but larger and devices that are notebook PCs (mostly Microsoft Windows) but smaller. It is not just about "chip" technology – Arm chips that power most smartphones versus Intel chips  that drive most computers; what really makes phone-type Mids attractive to technology companies and developers is what might be termed "propensity to pay".It pains the creative industries that computer users generally won't pay anything for a four-minute song, but will happily pay £1.50 or more for a ringtone version of it. PC users won't pay to send and receive thousands of emails a year, but will pay 10p to send one SMS text. The iPad is clearly on the "will pay" side of the great divide, which makes its users much more attractive than any number of netbook buyers on the "won't pay" side.At the moment, most iPad apps have been written for the iPhone and adapted. But there is clearly lots of potential for newspapers, magazines, books, games and other apps designed for the iPad's brilliant-looking screen.All the apps have to be approved by Apple, which maintains control not just over the content (no porn, for example) but also how they are written: the latest edict bans Adobe Flash software, which is used by a huge number of websites to create animated graphics and simple games and to show videos, and any apps written in Flash then converted for the iPad or iPhone.Apple's "walled garden" approach upsets people who mistake the iPad for an open, general-purpose computer. But the iPad isn't a mini-Macintosh. Conceptually, it's more like a Nintendo DS, and where's the torch-flamed rebellion against Nintendo?Another thing to bear in mind is that the iPad is missing a lot of functionality: it has no camera for videochats; no SD card slot for loading photos from your camera; and no USB. Like the first iPod and iPhone, it's just a starter for a string of enhanced versions that will tempt you to buy a new model every couple of years, or when the sealed-in batteries no longer work. And you'll be delighted to buy every one.Those made of stronger stuff can wait for similar tablets based on the Google Android software already used in many smartphones. Scaled-up Android tablets won't have the iPad's sheer class, but it's a free, open-source Linux-based system that will enable hundreds of companies to compete.The more open system will usually win in the end, as competition drives down prices. Consumer market-research company NPD reckons sales of Android devices have already overtaken the iPhone in the US. But Apple does already have roughly $40bn in the bank to show it can make plenty of money from its unique proprietary approach.A sneak peak inside the iPad. Photograph courtesy of iFixit.comTHE IPAD DECONSTRUCTED1The casingThe iPad feels reassuringly solid, thanks to its brushed aluminium unibody case. While many small electronic devices are now made of plastic, the iPad's contoured base "is machined from a single billet of aluminium", according to the iFixit website. This makes it relatively heavy – 680g (1.5lb) for the basic model – but gives it  a feeling of quality. The actual size of the iPad is 242.8mm by 189.7mm, which is slightly smaller than the Kindle DX.2The screenThe first thing that catches your eye with the iPad is the vivid 9.7in LCD colour screen. It uses the same capacitive touchscreen technology as the iPhone and iPod Touch, which is both sensitive and surprisingly accurate, though it's admittedly a bit on the shiny side. It uses IPS (in-plane switching), which is more common on TVs than laptops and provides a wide range of viewing angles. Ebook readers, such as the Amazon Kindle, Sony Reader and Plastic Logic's Que, have monochrome e-ink screens that are easier to read in daylight, but the iPad's screen is better for web browsing, games, movies and other applications. The  resolution is 1024x768 pixels, which is less than high-definition, and not widescreen. In fact, it's the 4:3 shape that was popular on notebook PCs a decade or so ago, which means movies usually appear with  broad black bands top and bottom.3The batteriesThe iPad has two long, thin, lithium-ion polymer batteries that lie side by side at the bottom of the case with the dock connector cable between. This should provide a total of 24.8 watt-hours which should keep an iPad going for about 10 hours, depending on use. However, just extracting a battery involves a 21-step process and special tools, according toone expert guide, so it's unlikely you'll ever change them yourself.4 The processorApple could have based its new tablet on the Arm chip, used in the iPhone and iPod, or on an Intel Atom, which is a low-power/low-cost chip compatible with the processors used in its Macintosh computers, as well as in most Windows PCs. It chose the Arm route, creating a system than can't run full Mac OS X or Windows applications but runs the same operating system and apps as its older but much smaller stablemates.But, as it often does, Apple went further. Instead of buying an off-the-shelf Arm (which includes system-on-a-chip designs such as Nvidia's Tegra and Qualcomm's Snapdragon, widely used in smartphones such as the Google Nexus One), Apple developed its own 1GHz A4 system on a chip. Presumably, this development was aided by Apple's purchase of PA Semiconductor, a small Californian chip design company, for $278m in 2008. X-rays reveal that the A4 processor package includes an Arm similar to the Samsung-sourced chip in the iPhone, plus two Samsung memory chips that provide 256MB of memory. The A4 provides snappy performance in the iPad, though there are more powerful dual-core Arm designs that could be used in later and much better multitasking versions of the iPad; the current graphics chip could also be upgraded.Apple and Arm have a long history and Arm might not even have been founded if Apple hadn't wanted to use its chip in the Newton Messagepad, a touchscreen organiser or PDA, launched in 1993. The Arm,  originally the Acorn Risc Machine, was first used in the Acorn Archimedes desktop computer. It was renamed Advanced Risc Machine and spun off into Arm Ltd, which was owned by Acorn, Apple and chip company VLSI. Arm-based chip designs are now used in more than one&nbsp;billion phones every year.5The softwareThe iPad's software does, very obviously, make it look like a big iPhone or iPod Touch. But rather than just being multiplied up to fill the bigger screen, the best programs – including Apple's – have been adjusted, sometimes subtly, to fit their new home. A vertical iPhone app might work better with two side-by-side views on a horizontal iPad screen, for example. And as well as split screen views, there are also popovers to provide extra navigational aids. As with the iPhone, there are plenty of apps for sale or free through Apple's appstore, though it may seem more oriented towards selling you movies and music.The most obvious drawback is the lack of support for software found on the web, mainly Flash and Java programs. People who play Facebook games such as Farmville are out of luck. And although Apple boss Steve Jobs proclaims the virtues of the next generation web language HTML5 as an alternative, this is an incomplete set of standards not widely implemented and lacks the development tools beloved of Flash and Java developers. It means the iPad fails to deliver the full web and it could be years before everything is in HTML5 format.The lack of full multitasking is also a drawback for people used to computers – should you have to quit what you're doing to send a couple of instant messages?There are also a few usability issues. After consumer testing,usabilityconsultant Jakob Nielsencorrectpointed out that commands are not used consistently across applications. So while you can swipe the screen with your finger, you can't be sure what will happen. Worse, there's no obvious way of finding out what an action ought to do.But this is the first version. Apple can make many improvements and the developers of new apps and websites will soon learn to cater for what could be a very lucrative new audience.6The storageAlthough the iPad is sometimes touted as having a solid state drive (SSD), which is the sort of drive you get in some laptop PCs and even netbooks that can benefit from their speed and reliability, it doesn't. The iPad, like the iPod Touch it resembles, has Flash memory chips soldered to the board. Flash chips, which have nothing to do with Adobe Flash software, are commonly used in MP3 players, USB memory sticks and similar devices. These memory chips provide iPads with 16GB, 32GB or 64GB of storage without adding the bulk, weight or cost of a real disk drive, or of an SSD designed to fit in its place. This is a pity because having an SSD would make it feasible to swap out Apple's drive for a larger one, or in the case of a dead iPad, to rescue the user's valuable data and access it from a different computer.7Wi-Fi or GSM?The iPad comes in two basic versions: one has only a wireless Wi-Fi connection, while the other has a micro-sim slot and can also work with a mobile data connection.Wi-Fi will suit most iPad buyers who will be able to use it around the house or at Wi-Fi hotspots in cafes and so on. The GSM connection will enable people to use their iPad while travelling: Wi-Fi is not always available on trains and even less common in cars, but you can often get some sort of mobile broadband signal, even if it's very slow. However, since the mobile connection adds £100 to the price of an iPad, plus running costs of perhaps £10 or more per month, it's not worth buying unless you will actually use it. The iPad isn't designed to work as a mobile phone, though, as with the iPod Touch, you could always use it as an internet phone.
Essentially a lighthearted fantasy-themed role-playing excursion,3D Dot Game Heroesis also a heartfelt interactive love letter to the most popular retro games. Crammed with nods to iconic releases from a time when photorealistic graphics were but a distant daydream, it's illustrated by a rose-tinted world of flag-draped castles and evil wizards, evoking children's picture books as much as a romantic view of the digital past.These strange visuals are the most impressive attribute, and are in keeping with the cheery parody of the golden era of console titles, through the game's concept of "3D pixelation". As is the superb audio, which revisits the infamous bleeps of the past brilliantly. Despite this retro focus,3D Dot Game Heroesfeels contemporary but seems a little lacking in gameplay originality, a small price for an enchanting, superb release.
There are some experiences for which no amount of advance preparation is adequate. A few weeks ago, in company withProfessor Daniel Cohen, a historian of mathematics who is a leading scholar in the digital humanities, I was ushered into a small room in Cambridge University library. We were there because Dan had arrived to give the annualArcadia Lecture, part of a project on which I am the academic adviser, and we had a couple of hours to kill before he was due to speak. Earlier, I had been asked by the library staff if there was anything particular he might like to see. "Oh, just show him a couple of treasures," I had said, casually.So, here we were in this small room. On the table, lying open on a cushion, was Isaac Newton's copy of the first edition of hisPrincipia Mathematicaor, to give it its full title,Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica, the book in which he sets out his laws of motion (the basis of classical mechanics), as well as the law of universal gravitation, his derivation of Kepler's laws of planetary motion and much else besides. It was the keystone of the scientific revolution and was written at Trinity College, just down the road.On closer inspection, it became clear that the book had been in the wars. It had at some stage, for example, been rescued from a fire. Some of the pages were singed round the edges, but the miracle of its survival paled into insignificance as one turned the pages, because Newton had clearly been dissatisfied with the first edition of his magnum opus. On page after page he had written corrections and added entire paragraphs in his immaculate, tiny handwriting.What we were looking at was not the creation of this amazing work but, in a way, its recreation.For me, Newton – irascible, paranoid, awkward, reclusive, unpleasant cuss that he was – is one of the greatest human beings who ever lived. John Maynard Keynes (who performed miracles in rescuing Newton's scattered papers and bringing them back to Cambridge) captured his genius perfectly. "His peculiar gift," he wrote inEssays in Biography, "was the power of holding continuously in his mind a purely mental problem until he had seen straight through it. I fancy his pre-eminence is due to his muscles of intuition being the strongest and most enduring with which a man has ever been gifted."Anyone who has ever attempted pure scientific or philosophical thought knows how one can hold a problem momentarily in one's mind and apply all one's powers of concentration to piercing through it, and how it will dissolve and escape and you find that what you are surveying is a blank. I believe that Newton could hold a problem in his mind for hours and days and weeks until it surrendered to him its secret. Then, being a supreme mathematical technician, he could dress it up, how you will, for purposes of exposition, but it was his intuition which was pre-eminently extraordinary – 'So happy in his conjectures,' said De Morgan, 'as to seem to know more than he could possibly have any means of proving.' The proofs, for what they are worth, were, as I have said, dressed up afterwards – they were not the instrument of discovery."I've owned a beautifully produced facsimile of thePrincipiafor decades, so it wasn't the novelty of seeing it that took my breath away. It was the work's amazingpresence. The centuries seemed to dissolve as we bent over the pages to read Newton's neatly composed amendments, just as he must have crouched when he was writing them. For a few magical, eerie moments, it seemed as though he was there in the room with us.Afterwards, I was reminded of Walter Benjamin's celebrated – if exasperating – essay onThe Work of Art in an Age of Mechanical Reproductionin which he tried to figure out what happens to authenticity in an age of perfect copying. "Even the most perfect reproduction of a work of art," he wrote, "is lacking in one element: its presence in time and space, its unique existence at the place where it happens to be." This "aura" that emanates from original works – which is, Benjamin argued, stripped away by reproduction – is hard to pin down (and Benjamin doesn't really nail it, in my opinion) but, believe me, you know it when you feel it. And not even Google can digitise it.
With the recent UK release of Google's Nexus One phone, their Android operating system is getting a fair amount of attention, but they also develop a large range of free apps for all Android phones, like the HTC Magic.Google Goggles(Android Market, free, Google) has been revamped recently. Previously, just by taking a picture of anything from book covers, local landmarks and barcodes, it could work out your location or send you to an online shop. Now it allows phones to be pocket-sized interpreters. No longer will menu confusion lead tobiftek de chevalarriving on your plate, just take a picture of the foreign text andGoggleswill ensure you avoid the horse steak. Who needs GCSE French now? The current crop of languages offered is limited, but Google will gradually upgrade the app until it's an all-encompassing translation solution.Nokia also provides apps for its own handsets, like the excellent touchscreen X6. Their Ovi Maps offering provides turn-by-turn directions, a great money saver to usurp the TomTom. Their latest innovation is designed to replace the monotone satnav voices.Own Voices(Ovi Store, free, Nokia) allows you to record your voice to direct you on your way. Specialised satnavs offer upgrades so that everyone from John Cleese to Mr T can guide people, but this is the only way to wind up your other half by ensuring "turn right" rings out in your own dulcet tones when they should really be turning left.
Steve Jobs on the cover of Time. Getting an interview with him turns out to be easier via email. Photo bykevinspenceron Flickr.Some rights reservedWant to know Steve Jobs's thoughts on the role of the iPad, Flash, porn (yes, that word), and what Bob Dylan would think of Apple, the company, today?Look no further thanRyan Tate's email back-and-forth with him- which shows that the chief of Apple is, if nothing else, not unwilling to indulge in some email sparring withcompletely random strangers. Though Ryan Tate of Gawker (for it was he) is more than just random; he's also employed by Gawker Media, which owns Gizmodo, which Apple doesn't like because.. oh, just read about it."If [Bob] Dylan was 20 today, how would he feel about your company? Would he think the iPad had the faintest thing to do with 'revolution'? Revolutions are about freedom", Tate wrote after seeing an iPad advert.Three hours later, Jobs replied: "Yep, freedom from programs that steal your private data.[We think he means viruses and malware.]Freedom from programs that trash your battery.[We think he means Adobe's Fl*sh.]Freedom from porn.[We think he means.. er, porn.]Yep, freedom. The times they are a changin'[for younger readers: this is a Bob Dylan reference; Dylan is one of Jobs's favourite musicians], and some traditional PC folks feel like their world is slipping away. It is."There follow an argument about Flash, batteries, Objective-C, porn ("you might care more[about not having it]when you have kids", remarks Jobs), whether Apple has a private police force that kicked in a Gawker person's doors ("You are so misinformed," Jobs retorts. "No one kicked in any doors. You're believing a lot of erroneous blogger reports").Jobs concludes: "Microsoft had (has) every right to enforce whatever rules for their platform that they want. If people don't like it, they can write for another platform, which some did. Or they can buy another platform, which some did."As for us, we're just doing what we can to try and make (and preserve) the user experience we envision. You can disagree with us, but our motives are pure."And then a final, very Jobs-ish little parting shot:"By the way, what have you done that's so great? Do you create anything, or just criticize others [sic] work and belittle their motivations?"An interesting question which we'll leave hanging. But truly, the tendency of Jobs to reply to emails from all over the place show that he's taking an intriguing approach to that chief executive/customer interaction stuff. Plus the not-sleeping thing - most of the emails were sent after midnight California time.Hell, next you know he'll be turning up on Twitter. (Meanwhile there are plenty of blogs devoted to recording his email replies;this Tumblr oneseems one of the best.Meanwhile, if you want to email Jobs, his email is hardly a secret. (Finding it is your initiative test.) If you get an answer, do share. But think of a useful question first..
Could you recommend one or two video games that are a little more suited to a pensioner who lives alone, such as a strategy game or a grown up sim. Not interested in shoot-'em-ups, fantasy games or ones that require me to join an online community, just something I can play on my Vista PC.Albert GYou can play some of the greatest games ever written, including Sid Meier's Civilization, Will Wright's Sim City, and Sports Interactive's Football Manager. All of these are challenging, none requires high-speed twitching, and you can play them for a long time by pausing/restarting or saving/reloading the current game.The latest releases are not free, but older versions are still playable and widely available in cut-price versions or second hand.Other games from the same stables are also worth a look, including Sid Meier's Railroad Tycoon games and, from the Sim series, SimTower.If you like puzzle games, try PopCap forPeggle*,BeJewelledandPlants vs Zombies(there are online versions and free-trial downloads) or look around at Pogo.com, where plenty of seniors play. Also, AOL, Microsoft MSN and Yahoo all have big collections of casual games.Not many games have been written specifically for seniors, but that started to change in 2005 when the first Brain Training game was launched in Japan for the Nintendo DS. I'm not convinced they work, but playing this type of game could have benefits (seeStudy: Computer games, memory training for seniors can save billions in Medicare). The Masters of Healthcare website has published a list of100 Awesome Anti-Aging Brain Games (Online and Off).Nintendo's Wii games console has also been a hit with older users: sports simulations of, for example, golf and bowling encourage people to exercise, and often to socialise. However, if you want a Wii, there's a cost.Finally, you are probably aware that Windows Vista includes a decent selection of casual games: Solitaire, FreeCell, Spider Solitaire, Hearts, Minesweeper, Chess Titans, Mahjong Titans, Purble Place, and InkBall. FreeCell is my favourite, because it depends almost entirely on skill, and almost every game is winnable. However, I still prefer the original "look and feel" from when it appeared in a games selection for Windows 3. For more on FreeCell, go tofreecell.org.* Suggested byliquidindianon Twittertwitter.com/jackschofield
Google has been accidentally gathering extracts of personal web activity from domestic wifi networks through the Street View cars it has used since 2007, it said last night.It was discovered as a result of a data audit demanded by Germany's data protection authority, and is likely to inflame critics of Google concerned about the web giant's use of private data.As well as systematically photographing streets and gathering 3D images of cities and towns around the world, Google's Street View cars are fitted with antennas that scan local wifi networks and use the data for its location services.In a post on its European Public Policy blog on 27 April, Google stated that although it does gather wifi network names (SSIDs) and identifiers (Mac addresses) for devices like network routers, it does not gather "payload" data passed through those wifi networks.But yesterday Google blogged that the audit had prompted it to "re-examine everything we have been collecting" and admitted its mistake."It is now clear that we have been mistakenly collecting samples of payload data from open wifi networks, even though we never used that data in any Google products."Google said it amounted to 600GB, equivalent to a consumer hard drive, but that this data consisted only of fragments of activity from open wifi networks. Password-protected web services, such as banking or secure HTTP addresses, would not have been included, and neither would data from password-protected wireless networks.Google blamed the mistake on a piece of legacy code from an experimental project that had been re-used to programme equipment on the Street View cars, and said it will ask a third party to oversee deletion of the data and its procedures."As soon as we became aware of this problem, we grounded our Street View cars and segregated the data on our network, which we then disconnected to make it inaccessible. We want to delete this data as soon as possible, and are currently reaching out to regulators in the relevant countries about how to quickly dispose of it."Google said the discovery highlighted the vulnerability of data in open wifi networks. It has previously said other companies, including Skyhook and Microsoft, already scan wifi networks and gather information in this way.Google Street View has been introduced in more than 20 countries, and has also been extended outside the initial 21 major UK cities.But it has faced regular concerns about privacy, which started in Britain on the day of the launch after users found images of a man throwing up in the street and another leaving a sex shop. In April last year, residents in Broughton barricaded roads to stop the Street View car entering the village, saying it would encourage crime and was an invasion of privacy.Google is struggling with stricter privacy laws in Germany, where it has yet to launch the service, and Switzerland where it was introduced in August. Despite a flood of demands from the European Union, including wiping its Street View images after six months instead of 12, Google has said it remains committed to Street View in Europe. It said reports that it would stop mapping streets in any more EU countries are inaccurate.• This article was amended on 21 May 2010. The original said: That the Google Street View feature currently displays images from cities in nine countries, including 21 in the UK. This has been corrected.
Goaly MolyFrom the producers of celebrity-poking gossip site Holy Moly comes this salacious and amusing exposé of the footballer of the species. Here, alongside photos of Ledley King falling out of nightclubs, news of West Ham's wage bill and speculation about gay relationships within the Barcelona squad, there is much to enjoy for lovers of the beautiful game. The Lister countdowns currently offer a disturbing collection of unofficial England World Cup Songs, videos and some sweary opinions about Alex Ferguson. It's early days yet, but, with South Africa on the horizon, this could be a vital stop for the views of the snark-leaning footy fan.DJ ShadowDJ Shadow. Photograph: Peter Pakvis/RedfernsMajor artists who view the digital economy as a barrier rather than an opportunity would be well served by checking out the site of DJ Shadow. Here the musician, DJ, producer and remixer does a great job in bringing his music closer to his fans. His shop sells custom vinyl editions of archived live shows, and a remix project with tracks mixed and artwork designed by the site's users. The pop-up radio brings hour-long themed programmes combining everything from South Korean hip-hop to horrid 80s corporate soft rock, and an archive dives back to press cuttings and ephemera from the early-90s. Perhaps best of all, though, is a button that switches the look of the site from daylight to darkness. It's the little things…Blog roll: GadgetsDrumbella, found on Oh Gizmo.Oh GizmoGuide to technological advancements and gimmicks, including the Drumbella that turns the patter of raindrops intro drum beats.EngadgetTomTom's Darth Vader satnav, iPods with heart rate monitors and other hot news for technophiles.GizmodoThe best iPad apps for toddlers plus "swords: the original gadgets".Shiny ShinyThe aesthetic beauty and otherwise of Scandinavian headphones, magic wheel bikes, USB-powered cooling seat pad and GPS-enabled dog collars.Akihabara NewsThe latest cameras, notebooks, TVs, watches and tools on sale in Akihabara Electric Town, Tokyo's major gadget shopping district.Slippery BrickNews from the first UK Best Buy store, making group calls on Skype and Visa's plans to turn your phone into a credit card.What we learned on the web this weekFirst Person Tetris.A gamenot to be played while drunk. Or on a shipWhere two-wheelerscan shop selfish four-wheelersWhat the Lostcast looked like when they were youngerThe laseris 50The futureof three-party hairdressingThe baddestmartial arts fight scenes everSarnies andthe zen of MagnumHow towash George Harrison's car20 freakishthings found inside peopleThe 10 secretsof effective liars
