Genealogists reacted with anger yesterday after it emerged that a government website, which promised direct access to 171 years of family records, had been delayed indefinitely following the failure of a Whitehall computer project.An attempt to scan, index and digitise 250m records of births, marriages and deaths in England and Wales from 1837 to the present day was supposed to result in a new public website that would let people trace their ancestors at the touch of a button next February. Now, three years after the government awarded the &pound;16m contract to German computer giant Siemens, the deal has been terminated with only half the work done.It was hoped that the online record would slash costs and speed up the process of tracing ancestry. The collapse means family tree enthusiasts must continue asking for copies of documents by post, which can take seven days and costs &pound;7 or &pound;10 a time.The failure drew strong criticism from genealogists who were already dismayed that last October the government removed access to paper ledgers that contained indexes of births marriages and deaths at the family records centre in London when it decided to launch the website.The General Register Office (GRO), which is responsible for the records, said only 130m had been scanned, and plans to make the index public had been shelved. Missing are details of birth records from 1837 to 1934 and death records from 1837 to 1957. The Identity and Passport Service (IPS), which runs the GRO, said it had only paid half the fee as a result.Yesterday, the IPS were unable to say when the project would be completed and how it would pay for the rest of it.Sue Hills, who runs Ancestral Footsteps, a company that offers tailor-made genealogical holidays, said: "This is a devastating blow. Everyone was incredibly excited because this was going to be a fantastic research tool and one of the big events in the world of ancestry."Amateur genealogists Audrey Metcalf, and her husband Norman, from Enfield,  north London, are now struggling to access documents for research into their ancestry, which has already thrown up a distant relative who was shipwrecked in the 19th century on the emigration route to Australia. "We use the microfiches in Hereford now but it takes a long time and it is not always legible," she said.Simon Harper, managing director of Ancestry.co.uk, which charges for access to indexes but not the records themselves, said the delay was "not good news for the amateur genealogist". "It has reduced access to this data and means people still have to pay and wait to access certificates," he said. "This is hugely frustrating."The number of Britons exploring their past has boomed in recent years with the advent of commercial websites which provide access to indexes of available records and the popularity of the BBC TV programme Who Do You Think You Are, in which celebrities trace their family histories.Nick Barratt, a genealogist and consultant to the programme has also attributed the boom to people's yearning for belonging in a world where community ties are looser and families more widely spread. He estimates that one in three Britons have conducted research into their ancestors online.The National Archives saw its visitor figures online and also to its offices in Kew, south-west London, double from 23.2 million in 2006 to 56.8 million in 2007.Unions demanded an inquiry by the National Audit Office into the collapse of the deal. "Despite repeated warnings, the government dogmatically ploughed on and outsourced this important and sensitive work to the private sector," said Mark Serwotka, general secretary of the Public and Commercial Services Union. "Yet again a private sector company has pocketed millions of pounds of taxpayer's money for an incomplete job."The decision to digitise the system was highly controversial at the time. Siemens outsourced much of the work to India, which led to protests from civil service unions that data security was being put at risk and the contract would be too complicated to deliver on time.Len Cook, then the registrar general, defended the move claiming the reform was part of delivering " a better, more efficient service to the public and part of  the government's agenda of "offering choice and joined up services to the public".
However uninterested you may be in technology, it is likely that you use a voicemail system. If you have a mobile, then it will probably be the one provided as standard by your network. You dial 121, or 123, and dance the ghastly Menu Minuet until you're done. The Apple iPhone has introduced a patented "visual voicemail" system, which presents a list of onscreen messages enabling you to play them in whichever order you like, but for 15 years that has been it so far as innovation goes.But now we have SpinVox, a most extraordinary service that takes your voice messages, translates them into text and then sends them to you as either email or SMS text message. Or both.Here's how it goes. I call you up, but you are out, or busy, and I am played your outgoing message: "Yodi, this is Dork Talk Reader, sorry I'se not in, but like leave a message after the tone, innit, and I'll be in your face laters." I leave my message: "Sorry to miss you, darling Dork Talk Reader. Do call back when you have a moment. I have momentous news. I guarantee it will rock the foundations of your world. Toodle-pip." Now, if you, Dork Talk Reader, are a SpinVox subscriber, within minutes or less you will get a text as from my number that looks like this, inverted commas included:"Sorry to miss you darling dork talk reader. Do call back when you have a moment. I have momentous news. I guarantee it will rock the foundations of your world. Toodle (?) pip" - spoken through SpinVox &lt;*n&gt; where &lt;*n&gt; refers to the number assigned to the message. You can call a SpinVox number (which will replace your old network voicemail number) and press *n to hear my message the old-fashioned way.What is so magical and satisfying about the whole process is how astonishingly good the SpinVox engine is at rendering into accurate, grammatical, punctuated text even the most slurred, heavily accented or rapid-fire speech. In the example above it questioned the "toodle" but the word is spelt correctly.Subscription is quick and easy. You are given a new voicemail number, which can replace the old one on your speed dial. One's first use of the system is naturally to try to trap it into mistakes. I caught it rendering Miranda as Meranda - it did at least know it was a proper name, however, for it gave it a capital letter. Happily for the Lynne Trusses among you, the "it's" was correctly rendered, and I have found it spot-on when transliterating phrases like "I've sent a message to their centre where they're collected. Its accuracy is great, it's amazing." It works out the difference between "they're" and "their", and "it's" and "its", and can distinguish by context such homophones as "sent a" and "centre". It even got "He went out into the mist and missed" spot-on. Now that's clever.It might not immediately strike you as useful, but once you have experienced a day where you don't have to dial in to listen to messages, but can just glance at them, you will never want to go back. After all, the option is still there for listening to the voice. You can trial it for free, and then texts cost between 20p and 30p, according to the package (spinvox.com). Brilliant and British.Not everything brilliant is British, however. Ever been annoyed about desirable products that are available only in the US? I recommendinternational-orders.comwhich ships American goods around the globe. For us there's VAT and import duty, plus the website's handling surcharge, but the dollar still being relatively weak, transactions can work out cheaper as well as making available droolworthy gizmos and doodads that can't be found here. I had a Chumby delivered to my door (chumby.comwon't deliver outside the US): it's a soft, squashy Wi-Fi internet device that loads customisable widget or gadget style programs. Through international-orders.com it will cost about &pound;120, plus whatever Revenue &amp; Customs adds on. An American would pay the equivalent of &pound;90 - but then, they haven't got the wonder of SpinVox, so nah.Acronym of the weekVATVery Annoying Tax&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
Appearing this time (mostly) without partner Ratchet, Clank graduates from comedy sidekick to leading robot. Sporting a Bond-style dinner suit and an increasing collection of gadgets, Clank's mission departs from previous outings in that shooting takes a back seat to that dreaded sapper of fun: stealth. Combat, when it does appear, is hampered by a too-closely-zoomed-in camera and weaponry that's just a bit too apologetic for its own good. Platform sections prove irritating, although generous continue points and the fundamentally mechanical nature of its challenges mean you rarely struggle for long. The levels played as Clank's little Gadgebots work nicely and when Ratchet does appear it's usually to do plenty of shooting, but you're left feeling this patchwork of a game does itself few favours by trying to mash in so many playing styles. And stealth: please, no more.
I had high hopes for the Mercedes Coupe. These hopes, it should be acknowledged, rested on nothing more tangible than the phrase "Mercedes Coupe". But in the car business, where armies of publicists are working full time to uncouple meaning from language, those two words still carry some convincingly romantic connotations.They seem to evoke evening jaunts along the Corniche of the C&ocirc;te d'Azur, two lovers driving towards a golden sunset. In my mind's eye, I saw something sophisticated and sleek, urbane but not urban, cool rather than attention-seeking. If it was possible to drive a pair of words then I wanted to drive that sublime handful of syllables all the way to my destiny. And then they were delivered in vehicular form."Where is it?" I asked the guy who came to my door."There," he said."Where?""There.""What," I asked, somewhat bemused, "there?"I was staring directly at the humdrum boot of a chunky-arsed hatchback. Mercedes describes the CLC, one of its "C-class" cars, as "entry-level" and, surveying its expansive backside, you realise that it's vital that the entry is front-on. This is not a car in which you'd want to have to make a memorable first impression in reverse gear.The only thing about the rear that says "Mercedes" is the famous badge. It's rather as if someone had prised it from a real Mercedes and, when no one was looking, stuck it on the back of a Fiat Brava.In fact, the CLC is an update - though not a noticeable one - on the Mercedes Sports Coupe. The company says that it's replaced or changed 1,100 components. Who even knew there were 1,100 components in any car? It seems an awful lot of effort to make a design seem so similar to its predecessor.If someone spent a fortune on plastic surgery and looked unchanged afterwards, we might wonder at their appreciation of aesthetics, not to mention economics. But in the car world things are different, which is to say the same is always different.Happily, the front, with its handsome signature grill, does look like a Merc. And that, after all, is surely the point. A large part of the reason for buying a Mercedes is because it is a "Mercedes". The whole idea of brands is that you're purchasing not just the design and engineering but also the status. So why pay for a brand name when it doesn't look like the brand? In fashion, designers got round that by introducing "diffusion" lines: essentially a pretentious description of cheap gear sold at inflated prices.On first drive, that was what I thought of the CLC. It seemed rudimentary and unresponsive, almost cumbersome. But after a period of readjustment, during which I banished thoughts of the fictional coupe on the Corniche, I began to enjoy its stripped-down style, exemplified by the simple, unfussy control panel. I even got used to the slightly awkward steering.There was something appealingly retro about the experience, vaguely reminiscent of a 1970s Ford Capri. That's probably not the image Mercedes was thinking of, though it may well be an improvement on a Fiat Brava. Does it, however, say Mercedes? In the manual, yes, but not, alas, in the imagination.Mercedes-Benz CLC 200 CDIPrice£21,015Top speed129mphAcceleration0-62 in 11.3 secondsAverage consumption48.7mpgCO² emissions152g/kmEco rating7/10At the wheelDwain ChambersBound forRamsgateIn a wordDisappointing
MondayYour Fallout 3 questions answeredWill a bigger Xbox 360 hard drive attract new users?Will Star Trek Online be the geekiest game of all time?Codemasters boss warns against outsourcing - do actions speak louder than words?TuesdayLondon Games Fringe: events please!New Lara revealed - but is Ms Croft totally last gen?WednesdayPre-Ig: beta runs of Igfest pervasive gamingTV on your PS3ThursdayPES 2009 promises, but can it deliver?Best of ChatterboxFridayVideogames = literacyWe want to play together
I don't usually mention the monthly US games sales figures as tracked by NPD, but the latest list (July) has a mix of formats, and shows that Wii game sales are not bad at all -- especially if you're Nintendo, rather than a heavily-squeezed third party developer. However, neither the PlayStation 2 nor the PSP got a game on the list. Anyway, the Top Ten is:1. NCAA Football 2009 (360): 398,000 2. Wii Fit (Wii): 370,000 3. Guitar Hero: On Tour (DS): 310,000 4. Wii Play (Wii): 284,000 5. NCAA Football 2009 (PS3): 243,000 6. Soul Calibur IV (360): 219,000 7. Mario Kart Wii (Wii): 175,000 8. Rock Band (Wii): 166,000 9. Soul Calibur IV (PS3): 156,000 10. Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution (360): 148,000It's also nice to see the latest example of the Greatest Game Of All Time in 10th place.Asgamesindustry.biznotes, July 2008's US sales topped $591 million, up 41% on July 2007. This year's cumulative US sales are now $4.9 billion.
It might not have made theViral video chart, but a pair of videos featuring a foul-mouthed child chef calledLittle Gordonhave been making me laugh for the past few days. And they're ads for acatering jobs website, fergudsake. So, as Friday draws to a close, what better way to relax than sit back in the office and crank the sound on your computer to maximum?
It's always fun watching a bandwagon when the wheels are coming off, and so it is with the overhyped trend for "cloud computing". Rafe Needleman has compiled a list of the10 Worst Web glitches of 2008 (so far), saying: "We have been reminded several times lately that Web 2.0 is in no way a synonym for 'reliable'." SoIs the Web crumbling? Well, no, it's not. But users' expectations are rising, and Web companies often get themselves into trouble by promising far more than they can deliver.I can hear the Google sales pitch now: "Use Gmail and you can use email from anywhere, at any time ... except the times you can't log in, the times when you hit Send and we suggest you try later, the times when the whole system is down, and the times when we decide todisable your account, which therefore locks you out of Gmail, Picasa, Google Docs, and everything else that uses the same ID. Have a nice day now!"Such problems are not, of course, specific to Google, as the Web glitches list amply shows.Nor are problems specific to "cloud computing": the early mainframes, minis and micros were pretty flaky, too. The real issue is whether users are being told the truth or sold a pup that still has some growing up to do.
Global Voices, has an editorial in theAsian Wall Street Journalabout Chinese censorship - especially the sort which is less obvious to external observers. On her blog sheexpands it further, giving a detailed description of how various blogging providers take it upon themselves to censor their services, often censoring things the firewall has left intact.Worth a read.
The gPhone thing seems to have been going forever, but a fuzzy YouTube video that claims to show the HTC "Dream" mobile phone appearedrecently, and nowThe New York Timessays it should be out by Christmas -- possibly as early as October.The phone's release date depends on how soon the Federal Communications Commission certifies that the Google software and the HTC phone meet network standards. Executives at all three companies are hoping to announce the phone in September because they would benefit from holiday season sales. The people briefed on the discussions declined to be named because they were not authorized to discuss the project.Later, the NYT says:Executives for T-Mobile, the nation's No 4 wireless carrier, declined to comment on the new phone except to say it was on track to offer it in the fourth quarter. HTC, which is based in Taiwan, also declined to comment, although executives there have said they expected to deliver their phone by the end of the year.The New York Times doesn't say this, but it looks like bad news for Microsoft. HTC got to be very big very quickly by building its business on manufacturing PocketPC devices (such as the Compaq iPaq) and Windows Mobile phones, which are sold under a wide range of brand names. If HTC swaps Google Android software for Windows Mobile, Microsoft's share of the smart phone market could fall through the floor.Of course, HTC isn't the only company shipping Windows Mobile phones. However, it's the main avenue into the mass market, as opposed to targeting the business sector.
What single-player games do you dream of playing with your mates?GamesRadar's listed five they'd like to see - Legend of Zelda, Half Life 2 (er, Counterstrike), Resident Evil, GTA (in the works...) and Pokemon - but to me it seems they've missed loads (Fable, Metal Gear Solid and Katamary Damacy to name a few).There are so many models for playing MMOs already in place; the most accessible (and successful?) arguably utilised inGuild Wars, where masses of international players meet in hubs and then diffuse into shards to complete their own objectives. But surely there are other models that haven't yet been tried out.But would you want to play your favourite single-player titles with virtual strangers? Is there enough in your game to warrant a long-term relationship with the avatar?
Yahoo last night confirmed the appointment of two former media and technology executives to its board of directors as part of a peace deal struck with dissident investor Carl Icahn.Frank Biondi, the former head of both Universal Studios and Viacom, will join the board of 11 alongside US mobile company Nextel's former chief executive, John Chapple.The appointments follow a truce with Icahn, who spent several billion dollars on buying 5% of Yahoo's stock and is trying to push the company towards renegotiating a takeover deal with Microsoft.Carl Icahn. Photograph: Mark Lennihan/APTo fend off a complete takeover at the company's annual shareholder meeting two weeks ago, Yahoo agreed to give Icahn a seat on the board along with two of his proposed directors.Yahoo chairman Roy Bostock said in a statement that the company is "pleased to add people of Frank's and John's calibre" to Yahoo's board."Frank's extensive experience in the entertainment and media industries, combined with John's deep management experience in telecommunications, will provide valuable perspectives to our already diverse board," Bostock added."We look forward to working with them as our board continues its ongoing efforts to enhance stockholder value."Technology blog TechCrunch said the Yahoo board selected Biondi and Chapple as "the least objectionable of Icahn's henchmen"."Now Icahn, Biondi, and Chapple can vote as a block, although they won't be able to block anything outright on the 11-member board. But they are not there to block anything really. They are there to approve and encourage another deal that results in the sale of Yahoo," TechCrunch added.Biondi, currently president of investment advisors Waterview, spent two years at the head of Universal Studios and nine years as the chief executive of Viacom.Chapple was chief executive of Nextel between 1998 and 2006, and also worked for mobile firms McCaw and AT&amp;T. Both men now work for investment firms.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Windows' two most senior managers,Jon DeVaanandSteven Sinofsky, have started a developer blog devoted toEngineering Windows 7, but they are unlikely to give too much away. The opening post says:Related to disclosure is the idea of how we make sure not to set expectations around the release that end up disappointing you -- features that don't make it, claims that don't stick, or support we don't provide. Starting from the first days of developing Windows 7, we have committed as a team to "promise and deliver". That's our goal -- share with you what we're going to get done, why we're doing it, and deliver it with high quality and on time.Sinofsky -- who delivered the very successful Office 2007 -- might prefer not to talk about it at all. Unfortunately, that's not an option. Windows 7 will be used by more than 10,000 PC manufacturers and will have to run tens of millions of programs, so there is a huge constituency that needs to know where its going. And we're approaching the time when Microsoft will have to start telling many more of them. As the blog says:We have two significant events for developers and the overall ecosystem around Windows this fall. The Professional Developers Conference (PDC) on October 27 and the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference (WinHEC) the following week both represent the first venues where we will provide in-depth technical information about Windows 7.Still, there's probably nothing in the engineering sphere that's as tricky as coming up with a name for the thing. I'd bet it doesn't start with a V, but Windows 7 and Windows 2010 (say "twenty ten", but not a Roman numeral, X) must be possibilities. Sinofsky also runs Windows Live so Windows Live Desktop might just cross his mind, if not Windows XP2.Any ideas?
What's your favourite piece of technology?Right now it's myiPhone, which I just got last week. And the only reason it's my favourite gadget – I don't have the internet on it, I don't have email or anything like that – is because of the quality of the photos.How has it improved your life?Well, I woke up this morning because my iPhone told me to. And I'm away from my three-year-old daughter at the moment, so in the middle of the night I can look at pictures of her.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it this morning as my alarm clock.What additional features would you add if you could?Oh, videos. I'm sure I can download videos onto it, but I'm a luddte and I haven't figured that out yet.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Of course it will – it's technology. Remember the old cell phones that were the size of your shoe? Now you've got this, and [one day] this will be gone and we'll all have microchips in our ears.What one tip would you give to non-iPhone users?The delete thing – where you can push on a message and slide backwards and then press "delete". That's quite clever, somebody told me that recently.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Definitely a luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My car, an Audi S4. Oh, here's my other favourite piece of technology – Bluetooth, because I can synch this phone to my car and when my phone rings it comes through my speakers and I push this little button in my steering wheel and talk. I don't have to pick up a phone or touch anything, it's completely hands-free. My car is not really a vehicle to get me from A to B, it's just a really big telephone.Mac or PC?Mac, because it's simpler. You don't have to double-click as much.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?It's[The Flaming Lips'] Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robotsright now.Will robots rule the world?Don't they now? Have you watched the news lately? Yes, robots rule the world now, they just look like people.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A new digital video camera – theRed One.Amanda Tappingplays Colonel Samantha Carter inStargate: Continuum, which is out on DVD and Blu-ray on Monday
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
The Orwell Prize is publishingthe diaries of George Orwell in blog format, 70 years after they were written. It should be a fascinating way to follow his progress as a writer and essayist. By picking blogging as a way to revisit the works, it's similar toSamuel Pepys' diary- a day-by-day blog of the 17th century which was started more than five years ago by Phil Gyford, and is still going strong. Are there any other diary blogs out there?
This morning'sToday programmeinvited author Ian Rankin and Labour MP Barry Sheerman to discuss the literacy 'problem' amongst today's British young men.How is this related to games, you might ask? Well, Rankin makes a bold statement about two minutes intothe piece: that videogames require literacy skills, but these aren't recognised in the classroom.While I support the notion of games in education, I do feel this is a bit optimistic. After all, the SAT literacy scores of English boys keep going down and the consumption of videogames keeps going up. Do you think that games have the potential to teach reading and writing to a generation?
The sleek, touchscreen iPhone has proved so lucrative for Apple that the electronic gadgets manufacturer has unseated Google to become the most valuable company in America's cradle of technological innovation, Silicon Valley.Queues outside Apple's stores are commonplace since the phone's launch a year ago as shoppers line up to get their hands on the prized device.On Wall Street, the phenomenal popularity of the phone has fuelled a 44% surge in Apple's share price in 12 months. By the close of trading on Wednesday, Apple's market value had edged up to $158.8bn - a shade ahead of Google's $157.2bn.Apple's predominance amounts to a shift in the balance of power in the hi-tech world. The company has repeatedly been able to eclipse rivals with its distinctive, easy-to-use designs. The iMac and the iPod continue to be firm favourites among laptop computer buyers and music fans.Meanwhile, Google's once dazzling star has waned slightly as America's economic slowdown has eaten into online advertising and investors have wondered how the company can produce solid profits from expensive ventures such as the video-sharing website YouTube.Scott Kessler, an equities analyst specialising in technology at Standard &amp; Poor's in New York, said the twin fortunes of Apple and Google were central to the technological landscape: "These are the two companies most currently identified with the notion of innovation - not just in Silicon Valley or in this country but arguably in the world."The milestone amounts to a reassertion of success by an older technological generation. Apple was founded by schoolfriends Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak in 1976 making it elderly in comparison to Google which has only existed for 10 years.Experts say Apple's distinctive skill is its ability to reinvent itself with new products which are typically kept secret until the last possible moment."It's one of the few companies that has been able to internally develop a number of blockbuster products and killer applications," said Kessler.Apple fans tend to attribute a large chunk of the company's success to the personal entrepreneurial instincts of Jobs, who is chief executive and is heavily involved in product development. When Jobs appeared to be gaunt and thinner than usual, Apple's stock briefly slumped last night before the company scotched rumours that he was ill.While Apple and Google differ widely in their business models, they have a degree of personal overlap. Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, sits on Apple's board as a non-executive director. The companies are based barely five miles apart in a sprawling hi-tech corridor running south of San Francisco. Apple is in the town of Cupertino while Google is in neighbouring Mountain View.Neither company offered any immediate reaction to the shift in supremacy. Apple did not return calls and a Google spokesman said: "We never comment on our stock price."However, Apple has had few qualms about boasting of its prowess in the past. When the company's value overtook the computer maker Dell two years ago, Jobs sent out a companywide email reminding staff that Dell's founder had once predicted Apple's imminent demise."Team, it turned out that Michael Dell wasn't perfect at predicting the future," wrote Jobs. "Stocks go up and down, and things may be different tomorrow, but I thought it was worth a moment of reflection today."For Apple, the iPhone has provided an edge in creativity and convenience. When a 3G version of the phone came out last month, Apple sold a million of the handsets in a single weekend.Google is comfortably the global leader in online searches but has seen slowing growth in "paid clicks" - the number of times users alight on lucrative advertisements. Google says this is because better tailored advertising has led to better quality, but less numerous, clicks.Google's shares, which topped $700 late last year, have settled back to just over $500 - but the company's founders, Sergey Brin, 34, and Larry Page, 35, remain billionaires who travel the world on a customised Boeing 767.The pair see conquering space as their next challenge and have put up a $20m prize to anyone who produces a privately financed spacecraft able to land on the moon.Head-to-headApple&middot; Founded in a bedroom in Los Altos, California, by schoolfriends Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak in 1976&middot; Recently settled a long trademark battle with the Beatles' record company Apple Corps, over use of the word "apple" to sell music&middot; Began as a computer manufacturer and has diversified into iPod media players, iTunes online music sales and, most recently, iPhone touchscreen mobile phones&middot; Apple's iTunes website has sold more than 5bn songs&middot; Annual sales of $24bn and profits of $3.5bnGoogle&middot; Established by Stanford University graduates Larry Page and Sergey Brin in 1998&middot; Based initially in a garage in Menlo Park, California&middot; Named after the word googol - which is the number one followed by one hundred zeros&middot; Has expanded from a powerful internet search engine  into online applications such as word processing and spreadsheet tools, and owns the video-sharing website YouTube&middot; The company slogan is "don't be evil"&middot; Annual revenue of $16.6bn and profits of $4.2bn
Welcome to another week of Chatterbox action, where gaming takes a distant second place to matters of the stomach - or more accurately, pie-eating. With Olympics chatter and other topical subjects eventually bobbing about, the real question of the week turns out to be - will an APC be useful when the zombies come?The answer may surprise you...Friday kicks off with pies and to be honest never really moves on. Which is the best pie?Whereis the best pie? Can there be such a thing as a vegetarian pie? The rules, it turns out, are stringent. "I cannot accept Shepherds pie as a true pie," complains Milkncheese. "It lacks the requisite pastry shell to truly be considered worthy of the name. I see it more as some kind of relative of the lasagna." After several hours of heated debate,Pieminister piesof Bristol come in for special commendation.Next, hangover cures come in for analysis - paracetamol or ibuprofen? With juice? Or coffee? Or nothing? Considering that the risks apparently include liver failure and/or gut rot, it may be best just to stay in bed and sweat it out. And then... back to pies! Or more accurately pies vs pasties, and then - gulp - pie sandwiches. Pie sandwiches?!Finally the subject turns to games... The Olympic Games, that is. CBPodge takes it upon himself to describe the epic majesty of the opening ceremony: "they've currently got thousands of Chinese people making a giant moving dove around a piano. Which they've now turned into a model of the stadium..." Sue Barker, eat your heart out.And somehow, more pies. And quiches. And apparently, gooseberry crumble is mankind's greatest gift to the universe. Finally, at around three o'clock someone mentions a game - Chrono Trigger on DS! No one notices however, as the cockney rhyming slang for tramp crops up. Then, for the love of god, more pies. Soul Calibur IV? Oh go on then, just a few comments mind, then back to pies. Oh, and being sick.Over the weekend, a little on the new PS3 and a smattering of Braid love. Monday detonates with game chat - Drake's Fortune, Morrowwind, Rock Band, Fire Emblem, Mario Galaxy - it's like pies never happened. 10.20am and poor old Silverfox mopes up with tales of a hellish weekend, covered in the pox. How bad was it? "Haven't even had the energy or desire to turn the 360," he complains bitterly. Get well soon!Some football transfer gossip, some game tactics on a game I miss the name of and can't identify from subsequent posts. I enjoy BillyBrush's brief but descriptive Saint's Row 2 preview:GTA fans prepare to swap sludgy walking and dodgy lock on for dressing up as a hotdog and taking helicopters down with an unlimited shot missile launcher...bwoohaa!...it's teh post GTA irony fun machine, and i think anyone who takes a punt is going to have a rather large smile on their face...GTA is to be admired, Saints row is to have some fun fun fun, then discarded like a dirrty ho.It's just like reading Edge...Tuesday. Daniel Aronofsky's forthcoming Robocop re-make: could go either way. Swash gets extra points for name-checking one of my favourite movies, Shinya Tsukamoto's Tetsuo: The Iron Man (check out the sequel, Body Hammer, and also Tokyo Fist). The talk turns to good and bad re-makes, and Ash1975 asks when re-makes got re-branded as re-boots... I agree with Humofevil - re-boot refers specifically to when a new movie/series, goes back to the roots of the original and re-writes it all, rather than simply modernizing a single film. Anyway, The Fly comes out well, Dawn of the Dead less so, someone mistakingly criticises De Palma's Scarface - a movie that characterizes the Thatcher/Regan eighties like no other.Briggsy brings up PS3 Linux, and the hit-and-miss fun of running MAME emulations on it ("Newer games like Virtua Fighter are unplayable but it's good for stuff like Puzzle Bobble.") There's some talk of hard and soft Xbox modding, and a little onPolicy Exchange's conclusionthat Northern cities have 'failed'. Failed at what? Being in the South? ChedderFrenzy's, well, frenzied response is largely unprintable here.Dizzyisanegg asks one of those questions that seems obvious, but actually requires a little thought: whydopeople play Team Fortress? Loser sums it up best: "The real genius of the game is the balance, the nine different character classes all feel useful and the team that plays as a team pretty much always wins. The variety of game modes is also impressive". Olympics chat is confined to Emma Pooley's silver medal and the horrific injury sustained by Hungarian weightlifter Janos Baranyai (footagehere- if you're feeling sadistic). Then it's back to the North, specifically Liverpool. Is it screwed? Maybe. Partly. But it's screwed in a beautiful Northern way.Wednesday and it's MGO disappointment ahoy - there's no-one online, since the game's server meltdown troubles (just four hundred people hanging around waiting for non-existent games apparently). As the war in Georgia rumbles on, so does the Chatterbox analysis - ImperfectRex asks the questions no TV reporter dares to:Are the Russians and Georgians certain that they're fighting the right people? From what I can see, they are using the same weapons, vehicles and uniforms. And there is little ethnic separation. How could you be sure that you've just directed a mortar round into a Russian advance unit and not your own canteen?Can't see that one coming up on Newsnight.Naturally, there's a lot of talk about the best way to fuel an APC in the event of a zombie apocalypse, which leads onto a general discussion about those military mags we all read as impressionable schoolboys. What next? Ah, Cossacks - wheredidthey come from? And who were they? It's a more complicated subject then you could ever know - or indeed want to know. Less complicated is the Daily Mail's hysterical (in all senses of the word) reaction to Mad World, which I ignore on Gamesblog out of sheer mental exhaustion, but which Elquesodiablo brings into the Wednesday mix. Mediawatch-uk blabbermouth John Beyer is rightfully derided for suggesting that the game should be denied a BBFC certificate because it, "sounds very unsavoury". Have standards of moral debate really sunk so low?Tomaszek cheers us up by linking toa trailer of BlazBlue, the latest 2D fighter from Arc System Works. There is something in the belligerent survival of the sprite-driven beat-'em-up that says, 'you know what MediaWatch? Games will win'. And when America attacks Russia, bringing with it the inevitable zombie apocalypse, the roaring sound that follows will be a thousand Russian APCs filled with Gamesblog readers. And soon after, the only question that really matters: which weapon willyouchoose?Mentioned (and largely recommended) in Chatterbox this week:TV and filmPlanet Earth (Blu-ray version) The orphanage The Host Day of the Dead Infernal Affairs Robocop American BeautyGamesBraid Siren COD 4 PES Soul Calibur IV Space Invaders Extreme Oblivion Warhawk Fight Night Round 3Quotes and questions"God, I wish I could make a pie right now."Fantomex gets carried away during Friday's pie discussion."Human rights abuses notwithstanding, and given the general shitness of the Olympics, it's some impressive choreography. Can't somehow see London coming up with anything anywhere near as good, unless it's some sort of massive knife fight"Crispycrumb enters the Olympics political correctness finals and staggers in last."Our newsagent is a cruel man. And a PS3 zealot."Elquesodiablo on why traditional corner shops are dying out."The plughole in my bath is draining really slowly. I've tried a small plunger and have poured some of those drain cleaning fluids down there but no joy. Anybody have any tips?"MajorDeCoverley auditions for the next series of How Clean is your House?"Imagine it - Masterchef on the PSP on the way the work!"Chubter2010 practices for his Dragon's Den appearance"Just how much of a pervert do you have to be to leave the tea bag in the cup?"Is that a euphemism, Smellavision?"Is it wrong that my main thoughts are 'I'd really like one of those Russian APC's in the event of a zombie uprising?'"Milkncheese reports live from the bombed-out remains of Gori..."Tanks are useless in a zombie apocalypse. You'd be fine while there's fuel in the tank, but as soon as you run out you're effectively trapped with nowhere to go. The logistics needed to keep a mechanised force in use are massive."Amipal takes the zombie threat a bit too seriously.
The next series of geek comedyThe IT Crowdis going to start shooting in a few weeks, and writer Graham Linehan ison the lookoutfor some proper props to dress the set. "I'm talking about posters, comics, fanzines, T-shirts... anything you've seen in the last few months that you think is pretty cool or captures the spirit of the show or a particular character." I'm already digging around in my collection of high-end nerd paraphernalia.
Today, the print Guardian devoted most of page 3 to the new Ofcom report, with a story by Richard Wray that you can read online atHow we watch now: tune in, log on, call up.I can't see a link to the original report, but it'sThe Communications Market 2008 (August).Some of the Telecoms highlights are as follows:* By the end of 2007, there were almost 74 million mobile connections serving a population of 60 million in the UK. This was an increase of 3.7 million connections since the end of 2006. The total number of mobile connections increased by 48 per cent in the five years from 2002. * Seven out of ten people with a mobile phone and a landline use their mobile to make calls, even when they are at home. One in ten people with a landline at home said that they never use it to make calls. * We are a nation of texters. In the UK, nearly 60 billion text messages were sent in 2007 - an increase of 36 per cent since 2006 and up by 234 per cent since 2002 when we sent 17 billion texts. The average mobile phone user sent 67 texts per month from each mobile compared to 53 texts per month in 2006. * The majority of children have access to the internet and most have a mobile phone but they use them in different ways. Boys aged 8-11are twice as likely to use the internet every day than girls of the same age (45 per cent compared to 22 per cent). Meanwhile girls aged 12 -15 are more likely to use a mobile phone than boys of the same age (74 per cent compared to 65 per cent). * Instant messaging is more popular than email amongst children with 62 per cent of 12-15 year old sending an instant message, compared with 43 per cent of them sending an email. Adults prefer to email - 80 per cent of adults sent an email compared to 34 per cent who used instant messaging.You are, of course, welcome to discuss these and other points below....
Let's face it the annualPESvsFIFAbattle is even more predictable and dull than the Premiership. Everyone knows that FIFA will be polished and sexy but ultimately come second to the on pitch beauty of PES. But could this year finally see the tide turning in FIFA's favour?I'm a card carrying member of the PES Appreciation Society but last year was the first time I seriously considered switching to FIFA. PES 2008 was *still* more fun to play - the trademark delay between button press and on-screen action was still present in FIFA '08 and players generally never felt 100% under control - but the laggy and basic online modes were a a real problem for Konami's game. FIFA '08 may have lacked on the pitch but the online options (leagues, 5vs5) and the play-as-one-player-on-a-team Be a Pro mode meant I spent more time on a FIFA game than I had for years. In fact, for the first time sinceMatt Le Tissierwas the world's greatest footballer I'm officially excited about the next FIFA game. Konami, perhaps realising that the tide is turning, have apparently "pulled out all the stops" for PES 2009. Let's hope that translates to "fixing the godawful online play". Anyway, from today's press release:"We have pulled out all the stops to make PES 2009 a landmark in footballing games," commented Jon Murphy, PES Project Leader for Konami Digital Entertainment GmbH. "From the most basic controls, through to the wide-ranging additions to game modes such as "Become a Legend", all-new visuals, sound, and the Edit mode, Seabass and his team have strived to cram as much as they can into the new game. And with more online announcements to follow, there is every reason to believe that PES 2009 is the football game everyone has been waiting for."Let's hope so. Any other PES diehards feeling the pull of FIFA 09?
As blogs have become mainstream (see TechCrunch etc) and mainstream media have started blogging (in my case, since 2001), the two areas have started to overlap. Bloggers have naturally become PR targets, as just another way to get the message across. But where does this leave bloggers? What value is a sales pitch that says: "we're like TechCrunch, but smaller?"This is a question that blogger Robert Scoble has been asking recently, and he's rounded it all up with a long post:What do the freaking tech bloggers want?It's a running conversation and the opening section covers the background. However, scroll down to the section that starts: "OK, Scoble, wrap it up. What are some things that you tech blogger types want from PR?" In nine points, he provides a good guide to the direction PR 2.0 should be going. And as he implies in his first point, it has to be personal:PR people are doing themselves a disservice when they just treat journalists and bloggers like cattle. Every time I get an email pitch it reminds me that I'm being treated like cattle. Especially when I get together with Arrington and Malik and Lacy and other bloggers and we see that we got the same pitch. Moooooo!Of course, Scoble is correct is saying this is true for journalists working for mainstream outlets, as well as bloggers: the personal approach works at all levels. It always has. It's just moved from the pub or the golf course to Twitter.But because there are not enough "personal hours" to go around, this means a handful of bloggers (eg Robert Scoble) will get preferential treatment, just the way a handful of tech journalists on The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, Business Week and Newsweek get preferential treatment.So how is this different?I'm not saying blogs don't have a point: after all, I've put myself out for years to help get the Guardian into blogging. But it still seems to me that, from a PR point of view, blogs and MSM are all parts of the same very wide spectrum....And at least the boring old press release puts everyone on the same level.
A New Jersey judge has dismissed defamation claims against the operator of Wikipedia in arulingthat theElectronic Frontier Foundationis calling "a victory for free speech and user-generated content".The EFF and the law firm of Sheppard Mullin Richter &amp; Hampton represented Wikimedia,In thiscase, a literary agent sued Wikimedia, saying it wasliable for statements identifying her as one of the "dumbest of the twenty worst" agents and that she had "no documented sales at all."There's more background atMediaPost.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
We'll forgive you if you missed the Guardian's amusingLOLBushseries, depicting George's holiday at the Olympics through the medium of image macros. Not only should it raise a laugh, but it could be something more: Adam Lindsay, the creator ofLOLCode, thinks it could mark the start ofworld domination: it "seems to mark a new point in the development of LOLCat... this is mainstream coverage that goes beyond 'Oh, look at those wacky geeks and their wacky humor.' "
Microblogging service Twitter is downgrading its service for users in the UK. Brits, who were previously limited to receiving 250 texts a week, will no longer be able to receiveanyupdates by SMS. That's right, zero. In an email to users andblog post, Biz Stone says it's the money. "Even with a limit of 250 messages received per week, it could cost Twitter about $1,000 per user, per year to send SMS outside of Canada, India, or the US." Is this the beginning of the end for the much-vaunted app?
How do I stop them?John KirkhamYou can't, but they should be sorted into your spam folder. If not, create a rule to do this. These emails are not really from CNN, though they are a good imitation. Click a link in the latest version, My Custom Alert, and it takes you to a Russian website, where you are asked to download a malware version of Adobe's Flash player (adobe_flash.exe). This installs a Trojan downloader which runs a service called CbEvtSvc and connects to a remote host, as describedhere.If you have downloaded anything, your anti-malware software should remove it. If not, try runningSuperAntiSpyware.Update: No CNN Alerts this morning, but I've had half a dozenMSNBC Breaking Newsspams. These appear to be the same sort of thing....
I have used Nikon Fotoshare to send photos by email. It was very quick and easy. Nikon is now offering My Picturetown. This is very slow to upload, and I cannot find out how to email the photos.Robin HoodFotoshare is an online photo album. Nikon plans to close it on September 10 and will then delete all the photos people have uploaded.MyPictureTown.comis similar but has drag-and-drop uploading and is claimed to be easier to use. There are a great many alternatives, includingPhotobucket(owned by MySpace), WebShots (American Greetings), Flickr (Yahoo), Picasa (Google) and Windows Live Photo Gallery (Microsoft). SmugMug is good but not free.They all have their fans, many of whom use more than one, so now there isframechannel.comto manage multiple services.There are even more sites that cater for people who want to upload one or two images, such asImagevenue.com. You can use them without opening an account or signing in. When you upload a photo, these sites usually provide several links to cater for web pages and different types of message board.Unfortunately, many of these sites make their money by displaying popup adverts, and some may even try to install malware. The best rule is to copy the "direct link" and email that instead of the photo. Avoid any links that contain the letters php.Note: Imagevenue also uses php scripting but I have used it a few times over several years without finding any problems. A newer option ishttp://jpghosting.com/, but I'm open to suggestions -- preferably not ones that are riddled with porn!
I have installed the BBC iPlayer, but every time I activate it, a program called Kontiki pops up.DenisWhen you download TV programmes using iPlayer -- as distinct from watching streamed versions online -- they are downloaded using Kontiki. This is a peer-to-peer file sharing program, which is also used by similar services such as Sky by Broadband and Channel 4's 4oD.The problem is that Kontiki seems to load and use your bandwidth, even if you are not using iPlayer: use the Windows Task Manager to see if Kservice is running.The BBC has ahelp pagethat explains how to stop it running on startup and when you are not using iPlayer. You can remove it altogether using thekclean.exe programfrom OMN. However, if you do, any Kontiki-based programs such as iPlayer will stop working.
I have a not-that-old HP OfficeJet 6110 all-in-one printer/scanner/copier which I've recently replaced. It works, but is a little streaky on some printing. I've been trying to get rid of it in an ecologically sound way, but to no avail.Chris RowburyYou could offer it on eBay, noting the fault and offering it as for "spares or repair" and probably "collect only". Otherwise, tryFreecycle. This can be a quick way of finding good homes for all sorts of things you no longer want.
Some people who bought the new iPhone 3G have been complaining about poor 3G performance and lots of dropped calls. When it has problems with the 3G signal, it's supposed to drop back to the 2.5G system (Edge) used by the original iPhone, but it seems it doesn't always work.The complaints are not new -- CNet reportediPhone 3G network issues frustrating early adopterson July 23 -- but they have been growing, and neither Apple nor AT&amp;T seems to have a grip on the problem. This week, CNet reportedApple, AT&amp;T mum on iPhone 3G issues, saying:Repeated attempts over the past week to get Apple and AT&amp;T to even acknowledge the uproar -- if not the issues specifically -- proved pointless. Apple didn't even attempt to answer the questions, deferring inquiries to AT&amp;T, which declared that there were absolutely no widespread problems with the iPhone 3G on its network.Some people think it may be an AT&amp;T problem. In a Wired story --What's Wrong With the 3G in iPhone 3G?-- David Nowicki from Airvana argues thatwhen AT&amp;T deployed its 3G equipment, the company put it on its existing transmission towers. Those towers were spaced based on the requirements of earlier, 2G technology, which has a longer effective range than 3G. That means that on the edges of any given cell, 3G reception is going to be much worse than comparable 2G or 2.5G (EDGE) reception.However, iPhone users in other countries have also had problems, includingAustralia. One article there --iFail: Will Apple be forced to recall the iPhone 3G?-- points out: "my last Nokia was 3G nearly three years ago and worked".In the Netherlands,T-Mobile blames Apple(the original page ishere). But if that's true, you can take your pick of the possibilities, which include poor 3G reception (claimed by aSwedish researcher) andfaulty chips.The iPhone's 3G problems follow on from the launchactivation problems, software problems (apparently fixed by asoftware update), someGPSissues, theMobileMe cockups, andcracksappearing in some new iPhones.If you have one, how's yours?
In these days of epic multiplayer worlds and hi-def first person shooters with accurately modelled weapon ballistics, the beat-'em-up genre can feel a little anachronistic. Sure, Street Fighter and the like were amusing enough on the SNES in 1992, but can the genre still be relevant in 2008? Soulcalibur IV would suggest so. This is a stylish and enjoyable fighting game that successfully allows both button-bashing novices and dexterous devotees to indulge in some swashbuckling combat. Star Wars fans will enjoy it too, with Darth Vader and Yoda appearing as playable characters. At its core, though, SC IV is an old-fashioned fighting game that rewards patience and practice. There is a surprising depth to the action - as usual, blocking and timing are key - and multiplayer is where the real fun is to be found. The character design - all pneumatic chests and short skirts - shows the genre has still not outgrown its adolescent market, but older players might still enjoy a nostalgic return to their button-bashing heyday.
We're well into the summer software slump now, which explains why Pool Party even gets a look-in. Sadly, it's hardly worth the effort. Visually it's not too bad, with crisp-looking 3D tables and convincing physics governing cue and ball movement. The problems start with using the Wiimote as a cue, with a clumsy prodding motion that feels nothing like the real thing. Flashy motion-blur effects and 31 annoying songs hardly compensate for ponderous AI and players you can't customise. It's a pity, because with 13 different playing modes, there's plenty of ball-bashing on offer. If only it were fun to play.
My great-grandfather drank infrequently but seriously, as a respectable Protestant in county Fermanagh should. Sessions involved a bottle of whiskey, some suitable masculine company and a little ritual to start the evening off. He would retire to his study with bottle and guest, remove the cork from the bottle and throw it on the fire. While it burned, they would drink the first toast, which was always the same: "Fuck the Pope!" Then the glasses would be drained.There were few men he liked to drink with. One thought worthy was the local Catholic priest. This raised a difficulty with the toast, which was solved by the priest waiting discreetly outside the study until it was time for the second glass. After that there would be no toasts or talk offensive to his ears, and he was warmly welcomed.How very different the conduct of religious discussions on the internet. On the web the participants are often sober and they spare no pains to offend and insult one another, even when there is nothing at stake. I nearly wrote "nothing but prestige" but prestige in whose eyes? Who is watching? The strange, weightless intimacy of online communication has enabled complete strangers to hate each other passionately within minutes. This has had measurable effects in the real world. In the US, for instance, the breakup of the Anglican Communion has already resulted in some huge and juicy lawsuits and will certainly result in many more as conservative parishes try to remove their churches from the liberal central body. The schism could never have happened without the internet, which allowed each side to see exactly what the other was up to, and then deliberately to misunderstand it.The same thing is happening in another American context, where the New Atheists are winding up the creationists and vice versa. Last month the American evangelical atheist and biology professor PZ Myers made a series of posts announcing that there was nothing magical in a consecrated communion wafer: that it was, as he said repeatedly "just a cracker", and that if anyone could get him one he would desecrate it to prove the point. Naturally, this brought out of the woodwork all the Catholics crazy enough to take him seriously. He was sent death threats and his university was asked to sack him. All this correspondence from disturbed people he gleefully printed, as if it demonstrated the essential irrationality of all Christians.Finally he posted a photograph of his bin, in which reposed a consecrated wafer which he had stabbed with a rusty nail, along with a few ripped-out pages of the Qur'an and some from Richard Dawkins' The God Delusion. Almost all the thousands of comments that followed were entirely predictable. I gave up after the first couple of hundred, but none I found from either side made any attempt to understand why their opponents might be upset or what they might be trying to say.But then Myers is also the author of the The Courtier's Defence, a little essay described by Dawkins as "brilliant" because it claims that there is no need for atheists to understand what theologians say because they already know that the theologians are talking about something that doesn't exist. This dismissal, in advance, of everything your opponents might say as meaningless is the hallmark of all popular philosophical or religious discussion on the internet. It's odd to find it so enthusiastically embraced by academics, because it is not so very different at all from the demand of students opposed to all uncomfortable learning that anything they don't understand should be removed from the syllabus.In County Fermanagh, religious differences were real enough for people to kill one another: my great-grandfather is buried in Enniskillen, which was the scene of one of the worst bombings. Perhaps because of that, people learned not to give offence unless there was something really serious at stake. But online, everything feels like a game, and in the teeth of all the evidence we persist in believing that there is a clear sharp line between gaming and reality.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
EC's talking carsThe European Commission has reserved a segment of wireless spectrum to allowcars to talk to one another, to help prevent accidents.AirDrives hook earsAirDrives Interactive Earphonessit outside your ears, so you can still hear what's going on. MadCatz is now bringing them to the UK.Star Trek onlineAt a Star Trek convention in Las Vegas, actor Leonard "Mr Spock" Nimoy previewed Cryptic Studios' forthcomingStar Trek Online multiplayer game.USB animal funThumbs Up's range ofUSB-powered toysnow includes a hamster in a wheel, an owl ... and a couple of missile launchers.Cybersocial studiesNottingham Trent University reckons it is first in the UK to offer a postgraduate degree incyberpsychology.Mobile DVD recorderFreecom is targeting buyers of new-style subnotebooks with a pocket-sized external DVD+/-RW drive, theLS Pro.HD OlympicsThe BBC is broadcasting around300 hours of Beijing coveragein high-def via Freesat, which Bush hopes will sell lots of BFSAT01HD boxes for &pound;119.99.Texting for answersHow many questions hasAQA 63336answered via SMS? So far, 14m, says the service.
Chinese censorshipThe Olympic Games have kicked off in China, and as the world turns its attention to Beijing, it's not just the sport that has come into focus (Chaos aims to crack China's wall, August 7). Along with China's pollution and political repression, its policies towards online freedom have also been put under the microscope. I was listening to the Guardian's excellent Tech Weekly podcast, which was discussing the so-called Great Firewall of China.  What struck me most was how many parallels there are with what happens in China as there are with what goes on in the Middle East, and how much less global concern there seems to be about abuses of freedom in this part of the world.itp.net/blogsThe Chaos Computer Club are not hackers in the common sense of the term (think of them as "good hackers"). Rather, they are advocates of electronic privacy and freedom, and create some pretty useful and interesting software projects. Their latest is a damn fine one.borepatch.blogspot.comNintendocsAssuming future studies make similar findings, the folks in Phoenix may have stumbled upon a way to save many lives (Why a Wii could be good for your health, August 7). Taking the idea step further, I wonder if it would be possible to use Nintendo Wiis to screen applicants to surgical programmes. According to a friend of mine who is a plastic surgeon, the current admissions process makes no consideration of a would-be surgeon's manual dexterity or grace under pressure before allowing him to train for surgery.techblog.dallasnews.comApparently the Wii is good for something. I'm going to buy me one just so I can save on medical bills and do my own surgery on the family at home.lr50.spaces.live.com/blogElectricity not so dirtyI'm puzzled by the figures Prof John Miles gives in his letter of August 7. He estimates that power-station and transmission losses waste 80% of the energy input. ButProf John Young and Dr Alex Whitequote efficiency of "just under 60%" for combined gas-steam turbine generation.Udo Kremeragrees with them, and gives 43% efficiency even for power stations burning soft coal. As for transmission and distribution losses, these seem to beless than 7.5%. Combining these figures would indicate between 39% and 53% efficiency in the supply of electricity from a power station burning fossil fuel.Stephen Earl,OxfordWhat cloud-cuckooland does John Miles live in? An electric car uses only the same resources in its production as any other car. In its running, it uses no electricity from the national grid and emits no O2. So the argument simply does not hold water.Chris Rigby,DevonNo iPhone ireApple says that there are 100,000 SDK downloads for the phone. When I looked for the wave of anger Charles Arthur referred to I just couldn't find it (Apple is turning its friends into enemies, August 7). What I do see is a wave of software and the blogger comparing the phone unfavourably to a computer. Of course it is a computer, and of course it has much less functionality than OS X, but though a lot of the phone apps are a bit like widgets, they are multiplying apace. A lot of developers like Rogue - but also Omni, Novamind, Devon etc - are making good money out of the basic platform and some of them are already getting onto the phone.Stephen Feber,via emailTouch the futureWith regards to your discussion on whether touchscreen technology will take over from the mouse (or keyboard), you did not even touch (excuse the pun) on the reason touch technology has became so popular (Touch takes hold, but it's no mouse-killer, July 24). This is simply down to the emergence of "cheap" multitouch displays. I agree when you say it is unlikely to overtake the keyboard, given you can already use your 10 fingers to work with a keyboard. This is why I see touch becoming a mouse-killer and not a keyboard-killer.Michael Ruddy,via email
We all know the feeling. We shop around for the best deals, marvel at the extra features we're getting for our buck, but every time we upgrade we end up spending slightly more. The government has the same problem, only its numbers are bigger: last year, it spent &pound;13.2bn on IT, 6.6% up on 2005-06.For some that will be evidence enough of a government chucking money at favoured suppliers. But the total, and the underlying figures, deserve more attention than that.In the great scheme of things, &pound;13bn isn't necessarily extravagant - it's about 2% of public spending. Private businesses generally devote at least three times that proportion of their turnover to IT, and 2% seems to be in line with what the governments of other developed nations spend.Nonetheless, that &pound;13bn is money that could be spent cleaning hospitals, hiring teachers, or satisfying other electorally appealing demands on the public purse. The people allocating that &pound;13bn to IT have a special duty to demonstrate publicly that they're acting wisely.They have taken some steps in that direction. Perhaps the most remarkable thing about the 6.6% figure is that this is the first time in history that such a year-on-year comparison has been officially available. However, because there have been so many changes in administrative machinery and accounting procedures, we'll probably need at least another year's figures to get an accurate trend.Some interesting vignettes emerge, however. The largest single item, local government, fell by 18% last year, as councils cut their IT budgets to 2004 levels. The Ministry of Defence, on the other hand, increased its IT spend, second only to the NHS's for a single organisation, by more than 19%. While half the increase is down to accounting changes, "a substantial part" has gone into the new Defence Information Infrastructure. I hope the guys in Helmand notice the benefits.Another big operator is the Department for Work and Pensions. It managed to trim 5% from a billion-pound IT spend by squeezing new terms from its main suppliers, led by BT and EDS. The department's ability to extract good deals is critical to the whole transformation programme, which requires the rest of the public sector to make use of DWP systems such as its customer database, the Government Connect data-sharing network and the Directgov website for citizens.The argument is that, because the DWP has to operate on a gigantic scale, other parts of the government machine may as well ride on its back. The buzzword is "shared services", under which different bodies share corporate functions such as finance and personnel, reversing a decades-old trend of allowing different agencies to do their own thing. However, there is a fine line between achieving economies of scale and returning to a 1960s-style dependence on government-wide data centres.Another awkward point is that sharing services and systems doesn't necessarily save money, at least not on the timescales demanded. New systems cost money to set up and audit reports paint a consistent picture of hopelessly optimistic predictions of savings failing to materialise in the real world.This can't go on. Public bodies are going to have to make real cuts, and unless investment can produce immediate savings, IT is a good place to start. I suspect that, the next time the IT spending figures are due, ministers will want that 6.6% figure to have a minus sign in front.
If your web connection slows down dramatically it could be because too many people are using the BBC's iPlayer. It has been a huge success and could soon account for 10% of UK traffic. That is the problem: it devours bandwidth, and internet service providers (ISPs) are up in arms. They argue that because of the success of a tax-funded service they are being forced to boost capacity while getting nothing in return beyond their monthly subscriptions. They want the BBC to pay for extra capacity.Isn't that rich? Because British ISPs - unlike their counterparts in other countries - can't provide fast enough broadband, they are blaming the BBC (not other big downloaders such as YouTube) for being too successful in generating demand. ISPs rightly argue that the BBC already pays &pound;100m a year for the transmission of broadcasts, so why shouldn't it pay for extra capacity associated with iPlayer downloads? But the reason the BBC pays for transmission facilities is that it was forced to privatise a service it previously owned. Would the ISPs be happy if the BBC decided to ease bandwidth congestion by becoming its own ISP? Many customers believe their ISP contract is for unlimited downloads, even though most simply have high ceilings that are rarely reached. If BBC customers were charged for the extra capacity they would be very angry because they have already paid through the licence fee. If the BBC were charged for extra bandwidth, then in fairness so should other heavy bandwidth users. This would mean that ISPs were getting two streams of revenue - from their data suppliers and also their customers.Ed Richards, chief executive of Ofcom, has suggested that some consumers might be willing to pay a premium for higher download limits. That is true, though it would be tragic if Britain ended up with one system for the rich and one for the poor.The iPlayer saga could be just what the country needs to wake up to the fact that our broadband speeds, as opposed to broadband availability, are way behind other leading countries - including not just South Korea and Japan, but France as well. One of the key factors governing economic growth in future could be the speed of a country's broadband as digital breakthroughs in other services - including health, education, high-definition television and virtual worlds - demand more capacity. Those of us who have argued for decades that supply would create its own demand for broadband are being proved right with a vengeance. A few years ago, leading companies, such as BT, and politicians, not least Gordon Brown, wondered where services would spring up to justify the investment in faster broadband. BT has had a partial change of mind with its recent &pound;1.5bn investment in "superfast" broadband for 10m homes by 2012, but it still won't be as fast as some countries are enjoying now. Meanwhile, BT will have to slow down the whole network when the going gets tough.It is possible that market forces, goaded by a pro-active Ofcom, could provide the answer. If punters find that their iPlayer will only work properly if they change their ISP (possibly paying a bit more), then other ISPs will have to follow or wither away. But there is another player in this scenario: the government. For 25 years there has been a debate about whether Britain should install a huge-capacity optical fibre network right to the home. This hasn't happened because of politics and because engineers have found amazing new ways of sending TV and internet signals down old copper wire. But further progress is limited. The government invests in roads and schools as an economic necessity. There is a case also for investing in, or subsidising, a national fibre-optic network to the home for everyone.The future, unquestionably, is for very, very fast broadband. The success of the iPlayer is merely the latest driver. It could even be Gordon Brown's Big Idea.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Yes, but perhaps only after it becomes a newspaper reader. One of the drawbacks with today's ebook readers is the price of the hardware, which ranges up to &pound;400. Even after this year's $40 price cut, Amazon's ebook reader, the Kindle, costs $359. Not many people buy enough books to recoup the cost. However, if it could replace a printed newspaper, regular readers could probably recover the hardware cost in a few months - or they might be given one free.The Kindle has been very successful by ebook standards, and Citigroup analyst Mark Mahaney has just doubled his projections for Kindle sales to 378,000 units for this year, 934,000 next year and 4.4m in 2010. "Turns out the Kindle is becoming the iPod of the book world," hetold Citigroup clients.The numbers are small compared to other consumer electronics devices. For comparison, Apple sold around 8.2m iPods in the US in last year's Christmas quarter, Nintendo's Wii sold 2.9m and Microsoft's Xbox 360 2.4m. Mahaney's estimate of Kindle sales is exactly the same as the iPod sold in its first year. However, the iPod entered a market that had been pioneered by devices such as theDiamond Rio, and the huge success of Napster's file-sharing service meant there was plenty of free content. Amazon is having to create the market itself.Guardian editorAlan Rusbridger wroteearlier this year: "I don't think the Kindle is quite the iPod moment for newspapers, but even so, it is pretty cute." This is an area we track closely because, as he said, "no editor wants to be like a generation of music industry executives who woke up one morning to find the iPod had eaten their business".Rather than following the example of the Recording Industry Association of America - which sued to try to stop sales of the Rio player - newspapers are more likely to adopt and support them. The big question is when.You may already have seen a "concept piece" by recent graduate Mayo Nissen, which is part of his (not our)Envisioning the Media 2015 project, which "takes a look at the Guardian and its possible positioning within a 10-year time frame". This imagines a flexible e-ink display that you can roll up like a scroll: a projected implementation of a very old idea.My contrarian view is that just as most digital cameras are now smart phones, most ebook readers are also smart phones. People have been reading books on tiny screens since the days of the Psion and Compaq's iPaq, and it's common on Windows Mobile and similar phones.So, while the Kindle might be Amazon's iPod, I reckon the iPhone is more likely to be Apple's Kindle - at least until e-newspapers take off.
Flummoxed by a document in Welsh? Now you can get a free translation atcymraeg.org.uk. The Apertium-cy software, described as the first free automatic translator from Welsh to English, is the fruit of a multilingual effort involving developers in Spain, Wales and Ireland pushing forward the possibilities of open-source software and, they hope, free public-sector data.Apertium-cy is the first non-Romance language to be available on Apertium, a machine-translation platform developed by the Transducens research group at the University of Alicante and a spin-off, Prompsit Language Engineering. It already offers 14 pairs of languages, plus the possibility of creating translators for new combinations.Work on the Welsh-language version was led by Francis Tyers and Kevin Donnelly. It contains about 10,000 words in Welsh and English and 150 grammatical rules - enough to get the gist of the text, the developers say. The idea is to provide an easy way for people who don't speak Welsh to keep an eye on Welsh-language media reports in an area of interest, and to provide a "first-pass" translation of documents, improving the productivity of human translators.Open source is important to the project because it enables a community of users continuously to improve the software.So far, so good. However the developers are worried that the next stage of the project might involve re-inventing the wheel, in the shape of a list of modern Welsh words. Such lists already exist, compiled by the government-funded Welsh Language Board, but Donnelly says that the licensing terms look daunting."It says you can only download for use on a single PC, or a single network," he says. He worries that the team may now have to compile its own dictionary. "It seems a little pointless when the Welsh Language Board has already paid to have it done, and has a mission to disseminate it as widely as possible." Ironically, the developers got hold of their English word list from an official database in Spain.When we contacted the Welsh Language Board, however, it said the Apertium team couldn't be more wrong. "We welcome re-use," it said. Although the small print forbids unauthorised reproduction, the board says it would be delighted to consider requests. Where feasible, it will make products available under what it says would be "a suitable free non-commercial agreement".That looks like good news, and reflects growing international practice. The European Commission, for example, has promised to make its translation database, which contains 1m in 23 different language combinations, available for re-use. We wonder if the Foreign and Commonwealth Office has its own linguistic treasure chest, just waiting to be opened.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Electronic Arts used to be the publisher that every gamer hated. Predictable, aggressive and mind-numbingly successful, the corporation was an affront to the grassroots ethic. But since John Riccitiello took over as chief executive last year, there have been radical changes. Immediately, he attacked the way the company's bought small and interesting developers, then assimilated them. EA now sees its studios as autonomous city-states, allowing them to retain creative freedom and even take the odd risk.Paul Barnett, an outspoken creative director at Mythic - the EA-owned studio which is working on Warhammer Online, a competitor to World of Warcraft - says: "EA forgot how to make games. Riccitiello has been doing a strong job of trying to re-empower studios. In our case, EA empowered us with money, they empowered us with belief, then they left us alone."Warhammer Online, an MMORPG based around city sieges, is a big, bloated, fascinating project envisioned by Mark Jacobs, one of the originators of the massively multiplayer genre. Against the might of WoW, it's a huge punt. EA also has forthcoming shooter, Battlefield Heroes, a free-to-download online multiplayer title which, like the most successful games in the Korean market, only charges players when they want to customise their onscreen characters.EA studios was also responsible for four of the most interesting games at this year's E3 event: the sci-fi horror fest Dead Space; the multiplayer zombie blaster Left 4 Dead; the free-running adventure Mirror's Edge; and, of course Spore. These are all original IP, doing weird stuff with their respective genres. Even EA Sports is playing fast and lose with the rules - the studio's new president, former Xbox chief Peter Moore, has brought in a new casual gaming sub-label, All-Play, because the games were getting too complicated for normal folk.Best of all, EA is just making odd decisions. Last week, the industry was asking, hey why isn't there a Dark Knight videogame? Well, EA has the rights and, rumour has it, was working on a tie-in but had put it on the back burner. Some say it was beset with delays, others that it wasn't very good so EA ditched it. Then, the company announced that Godfather II is in development, a sequel to its movie translation which was demolished by the critics. Wah? But?When the industry's most conservative mega-corp is brimming with new ideas and eccentric resolutions, it is a good indicator of where the industry is right now. It says anything could happen. The rest of the world might be nose-diving into depression, but EA has gone mad and games are exciting. Forget everything else and rejoice.
While it may lack an official licence, Summer Athletics contains an impressively large selection of the events from the Olympics. As is invariably the case with such games, the enjoyment you derive from playing those events varies wildly. But Summer Athletics is sufficiently flexible for you to ignore the sports which, when played on a console, remind one of watching paint dry. Notably, in this case, cycling and distance running. However, some of the sports are unexpectedly fun to play, particularly on the Wii, which makes great use of gestures to copy what the real athletes are doing, and thereby makes much more sense than the Xbox 360 version. Diving, for example, proves to be thoroughly absorbing, along with most of the jumping, throwing and archery events. While it's by no means a must-buy, Olympics-enthused families should be pretty happy with Summer Athletics on the Wii: up to four people can play against each other, burning a decent amount of calories as they do so.
Ever since cars became roving phone booths and mobile entertainment centres, drivers have been struggling with fiddly Bluetooth headsets and rear seats piled with CD cases - a situation guaranteed to send a chill though the hearts of road-safety experts.The Venturi Mini promises a combined solution to the motorists' soundtrack of music and mobile calls. This black matte gadget is a discreet piece of electronics that plugs into the car's cigarette holder - secured in place by a locking ring. It powers up when the car starts and sends a signal to the FM radio, allowing streamed music and phone calls to be played though the car stereo.For the initial set-up you need to locate empty bandwidth on your FM dial. As my patch of London is the high seas for pirate radio, my first attempt to tune in the Venturi resulted in a fuzzy signal and interruptions from radio rappers. I finally located a slice of FM airwave not frequented by radio's jolly rogers and the signal became clear.When the wireless transmitter and the radio are tuned to the same wavelength, the in-vehicle dashboard display shows the word "Venturi". Next, you pair the Venturi with your mobile phone via Bluetooth; this allows you to listen to calls over the car's speakers, while the microphone picks up your voice.Some mobiles will download their phonebook to the Venturi, which can be scrolled on its display - allowing calls directly from the set. My PDA phone doesn't support this, so I used the hands-free cradle. Once dialled, the sound is clear, and conversations can take place without having to resort to shouting.The Venturi will stream music from your phone, and has a mini-jack to plug your music player in if you prefer. I went for this choice as my Windows Mobile smartphone only offers the user-unfriendly Windows Mobile media player - which is usable only if you've got spider fingers and zoomable eyeballs, making it too tricky to select tracks while driving.If the phone rings, the music will cut out automatically, resuming when you've finished your call. As music sessions drain the phone battery, there is also a USB plug on the side of the Venturi that can be used to charge your phone.Though not easy on the pocket at &pound;79.99, the Venturi does a good job for half the price of a custom-fitted Bluetooth car stereo. And it's much preferable to the &pound;60 fine for using a handheld device in a car.Pros:More comfortable to use than a Bluetooth headsetCons:Phonebook download won't work with some mobilesmyventuri.com
CNN AlertsHow do I stop them?John KirkhamJS:You can't, but they should be sorted into your spam folder. If not, create a rule to do this. These emails are not really from CNN, though they are a good imitation. Click a link in the latest version, My Custom Alert, and it takes you to a Russian website, where you are asked to download a malware version of Adobe's Flash player (adobe_flash.exe). This installs aTrojan downloaderwhich runs a service called CbEvtSvc and connects to a remote host. Your anti-malware software should remove this. If not, try running SuperAntiSpyware.Photos to shareI have used Nikon Fotoshare to send photos by email. It was very quick and easy. Nikon is now offering My Picturetown. This is very slow to upload, and I cannot find out how to email the photos.Robin HoodJS:Fotoshare is an online photo album. Nikon plans to close it on September 10  and will then delete all the photos people have uploaded.MyPictureTown.comis similar but has drag-and-drop uploading and is claimed to be easier to use. There are a great many alternatives, including Photobucket (owned by MySpace), WebShots (American Greetings), Flickr (Yahoo), Picasa (Google) and Windows Live Photo Gallery (Microsoft). SmugMug is good but not free.They all have their fans, many of whom use more than one, so now there isframechannel.comto manage multiple services. There are even more sites that cater for people who want to upload one or two images, such asImagevenue.com. You can use them without opening an account or signing in. When you upload a photo, these sites usually provide several links to cater for web pages and different types of message board.Unfortunately, many of these sites make their money by displaying popup adverts, and some may even try to install malware. The best rule is to copy the "direct link" and email that instead of the photo. Avoid any links that contain the letters php.What's Kontiki?I have installed the BBC iPlayer, but every time I activate it, a program called Kontiki pops up.DenisJS:When you download TV programmes using iPlayer - as distinct from watching streamed versions online - they are downloaded usingKontiki. This is a peer-to-peer file sharing program, which is also used by similar services such as Sky by Broadband and Channel 4's 4oD. Kontiki seems to load and use your bandwidth, even if you are not using iPlayer: use the Windows Task Manager to see if Kservice is running.The BBC has a page that explainshow to stop itrunning on startup and when you are not using iPlayer. You can remove it altogether using thekclean.exe program. However, if you do, any Kontiki-based programs such as iPlayer will stop working.Printer disposalI have a not-that-old HP OfficeJet 6110 all-in-one printer/scanner/copier which I've recently replaced. It works, but is a little streaky on some printing. I've been trying to get rid of it in an ecologically sound way, but to no avail.Chris RowburyJS:You could offer it on eBay, noting the fault and offering it as for "spares or repair" and probably "collect only". Otherwise, tryFreecycle.Backchat&middot;Paul Niemiec wanted a cheap way to digitise cassette tapes, and I suggested using the open-source Audacity software. John Blackburn suggests the sharewareCD Waveinstead: "This software is simpler than Audacity and has the very useful (and, indeed, important) feature of being able to split the music into tracks, either automatically or with manual assistance. CD Wave will save the resulting tracks as WAV, MP3, OGG or FLAC files. WAV is for making audio CDs and MP3 is for the car. FLAC files are lossless, as you say, and are about half the size of WAV files."
1995 UK Doom champion (and sometime Guardian contributor) David McCandless continues his net spoofs over atThe Internet: Now in Handy Book Form. The "Schmapple Store" made me laugh today - particularlyDesktop Monbiot: "This revolutionary software uses your computer's webcam to detect when you're [...] wasting time staring dreamily out of the window while the Earth plunges towards ecopocalypse. BANG! The vociferousGuardian pundit's face looms out of your screen DOUSH! He delivers a pin-point demolishing of your most cherished illusions."
AsMedia Guardianhas just reported, Yahoo has launched it's long-awaited Fire Eagle location tool. According to thepress release:"Fire Eagle is about making everything on the Internet more useful, fun or interesting by adding the element of location," said Tom Coates, head of product at Yahoo! Brickhouse. "We're here to help people take their location to the Web by giving them the ability to control how much detail about their location they want to share and which applications they want to share it with."The press release is worth a look for the list of services built on Fire Eagle during the private beta. These include Brightkite, Dash, Dopplr, Pownce, Spot, and Outside.in Radar. Blogging site Movable Type is also using the system, thoughUK governmentis so far strangely absent.Fire Eagle has a "hide me" button so you can opt out, either temporarily or permanently.The report inInformation Weeksays:Yahoo doesn't store old location data, said Coates. That should save Yahoo from a lot of subpoenas from those seeking to use location data in litigation. As a further deterrent to legal uses of Fire Eagle data, the service's coordinates aren't necessarily reliable. While devices may accurately report where they are, users updating Fire Eagle manually can enter any location they choose."We think it's a good thing that users can lie," said Coates.Many readers will know Tom Coates from his blog atPlasticbag.org
The netbook/minibook subnotebook market kicked off last year by the Asus Eee PC will shift about 5.3 million units in 2008, and 7.8 million units in 2009, according to a Gartner report,Dataquest Insight: Forecast Scenarios for Mini-notebooks, Worldwide(Price: $1,295).Minibooks have screens that are 5-10 inches in size, so the category does not include what Gartner calls "microinformation devices (MIDs)", which typically have screen sizes of 3-5 inches. Gartner says:Although mini-notebooks started as low-cost education PCs, since the end of 2007 the targeted audience has expanded from education to consumers in both mature and emerging markets and a few business buyers. Gartner states that the largest growth opportunities for mini-notebooks are in the consumer subcategory and that this segment will eventually account for about 70% of all mini notebooks. The main drivers for mini-notebook adoption will be market positioning, device price, availability of wireless connectivity and its costs as well as support from channel partners and retailers.The key question for the major players is one Iraised in a columnback in March: whether subnotebooks will be anadditionalsale or areplacementsale. Vendors obviously love it if you buy two systems instead of one -- if you buy, for example, both a desktop PC and a notebook. It's not as good for them if you buy a notebook PC instead of a desktop. Gartner says:Gartner does not expect any major cannibalisation of mobile PC shipments by mini-notebooks in 2008 and 2009, because there is a significant functionality and performance gap between notebooks and mini-notebooks. However, from 2010, mini-notebooks may start to cannibalise some low-end mobile PC volumes, and from 2011, they could significantly boost business PC shipments if their performance should increase substantially and they prove attractive to general business users.And, of course, it's not just about product design, it's also about marketing and advertising strategies. As George Shiffler, research director at Gartner, says: "For consumer mini-notebooks to succeed, they need to be positioned differently than standard notebooks, and PC vendors will need to decide if the existing channels to market are appropriate and possibly look for new channels, such as telecom, gadget shops and so on."I think minibooks will actually do better than Gartner says. I loved the first one -- HP'sOmnibook 300, released in 1993. However, bear in mind that 10 million units is not that big a deal in a PC market that will be shifting 300 million units a year.
