Treo 700pbyGabriel Serafini,Some Rights ReservedI still own and even use aPalm T3. These days I mainly use it to read news via the wonderful but underappreciatedAvantGoservice. I have a shiny Nokia N82 for contacts, and the Palm conduits that haven't been updated since who knows when, leading to contact creep, multiple copies of the same contact. This is all to say that I wish that Palm would to return to its place as innovator.The San Jose Mercury News' Chris O'Brien just listed Palm as a company to watch, not as a company set for success in 2009 butone along with AMD and Sun that might just join the deadpool. As if to say,I'm not dead yet, Palm is offering details of a new OS (finally) and a new infusion of cash from Elevation Partners. While O'Brien shares my good will towards Palm, he asks:But will Palm run out of time before it gets to see its turnaround strategy bear fruit?Palm's financials are grim. In December, the company announced itssixth consecutive quarterly loss.Standard &amp; Poor's downgraded Palm's debt rating to CCC+- perilously close to junk - citing "substantial risk".In the midst of this gloom, Palm has confirmed that it will be showing off its new OS, Nova. Nova must be giving Microsoft's Vista or Apple's migration from its Classic OS to OS X a run for the longest delayed OS upgrade. Well, at least Apple and Microsoft continued to regularly update their OSes until they got a new one out. Palm's decided to split itself in two in 2003, with one company to develop the OS and another to build the handhelds. It's been downhill ever since. But don't expectdevices with Nova until later in 2009.That is why the$100m from Elevation is crucial. Even before the global economy started sputtering to standstill, Palm was on the ropes. It was down to a few hundred million in cash (and burning through it, at a rate of about $50m per quarter, with $223m on hand (and debt of $396m), and it needed more breathing room if the turnaround strategy had any hope of taking hold. This is especially true seeing as Palm is winding down its standalone handheld business, whether it admits it or not. Even though the Palm platform was a an early leader with the Treo, it is now very much in a crowded and highly competitive market with Nokia, RIM, Apple and even Google.The stock market seemed to like the investment, bidding up Palm's bargain-basement stock. The stock went up a whopping 13% after the announcement, but in today's volatile market, that is a small amount, especially considering the stock is trading below $3.Kirk Knoernschild, an analyst with the Burton Group, said on Twitter:Maybe Palm does have something big up its sleeve with Nova.And linked tothis post on Barrons with a very bullish comment from Roger McNamee, co-founder of Elevationsaying that Palm was in a position to "transform the cell phone industry".As Om Malik points out, Palm still enjoys a user base of 7-8 million, and most people seem to actually enjoy its devices no matter how long in the tooth they are getting. I think the bigger challenge is that the Palm economy has been in recession for a long time. Just read the last few posts on TamsPalm, a blog dedicated to the Palm OS. Tam believes that Elevation is "pouring money down the drain". He links off to some posts from Palm software develperCreativeAlgorithmsexplaining why thePalm OS software market went into free fall in 2008. Tam is also concerned thatPalm hasn't seeded Nova developer tools to key developersso that Nova devices will launch without key applications.None of this fills a Palm fan with joy. I know it's unrealistic for Palm to support my old T3. It probably wants to break with the recent past, not support it. As far as Nova, we'll have a clearer picture after CES in January, but at the moment, it seems Palm's future will continue to be a shadow of its glorious past. In a completely meta bit of quoting in the best spirit of blogging, I'll quote Om Malik, quoting venture capitalist Pip Coburn, quoting Warren Buffet: "Turnarounds seldom turn."
The TED2009 conference has been a big hit since it started putting videos of its 20-minute talks online (for a backgrounder, see myNetbytescolumn).TheProgram Speakers A-Zlist includes Sir Tim Berners-Lee, Bill Gates, Patti Maes, Herbie Hancock, Seth Godin and many more. There is aProgrampage but it has fallen victim to the idiot designer syndrome that is extremely common on the web. (Of course, it works perfectly well if you recognise all the faces, but nobody does.)TED2009will be held in Long Beach, California, from 3-7 February, so there's 41 days to go.This year, it will be simulcast to Palm Springs, and it looks as though you can watch web streams if you sign up forTED Associate Membershipfor $995 a year.
Macworld Expo in January could see the announcement of a new iMac by not-Steve Jobs, Phil Schiller. According toDigiTimesin Taiwan:The Chinese-language Economic Daily News (EDN) has cited sources inside the component supply chain as saying that Apple plans to launch a new iMac all-in-one PC in the first quarter of next year, and the company's sole manufacturing partner, Quanta Computer, is gearing up to supply monthly shipments of around 800,000 units during the first quarter of 2009.Mac fans are also expecting a new version of the "woefully outdated" Mac Mini, and have been for months.As DigiTimes notes: "In addition to Apple, Quanta is also manufacturing all-in-one PCs for Sony and NEC."
As hasbeen observed, it's hard to be a Jew at Christmas. I grew up an Orthodox Jew and can verify that as a child it's tough to be in a position where your beliefs – or your parents' beliefs – stop you from having the same fun that everyone else around you is having. It gets better as an adult, though; one comes to appreciate that it's good to be able to remove oneself from the commercial madness and be peaceful and reflective at this time of year.But if Christmas is hard on the observant Jews, I can't help but feel that The Future is going to be a lot harder. And not just because the stringent identity card regulations that seem to be in our future have historicallybeen pretty tricky for the Jews.Orthodox Jews observe a strict Sabbath from sunset on Friday to sunset on Saturday during which – among other restrictions – they don't use anything electrical, don't travel by motorised transport, don't cook and don't spend money. From personal experience, this can be a very rewarding way to spend 24 hours; a chance to reconnect with the people and things around you rather than using technology to allow your mind to be somewhere separate to your body.But how will the technological future treat the observant Jews? I used to fret about this a great deal as a child. What would I do if I were travelling on the Starship Enterprise? All the doors are electric! The food is made by replicators and no one seems to own a fridge. Would replicator food be kosher? Moreover, in the wilds of outer space, how would one even know when "sunset on Friday" was, in order to observe the Sabbath?None of my favourite future-based fiction seemed to offer any answers. If I travelled in the Tardis, presumably I could just avoid the problem by skipping over every Saturday, but I couldn't imagine that aVogon constructor fleetwould be so accommodating.It's probably obvious that, even as a child, I had a tendency to overthink. But this is likely to become more of a problem for observant Jews as time goes on and it becomes harder to avoid using electronic devices even for one day. Automatic sensor doors, automated lights and swipe-card entry are already commonplace. There are someenterprising solutionsto the problems these pose. But if, for example, e-books take over from paper books, I wonder if the Orthodox Jews will be the last people to own libraries of books whose pages can be turned without the use of electricity? Or the last to have doors that lock using metal keys?Does this really matter? After all, leading an observant Jewish life is a choice. And if a small group of people find that the modern world has become difficult for them to manage and they end up as isolated as theAmish community, is that a problem for the world? Only in this sense, I think: that however wonderful our technology is, it's a good idea to switch it off every once in a while, and a good idea to make sure we're able to.My friend Adrian Hon and I gave a talk this year at theGeekyoto conference, suggesting a "secular Sabbath" as a way to become more green – it certainly saves energy – but also as a practice that improves quality of life. Just as it can be quite nice to be a Jew at Christmas, a little removed from the tumult of the festivities, it's uplifting to take some time away from the email inbox, phone, computer games and television. And one hopes that, however advanced our technologies become, they always come with an off switch.
The PSP now has a plausible title to rival the DS's Brain Training hit as the game show host dons his lab coat.In essence, Brain Bender is Sony's version of Dr Kawashima's brain tester, but with added colour and humour. However, there's no declaration that playing this game will improve your memory or fend off dementia. Rather, it portrays itself as a simple and fun puzzler with entertaining challenges to complete.It features 16 mini games, each playable on easy, medium and hard difficulties, covering four categories: analysis, observation, memory and calculation. Train regularly and test yourself to see how "powerful" your brain has become, unlocking challenges and Boffin Awards for completing achievements. Social gamers can play "pass around" multiplayer brain battles, with up to six players, to see whose grey matter is working most effectively.Brain Bender doesn't exactly offer anything new, yet what it does offer is a fun, lighthearted puzzle game, with addictive challenges to keep you coming back.
There's no doubt that playing along to music tracks as part of an entire band composed of plastic instruments constitutes some of the finest party fun available to mankind.And Rock Band 2 represents the state of that particular art. But exactly the same could be said about Guitar Hero World Tour. This bizarre situation, in which two near-identical products are in the shops, came about when MTV bought Guitar Hero developer Harmonix, but publisher Activision retained the Guitar Hero brand, so Harmonix re-emerged with Rock Band.And now, less than a year later, Rock Band 2 is on sale. It is demonstrably better than its predecessor in many ways, the most noticeable one being that all its instruments are now wireless – and the original, which came with a USB hub, was the game equivalent of Spaghetti Junction. The software, too, is vastly improved: you can now, for example, use Xbox Live or the PlayStation Network to perform Battles of the Bands against your mates elsewhere in the world.The single-player (or perhaps local, given that you can play it with up to three band members, who can drop in or out) campaign also feels meatier, with many more venues and things to win or unlock (such as vehicles which open up new cities around the world in which to gig). Plus there are challenges, which speed up the process of unlocking tracks and test skills on specific instruments.Indeed, we feel that Rock Band 2's single-player game is better than that of Guitar Hero World Tour, and we prefer its facsimile of the Fender Stratocaster to GHWT's offering. But GHWT's drum kit feels more like the real thing and, although it's close, we prefer GHWT's playlist. So which to buy?You can't use Guitar Hero instruments with Rock Band 2, so if you already have any of those, then you'd probably lean towards World Tour. But in the absence if such a legacy, the slightly more polished Rock Band 2 just shades its rival. But either will get you seriously hooked within minutes, and will also make your popular among your mates.
Spyro the dragon was once second only to Lara Croft when it came to PlayStation gaming icons. But a host of forgettable releases in the past few years have left Spyro with its reputation in tatters.Dawn of the Dragon goes some way to redeeming things. This is a traditional third-person (third-dragon?) adventure, with platforms, combat and basic puzzles. It looks pretty too, with plenty of cuddlier takes on traditional fantasy settings. Co-op play is key to the game, with two players able to play through the game together. In fact, the game is easier when played like this, with solo play hampered by the computer-controlled buddy.Despite the young target audience, Dawn of the Dragon has some challenging moments – especially with the end of level boss characters. And players are regularly confronted by hordes of enemies which invariably leads to mindless button bashing. Ignore the niggles, though, and you have a solid platform adventure game that will appeal to families and retro gamers alike.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
This week we're channeling the ghost of technology past, looking back over the tech stories from 2008. JoiningAleks Krotoskito look at the highs and lows is a full pod deck –Jemima Kiss,Charles ArthurandBobbie Johnson.In this review, we'll pin down the biggest news of 2008, nominated by us and by you.  On the list for discussion include the never endingMicrosoft/Yahoo takeoversaga, the controversy surroundingPhorm'stargeted advertising system, plus the rise and rise of this year's social networking toolTwitter.There's also some of the out-takes from this year's programmes – so if you want to hear Jemima say bad words, keep your ears peeled and your mind open.The next Tech Weekly will be on 31 December, where we'll be making predictions about what will be big in tech during 2009.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics• This podcast was edited on Friday January 9 2009. Phorm has asked us to point out that contrary to a remark made in the original version of the above podcast, the US Federal Trade Commission did not apply pressure on 121 Media to change its business model prior to the company becoming Phorm Inc. in 2007.  The decision was made voluntarily by the firm.
When a Continental Airlines Boeing 737 skidded off the runway at Denver airport on Saturday, the 155 passengers and crew might have been understandably preoccupied with how they would escape from a plane that was being engulfed by flames. But for software engineer Mike Wilson the first priority was to report on his disrupted travel arrangements to his followers on the blogging site Twitter.Over the ensuing hours he delivered a detailed account of the crash and its aftermath to users of the service - down to the airline's failure to offer him a stiff drink. Here is a selection of entries from his Twitter feed.14 December, 4.06pmWhew! Christmas shopping pretty much done. 100% online except for a couple of gift certs.20 December, 5.25pmHoly fucking shit, I was just in a plane crash!5.58pmThis was crash No 2 for me. Maybe I should start taking the bus.8.22pmYou have your wits scared out of you, drag your butt out of a flaming ball of wreckage and you can't even get a vodka-tonic. Boo.11.22pm[From computer at home] Sorry for the radio silence, but my battery died in the middle of all this and I just made it home.11.57pmPretty exhausted at this point, so I'm heading off to bed. Good night!21 December, 8.29amWaiting in the continental club for the "replacement" flight. Noticing I'm a little sore.5.25pmI'm sitting as close to the exit as possible this time.7.57pmTouchdown! Crowd goes wild!
Mini-Microsoft, one of Microsoft's anonymous and wholly unofficial bloggers, has floated the wholly unofficial rumour that the Redmond giant might be planning toshed some staff:Rumors. Microsoft layoff and cut-backs and Reduction In Force rumors. That's all I have for you. Rumors and second-hand speculation and the comments left by the fine, good-looking folks who participate in the conversation here. So pour yourself some holiday cheer and dive in.Mini has long been arguing that Microsoft is overstaffed and inefficient, while hiring has continued at a prodigious rate. This is, of course, a management problem. As he says:It is absolutely essential that Microsoft steps back and asks, "Whoa, how did we get here and who was leading us?" How did we go on a drunken hiring binge and continue it even though a year ago most of us realized we were dropping into a recession? It's irresponsible leadership. It's especially irresponsible to the people we've hired and to the people incoming with recent offers.Which is not to say that anyone expects the men at the top to go. The layoffs are likely to focus on the "10%-ers" who, whatever their merits, have been rated lowest in a stack-ranking system.And the speculation is that while Microsoft has plenty of cash, and is making tons of money, it will want to have some cost-cutting announcements to satisfy Wall Street analysts when it presents its next set of financial results. Mini says:Come 22 Jan 2009 Microsoft will be asked by the analysts what it is doing to contain costs. And I believe Microsoft will have an answer. I think this is one solution that you don't want to be a part of. I'm all for cutting back, but it should have been done long ago, responsibly, vs. forced upon us. Because I believe when things turn around, groups will be lighting the sparklers and cracking open the Kristal and hiring madly again.Mini-Microsoft has been saying: "Let's slim down Microsoft into a lean, mean, efficient customer pleasing profit making machine!" But that would require a lot more work than the somewhat crude chops suggested so far.
Daniel Lyons, who used to write theFake Steve Jobs blog, has written up Real Steve for the 5 January issue ofNewsweek, where Jobs is 34th in the Global Elite. (Barack Obama gets the top slot, while Warren Buffett is 19th and Oprah Winfrey 47th.)There's no doubt about Jobs's success, but there are now questions about how long he's likely to keep running Apple. As Lyons says:Sadly, Jobs looks a lot older than his 53 years, and even before he pulled out of Macworld, much of the buzz about Apple was focused on who might succeed him as chief executive. It's hard to imagine any mere mortal attempting to fill his shoes.Anyway, it's good to know Real Dan is still alive. He hasn't posted any stories on his own blog since November 17, though there were some posts about Yahoo that werewithdrawn. The Industry Standard story dated November 19 --The Real Dan Lyons bails on blogging-- has proved to be true.
CNET was probably rubbing its hands with glee when one of its own writers, David Carnoy, managed tostumble acrosssome Serious Apple Censorship while trying to promote his new book,Knife Music. What a scoop!In a nutshell, the issue is that Apple wouldn't let the book get sold as an application from the App Store because of the book's liberal use of the word "fuck" (or "objectionable content" in legalese). This screeningisn't particularly new, but there was something in this latest episode. However, here's the kicker: CNet's complaint about Apple censorship (thinly-veiled as a "now Apple's screening edgy books" story) is undermined somewhat by the fact that the CNET websitewon't even print the offending word.According to Amazon, there are 18 incidences of fuck in the book itself - but the line deemedparticularlybad is used a couple of times (it's part of a court case). What could it be? Well, I've got no such compunction about swearing - hey, we're all grown-ups, right? - so here are the terrifying literary tidbits that both Apple and CNET thought we couldn't handle.(The faint-hearted can look away now)"I wasn't sure what I should be doing," he envisages one of the young ADA's or maybe even Carrie, reading from the diary, speaking softly so that everybody in the courtroom has to lean forward in their seats to catch everything she's saying. "So I said, 'Fuck me. Fuck me like you mean it,' because I'd once seen a woman do that in a movie."Or it could have been this one:"She was just laying there kind of moaning, I guess. And then all of a sudden I heard her say, 'Fuck me. Fuck me like you mean it.'"There. That wasn't so hard, was it?
When a plane slid off the runway in Denver on Sunday, Twitter users were among the first to hear about it, because someone who was on the plane sent a tweet – a Twitter message – that said: "Holy fucking shit I was just in a plane crash!"Twitter users were also among the first to hear about terrorist attacks in Mumbai, earthquakes in California, and Heath Ledger's death. And as more people sign up, there will more likely be Twitter users around whenever something newsworthy happens. It's like having a wire service with millions of reporters.Twitter is a "micro-blogging" service, but it's a more like a combination of instant messaging, social networking and SMS on steroids. You send messages with up to 140-characters, from either a PC or a mobile phone. But instead of going to a single person, they go to anyone who wants to listen: your followers. You, in turn, receive the messages sent by all the people you follow. The result is a stream of messages that you can dip into whenever you like.Obviously, when most people answer the standard Twitter question – "What are you doing?" – they're not doing anything newsworthy. However, even a homely update such as "am going to bed with wife to watch tv. Yay! i have a wife" can be interesting, if only because it came fromJonathon Ross(wossy).One way to use Twitter is to follow the headline news services, such as the New York Times, CNN's Breaking News, and the BBC.The Guardian's Technology sectionhas been tweeting stories for some time. Lots of blogs also have Twitter feeds, including Boing Boing, Lifehacker and TechCrunch.You can also follow other people in your field, which I do. There's no shortage of technology writers on Twitter, though not every topic is well served. There's just a handful of famous names, such as Stephen Fry, John Cleese, MC Hammer and Shaquille O'Neal, but you can expect more. Twitter offers a way to reach thousands of fans, and it's free.Don't be afraid to follow anybody who looks interesting. It's just as easy to un-follow them if you change your mind. You can also block people you don't want to follow you.But, as with Facebook, most people use Twitter to chat with friends and colleagues with both public and direct (private) messages. I signed up a week ago because the rest of the Guardian's Technology team was already using it. Twitter is spreading virally, like MSN Messenger and Facebook. It may infect you sooner than you think.Twitter is very easy to use: go to site, type text in box, press post. But it also has lots of supporting software and services, including theiTweetweb site and desktop programs such asTwhirlandTweetDeck. You cansearch tweets at Twitteror atTweetScan, track your usage atTweetStats, find the Twitter elite atTwitter Grader, and so on. Finally, you can see what I'm twittering about atjackschofield
Christmas always brings a round of quizzes, so ignore the fact that TheInfoWorld Tech Celebrity Quizwas actually published in May. It will certainly test your knowledge of some prominent geeks, though there's a big advantage to having been around a long time. Like me, for example. Unfortunately, while I knew all the answers to the 1980s questions, I ended up guessing some of the latest web ones wrong.
Excited news from the Blu-ray Disc Association: "British consumers bought 462,500 Blu-ray discs in November, an increase of 165% from October, according to GFK." (Assuming the BRDA is any good at maths, that means people bought 175,000 of them in October.)Wow! Or perhaps hmm. Now, it's true that Blu-ray won the format wars against HD DVD, and that Blu-ray players are falling in price. Blu-ray DVD sales seem to have been goosed by the release of The Dark Knight, the Batman movie.But to the BRDA that's only the start. It isn't just talking about silver linings; hell, as far as it can tell, there aren't even any clouds out there.Despite the gloomiest of financial forecasts, sales of Blu-ray disc movies are defying the odds and bucking the credit crunch... And it's not just films flying off the shelves, [sic]Blu-ray disc players are also following suit, with a strong upsurge in European sales that is expected to continue into the New Year. In fact, overall sales are predicted to more than triple in 2009, reaching 2.5million units Europe wide [source: Futuresource] (and that figure does not even include the millions of Playstation 3 consoles, with their in-built Blu-ray players,  that will be sold over the next few months).Wow - millions of PS3s to be sold? Well, if you take in the entire world, I guess that's true. What a classic piece of PR flummery this is, to be sure: conflating the UK, Europe, and the world all in a single sentence - and not just that, but conflating past sales with forecasts to give an impression that millions of Blu-ray units are already in peoples' hands in the UK. Might be true. But you'd need some better numbers than that to demonstrate it.However I'm not going to go with the optimistic forecasts for Blu-ray sales. And that's for a simple reason: we don't (yet?) make Blu-ray players in the UK. That means that with the pound falling and the yen rising (the former because of the increase in public sector borrowing, the latter because of the unwinding of theyen carry trade), things made in Japan, or by Japan-owned companies, are going to get more expensive. In a situation - like now - where earnings are static, this leads to what's called "import substitution", aka "sod it, I can't afford this foreign-made stuff". Much the same goes for Blu-ray DVDs, which are still pretty pricey compared to normal ones.A figure I can't find, but would be interested to know, is whether Blu-ray disc sales are of dual-format versions, where both are available. (I've asked the BRDA for clarification.) There don't seem to be such - which to me implies that the majority of buyers are people with PlayStation 3s, thosefabulous Trojan horsesfor this format.Update:The BRDA has got back to me with the answers to some questions. Here they are; they're clearly trying to get maximum value out of their Caps Lock key, or else sent the answer by telegram:Q: How many of the UK November Blu-ray sales are dual format, where you  get the standard DVD and Blu-ray disc in the same box?A: NONE, ZERO. STUDIOS DO NOT RELEASE BOXED SET WITH SD AND BD TITLES INCLUDED.Q: How many separate Blu-ray players (not PlayStation 3s) have been sold  in the UK for 2008? If there's any sort of quarter-by-quarter  breakdown that would be helpful too.A: TO OCTOBER 2008, TOTAL WAS 116,000 IN THE UK.  NOTE THAT SEPT - OCT SAW A 200% INCREASE IN HARDWARE SALES. WILL NOT KNOW NOV/DEC 2008 FIGURES UNTIL JANUARY (THERE IS ALWAYS A 2 MONTH GAP IN DATA).Q: Any separate stats that lump in PS3 sales? That would also be helpful.A: SCEE [Sony Computer Entertainment Europe] DOES NOT SHARE THIS INFORMATION SO WE CANNOT COMMENT.So, have you bought a separate Blu-ray player? Have you bought Blu-ray DVDs? Or, if not, are you planning to in the new year?
Only three days to go so I reckon I can get away with this. Yes, it's Christmas gaming nostalgia time.  My favourite festive gaming time was 1998, withZelda: Ocarina of Timeon the N64.  What better way to spend Christmas morning then moving an elf called Link around a foggy tree whilst trying to explain to family and girlfriend that this was the future of gaming. Sadly by the time Link reached Hyrule Field – the greatest ohmygod moment in gaming history – they had long since left me alone in front of the telly. Their loss.What else then? Going back in the day I remember a Christmas with the brilliant – at the time –Emlyn Hughes International Socceron the C64.  And heck actually getting the C64 at - gulp - Christmas '84 was amazing.  Even the turgid likes ofChillerand Hunchback 2, the games that came with it, couldn't dampen my enthusiasm.So go on, let's have it. What are you favourite Christmas gaming memories?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
James Blunt, Madonna and Led Zeppelin are set to disappear from YouTube after their record company, Warner Music Group, fell out with the video-sharing site in a row over royalties.Warner Music said it would pull hundreds of thousands of videos from the site following the collapse of talks with the Google-owned company about renegotiating a content-sharing deal. "We simply cannot accept terms that fail to appropriately and fairly compensate recording artists, songwriters, labels and publishers for the value they provide," the group said. Warner Music added that it was "working actively" to find a resolution with YouTube.The company had yet to remove all material from YouTube by yesterday afternoon, with Madonna fans still able to watch a video for her single 4 minutes posted by WMG on the site - the promo for James Blunt's ubiquitous You're Beautiful was also available. Other Warner Music artists include Metallica and Bloc Party.Content will be removed from the site along with recordings owned by Warner Music's record publishing business, Warner/Chappell Music, which controls the copyright to songs including Happy Birthday to You and Winter Wonderland. Warner Music's withdrawal also covers amateur clips that feature its artists or copyrighted songs - potentially widening the action to hundreds of thousands of additional postings.YouTube was bought by Google for $1.65bn (&pound;1.1bn) in 2006, the same year Warner Music became the first music group to sign a deal with the site. The agreement allows YouTube to post Warner Music videos and artist interviews, with the group receiving payment from advertising revenues and royalties.
SECOND LIFE, ISLAMIC STYLEMohamed El-Fatatry has identified advantages of a virtual world dedicated to the religion of Islam, protected to some extent from interference and distractions of our 'real' world (In a virtual world of their own 11 December). Although in terms of their Genesis, virtual worlds including Second Life are in their very early days or verses it is already possible to imagine the effect of an equivalent site for those Jews who believe that it is necessary to have some exclusive space reserved for the 'chosen people' that can not be obliterated by hostile forces. A Jewish State created on the internet from which Jews could never be expelled or harmed, would remove both the threat to their existence and the use of this as a justification for the 'real' State of Israel. The Jewish Nation, including those in the diaspora, might then be persuaded of the merits of sharing the 'real' land of Palestine with all those who have traditionally lived in that area. Opponents of this idea, and Fatatry's virtual Muslim community, need to consider whether gods are any more or less responsible for the creation of real or virtual worlds, and whether an internet god is any more or less real than those described in the scriptures?Ronald Sharp, AbingdonTWITTERINGI do really love your guardiantech twitter feed but there's just too much of it. I make it nearly thirty tweets in a day from a single source - that completely spams out my various twitter clients and makes it impossible to follow anything else.Any chance you could break it down into separate feeds - games, science, internet, freeourdata, etc? Then I could just follow the stuff I'm interested in.Al MacLeod (no post town given)RE-SYNCHRONISE&gt;&gt; it turns out that Nokia only reads the v 2.1 vCard standard, while everyone else, and especially Thunderbird, reads and writes v3.0. So yesterday I stayed out of the sleet and wrote two little python scripts. One merged all the contacts which had email addresses with the ones that had phone numbers and churned out 600 vCards with both email and numbers. The other changed all these vCards from version 3.0 to version 2.1; and now I have all my numbers back. The nice thing about python is that I didn't even have to write this second program in an editor. I just scribbled in the interpreter until it worked. So now of course I have forgotten the incantation.thewormbook.comRE-COLOURING DAD'S ARMY&gt;&gt; Amongst those programmes [to be re-coloured] is editions of Top of The Pops. In fact the first test the group did was this previously black and white clip of Jimmy Saville introducing the mighty Blodwyn Pigwordmagazine.co.uk&gt;&gt; There's also a related restoration technique known as VidFIRE that has been used on both programmes as well as potentially applicable to many others in the BBC archives which only exist as telerecordings.Too bad it isn't something that works with North American NTSC. I assume this process is much less expensive than the usual colorization technology.metafilter.com&gt;&gt; The actor Ian Lavender stresses in the RT article that this is restoring material to its original condition, expressing the common view that colourising originally b&amp;w film is "cultural vandalism" (a phase previously used by the Writers Guild of America West on the same subject - see the Museum of Broadcast Communications). Others think it legitimate creation of novel value-added material. In between those extremes, accurate restoration of originally-coloured material seems pretty uncontentious.segalbooks.blogspot.comCLOUD RISKS&gt;&gt; With any new technology, there are bound to be exploits we haven't thought of. But they're more likely to be part of the management tools used to transfer and modify cloud data, as well as remote tools used to access applications in the cloud, than the clouds themselves.There are real reasons to be careful when moving your data into a cloud. But be sure you're worried about the right things. Otherwise you risk looking like a panicky server-hugger who wants to sleep with a copy of your data under your pillow.gigaom.comNEW TAGGING&gt;&gt; I have to say that since I was diagnosed with diabetes I have been thinking about getting some sort of medical jewellery to alert medical personnel in case of an accident, and to ensure that my next of kin can be informed. The problem is that Louise is correct, most of the items on sale just don't cut it, either by not carrying enough information or requiring a subscription of some sort. Looking at the UTAG it seems like it is the answer I've been looking for. Okay it seems expensive, but with a life of at least 10 years it works out at between £2.45 and £3.43 a year, way cheaper than anything else available.I'm going to be ordering one very shortly.the-morningstar.co.uk&gt;&gt; This is a great idea for storing vital medical informationalunrees.com&gt;&gt; I suspect that emergency services consider these devices and the ICE (In case of emergency) phone numbers as a low priority at the scene of an accident. It is when you have arrived in hospital and have been stabilised that this information will be used.But why limit the amount of data to allergies and next of kin?The storage capacity of memory sticks increases all the time and the cost is falling. Why not store all your medical information on a personal stick and back it up to a secure location on Google?justenoughtechnology.typepad.comOPEN IPLAYER&gt;&gt; Right now there are multiple competing "networks of friends": Facebook, MySpace, Microsoft Live Messenger, Twitter and so on. Facebook is trying to extend its reach with Facebook Connect; Google is evangelising OpenSocial which "defines a common API for social applications across multiple websites", along with an implementation called Friend Connect. It will be interesting to see to what extent the BBC creates yet another social network, and to what extent it hooks into existing ones.itwriting.com&gt;&gt; As the iPlayer seems to be the current UK industry standard in terms of VOD, we'll look forward to see which basket it puts its eggs in next.ostmodern.blogspot.comMAPPING CRIME EASILY&gt;&gt; I couldn't agree more [that having XML feeds about crimes would encourage third parties to build crime maps] - and I hope my efforts over the last 24 hours prove the point. I'm amazed by how easy (relatively speaking) such things are becoming. The common thread across all the really successful web 2.0 properties is the availability of an API, allowing developers to work their own unique magic. As I've said before... Government needs to recognise this, and get in the API game. Not just as a 'nice to have', but as an absolute priority.puffbox.comWIKIPEDIA FOLLOWUPI'm e-mailing in regard to your story on Wikipedia. It's a pity there is not some clear e-mail address underneath each article so that we might e-mail the author directly. It's the New Media way!Amazon hasn't actually removed the image in question (e.g.g-ecx.images-amazon.com); they have just removed some of the locations from which it is linked.The sheer inconsistency and arbitrariness with which the IWF blocks URLs should, if nothing else, give all those who advocate its censorship pause for thought; assuming, that is, that they know how to think.Unfortunately for us all, free speech is the least attractive civil liberty to defend, as the people who need their speech protecting are by their very nature those that say things that people find objectionable. Oh well.Peter Bright, London&gt;&gt; In honour of the Wikipedia album cover ban - The Scorpions album cover (Page 14) has been purged from the UK's internets -  Anorak has compiled the 20 Best Children On Album Covers Of All Time. None have been banned.  Some should just never have happenedanorak.co.ukPOSSIBLY INCORRECTIs Steve Hooker (Possibly correct—11th Dec) being impossibly obtuse or ironic?   Or has he never seen the Mac launch video with Mr PC?The Microsoft response shows they're really hurt by the inference that PC users are just not Apple cool.Terry Hurst (no post town given)SKY+ PROBLEMSThanks for the article on the problems with Sky+ boxes.  I wonder if you've had any correspondence about a different problem with Sky's HD service.  Many users are having persistent problems with audio and video not being synchronised properly, with complaints mainly about the audio being slightly behind the picture.  Sky have not been very forthcoming on this issue, and you get different explanations according to who you speak to.  When I spoke to their TV technical support last week, I was told that it's a "known issue" and that a software update should fix it.  However, they don't say when this will happen - it always seems to be about "two weeks time".  Maybe some investigation by your team might get to the bottom of this?Mark Osborne, ChelmsfordLEWEB WIRELESS FAILCarr's article, while amusing, was extremely unfair because the lack of internet connectivity wasn't the conference organizers' fault. They had contracted for Swisscom to supply connectivity for 100,000 Euros. Swisscom failed to deliver.Carr didn't mention that.Nick Jacobs (no post town given)FACEBOOK VIRUSESThank  you for your write-up. My husband opened a Faceboook email on my computer, from a neighbor, and the virus has prevented me from using ourlook, looking at any of my personal files and internet use. I had to do a timed writing test at 11 am, for one hour and had to go to another computer in the house using Verizon, which after I went to spell check my email after the hour, said my time expired and lost my work. The writing exercise was a major requirement to complete prior to my interview. Do you have any idea as to how to contact Facebook staff?(name and address supplied)
A radical plan to tackle internet piracy, which would make broadband providers legally liable for music and films downloaded from unlicensed websites by their customers, is being considered by the government.In exchange, internet service providers (ISPs) would receive a small payment for every film or music track downloaded legally by their customers, which could make them millions of pounds in additional revenue.The Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (Berr) is considering a range of proposals ahead of possible legislation early next year, but the profit-sharing plan, submitted by consultancy Ingenious Media, is believed to be favoured by ministers. "Officials are treating it seriously," according to an industry source.It is thought to chime with the department's latest thinking on how to resolve the dispute, which centres on using a carrot-and-stick approach to encourage ISPs to crack down on illegal sites that offer free content and drive consumers towards legitimate, paid-for alternatives.Berr is expected to publish its recommendation on piracy in January, following a long consultation on peer-to-peer file sharing that ended in October.
"Every geek's a little bit sexy, somehow. Maybe it's the glasses, the hot talk about black holes or the Asperger's-like obsession with sci-fi, science or gadgets," says Wired's Underwired blog. To prove it, or not, it has launched its fourth annualWired.com Sexiest Geekscontest.You can submit photos of your favourites and vote contestants up or down.Even a cursory glance shows there's an advantage to showing a lot of cleavage, so don't place your bets on Stephen Colbert, Shigeru Miyamoto or Richard Stallman.I notice Steve Jobs has 31 up votes and 92 down votes, at the moment. Surely the Apple Faithful are not going to sit around while that happens, are they?Note: several sexy geeks -- Veronica Belmont etc -- appear multiple times, perhaps because people can't be bothered to go through multiple pages: it's incredibly clunky.But if you can be bothered, remember to vote for Foxconn's most famous factory workeriPhone Girl!
One of the interesting things about Twitter is the fast-growing "tweecosystem" of add-ons and applications that expand or exploit the basic service. I've just been playing with a new one calledTwitter Venn, which lets you display searches as Venn diagrams. Basically, you type in two or search terms -- such as iPhone, Android and BlackBerry -- and view the result.I'm not sure if I've learned anything from Twitter Venn, but I'd certainly be interested in trying Google Venn.Twitter Venn was written in Java by Canadian programmer Jeff Clark, who has created lots of interesting visualisations atNeoformix, including word portraits and StreamGraphs. His "about" says: "I enjoy discovering the patterns in the apparent chaos of real life data and exploring new techniques for communicating what I discover in a visually compelling manner."Jeff's otherprojectsinclude Twitter StreamGraphs, Twitter Arcs, Digg Trends, and Digg Explorer. One Christmassy thing to try is theText Snowflake Creator, which creates very simple snowflake-style graphics for words you type in. You can see the snowflake grow as you type words in, then change various things including the type font, word spacing and background colour. (I can't see a way to save images: I used a screen grabber.)Made with Text Snowflake CreatorYou could use Text Snowflake Creator to create a last-minute card for someone special.
While the rest of the world digs in for a long hard financial crisis, the games industry is having its biggest financial quarter ever. An unprecedented number of triple-A games was released in the space of a few weeks in November, helping make 2008 an extraordinary year for gamers.Mario Kart (Wii)Coming with a silly plastic steering wheel that actually works, Mario Kart's reinvention for Wii is perhaps the most complete and rewarding since the classic DS remix. Taking tracks from all previous versions of the game and adding online play modes, this is vintage stuff.PlayTV (PS3)Bringing effective TiVo-style personal video recording to your PS3, this also lets you watch recorded programmes on a PSP anywhere in the world. Elegant, inexpensive and easy to set up.Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots (PS3)Featuring a weary, embittered older Snake, its message of the futility of war is only undermined by how much fun war is in this heavily mechanised near-future. With an unusually cogent plot, this is refined, subtle, witty and completely absorbing.Race Driver: GRID (Nintendo DS, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Awesomely, breathlessly exciting racing with the ability to rewind time. It also looks completely staggering, even on a crowded track; easily the driving experience of the year.Fable 2 (Xbox 360)Be the pure-hearted hero of your very own fairytale or the sinister villain with eyes like hot coals. With its English accents and bucolic setting, Fable 2 is an easy place to spend time engaging in missions, starting a family or just messing about with the townsfolk.Far Cry 2 (PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Set in a dusty, rundown, unnamed African country, you're a mercenary hired to kill the region's leading arms dealer, which means running missions through stunning scenery using an increasingly formidable arsenal. A superb game, full of interesting ideas.Gears Of War 2 (Xbox 360)While simply a gentle evolution from its predecessor, this version's obsessively honed shooting action and overblown set pieces rarely give your adrenal gland any peace. It may be cheesy, but its "to the max" ethos supplies endless excitement.Little Big Planet (PS3)Sony's killer application for its very slightly ailing console brings spectacularly charming platforming antics and DIY level design to the masses.Mirror's Edge (PC, PS3, Xbox 360)A game about a non-violent, free-running heroine who only uses guns as a last resort is a standout rarity in a games market dominated by big franchises and war simulations.Wii Fit (Wii)Coming with a miniature white aerobics step that detects your body's position and measures weight and body fat with fear-inducing accuracy, Wii Fit is a game designed to make you thin.Rez HD (PS3, Xbox 360)Loved by misty-eyed former Sega Dreamcast owners, Rez is a synaesthetic fusion of pumping techno and Tron-style space invaders, with each shot fired and expoding alien becoming part of the music and visual splendour. Even more stunning in HD.
There is a navigational concept that I like to refer to as jazz driving. It's the opposite to methodically following a GPS system, and the deadening rigmarole of the pre-planned route. "Don't play what's there," said Miles Davis. "Play what's not there." So you rely on your intuition, sense of direction, nose for a short cut and the sheer mental will to negotiate the maze of randomly arranged backstreets and high roads that make up our urban jumbles. Others, including some of my passengers, prefer to describe this bold approach by another name: lost.In any case, jazz driving requires a certain kind of car. It has to be fairly compact, easy to manoeuvre and capable of what Gary Lineker once defined, albeit in a football context, as "attacking the space", that area of car-free tarmac that is wont to open up for a fleeting moment in even the most congested of circumstances.In such a car, a cross-town journey becomes less an endurance test than a kind a freeform artistic expression. Or, to reverse swiftly out of Pseuds' Corner, it's jazz, man, pure jazz.To wit, the Honda Jazz represents one of those all too rare occasions when a car and its name are satisfyingly matched. Indeed, so glove-snug is the appellation that it seems absurd that the Jazz is known in the US as the Fit. Apparently it was originally going to be called the Fitta in Europe when it was introduced in 2002, but Honda dropped that idea when it discovered the word was coarse Scandinavian slang for vagina. Small on the outside, the slogan was supposed to have run, big on the inside. Well, let's just say that would have inspired a fair bit of buttock-clenching.Enter the Jazz. The update is a long way from a radical overhaul. It's still essentially a shrunken MPV, or supermini, but it looks more streamlined and pleasingly curved than the earlier version. The redesign is obviously aimed at a younger market. How could it not be? The average age of a Jazz customer is a surprisingly advanced 63, which conjures up an image of, well, jazz fans, all beer bellies and beards - though that possibly mischaracterises the car's many women drivers.Whatever gender, the old jazzers know on which side of their bread the low-fat spread lies. For a start, the Jazz really does live up to the Tardis-like promise of that first slogan. From outside, it looks like a tight fit, but inside there's room enough for a Swedish orgy, if that's your thing. If not, then the front cabin is light and spacious, the back seats are not that cramped and there's plenty of boot room.But what really makes the Jazz work is the smooth, effortless drive it delivers. To many, smooth and effortless equals dull when it comes to driving, but you don't have to be 63 to appreciate that there's enough tension on city roads not to need any more in the driver's seat.There is talk of Honda bringing out a hybrid version of the Jazz. If its performance matches that of the current model, then it could be the ideal car for the pinched times ahead. And here's a slogan for free: more Miles for your miles. How jazz is that?
Millions of web users across the Middle East are struggling to get online after damage to undersea cables connecting Europe, Africa and Asia took down a major route for internet traffic.As much as 70% of internet traffic and telephone communications between the continents has been affected by the outage.It is believed to have been caused by damage to a string of cables which run on the bed of the Mediterranean Sea between Italy and Egypt, connecting Europe with other parts of the world. The lines, which run hit the Egyptian coast at Alexandria and go on to connect to Asia, are responsible for carrying vast amounts of internet traffic and phone calls between different parts of the world.It remains unclear what precisely what caused the damage, but the Egyptian communications ministry said that ships have already been dispatched to look at the problem - although repairs will take "several days".Jonathan Wright, a director at telecoms company Interoute, said that the outage could have a devastating affect on business and communication around the world."The potential impact of an outage of this size cannot be underestimated – it is like severing a major artery," he said. "Global internet connectivity is reliant on sub-sea cables connecting countries."The incident comesless than a year after a similar outagebrought a halt to communications between Europe, Africa and Asia. Those problems were believed to have been caused by ships' anchors ripping through another section of the same cables, but were exacerbated by simultaneous damage in lines through the Middle East.As many as 75 million people were affected in countries as far apart as India, Egypt and Dubai.It is not yet clear whether today's outage is the same order of magnitude.Despite the prevalence of wireless internet and satellite connections, global communications are still largely reliant on  the vast webs of fibre optic cables which cover the planet. The lines, which take years of planning to install, move traffic backwards and forwards across continents.The cables hit by the latest incident are among the most vital information pipelines linking Europe to the rest of the world – and are responsible for the majority of all connectivity in the Middle East and south Asia.According to Alan Mauldin, research director of communications analysis company TeleGeography, the succession of problems in the region are only likely to be remedied by a series of new cables which are currently being planned."Many new cable systems are slated to enter service between Europe and Egypt in the next few years," he said.
Facebook Now Growing by Over 600,000 Users a Dayproclaims the Inside Facebook site (which is an independent blog). Justin Smith says:While Facebook has been growing at around 300,000 to 400,000 active users per day for most of the fourth quarter (based on our estimations), its growth rate seems to have significantly increased in recent weeks to 600,000 or perhaps even 700,000 new users each day.At roughly 7 users per second, it could reach 200 million users in March. The first 100 million took more than 8 years, to the end of August this year, while the second could take less than 8 months[corrected from June].Although Facebook already has lots of users in the US and the UK, for example, there are still plenty of untapped markets, especially in countries that don't use English.Whether it's a profitable expansion is another matter, of course.The latest official stats are in theFacebook Press Room.
McAfee has produced a useful list ofThe 12 Scams of Christmas, starting with Charity Phishing Scams and ending with Laptop Theft. It includes Dangerous Holiday-related Search Terms, and provides a list. Santa screensavers, Santa ringtones and Santa wallpapers can be packaged with adware, spyware or worse, and McAfee suggests you use its ownSite Advisorto see if sites are safe.Holiday-themed Email Attachments and Spam can also be dangerous, so try not to click links in email.Everybody wants something from you at Christmas. Bear in mind that some people will resort to unethical or downright illegal ways to get it.
If you're a natural gamer, the sort that can pull-off a clean headshot from 500m while jumping over a moving obstacle, this blog post isn't for you. Suffice to say, even though I write about games for a living, I'm not in that category. Yet, for some reason, unfathomable to my conscious mind, I'm currently going through Call of Duty IV in Veteran mode. Last night, I was so enraged by my inability to navigate a Middle Eastern alleyway swarming with enemy troops, I smashed my Xbox 360 controller against the floor and broke it. I haven't done that since Tekken 2.So what is the allure of the Hard mode?I suppose there are obvious answers - the desire to test yourself, the fact that you often get double the Achievement points for completing a game at its highest setting... I'm not sure if these explain it completely. I'm halfway through CoDIV on Veteran and it's been a grinding chore. I don't necessarily feel that I'm achieving anything by progressing because every combat choke-point takes me at least 20 re-starts to beat. It's the sort of stuttering, pointless progress that, in real-life, war historians would tut at.Is this fun? Is addiction fun? I don't know. If you were to take a utilitarian view of happiness, attempting to complete a game in 'hard' mode would fall horribly short; most of the accepted signifiers of fun just aren't firing. I'm angry, I'm frustrated, I feel that I'm being impeded by control vagaries and chance factors. The thing about Call of Duty IV, and indeed, many FPS titles at this 'skill' level, is that there are contrary forces working on the player. On the one hand, the fact that you can easily be killed and that enemies are harder to bring down, encourages a cautious style of play. But at the same time, most levels contain endless enemy re-spawn points that only stop churning out baddies when you've got past them. So you've got to be careful, but at the same time, you can't be careful; at some point in every mission, there's a moment you just have to jump out of your cover point, firing hopefully, flinging flash bangs at the unknown, counting on the fact that there isn't a soldier behind that wall, or an unexploded grenade lurking metres away. There is skill involved, sure, but there is also a lot of luck. Maybe that's how war is.But in CoD IV it's horribly frustrating. I understand the thinking behind endless re-spawn points, but in a game environment that uses every trick possible to fool you into thinking it represents real-life it feels horribly disingenuous. Or maybe this is just the frustration of someone who can't make a headshot from 500m away while jumping over a moving obstacle.So what do you think? Do you go back and play games on Hard? What's your excuse? And do you feel this is the real stuff of gaming? Hard modes are the spiritual successor to the proper old skool arcade machine - theywantyou to lose. I wonder how I'll feel when I finally, inevtiably beat it. It was fun the first time on Intermediate. It will be different this time. It will have cost me a controller.
There's some old advice to the effect that if you're in a hole, stop digging. This unfortunately does not suit the UK's digital radio industry, or, it seems, the government-appointed Digital Radio Working Group. At least, that's how it looks from my quick skim of the DRWG's final report (PDF), which was released this morning.The basic problem is that the adoption of DAB is too poor for digital stations to be financially viable, and there aren't enough users to make a date for a digital switchover, ie a move from analogue radio (AM and FM) to digital radio (DRM and DAB). AsMedia Guardiannotes: "DRWG forecast that this may not happen until 2015 at the earliest, with a government-set date for digital 'migration' not expected until at least 2017."This is a disaster. The switchover is vital because only when everybody is on digital will there be enough advertising money to support digital stations, and only then can the radio industry reduce costs by turning off AM and FM.And 2017 is less than impressive considering that the DRWG has lowered the bar by setting its "migration criteria" to include "at least 50% of total radio listening is to digital platforms." In other words, it's not asking for 50% DAB radio but for 50% including Wi-Fi radios, PCs, Freeview, set-top boxes etc.My friend Steve Green from theDigital Radio Techsite comments, somewhat cheekily:"It was clear from the start that the (effectively BBC-led) DRWG had absolutely no intention of considering any digital radio platform other than DAB, and the final report merely confirms this. But the fact that the report isn't even able to set a desired switch-off date for FM shows that in reality the BBC's approach of pushing everyone onto DAB has been a failure, and it also shows how far FM switch-off is from happening: my estimate is that they wouldn't be able to switch off FM until around 2023-2025 due to the difficulty of getting DAB into cars. But they wouldn't want to admit that because it shows how much of a failure DAB has been up to now."Either way, it's absolutely crazy to think that the 1995-standard DAB system currently used in the UK is fit for this purpose, because it doesn't provide good sound quality at the sort of bit-rates that UK broadcasters use, or can afford.That's why the world DAB standard has already been replaced by DAB+, which uses the newer AAC codec to deliver much better sound quality at the same bit-rates. Adopting DAB+ would enable the radio industry to offer more stations at the same sound quality for a lot less cost (since bandwidth costs money), or to offer much better sound quality at the bit-rates used today.For reference, we're talking about DAB+'s 128kbps AAC, similar to Apple's iTunes, compared with DAB UK's 96-160kbps MP2, which is much less than CD quality. It's why our DAB radio stations sound worse than they do on FM, and have worse stereo.Why does the DRWG presume it's acceptable to move consumers to a system that delivers inferior quality?The radio industry isn't telling all you this because it would have to admit that it has sold you a pup. If you've already bought a DAB radio (except for some fairly recent ones), it won't receive DAB+.The sad thing is that we knew all this more than two years ago. I had a whinge about it in the Technology section on 23 November 2006, sayingThe future of UK radio is now in your hands, and I've have written a fewfollow-upssince.The right thing to do would have been to make a commitment to DAB+ and AAC in 2006, so we had a target worth switching to. (Think "DAB+ Ready" like "HD Ready".) Another two years of DAB sales haven't made it easier to get to the digital switchover, they've made it harder, because there are now two more years worth of radios using an inferior and outdated standard.In the meantime, you can get better sound quality and more choice from a Wi-Fi or Internet radio, albeit with potential delays from buffering problems. See this week'sAsk Jack.
My, my, what a busy week. If it wasn'tzero-day flawshere, it wasbargain basement space shuttlesthere. Oh, and there wassomething or otherabout Steve Jobs too.Anyway, with only a few days until Christmas my thoughts are beginning to turn to the season of goodwill - and, more disappointingly, to my current lack of festiveness. We haven't put up decorations yet (the explanation not a long story, just a boring one), and I've still got to go and buy presents (shhh, don't tell anyone).In any case, this will be our last Friday Afternoon Question before December 25 descends upon us - and that means there's only one possible thing I could ask:What do you want for Christmas?Me? I'm easy to please: I would be very happy indeed if Father Christmas could make it sothe shoe hadn't missed.Your answers in the comments; best one wins good tidings.
Episode six: Paul Carr is awayDear All,If things had gone to plan, you wouldn't be reading this postcard. If things had gone to plan, you would be readingthis columnabout why London kicks France and Silicon Valley's arse when it comes to the only currency that matters. And if things had gone to plan, you'd be reading it yesterday.But, for me, things rarely go to plan – and that's why, unfortunately, there will be no column from me this week. I'll explain...It all started back in January – Christ, less than a year ago; it feels like about 10. Specifically, it all started on 15 January when I woke up in my flat in East Dulwich, laughing. The previous evening I'd gone out for a few drinks with Robert Loch ofnJoyed.com– 'the Hugh Hefner of London entrepreneurs', as the FT once called him – and, as tends to happen, we'd ended up in a dive bar off Piccadilly, pretty far gone on the dark rum and Cokes. As also tends to happen, we'drun intoRear Admiral Mark Kenny, commander of the Center for Submarine Counter-terrorism Operations and former commanding officer of the USS Birmingham who had shown up in at the bar wearing full US naval dress uniform. Naturally enough, I'd accused him of being a con-man and tried to steal his medals. To make matters worse, Rear Admiral Kenny has a diplomatic passport so he could have snapped my neck, and then just walked away, claiming diplomatic immunity. I've seen Lethal Weapon 2. I know how it works. Still, you have to laugh – and a few hours later, waking up safe at home in East Dulwich, that's what I was doing.As anyone who has read my last book –ahem– will know, things had been a little crazy in the previous 12 months. I'd managed to get fired from yet another of my own businesses; I'd lost the love of my life, I'd almost ended up in jail. And most of that had happened on the same day. And yet, clearly I'd learned almost no lesson at all. Drunkenly assaulting rear admirals is not the behaviour of a changed man.I grabbed a slice of cold pizza from the night before (takeaway pizza: expensive as one meal, a bargain as two), and scooped up the post from my doormat. A whole load of bills, natch – council tax, phone bill, broadband – but also a big brown envelope from my landlord. The lease on my flat was up in February and this would, presumably, be the contract to renew for another year. Another year in overpriced, dirty London. Memories of ex-girlfriends on every corner, and cold pizza for breakfast. The idea hardly filled me with joy.But no, it wasn't a contract, it was a letter. Due to the looming "credit crunch" my landlord had decided that the "generous" rent I was paying for my tiny one-bedroom flat in East Dulwich wasn't enough. I had a choice: either accept a 20% hike, effective immediately, or I"d have 30 days to find somewhere else to live.A piece of cold pineapple stuck in my throat. First the girl, then the business, and now my flat – it was like watching a Slinky fall from grace.Thlink ... thlink ... thlink.I threw the envelope onto the sofa and took the two steps across the room to my desk. There was no way I was going to be bullied into paying even more each month for such a tiny flat – and not least because I couldn't afford it. On top of the rent, I was paying for council tax, phone and internet connections, TV licence, a cleaner, almost £100 for a Travelcard just to get into the centre of town – and that was before I actuallydidanything.I opened up my laptop and fired up Google.Oh, Google. There really is no more useful tool at times like this. No matter what major life decision you need to make, you can rely on it to deliver site after site of utterly irrelevant trivia to distract you from it.Looking for a change of career?Click. How about a site listing amusing jobs held by celebrities before they were famous?Click.Or a dozen pages on how to get recruited as an MI6 spy?Click.Or perhaps a list of glaring continuity errors and logical inconsistencies in James Bond films?Click. Click.Before you know it, it"s time for bed and the major life decision has been put off for another day.On this occasion, the major life decision I needed to be distracted from was which cheaper, scummier part of London I should move to at the end of the month – and Google didn"t disappoint.Click.The first result was a chart showing the real cost of living in every major city in the world. From that I was able to see – in stark bar-chart form that, after Moscow, London is the most expensive place to live on planet Earth; 30% more costly, on average, than the next down the list, New York city. Actually maybe a trip to New York wouldn't be a bad idea – I had lots of friends there, and I knew from experience that I could negotiate a great room in my favourite "urban" hotel in Manhattan for $100 a night if I was staying more than a week. At January's exchange rate, that was near enough £50 a night; £1,400 for the whole of February. Certainly enough time to consider my living options.I couldn't help but smile at the coincidence. £1,400 was almost exactly the same as I'd be paying in total if I agreed on the rent hike in London, when things like tax, line rental and all that stuff were factored in. Stuff that I wouldn't have to worry about in a hotel. And of course, by being out of London, my cost of living would be hugely reduced – so I might actually have a better quality of life, for less money.In Tim Ferris's book,The Four Hour Work Week, he discusses a concept called "Geographic Arbitrage", or Geo-arbitrage. In a nutshell, the concept explains how you can achieve a significant real-terms increase in your earnings by being paid in one currency, say US dollars, but spending that money on goods and services from a much cheaper foreign country. The concept has become more and more realistic in recent years as advances in technology mean it's possible to work from anywhere in the world with a laptop, a mobile and a broadband connection.Sure, it wouldn't work for everyone – if you work in a shop or have to manage people in an office then you'll struggle to do that from a South American beach. But if your work primarily involves computers, telephones or "creativity" – if you're, say, a writer – then it's ideal.But what if you took the idea further? If rather than renting or buying a house somewhere cheap, you didn't have a house at all? What sort of possibilities would that level of mobility allow? What if you really, really embraced technology – living in hotels and short term rental apartments and making your travel plans at the very, very last minute using hotel and flight comparison sites and online currency data. Using services likeDopplrandTwitterto find out where your friends would be each month to help you decide where to go next; using Skype to stay constantly in touch andBoingoto ensure that you had access to wireless almost –almost- everywhere you went. What, in other words, if you lived as a technomad?There was only one way to find out. Less than a month later, I had sold almost everything I owned – my furniture, most of my clothes, my DVD collection, the guitar I'd never learned to play – everything, basically, that wouldn't fit into a small suitcase on wheels. And I'd used the money to buy a plane ticket to New York to begin a ridiculous experiment. To see if it was possible to enjoy a ridiculously high standard of living on the road, at absolutely no extra cost, simply by embracing spontaneity and putting my faith in the power of technology. What I couldn't possibly have predicted at the time is that it's not only possible, but massively preferable. The adventures I had since February – more on them soon – are such that I literally do not understand why people who are able to work remotely, and who don't have a spouse or children to worry about, don't buy themselves a suitcase and hit the road.And yet every so often – like all things one loves unconditionally – technology lets me down. Hard. And so it was when, late on Tuesday night, some four hours before my column was due to be filed, my hotel in London decided to switch off its Wi-Fi for "maintenance". Unperturbed, I set my alarm for early the next morning, positive that the Starbucks opposite the hotel would have working Wi-Fi. No dice. Hours later, after much fail wailing, and having finally found a decent connection, I finished the column – but it was too late; while I'd been fighting with technology, Charles Arthur hadalready written a piece on the exact same subjectas mine. Seriously, how muchtroubleis it possible for Wi-Fi to cause one person in a single month?There was only one thing to do. I closed my laptop, poured my latte into a to-go cup and pointed my suitcase towards Liverpool Street and the Stansted Express. Six hours later, I was checking into my hotel in Reykjavik, Iceland, a country with one of the highest broadband penetrations in Europe, where the hotels have Wi-Fi pouring from every surface and where, thanks to their crashing economy, even factoring in the cost of the flights, I can live in comfort until Christmas for less than the cost of my flat in East Dulwich.Of course, I don't know the first thing about Iceland. But Google does. Did you know, for example, that there are no native ants on Iceland? Not one. There are also no trains. Yep – thanks to Google, by the time I boarded my flight, I had learned that ants travel by train. I also don't know anyone in Iceland but,thanks to Twitter, in a few minutes after I've finished writing this, I'm going to wander across the road to meet a group of Icelandic entrepreneurs who are going to tell me everything I need to know about the startup scene here. And thanks to Dopplr, I know that my friend Alex is arriving in town on Saturday.Ok, that's all from me; got to run. Sorry again about the column. I promise I'll tell you all about my adventures in Iceland next week. Assuming, of course, that things go to plan.Wish you were herePaul x...Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com.
64 games were nominated in our 2008 Readers Choice rally. As we notedyesterday, the top five came from the establishment. But in amongst the votes for GTA4 and Fallout 3 were a few smaller gems. We had a look at the offbeat suggestions and discovered some top titles that would otherwise have fallen through the cracks.Keep reading for the selection (listed in no particular order), and for the complete list of games you recommended.1. You found the grappling hook(PC)This little (free) indie game was nominated by meepmeep, who said it wasbrilliantly simple old-school indie platformy geniusAccording toPlayThisThing,You're a little horned dude running around a blocky cave. You've got a grappling hook. You can use this grappling hook with the same button you use to jump, "X", which blends nicely since you're going to be doing long hangs, swings, and climbs to get around the game's 10 screens. Along the way, you'll find some winged boots that allow you to hover by pushing Z, and a pick-ax that allows you to harvest gold for a high score, using the same button. Once you get that ax, the cave starts to collapse, so you've got a greed/survival dynamic to consider as you escape...This is a game premised on a single mechanic, wearing it on its sleeve, that manages to come up with a clever twist at the end.It comes from massively prolific indie developer Messhof, a name we'll definitely keep an eye out for in the future.2. ROM CHECK FAIL(PC)meepmeep also recommended this free indie title, describing it as,one of the most original ideas in gamingWell, for that statement alone, it's worth a peep.IndieGameshas the link, and says:Players have to clear the screen of all enemies to complete each level, but the task is made a little more difficult by the random switching of gameplay rules where ideas are recycled and remastered as an odd mix of arcade or console classics from the past.So a kind of Braid-meets-the-80s-on-an-even-lower-budget. If you don't have an Xbox to download Braid, get a taste of what you're missing in this one.3. Castle crashers(XBLA)And speaking of the games you can get on XBLA, Andc recommends Castle Crashers, a gruesome side-scrolling beat-em-up.Wikipediadescribes the basic premise:Castle Crashers' story is based on the adventures of four knights as they attempt to chase down a wizard and his army of barbarians after they stole a large magic crystal and four princesses from the palace. Each of the four princesses are sold off to different villains, each of whom the knights must defeat to retrieve them.Sounds like SmashTV on fantasy 'ludes. Andc says,Quality simple fun. Highly enjoyable.To the point.4. Patapon(PSP)midwinter recommended this PSP title developed by the LocoRoco developers. OK, so it's not exactly off the beaten track (heck, Steve Boxerreviewed itfor the paper), but I particularly liked midwinter's description:I don't know why, but I found the story of a group of feuding eyeballs on their quest for 'IT' about a billion times more interesting than Kojima's nonsense script for MGS.Add that toBoxer's comments:You rarely come across a game which occupies a genre of its own, but there is no doubt that Patapon is the first ever rhythm-action-RTS...and for me you have a winner.5. Professor Layton(DS)Finally, another not-so-indie, but very popular handheld title amongst our readers was Professor Layton and the Curious Village. As our ownGreg described it for the paperearlier this year,Basically this is a collection of mini-games with a beautifully drawn adventure stuck on top. Playing as Layton and his sidekick, Luke, the game involves visiting the eponymous village and solving the puzzles within. The conundrums vary but are generally tricky brainteasers that will certainly test the grey matter.It seems many of you appreciated the exercise. Reader davefalse threw his bid in (but gave no explanation as to why), while kezabien offered a few words:A very different point-and-click meets Brain Training that is both challenging and good fun. The story and presentation is perfect too.An all-around well-balanced title. This combination seems to have attracted resistant fans. Spew says:not for me but for Mrs Spew. The only game she's ever actually taken to.A strong recommendation.If you'd like to see where the games you nominated ended up in the Reader's Choice League Table, check it out below (in order, bearing in mind that there were many ties):1. GTA41. Fallout32. LBP3. MGS 44. Fable 25. Left 4 Dead6. Wipeout HD7. Rock Band7. Burnout Paradise7. Far Cry 27. Civilization: Revolution8. Call of Duty9. Braid9. Uncharted10. Bioshock10. Gears of War 211. Mass effect11. Team Fortress 211. Everybody's Golf World Tour11. Fifa0911. Geometry Wars 212. Dead Space12. Guitar Hero: World Tour12. Professor Layton13. Advance Wars: Dark Conflict13. Castle Crashers13. Mirror's Edge13. Portal13. Spore13. Bangai-O Spirits13. Motorstorm Pacific Rift13. Persona 313. Pro Evo 200813. Resistance 213. Super Mario Bros Galazy13. Topspin 313. Valkyria Chronicles14. Battlefield Bad Company14. Battlestations Midway14. Bourne14. Dawn of War: Soulstorm14. Disgaea: AoD14. Echchrome14. Enemy Territory: Quake Wars14. Eveyday Shooter14. GTI Club +14. Jeanne D'Arc14. Lord of the Rings Online: the Mines of Moria14. Madden NFL 0914. Mario Kart14. No More Heroes14. Patapon14. PxelJunk Eden14. Rainbow six Vegas 214. Rez HD14. ROM CHECK FAIL14. Saints Row 214. Sins of a Solar Empire14. Smash Bros14. The World Ends With You14. Tomb Raider14. Too Human14. Warhawk14. You've found the grappling hook
What's your favourite piece of technology?Ho, ho, ho. Ho, ho, ho. Ho, ho, ho! Oh, sorry, favourite piece of technology you say? Well, it has to be the sleigh, doesn't it?  Oh. And my iGift Shuffle. Just press play and it saves you choosing who gets which presents. Also known as a Random Present Distributor, but iGift Shuffle has a certain ring to it, doesn't it? Plus it fits on a little cord around your neck. Pain in the arse if you lose it, though. Rudolph swallowed it once. Had to wait four days before it came out the other end.How has the sleigh improved your life?It's not easy getting round the world in 24 hours. Don't ask how I do it. It's all about sleigh of hand. Sleight of hand, I mean. Sorry. Did you see what I did there?When was the last time you used it, and what for?Christmas Eve, obviously. Delivering presents. Do you know who I am?What additional features would you add if you could?A beard trimmer. Have you seen the size of this thing? It doesn't look after itself, I can tell you. Plus a DAB digital radio. It gets a little boring delivering all those presents. Time can drag – even when you're traveling at 10 times the speed of light. Plays havoc with the chocolate coins, though. And I'm not sure what the reception would be like up there.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?My iPod or the DAB radio? Ho, ho, ho. Ho, ho, ho. Ho, ho, ho! No, no, I thought it was a perfectly sensible question. I was just doing my schtick. I'm sure the iPod will still be going, but it won't be top of anyone's Christmas list anymore. At current rates of consumption, everyone will have one by 2016. Not so sure about DAB radio, though. Donner and Blitzen have already started listening to Planet Antler on the web. Who needs DAB when you've got a Wi-Fi mobile phone? Tried getting a mobile phone headset for a reindeer. It's not easy. All their antlers are different shapes.What one tip would you give to non-DAB radio users?Enjoy the strength of the FM signal and the warm stereo sound. It's more than you get with DAB.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Ho, ho (cough, wheeze) oh forget it. I'm a bit of a luddite, actually. Mrs Claus came home the other day with a smoothie maker, and I thought it was a Pierce Brosnan generating machine. Oh come on! I've just put that in a cracker.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?The virtual personal financial advisor that told me to buy shares in ITV. Cost me a fortune.Mac or PC?Rudolph.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Santa Claus Is Coming To Town – Bruce Springsteen.Will robots rule the world?No. But elves might.What piece of technology would you most like to own?In-sleigh DAB. An iPhone that can copy and paste and can send picture messages. How hard can it be?• Follow the old bloke's progress on Christmas Eve atNorad Tracks Santa
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Ricky Hatton is unleashing a fearsome uppercut somewhere near the living room coffee table; a few hours later Steven Gerrard is nodding in a cross next to the mantelpiece. According to the pay TV company Sky, this could be the future of television within two years if ambitious plans to launch 3D services reach fruition.At Sky's headquarters on an unprepossessing industrial estate near the M4, those plans took a large step forward this week as it demonstrated the technology for the first time using a Sky+ HD set-top box, of the kind that is already in more than 500,000 homes, and its standard transmission network.Subscribers who want to view 3D content, however, will have to invest in a new television that can decode the two signals that make up the 3D image. Most of the big consumer electronics manufacturers are working on 3D sets and the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January is expected to be dominated by new examples of the technology. Meanwhile, other broadcasters including the BBC are believed to be conducting their own trials.Sky hopes that ultimately a 3D-ready set will not cost much more than a standard high-definition plasma screen. The Hyundai model used to demonstrate the technology currently retails at &pound;2,500.BSkyB executives are convinced that 3D technology can throw off its associations with cardboard glasses with red and green lenses, 1950s comics and gimmicky 1980s movies. Its version of the technology still requires viewers to wear Joe 90-style glasses with a polarising filter that converts the image into 3D.Those overseeing the trial insist the need to wear glasses need not prove a barrier and envisage whole families donning the inexpensive specs to watch not only big sporting events but Saturday night entertainment shows, Hollywood movies, operas and documentaries.The broadcaster believes 3D television is the next obvious progression from previous innovations such as digital broadcasting, Sky+ and high definition, and hopes it will help to attract new subscribers and retain existing ones.As with HD, sporting events and Hollywood movies are likely to be the initial draw. Ricky Hatton's victory over Juan Lazcano, Liverpool's Champions League clash with Marseille at Anfield and England's rugby union clash with New Zealand at Twickenham were all filmed using the technology. Darren Long, Sky's head of sports broadcasting, said the events were filmed using adapted HD cameras.He added: "It's using the whole existing HD infrastructure. We haven't had to develop a whole new set-top box. We haven't had to invest in new cameras and set-top boxes, we've done it using the existing architecture."He said it would take time for producers to work out the best way of using the technology, and viewers would have to get used to a new way of watching.Long said that the version of the technology that Sky had developed was capable of becoming the standard."I was in a truck for six or seven hours doing the undercard and the Hatton fight. I'm as cynical as anyone and it immersed me completely. You forgot you had glasses on, got involved in the programme and started seeing things you'd never noticed before."
With national debt now nearing the $11 trillion mark in the States, drastic measures are being taken to teach people about the dangers of financial irresponsibility. And in this day and age 'drastic measures' can mean only one thing - make a damn videogame. And fast.Luckily, America has MTV to look after it. The TV channels 24-hour college networkmtvUhas joined forces with thePeter G. Peterson Foundationto launch, Indebted, a new campaign to teach people that over-spending, at either the personal or federal levels, is uncool. And a key part of this endeavour is theIndebted Digital Challenge. From the press release:The Indebted Digital Challenge asks 18-28 year olds, individually or in teams, to submit creative, original ideas for an online video game that focuses on the nation's fiscal crisis. Submissions are due on January 7, 2009. The winner will receive a $10,000 prize. The game will be used as a tool to spread awareness of our dangerous financial condition and to encourage young people to take action to turn the tide.This is not the first time mtvU has explored the use of games as an instructive tool. A while ago I wrote about the though-provokingDarfur Is Dying, a simulation of life in a refugee camp. This, too, was a student-led project arranged by the TV station.So how would you tackle this project? I suppose the obvious approach would be some kind of Sim City-style game, in which the consequences of debt are shown on a city-wide level, using lots of pull-down menus, stats and charts. But the success of Darfur Is Dying is the personal, ground-level approach it takes. Could a videogame humanise debt in a way that no objective news presentation is able to?
Sky "says it has successfully tested the delivery of 3D programming to a domestic television, via a high-definition set-top box," saysthe BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones.Such broadcasts would require the use of 3D televisions, not yet available in UK stores, and viewers would need to wear 3D polarising glasses.Earlier this year BBC engineers broadcast a Six Nations rugby union international in 3D to an audience at a theatre in London.Sky says it has gone further by showing that 3D could be delivered into homes, straight to its Sky+HD set-top box, without much difficulty.In Media Guardian,Owen Gibson says:Gerry O'Sullivan, Sky head of strategic product development, added: "It's using the whole existing HD infrastructure. We haven't had to develop a whole new set-top box. We haven't had to invest in new cameras and set-top boxes, we've done it using the existing architecture."But companies have been showing 3D TV sets at CES and other shows for a few years, and it's not clear whether the idea will ever take off.One thing in 3D's favour is that Hollywood is now keen on the idea, including Jeffrey Katzenberg, the CEO of DreamWorks Animation. A recent story,Top Hollywood exec says 3-D is the industry's next big thing, says:"I think 3-D is an opportunity to re-energize in a very big way what it means to go to the cinema" and in a way that home systems can't yet duplicate, Katzenberg said. "All of our films now are being created from the very beginning for the 3-D process."His studio is not alone. The concert film Hannah Montana, as well as Meet the Robinsons, Chicken Little and The Nightmare Before Christmas, have come from Walt Disney Studios' Motion Pictures Group, and the studio will make more than 15 3-D movies between now and 2011, according to published reports.But the idea that people will go to the cinema because they can't watch 3D movies at home may not survive the arrival of Sky 3D and similar servicesIs 3D TV something you're keen to buy?
Keith,GregandIare the first to admit that we're not the end-all-be-all of games information. After all, we're only three. You, the readers, are many. And while our top 5 games of 2008 have inspired substantial commentary and discussion, today we presentthe top five games (out of a massive 64 nominated) that the rabble has reported. Don't expect surprises.Tomorrow, we focus the left-of-centre games our readers recommended.5.Left 4 DeadIn at number five is the Half Life 2 zombie mod.It may have a single player mode, but Sorbicol explains that the real magic happens when you go online:Just when you think Valve can't better online gaming after last year's Team Fortress 2, they go and do it again. Forget the single player, this game is all about the online experience - it is the closest any game has come to replicating a cinematic experience, and forces an emotional response out of the players. The feeling of Euphoria when the entire team of Survivors manage to escape after completeing the whole campaign is overwhelming. Online gaming perfection.MaybeNextTime weighs in with similar worship, and says that the replayability factor is sky high:Hilarious, tense, ridiculous, satisfying and evil in equal measure. The campaigns are universally brilliant, and even playing them through for the tenth time something new happens, and Versus mode is some of the most gleeful gaming I've ever experienced. I really hope that the AI director changes gaming as much as it should.Finally, Jaime Skella sums all these thoughts up quite nicely:A title that almost perfects old concepts, and creates arguably the best co-op shooter ever.4.Fable 2The Lionhead RPGer is in at number 4. It may have been 'mega-hyped', but for Unboros23,...it delivered.  A game that thoroughly deserves at least 2 play throughs.Stephen Littler may have actually done that:Played from 8am to 11:30pm without stopping even for water.3.MGS4The fourth of the iconic stealth-em-ups in the Metal Gear Solid family sneaks into third place. Jon Porter is a sentimental mercenary from the front:It's cutscene heavy, short and doesn't have much of the style of its predecessors but MGS4 earns its place for simply BEING a Metal Gear game, with gameplay that when it hits, hits hard.2.LBPLittle Big Planet pleased a great many of you, particularly because of the new ideas which it brought to the PlayStation 3. As Mark Sparrow explains,Plenty of innovation and being able to design your own cool levels.  The only game that made me want to buy a Playstation 3.But is wasn't just about the user-generated content that tickled everyone's fancy. dizzyisanegg gushes at length about the other great things about the game, highlighting the best of the rest:it's imaginative, is really easy to grasp the concepts it gives you (even if the menu/stickers features are a little clunky), the music is great (Battles! In a game! Almost better than my custom Wipeout soundtrack featuring Frightened Rabbit) AND Stephen Fry narrates. Once you sit down in front of it there's literally no way not to be drawn in unless you're dead inside.1.GTA IVFinally, there's a tie for first! We'll dispense with the most obvious (and perhaps most contentious) winner first, GTA4. dizzyisanegg once again eloquently sums up the issues:I know the game gets a fair amount of stick on the blog for being 'another GTA' but I thought it was great. There's a reason sandbox games are compared (usually unfavourably) to the GTA series and IV continues the tradition. It's slick, the driving, although more realistic is just as fun as ever (and the range of cars was brilliant), the music's great, the city looks amazing... What more do people want?Ben Wightman concurs:If you don't like it, fine, there are other places to go. But nowhere this deep, or with this dramatic integrity.And for those who still aren't believers, Andrew Chesworth offers his final persuasive argument:A technical masterpiece. Involving story. Much improved controls. Yes it had its flaws. But the game worked really well....Anyone that complains about this game should play mercenaries 2 for half an hour.1.Fallout 3Finally, your other number one was this stunning RPG which Umboros23 described as 'Oblivion with guns'. The praise was universal, like this from Stephen Littler:You can just decide to go for a wander and be captivated for hours exploring the post-apocalyptic landscape and doing random quests that you come across. RPG perfection.Minion described it as 'wonderful', Andrew Chesworth said it was 'just brilliant' and PhilWal declared it the 'best RPG I've played in ages.'Sorbicol explains why the fuss:The most immersive, addictive gaming world I have plunged into in a very long time. The scope is vast, the exploration of the gaming world feels like it'll never end, and the ability to take whatever path you like through the game demands replaying. I've still got half the gaming world to explore for my next play through, and I'll savour every moment.All comments come from the readers who sent their votes in by email. Headherefor the publicly available thoughts.So, the masses have spoken. Let the fighting begin. Tomorrow, we look at some of the runners up that we'd never heard of, but you thought were toppermost of the poppermost.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Reid Hoffman, the former PayPal pioneer turned Web 2.0 investor, hastaken back controlof the business networking site LinkedIn, which he founded in 2002.He's kicked out CEO Dan Nye after less than two years to take back the job and brought informer Yahoo Jeff Weinerto help.What's the benefit? It's not entirely clear, but aback-rubbing profile from Business Weeklast month might give you an insight into what Weiner's job is likely to involve:To guide LinkedIn, Hoffman and the bard hired the veteran software executive Nye last year. Hoffman, who admits to a chaotic management style, stayed on as board chairman and director of product development. Part of his CEO job, Nye says, is 'wrestling to get the thinking out of Reid's head, package it, and get it to other people."Given the current economic climate – when so many people are looking for jobs, or at least looking to market themselves just in case – you'd imagine LinkedIn would do pretty well (that's certainly the way the company has been painting it).So what's going on here?Perhaps things haven't been going quite so well after all, or perhaps Hoffman fancies a bit of CEO glory. Whatever the case, we hope that Weiner does a better job of wrestling with Hoffman than Nye did. Perhaps they cantake some lessons from cinema's greatest wrasslers, Olly Reed and Alan Bates?(image fromDominic Vineon Flickr)
We've published ournew list of 100 great sites on the internet- with the usual broad focus, taking in 22 categories.The last time we did this,almost exactly two years ago in December 2006, mapping was starting to push its way into the consciousness; Google had released the useful version of its mapping API in June 2006, creating the potential for much better mashups. (And that was quite a change from the first list we did, theCream of the cropin December 2004.We chose the list by quizzing all the regular technology contributors to the Guardian, and doing a sort of super-merge of the list; at one stage our 100 contained 143. (At the editing stage we counted the same printout once as 99, once as 101, once as 102, but twice as 100 - so we settled.)What's clear is that location-based services, which were only a glimmer in the idea of GPS-enabled systems then, have become more common; while collaboration services, which let you create or share work done anywhere online to anywhere else, have blossomed from their early stages then. And video is huge, as broadband has spread around the country. Plus, of course, Twitter, which keeps proving itself - where do you think I found out about Apple and Steve Jobs not attending Macworld?So, which sites survived from the last round? Taking the headings from the last list:Applications: none, although the category (this time called "Create/collaborate") has six entries this time.Blogs: reading:Bloglines. Still proving its worth.Blogs: writing: none. We did have wordpress.org, but wordpress.com is our choice this time (there are only two in the category) because it's free, spam-free, and you get security and other updates automatically.Email: no category this time; you can get sufficient free storage for life almost anywhere.Gaming:Pocket Gamer. Because it's still the place for handheld gaming.Maps: none. Google Maps is sooo 2007.News: mainstream: no category this time.News: recommendation:DiggandRedditsurvive, dominating crowdsourced news.Offbeat:The Onionis still the satirical newspaper of record for us; if it hasn't happened, it's probably in the Onion.Politics, Public action (this time called Government/Public services/Politics): none.Radio: subsumed into Music; none are there this time.Recommendation: music:Last.fmhas proved its worth (in Music alone). And it deserves a mention as theonlysite that appears in all three lists. Classy! (Though Wikipedia, below, was also suggested by readers the first time, and Popurls the second.)Reference:Wikipedia, of course. But welcome the new player, Wikileaks - using much the same technology to spread information that others might want kept suppressed.Science: no category this time.Search: we didn't think it worth telling you about Yahoo or Microsoft's search; you either use them or don't. So we focused on the new ones instead. Google's domination is growing.Social software:MySpaceandLinkedInsurvive, though Bebo, Habbo and Friendster are not needed on the voyage. Until September 2006, Facebook was still closed to non-academic accounts, so it hadn't gotten the traction it now has.Video: gosh, there was video in 2006 - that's right.YouTubehas cemented its place, andVideojug is still in there; but revver, Brightcove and Current TV drop off.That's a grand total of10 survivorsfrom the previous 100. Life online is brutal, isn't it? (Not that the other 90 have vanished; just that we don't feel they're at the cutting edge of what's happening, or essential to an enjoyable/productive life online.)So now the hard question. You've read the list (right?). So:-which sites have we missed (always allowing for the fact that we might have had it, but had to stop somewhere)?-are there entire categories that we've missed?
And you can't hear him comingJeremy Clarkson - who is unfathomably popular among Americans - tries out the Tesla Roadster electric car, and is, for once, impressed. "The top speed may only be 125 miles per hour, but..."Some day all students will use itDoug Engelbart in "the mother of all demos" (this is part two of 10) from 1968, showing off copy and paste. And paste. And paste. Which is what children can do now. (Thanks, Ed Parsons.)Bruce Willis not shownOK, it's an ad by IBM, but the marketing is inaudible as an asteroid threatens a US IT bunch. (Thanks, Ed Brill.)Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments!
Another week, another shakeup at everybody's favourite deep packet inspectors, Phorm. At the beginning of the month a little light bloodletting sawfour directors bite the dust, and now we discover that those weren't the only changes.Hugo Drayton, Phorm's UK chief executiveis stepping down, as is UK chief financial officer, Lynne Millar.In time-honoured fashion, Drayton's already been erased from Phorm'scorporate history– even though he's officially supposed to be staying until the end of the year (Google him and the response from Phorm's site is a rather discourteous "The requested URL /about/exec_drayton.php was not found on this server.")The question I'm wondering: how long is it until there isn't anyone left who remembers the good old days?
I am thinking of buying either a DAB or a Wi-Fi radio, but judging from the images I see of these machines on the internet, they all seem to have only one loudspeaker. Aren't there any full stereo Wi-Fi radios, or sets you can link to your home stereo?Johan van SlootenLots of DAB radios have two loudspeakers, including popular Pure and Roberts Radio designs. Unfortunately, DAB -- as broadcast in the UK, at low bitrates -- has very poor stereo separation, so it doesn't really matter if radios have two speakers close together or are, in fact, mono.However, I would discourage you from buying either a DAB or Wi-Fi radio, rather than a radio that handles all three formats: DAB, Wi-Fi and FM. There's a growing number of these devices, including the Roberts WM201 Wi-Fi Radio (aka Stream 201), the Roberts Stream 202, and Pure's Evoke Flow (VL-60896).For your purposes, the best choice is probably Revo's iBlik RadioStation. This mains-powered radio handles all the main formats -- DAB, FM with RDS, Wi-Fi and wired connections -- and also the new standard DAB+. It is iPod-certified and can be used with other MP3 players via an M-Port cable. You can also stream audio from your PC or Mac. Finally, unlike most multifunction radios, it has stereo RCA line-out sockets so you can connect it to a real hi-fi system. This is better than using the headphone socket with a Y-cable connection. The iBlik's obvious drawback is the £175 price, but it's versatile and relatively future-proof. If you want a battery-powered portable, the Roberts Stream 202 is worth a look at £150.
Is there a program or fix that I can use to lock myself out of programs except for some specified times, so I can stop distracting myself from writing? I'm a Mac user.Paul DornanThere are some lockdown programs, but parental controls should do the job. In Mac OS X, go to System Preferences, then Accounts, select the Parental Controls tab, and set whatever restrictions you want. If the accounts are dimmed, you will need to enter the administrator's name and password. You could set up a special work account that only allows you to exchange email with a number of specified addresses, so you don't miss anything important.
You recommended Panda's Anti Rootkit, but this does not run under Windows Vista.Stewart BromfieldGMERworks with Vista, but is particularly recommended for more experienced users. (Don't be discouraged if you hit the minimalist web site first.) F-Secure's Blacklight is another option, andBleeping Computer has a tutorial pageto walk you through the process.
You recommended Audacity for manipulating music files, which I now use very happily. Could do the same for CAD? I want to build up reconstructions of archaeological sites, as they do on Time Team.Steve ThompsonI use Audacity so I can recommend it, but I don't use CAD (computer-aided design) software. There's a list of dozens of free CAD programs atFreebyte, so have a look at the Architectural CAD Systems section. However, I don't have a clue which might suit you best: perhaps readers can help.Backchat: Ray Bell, Bryan Scott, Don Mitchell and Ben have suggested Google SketchUp. Ray Bell says: "it's a free, easy to use 3D modelling program, but it can be used with precision and can generate plans sections and elevations and simple animations.  I've been using architectural CAD applications professionally for almost 20 years, but I find SketchUp indispensable."Bryan Scott MCIOB MCIAT of Scott Associates adds: "The free version has its limitations but is a good start for the amateur. Be warned though, once you get adept you will need to upgrade to the Pro Version. Don't get seduced by the promises of the other free Cad programs: they promise far more than they deliver, and I speak as both an Architectural CAD operator and archaeologist."Nigel Heptinstall says Steve "may will find that the free program Map Maker (www.mapmaker.com) will do the job. It is used by many archaeological groups in my area for just the task Steve wants it for, and as well as mapping different chronological phases of sites, can also be used to say import a photo of a gable end and draw the different phases of construction."He adds: "One of the advantages of Map Maker is you can import a map and use it as a base, conforming of course to any copyright requirements."
My Linux computer (using Ubuntu 8.04) has started telling me to "take a break" and locks up the screen, mouse and keyboard while it counts down for three minutes. Having a thing like this suddenly appearing is annoying, and it is MY computer, which I would like to only do what I want it to do.Leslie NaylorThe "take a break" feature is part of the Gnome desktop. You can control it by going to System Preferences, selecting Keyboard Preferences and going to the Typing Break tab.
