I drove to Highclere in a&nbsp;sleek, fat, white Merc, with my friend Alex and her baby, Fred. We pulled into a&nbsp;car park and climbed out.A tall guy came streaking over, his neck pulling forward, as though afraid we might get back in and tear away. "Is that a&nbsp;Mercedes CLA 220 CDI AMG Sport?" he asked."Probably.""Oh jeez. We can't get these in America," he said. "If I remember it right, it must be about 210?"We looked at him. Alex said politely, "Thousand dollars?""Horse," he replied. "Hey, do you mind if I get in?""Not at all."It has a nice, tidy instrument cluster. It is the pokiest automatic I've ever tried, and it is the pokiest diesel I've driven by a hundred miles. If you are a Merc fancier, you will be pleased to hear that all the features are in the regular places. "Some people think the distance sensors are set for European roads and they're too sensitive for the British lanes, but I don't really know your terrain well enough to say.""Our terrain!" I smirk."The interior is stunning," he says, stroking the grey leather with the red piping. "I think the idea is a kind of 60s, Steve McQueen mood, when you drove a sports car because you liked to be fast, but weren't necessarily rich."Then he was out and gone, and I&nbsp;must say, considering how low-slung it is, it is surprisingly easy for a&nbsp;tall person to get out of.He was right about the sensors: they are very annoying on country lanes, beeping incessantly at the outrage of being too near a bramble leaf. Bumpy roads don't suit it, the suspension is low and hard, and you can feel a bit thrown about.There are a few things that would take more than a week to get used to, including the voice-activated satnav whose default town – if it thinks you don't enunciate well enough – is Accrington. The fuel efficiency is woeful; whatever it claims, the reality is 300 miles a tank. The drive/park control is beautifully easy to use, but the eco function – cutting out the engine whenever you stop – would catch you out if you were city driving.But it is a treat, from the minute you get in: the acceleration is bewilderingly good, the handling makes you feel like a superhero, it makes these purring, revving noises,&nbsp;and even on rough roads it's more exciting than it is uncomfortable. The atmosphere is, I&nbsp;have to admit, a bit Steve McQueen. This is how I can justify loving it. Speed for speed's sake, ostentation, gas-guzzling: none of that stuff is cool any more. But Steve&nbsp;McQueen? Time can't melt the&nbsp;cool of Steve McQueen.Mercedes CLA 220 CDI AMG SportPrice£39,415Top speed143mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.2 secondsCombined fuel consumption62.8mpgCO2emissions117g/kmEcorating3/10Cool rating8/10
The juggernaut that isGrand Theft Auto V(PS3, Xbox) is out this Tuesday. It's the year's biggest release, and other games huddle nervously in its shadow, leaving the release schedule slightly quirkier than usual. So there isFarm Simulator(PS3, Xbox), offering all the drawn-out banality of driving long distances in a tractor and attempting to hook together pieces of low-resolution agricultural machinery;Memoria(PC), a hard-working, decent RPG made by Germans;Harvest Moon: A New Beginning(3DS), a light-hearted and elegantly produced game that gives a considerably more interesting account of tending crops; andPuppeteer(PS3), a strange and interesting platform game with an art style you won't see anywhere else, which, along with recent release The Last Of Us and the incredible interactive dramaBeyond: Two Souls, is part of a late golden age for PS3.
The juggernaut that isGrand Theft Auto V(PS3, Xbox) is out this Tuesday. It's the year's biggest release, and other games huddle nervously in its shadow, leaving the release schedule slightly quirkier than usual. So there isFarm Simulator(PS3, Xbox), offering all the drawn-out banality of driving long distances in a tractor and attempting to hook together pieces of low-resolution agricultural machinery;Memoria(PC), a hard-working, decent RPG made by Germans;Harvest Moon: A New Beginning(3DS), a light-hearted and elegantly produced game that gives a considerably more interesting account of tending crops; andPuppeteer(PS3), a strange and interesting platform game with an art style you won't see anywhere else, which, along with recent release The Last Of Us and the incredible interactive dramaBeyond: Two Souls, is part of a late golden age for PS3.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewA Realm Reborn is Final Fantasy's latest bid to establish itself as a massively multiplayer game rather than a lonely solo adventure, but technical issues have left it less stable-looking than Miley Cyrus during a MTV VMAs performance. Beset by server problems and online tirades from angry customers, there is a huge, detailed game underneath the technical disasters, but it may be some time before it can be enjoyed by its enthusiastic and expectant audience.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewDiablo 3 sees you run around dungeons slaying the usual menagerie of goblins and demons using an assortment of sharpened metal implements, yet unlike most of its basement-exploring bedfellows it's wonderfully addictive. There's a steady progression of skills and weapons that build so slowly you scarcely notice your advancement from newbie to god-like slayer. The icing on its desolate, malignly magical cake is that you can do all that with up to three friends, so it's a lightly sociable way to bring death to the hordes of chaos.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWith a name like Killzone, there's not too much doubt about what you're getting into. This time the carnage is amplified by the fact that the action is viewed through the eyes of a cold-blooded mercenary, hired first by Earth and later by red-eyed, gas mask and jackboot-wearing aliens. As a first-person shooter it breaks few boundaries, but as one that you can play on a portable device – and especially compared to the dull Call Of Duty: Black Ops Declassified and distinctly tepid Resistance: Burning Skies – it makes some sense of the Vita's beautiful screen and passable analogue joysticks. A challenging and mildly enjoyable bit of brainless carnage.
The Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey looks likely to add between $300m and $450m to his fortunewhen the social-media company goes public.Dorsey is already said to be worth $1bn, thanks mostly to his 25% stake in Square, an online payment system. His reported 3% stake in Twitter would be worth more than third of a billion dollars if the company achievesthe $10bn-$15bn-plus valuation now being ascribed to it by analysts.He will not be the only tech mogul to realise another huge payday from the IPO, which was announced via Twitter last Thursday. The company has the backing of a galaxy of Silicon Valley's top investors, including the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and the Netscape co-founder Marc Andreessen. Chief executive Dick Costolo is an investor too, as are Dorsey's fellow co-founders, Biz Stone and Ev Williams. It is unclear, for now, how much each will benefit.Twitter is taking advantage of new rules to start its initial public offering (IPO) under the radar. But as with Facebook, the last big tech IPO, the tech establishment looks set to make a killing.The Facebook share sale proved controversial and costlyas early investors cashed out, ahead of an embarrassing collapse in the share price. Twitter will no doubt be keen to avoid the same mistake.If the sale goes smoothly, Twitter could come to market at the end of this year and be worth as much $15bn, according to PrivCo, which gathers information on private companies."Twitter will learn from Facebook's flawed playbook and do the opposite," said PrivCo's chief executive, Sam Hamadeh. "Unlike Facebook, which waited too long to IPO (until its growth rate decelerated), Twitter will IPO at just the right inflection point: while revenue grows in triple digits."Twitter has told staff that it is sometimes profitable but it is likely that the company is still loss-making most of the time. The company is spending to drive growth. Earlier this week it paid a reported $300m for MoPub, a mobile ad technology firm, the eighth company it has acquired this year.Going public will give Twitter another currency, its shares, with which to finance new deals. But how much money it will raise, and how much money it is making, remains a mystery. Twitter has filed for a confidential initial public offering under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. The act allows Twitter to consult privately with regulators ahead of the share sale, outside the glare of publicity the IPO would otherwise receive.PrivCo believes the float will be "conservatively priced" at 20 to 30 times revenue. With 2013 revenues expected to exceed $500m, this would make Twitter worth between $10bn and $15bn.Alan Patrick, founder of the Broadsight consultancy, said that at $14bn Twitter was valuing its users at about $58 each, about half the ratio Facebook had at its IPO. "Yes it's hyped but it's not as stupidly hyped as Facebook was," he said.Patrick added that there appeared to be plenty of room for growth at Twitter: "I actually see Twitter as a communications system rather than a social network. I think there are other things that can be done with it. With 240m users there's more room to grow, whereas Facebook with one billion users had less room for growth."Facebook has recovered from its disastrous IPO last May and its shares hit an all time high this week, driven up by positive signs for mobile revenues. This may be good news for Twitter, whose early forays into advertising have been a success, particularly on the increasingly important small screen of the smartphone. Twitter is expected to earn $582.8m in global ad revenue this year, according to eMarketer, before growing to nearly a billion in 2014. More than half of the company's ad revenues are expected to come from mobile ad revenue this year, both in the US and globally.Patrick's one concern is management. Facebook put together a steely management team that has stood it in good stead as it fought back from its IPO pratfall. Twitter has, until recently, appeared somewhat less focused.As the IPOs of Groupon, Zynga and Facebook have shown in recent years, hot tech companies do not necessarily make great share sales. It is too early to say whether Twitter's will be any different. But it will undoubtedly be one of the most closely watched IPO's for years – 140 characters at a time.
For gamers, it's the equivalent of a new James Bond film or JK Rowling novel. The launch of Grand Theft Auto V at midnight on Monday will see long queues snake down high streets at daybreak as the first copies go on sale.The video game series is as controversial as it is successful. So far, it has sold more than 100m copies since it was developed in Edinburgh in 1997.Players take on the role of a criminal in a fictional US city and rise through the ranks of organised crime with action-adventure and shootouts.The latest version – known as GTA V – is the biggest and most ambitious yet, with an imagined world larger than the rest of the series put together, and follows three criminals as they steal, shoot and shop their way through the fictional city of Los Santos.It has taken Rockstar – the firm behind it – four years to develop at a cost, according to one analyst, of about $137.5m (£87m) even before you include its marketing budget.Rob Crossley, associate editor of gaming news site CVG, predicts that GTA V may sell twice as fast as Call of Duty: Black Ops, which in 2010 became the fastest selling game in the UK with 1.4m copies sold in one day."Rockstar has reportedly allocated 3m copies for the UK launch," he says. "It's unlikely all will be sold on day one, but it's an astonishing figure nevertheless. Put it this way, that launch allocation accounts for a quarter of all combined Xbox 360 and PS3 owners in the UK."The central plot revolves around retired bank robber, Michael de Santa, returning to a life of crime with a young protege, Franklin, and his psychotic cohort, Trevor. But the appeal of the game is as much to do with the extracurricular detail. The world of GTA is full of diversions – from shopping malls to strip clubs and sports events, all open to the player."Fans appreciate the sheer amount of thought that goes into the GTA games," says Nick Underdown, founder of fan site Rockstar Resource. "A lot of the things people are looking forward to don't involve any criminal activity at all – a lot of the fun will come from the racing, parachuting, playing golf or tennis and all the other sports on offer – and it seems like a small thing, but the soundtrack is so important, it plays a massive part in the setting."GTA V has more than 200 tracks for players to listen to while driving the game's miles of streets and motorways, from country classics to leftfield electronica and chart hits.It's a key part of the appeal – the 2002 title GTA: Vice City featured seven CDs of 80s pop, which enhanced the game's narrative homage to that decade's film and TV shows such as Scarface and Miami Vice."Lots of my customers have told me they've booked the day off to play it," says Gareth Rowbotham, owner of the Playtime chain of video game stores in Nottingham, Sheffield and Doncaster. "I'm not being derogatory, but our customers aren't high-flying ABC1s with two cars and three holidays a year. They're on minimum wage, working 40-50 hours a week. They'll come in, buy GTA and play it for 12 hours straight. It's a way of escaping the banality of normal life."Jevon Farr, a fan of the series who helps run community site GTAnet.com, explains the game's appeal. "It's the freedom, the humour, the atmosphere, multiple concurrent protagonists, a gigantic and detailed world map, a dynamic economy, elaborate customisations and a multiplayer mode that becomes self-perpetuating with user-generated content … however, one of our team just said, 'I want to hurl cars down the mountains.'"GTA V is more than a car game or a shoot-em-up, say industry experts and gamers. Photograph: RockstarFor Adam Saltsman, a game designer, it is the sense of a living, dramatic world that gives the game wider cultural significance and appeal. "The Grand Theft Auto series is the closest thing games have to a prestigious HBO or BBC series – it is like really high-end TV. There is lots of visceral low art – and I do not use that pejoratively, but there's also lots of high art too. The game is very large and very rich, not just geographically, but almost vertically. It has the gangster story and the sandbox stuff, but then it has all these satirical radio stations, and even weirder, deeper jokes and commentary."Jesper Juul, a video game theorist and author, says the great expectations are down to GTA V being "better than 99% of the cinema or novels. It is better for giving players a chance to consider what they would do in a fictional world."The game's co-writer Dan Houser has described it as a satire on Los Angeles, and more specifically a modern Hollywood fading into insignificance in an era of outsourced production. GTA V is filled with failed actors, drug-soaked producers and various hangers-on. Every aspect of the society it creates was researched, mostly through first-hand interviews."We just wandered around LA," said Houser. "Our researchers did an incredible job of finding us some of the strangest people: retired cops, former FBI agents, entrepreneurs who'd retired on a massive fund of money at 28, people who specialised in knowing the underworld of LA – and everyone in between. We'd just hang out with them for a few days to see what happened."GTA V is available on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. There are rumours an enhanced version will be available on the next-generation consoles, which launch in November. But many already see GTA V as a "next generation" game. It hints at a future in which games become more like virtual holidays, a form of all-encompassing escapism.
It started with a 24-character message on a quiet Tuesday evening in San Francisco. Twitter has exploded from its humble beginnings in 2006 to become the rapid-fire social network at the heart of major world events.From spawning revolutions in the Middle East to disseminating Justin Bieber's latest aperçu, the 140-character network has established itself as a hotline to the world for 200 million people.Its co-founder, Jack Dorsey, may never have imagined subverting the worlds of newspapers and showbusiness when he sent the first ever tweet on 21 March 2006. "Just setting up my twttr," he wrote into a silent corner of cyberspace.That single tweet has since become a cacophony, with 1bn sent every 48 hours by an unlikely mix of Hollywood A-listers, world leaders and ordinary people.It was 2009 when the site rocketed in popularity. Stephen Fry used Twitter to tell the world he was trapped in a lift – he had a modest 113,000 followers at the time, compared to today's 6.1 million – and a succession of dramatic events unfolded in a way that made the social network a beating pulse of global news.Within minutes of US Airways flight 1549 ditching in New York's Hudson river in February of that year, observers weretweeting pictures of what become known as "the miracle on the Hudson". Later that year, Twitter was asked by the US state department to delay maintenance work so that Iranian protestors could continue using the service.It has also made waves in showbusiness, withLady Gaga pitted against Britney Spears and Ashton Kutcherin a frenzied race to become the most popular person on Twitter – a PR-fuelled battle that saw the site's users rocket from five million to 71.3 million in 2009 alone.The role of Twitter in the Arab Spring will be scrutinised by historians for decades to come, but industry experts credit the site's burgeoning influence with its perception as a key destination for breaking news and off-message celebrity missives."It has become phenomenally integrated into our culture in a way that very few internet companies are," said Nick Thomas, a digital media analyst at Informa Telecoms &amp; Media."It has grown way beyond its techy roots to become part of the fabric of life for hundreds of millions of consumers worldwide. This is a platform where you've got Stephen Fry and Justin Bieber, and then an acceleration of news that is serving our desire for instant updates, so there's a diversity that is its strength."Such an unfettered platform will bring its own challenges as a public company, Thomas said, as Twitter will have to resolve its commitment to being an open platform with renewed pressure from advertisers and shareholders to clean up the more "unhygienic" aspects of the site, not least in light of the latest trolling controversy.He added: "The rules of engagement are changing and Twitter has been at the heart of that. It has allowed all sorts of celebrities, companies and brands to talk to people in a direct way. We're still at the early days of learning how powerful this can be."
UPDATE: This event is now full. Sorry!The next generation of console gaming is still two months away, but if you just can't wait to get your hands on an Xbox One console, we just may have the solution. The Guardian and Microsoft have arranged a hands-on demo evening at our coffee shop in Box Park, Shoreditch, on 17 September. A small group of Guardian readers will get time to play a selection of Xbox One launch titles as well as check out the new Xbox controllers several weeks before the launch date.Running from 18.30-21.30, there will be plenty of time to play the games as well as enjoy some coffee and cake in the Guardian cafe.If you'd like to come along, all you have to do is email us with your full name. I'll put the first 30 readers to respond on our guest list and inform successful applications via email on Monday.So that's Tuesday 17 September, 6.30pm,GuardianCoffeefor Xbox One and cake!
Data is the key to tracking any sort of trend. London-based Editd takes a big data approach to fashion trends. It collects and analyses retail sales numbers, catwalk photographs, and fashion buzz from social media, and then adds its own secret data.That produces unique data-driven insights into what's happening in the fashion world for clothing retailers across the UK, US, South Africa, Australia, and China, informing fashion buyers about what's hot and what's not.Founded in London in 2009 by a programmer, Geoff Watts, and a fashion designer, Julia Fowler, who both moved from Australia to start the company, Editd's clients include fashion buyers for the likes of Asos, Gap, and Target, who use the fashion intelligence data to inform their purchases of clothing lines, brands and accessories, to see what's selling and what isn't.The increase in processing power and advancement of internet-connect technology, including the cloud computing services such as Amazon's S3 web services, have reduced costs while increasing the availability of computing power. As Watts says, "there's been constant improvement in our platform since day one without us having to write a single line of code."Meanwhile, the engineering team has continually improved the code and product, adding more features and flexibility to support Editd's clients need for near-real-time analysis of buzz and sales. Watts credits their location for playing a major role: "We're lucky to be in London where we've got access to such clever people in the sectors that propel us, technology, retail and fashion."The march towards mobile devices has also affected how Editd does business. "Virtually everyone who uses our product carries a smartphone, and not many of them spend time at their desk, so we've worked very hard to make things like email alerts work incredibly well when you're on the move." Fashion buyers can now stay abreast of sales and what trends are being talked about most at that minute.The service is via an HTML5 browser page, which serves desktops, tablets and smartphones – though they are working on a separate iPhone app.Editd's data-driven approach isn't exclusively aimed at the fashion mainstream. Even in very niche segments, such as eyewear, Editd's unique position lets it provide up-to-the-minute analysis. In that segment which Watts says is "notoriously difficult to understand" he claims to have "the world's best data, but also the world's best trend information for this segment." Editd also offers its service in the beauty and accessories markets, but given the flexible nature of the technology driving the information, almost anything can be brought within the service's remit, if clients want it.The data-driven approach can also pick out interesting - and counterintuitive - trends within the fashion world. Watts says he has identified five key shifts from the data Editd collects and processes.1: Newness matters more than price cutsRetailers think slashing prices drives sales; but in fact consumers react more to "newness", as Watts calls it. Editd's data showed that marketing for new lines drove sales which at least matched those for discounted lines. "We've found little difference on items selling through that are featured in splashy red sales emails, to emails pushing new stock," says Watts. The trend was a "big shift and a surprise" to both Editd and fashion retailers, who until recently relied primarily on discounts and marketing pushes to shift inventory.2: Instant gratificationThe Spring/Summer 2013 New York Fashion Week, which has just ended, would typically showcase clothes for the same period next year - that is, 12 months from now. Watts and his team spotted that designers who showed winter clothing - in this case both Michael Kors &amp; Marc Jacobs - became the most talked-about online. Clearly, consumers responded well to products that will arrive in stores around February or March, rather than next summer. Watts says that "increasingly, consumers want instant gratification."3: It's no longer value, premium or luxuryHistorically, fashion trends moved from one area of the market to the next; a new style or movement would start in one of the higher-end segments and trickle down, as with the current trend for leopard print, which was started by high-end designers and retailers such as Mulberry and others across London and Milan, and passed down to the high street. Watts found that that's not the case anymore. "We're seeing trends selling out across markets simultaneously. Items selling at mass and value price points, through to premium and luxury, all tap into the same trend concurrently." That suggests that the average consumer is much more fashion-savvy. It's "all thanks to live-streamed shows, the ability for anyone to generate content, and the power of social sharing of opinion and tastes," Watts says – although the ability for factories to rapidly reproduce clothing ideas may play a part.4: Wearable and performance technology is surgingAs in the technology world, wearable and performance technologies are a major trend. It has permeated the 'ethos of clothing', "driven by the proliferation of the sportswear trend of the past few years," Watts says. From products like Google Glass head-mounted smartglasses and Nike's body-tracking Fuelband, to apparel such as moisture-wicking clothes, Watts says "sportswear has taken a huge shift into mainstream fashion. Large brands like Nike are reaping the rewards, creating ever more high-fashion ranges".5: Sharing is caringThe final big trend that Watts has identified is the increased amount of sharing that social media and internet-connected consumers, often called 'generation Y', perform around apparel. Companies like Black Milk have capitalised on this willingness to share on social media, taking their customer's photos shared on sites like Instagram and building them directly into their sites. Watts: "It works on two levels: Generation Y consumers need that pre-purchase validation and retailers need a constant stream of content to compete."
Twitter is not a company that you would normally identify with stealth.Its CEO, Dick Costolo, calls the site "the global town square", and 400m tweets a day cover everything from revolutions to twerking controversies to personal feuds. If you want to make sure something goes public, you take it to Twitter.But when Twitter itself goes public, the company makes the strange choice to go undercover. Twitter has chosen to file a "confidential" initial public offering, a privilege offered by the Jobs Act to any company with less than $1bn in revenues.Because the IPO is confidential, we don't actually know when Twitter filed to go public. We don't know anything, in fact, about the company's IPO timing – it could be ready for the public markets in three months or it could be seven months or even longer. Not exactly a great choice for a company that has made its fortune, in part, by putting timestamps on instant communication.The Jobs Act secrecy – while perfectly legal – is not exactly in the spirit in which Twitter conducts the rest of its business: openly, chirpily transparently, with an eye for open public discourse. A secret IPO for one of the world's most prominent communications companies is a major fail whale.The Jobs Act was designed to keep small startups from being intimidated by the public markets. It was not, perhaps, intended to keep world-straddling international companies like Twitter – already used to considerable scrutiny – from the discomfort of having to face up to their finances.A confidential IPO, though a perfectly legal choice, is a bad choice for Twitter. It means that Twitter's rich trove of offering documents – describing its business plans, its history, and most importantly, its finances – are off-limits to the public until the company is ready to start peddling shares to large institutional investors, who command billions of dollars.This process, called the "roadshow", is open only to elite investors; no moms-and-pops are at the roadshow, even though the manager of their mutual fund may be. It is also often the last part of the IPO process. Banks conduct the roadshow to privately find out how much those big, rich investors are willing to pay for Twitter's shares. Later, that research will inform the price offered to the public.By the time the roadshow rolls around, information about Twitter will be rife within the halls of Wall Street banks and the big mutual-fund houses. It won't, however, be available to the public or to the press, unless there's a leak. A company that is among the pride of the Silicon Valley tech community and a leader in innovation may ask the public for billions of dollars but won't provide an iota of information to get it.Instead, what will dominate the public discourse about Twitter's IPO will be rumor and speculation. This undermines the whole purpose of going public. To go public is to invite the public to examine your company, talk about it, debate it, knock on the windows and kick the tires. Twitter is going to ask people to give it the respect of a public company, as well as the rich valuation commanded by internet stocks right now, but the company is also saying that it's not ready to reciprocate that respect; it won't tell people what exactly they're buying. It's like asking for an introduction while wearing a mask.True, you can't blame Twitter for wanting to avoid the circus-like debacle ofFacebook's IPO, which caused that company's CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, to demur when asked for advice to Twitter. "I'm the last person you want to ask how to make a smooth IPO," Zuckerbergcracked at a conferencethis week.Twitter's finances are also bound to be disappointing, even to its fans. The company is a cultural stalwart without the revenues to show for it. That may be uncomfortable, but it's the truth. Being a public company means being able to confront the truth.Twitter is not a startup any more. It doesn't need to hide behind the skirts of its investors, or plead that it's too new to understand how being a prominent company works. It has been in the trenches of every major world event for the past seven years. It could even be argued that Twitter is not really a tech company – because Twitter's future is tied with the future of news itself, it's a media company now. And as a media company, it should know that words matter. And the lack of words – a strange, uncustomary silence – says more than Twitter's executives may think.
In recent years Sonic's appeal has waned or, perhaps, curved downwards, towards an ever-younger audience. But on his 1991 debut, Sonic the Hedgehog seemed unstoppable. Bristling with high-energy verbs – spin, roll, streak and ricochet – Sega's video game mascot-in-waiting made his rival Super Mario's clutch of moves seem sedentary by comparison. Leave MegaDrive Sonic unprompted on screen and, after a few seconds, he turns to glare out of the screen, tapping an irritable foot as if you're wasting his time, keeping him from his mission. Spinning at 200 fierce rotations per minute, Sonic was immediately a source of renewed vigour and direction for Sega, a company whose first decade in the video game industry had been characterised by mediocrity.Indeed, at the time of Sonic's debut, Sega's rival Nintendo laid claim to 92% of the video game market share.At the time Takashi Iizuka was a student at the Tokyo Denki university, studying electrical engineering. Iizuka's peers began to apply for jobs at Sony, Hitachi and the other Japanese electronics giants to where the university's orderly graduates traditionally progressed. "When I was a kid I wanted to become a manga artist," he says. "At university I learned to put those dreams aside. My parents encouraged me to look at more realistic options. Everyone was expected to go on to work for an electronics maker. It was almost a set path. But in my final year I decided to revisit those dreams and to focus on what I really wanted to do: create something fun and enjoyable."That summer Iizuka played Sonic the Hedgehog. "I couldn't believe the game and the technology on which it ran. It was a marvel," he says. Iizuka applied to Sega, much to his parents' chagrin ("Sega wasn't well known at the time. It took a while for my family to come around") and, in 1992 joined the company and the character, that would come to define his life.Until the launch of Sonic the Hedgehog, Sega's approach to making video games was to develop cheap and quickly. Mark Cerny, the architect of Sony's forthcoming PlayStation 4, worked for Sega in Japan at the time, a company he joined after working for Atari. He recalls: "Moving from Atari to Sega was like night and day. At Atari it was all about creativity, if the concept wasn't 100% original you weren't allowed to make it. Non-original ideas were thrown out. But Sega was about shovelling the titles out of the door."Most of Sega's titles at the time were built within a strict three-month deadline, with a single programmer and one artist. "They made 40 games in this way," says Cerny."But by my judgment only two were really worth playing. Sega didn't get out of that philosophy till Sonic the Hedgehog, where the president decided to put three people on the project for 10 months. They ended up having five people for 13 months. It was Sega's first million seller."Sonic the Hedgehog was designed by one of Sega's artists, Masato Oshima, who worked to a specific brief to come up with an appealing mascot character. "At the time I had never been outside Japan," he says, "so the experience of moving to America in my first working year was entirely daunting." And while the first game was a system-selling success for Sega, it was still unclear whether Sega had, in their restless hedgehog, a mascot of Super Mario's power and appeal. "We had no concept that the character and series would become what it is today," says lizuka. "For me it was one of those crucial chances we take in life; one of the ones that change everything."Sonic the Hedgehog 2 vastly outsold its predecessor and Iizuka continued to shadow Naka in America, working on two more sequels. But in 1995 the pair returned to Japan to begin work on a new game for Sega's 32-bit system, the Saturn. Iizuka was promoted to lead designer and, while Nights into Dreams shared visual similarities with the Sonic titles, it was a dreamy relative, Sonic through a glass darkly. "It was the first time I'd worked on a new IP that wasn't Sonic," says Iizuka. "We knew we wanted to create a game that was based on flying, not running, but there were immense challenges doing so within the confines of a so-called 'platform game'. How do you make a platform game without any platforms? We went back and forth for the longest time trying to get the design right."During these years Yuji Naka led the so-called Sonic Team through a string of inventive hits, from Burning Rangers to Phantasy Star Online. But, contrary to perception, Sonic Team itself doesn't exist. "There was never a set team as such," explains Iizuka. "Whatever group of people was working on one of Naka's games at the time were referred to as the Sonic Team. But Naka had a keen idea of what Sonic Team's games should stand for."Naka left Sega in 2006 and stewardship for Sonic Team passed to lizuka. What is the Sonic team essence for Iizuka, the quiddity of Naka's approach to game design and execution? "One of the most important lessons that Naka taught me was the importance of game feel," he says. "What a video game feels like in the hands is essential. That was there from the very beginning, and still is a core value today. Also, Naka was adamant that we should never be making copies of other games. He would always strive to create new things. That has stuck with me and become my goal."Iizuka has another chance to prove his adherence to Naka's rules with the launch of Sonic Lost World on Nintendo's Wii U next month. "For me it's a rethink of all that a platform game is and can be," says lizuka. "One of the main things with Sonic games is speed: we wanted to make this more a controllable game, where that speed can be harnessed in a more effective way than perhaps in the past. It's a case of trying to marry the speed of the earlier Sonic games with the action of the more recent ones.It's difficult to keep the classic Sonic feel. But we've kept the way that he moves, and that sense of speed."One key challenge for the Sonic the Hedgehog series in moving from the 2D graphics of the 16-bit era to contemporary 3D is the increase in costs associated with a character who can fly through scenery quicker than most. "It's true that, when you feature a speed-based character you require far longer levels," says lizuka. That immediately means the production is longer and development is more costly. Crafting background details keeps the costs up. We've tried to keep it to a manageable level while keeping the feel and fidelity of the game world. It's a balancing act, but one that we continue to improve at."However, lizuka rejects the idea that Sonic has significantly changed over the past 22 years. He says: "The surroundings have changed. The supporting characters and enemies have changed. But Sonic himself retains the same character as he did in the beginning. I've lived with Sonic ever since then. He's been a part of my life. He keeps me young."
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Coast by Opera (Free)Coast is a brand new app from browser-maker Opera, which says it's been designed from the ground up for Apple's tablet, rather than being "just a mobile interface scaled up to fit a touchscreen". Based on WebKit, it's big on swiping gestures over buttons to navigate around.iPadWhere's My Water? 2 (Free)Disney's first Where's My Water? game has been very popular, and has already spawned spin-offs starring Mickey Mouse and Perry from Phineas and Ferb. Now it's getting a fully-fledged sequel with original hero Swampy and his friends Allie and Cranky. Water-based physics puzzles is still the focus, although its switch to freemium – including an energy bar – will be controversial.iPhone / iPadJustin's World - Jigsongs (£0.69)This is the third iOS app from CBeebies star Justin Fletcher, aimed at pre-school children. It's a mixture of digital jigsaws and nursery rhymes, with children solving the former, and Justin singing the latter in a series of videos.iPhone / iPadCalendars 5 (£2.99)The latest company hoping to replace iOS' default Calendar app is Readdle, with what it describes as a "complete re-imagining" of mobile calendars. That includes natural language inputs for new diary dates; a task manager for to-do lists; the ability to work both on and offline; and intuitive gestures to control everything.iPhone / iPadXbox Music (Free)It took its time, but Microsoft has finally launched an official iOS app for its Xbox Music cloud/streaming music service. Subscribers can stream music from its catalogue, create playlists and browse their cloud collection. What's missing for now is the ability to download songs for offline listening: that's slated for a future update.iPhoneChoir Prodigy (Free)The company behind Choir Prodigy has already released a series of Guitar Prodigy music education apps, teaching people to play the guitar. This does the same, but for singing: providing lessons and using the microphone to listen to your singing (or goose-like honking) and give you a score. It's subscription-based, but warm-up exercises and ear-training is free.iPadNight Zookeeper: Story Pairs (£0.69)Night Zookeeper is the British startup responsible for a couple of marvellously-creative drawing apps for children. Its third app takes a different angle: a matching-pairs game based on pictures of animals drawn by children around the UK, with added story prompts so the winner of each game gets to make up a story. A great idea, nicely done.iPhone / iPadDead Effect (£2.49)Zombies. The App Store is rife with them: hordes of games full of shambling undead enemies. It's almost enough to make you wish more developers got into vampires or werewolves. Still, Dead Effect looks interesting for the way it blends zombies with a sci-fi setting: a first-person shooter set on the spooky ESS Meridian.iPhone / iPadPeter Rabbit Me Books (£1.99)The name is a little misleading, since this isn't based on the new Peter Rabbit children's TV show, but rather the original Beatrix Potter books – of which The Tale of Peter Rabbit is just one. Still, these are faithfully-digitised versions of the books that many adults will remember fondly, with Richard E Grant and Tamsin Greig on voice-narration duties, and the ability for children to record their own voices and sounds. Books cost £1.99 via in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadBoom! Tanks (Free)Boom! Tanks is the work of Codemasters, one of the veteran publishers in the British games industry, and a company that's getting deeper into mobile at the moment. This is a tank-battle game set across North Africa, Europe and Siberia, with spiffing visuals but also an in-app purchases system used for upgrades.iPhone / iPadThe Shocking Miss Emerald (£1.49)There's a wave of interest in Dutch singer Caro Emerald in the UK at the moment, so there should be a fair few takers for her streaming album-app. It offers unlimited streams of her The Shocking Miss Emerald album, along with lyrics, liner notes and artwork – and the promise of exclusive tunes to come.iPhoneGo Dance (£1.49)More music here, but this time a dancing game from Sega. The idea being that it turns your iOS device into a Kinect-style motion-detecting game: you set it up pointing at the room, then dance along to the songs as your moves are captured and assigned a score. Tracks from Avicii, Flo Rida and Nicki Minaj (among others) are included, some sold in an in-app store.iPhone / iPadGivenchy Women (Free)Just in time for London Fashion Week comes this app from Net-A-Porter for Givenchy: a shopping app covering its range of clothing, bags and accessories, with the promise of delivery worldwide, and on the same day if you live in London or New York. The design is simple and clear, with the product pics unsurprisingly given prominence.iPhone / iPadTipbit (Free)Another in a line of inventive email apps that have come out this year for iPhone. Tipbit's schtick is its attempt to bring email, calendars and social networking profiles into one app, pulling in data from LinkedIn, Facebook and Twitter, with web search also built in.iPhoneTalkboard by Citrix (Free)This looks fun, but also potentially useful depending on how you work. It's a "social whiteboard app" for iPad where you can scribble, but also collaborate with colleagues. Good for meetings, whether you're brainstorming, or simply playing tic-tac-toe during a boring presentation.iPadJoust Legend (£1.49)As a genre, jousting isn't a titan of the gaming scene. Too niche, perhaps, but this game deserves a wide airing, as it looks really fun. Released by developer Rebellion Interactive, it sees you pointing your sharp stick at an array of knights on your way to become the King's Champion.iPhone / iPadPearl's Peril (Free)Another game here, this time from social publisher Wooga. It's a bit later in history than Joust Legend: the 1930s, focusing on a pilot named Pearl Wallace who inherits an island then investigates its mysteries. Cue hidden-object scenes and puzzles, with the promise of new chapters to play in the weeks ahead to keep the game fresh.iPadstraight 8 (Free)It's a tough time to be launching a new video app for iOS, with competition from Instagram/Vine for super-shortform videos and YouTube Capture for longer, shareable videos. Still, Straight 8 could find a niche with its focus on films of up to three minutes, and an emphasis on "discerning iOS film makers" attracted by its slick controls and choice of visual filters.iPhoneChug Patrol: Read to Rescue (£2.99)Developer StoryToys made its name with its pop-up storybook-apps based on famous fairytales. Its latest release is more up-to-date though: an officially-licensed app based on kids' TV show Chuggington. The story is accompanied by mini-games, from catching runaway wagons to washing muddy trains.iPhone / iPadChipotle Scarecrow (Free)It might sound strange to be recommending a game from restaurant chain Chipotle Mexican Grill, but this is more than just a brand advertisement. Developed by the super-talented (and Oscar-winning) Moonbot Studios, it's a well-crafted action game with an anti-processed food message. But YES, you can also earn a free burrito in the real world for playing through the game.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.Every week is different, and some are dominated by certain categories. This week's two big release trends are games, and Disney – the latter has released a batch of storybook-apps for Android for the first time.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).Toy Story: Story Theater (£0.64)First up from Disney this week is a creative storytelling tool for kids based on the Toy Story films. They pick a character, setting and props, then record their own voice telling the story. Buzz, Woody and Jessie provide the action.Xbox Music (Free)It took its time, but Microsoft has finally launched an official Android app for its Xbox Music cloud/streaming music service. Subscribers can stream music from its catalogue, create playlists and browse their cloud collection. What's missing for now is the ability to download songs for offline listening: that's slated for a future  update.Simplenote (Free)Simplenote is a note-taking app from the company behind WordPress, Automattic, billing itself as "an easy way to keep notes, lists, ideas and more". The idea being that you can synchronise them across various devices, and use a mixture of tags and pins to organise them.Guinness World Records 2014 – Augmented Reality Lite (Free)This app is designed to work with the latest Guinness World Records book: an augmented reality app that gets records literally (well, virtually) popping out of the book, with videos and animations.Terraria (Free)There have been a number of games in recent times taking their crafting cues from Minecraft, but doing it in a 2D platformy world rather than 3D environments. Terraria is one of them, and now it's on Android, as you craft, explore and battle monsters in a massive sandbox world.Mickey's Paint and Play (£0.64)More from Disney, but this time a different kind of creativity. This app is based on Mickey and Minnie Mouse, and gets kids to colour in a selection of images using on-screen brushes, pens and pencils, then tap a magic-wand button to turn them into 3D animations.Layton Brothers Mystery Room (Free)The Professor Layton puzzle-adventure games made their name on Nintendo handhelds, but they've made the leap to mobile devices this year, including Android. This sees you solving a series of crimes, with a prologue and two cases included for free, and others available as in-app purchases.Cars 2 Read and Race (£0.64)The good thing about Disney's storybook-apps is that it's stretching them beyond just text and images. In the case of this app, based on the Cars 2 film, the extras are a proper driving section where children customise a car then race it. But the story part is there too, for kids who just want to hear about Lightning McQueen's latest adventure.NFL Matchups Live (Free)Card-battling games have been very popular (not to mention lucrative for their developers) on Android. Many focus on wizards and monsters, but Mobage's new release has a sporty theme: American Football. Armed with an official NFL deal, it sees  you building a team and sending them out to compete.Reaper (Free)There's lots of excitement this week around Hexage's game Reaper, an action-RPG with plush production values and bags of charm. The game sees you taking on the mantle of the Black Swordsman, hacking and slashing your way through an array of well-designed levels, with lots of character progression and social features.Chuggington Chug Patrol Book (£3.99)Developer StoryToys should be well known to Android-owning parents for its pop-up storybook-apps based on famous fairytales. Its latest release is more up-to-date though: an officially-licensed app based on kids' TV show Chuggington. The story is accompanied by mini-games, from catching runaway wagons to washing muddy trains.Wreck-it Ralph Storybook (£0.64)And still more Disney: the reason I'm including so many of the new releases is that every child (and family) have their favourites: this would be the one to grab for Wreck-it Ralph fans. It's a storybook-app that, like Cars 2, gets children customising their own vehicle and racing it: a kart in this case.KicVidz - Lego (£0.63)From the same developer as the KicVidz – Minecraft app that was featured last week, this has a similar setup. Father Shane Keller watches new Lego videos on YouTube and picks out the one that are safe for his child (and by extension, yours) to watch. The videos are sorted into categories including animations, set reviews, creations, Star Wars and Ninjago.Ansa (Free)Ansa takes the main idea of Snapchat – self-destructing messages – and runs with it, expanding it to whole text conversations that can be "off the record", and thus delete themselves after a short time. Photos and videos are also supported, and there are tools to doodle all over photos before sending.Heroes of Loot (£1.72)If you like an old-school dungeon crawler game, you'll love Heroes of Loot, which has all the monsters and treasure you could want. The dungeons are randomly generated and adapt to your level to keep providing a challenge as you grow.Brave Guardians (Free)More fantasy-themed gaming here, although here it's more of a tower-defence theme as you protect your world against a host of unpleasant enemies. Place towers and upgrade them while fending off more than 30 foes, with some impressive graphics and the odd boss fight.Disney Princess: Story Theater (£0.64)This is essentially the Toy Story app (see above) reworked for the Disney Princesses: Cinderella, Ariel and Belle. It's still a case of choosing a character, setting and props to construct a story, then recording your voice (well, that of your child) telling it.Winnie the Pooh Puzzle Book (£0.64)Finally, on the Disney front, there's this book-app for Winnie the Pooh, with a story and four digital jigsaw puzzles for children to solve. There's also a matching mini-game, and a choice of five languages.Seed Miner Pro for Minecraft (£1.28)Described as "the world's first Minecraft seed search engine", this helps committed Minecraft players find new seeds for their worlds, sorted by platform: PC, Xbox and the mobile Pocket Edition, with PS3 and PS4 to follow once the game launches on those later this year.Infectonator Hot Chase (Free)One last game this week from Armor Games: a "zombie-chasing-human experience" that's a spin-off from an existing Flash game called Infectonator. In this case, you're controlling the zombies, not the human, which is a nice touch.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Samsung will follow Apple by having a 64-bit version of its Galaxy smartphones, according to the company's co-chief executive. When? That's less clear. "Not in the shortest time. But yes, our next smartphones will have 64-bit processing functionality," said Shin Jong-Kyun, talking to journalists in South Korea, andreported in the Korea Times.Apple announced on Tuesday that its newly announced top-end iPhone 5s will have a 64-bit ARM chip, which it says will be important for delivering the smartphone's improved performance over its predecessors. That will make it the only 64-bit phone in the world; it is understood that the iOS operating system has been rewritten so that it has both 32- and 64-bit versions.64-bit chips can in theory perform more detailed floating-point calculations because they have larger registers for storing numbers - essential to represent non-integer numbers in binary. Such calculations are needed in graphics and other tasks involving analogue data. They can also access more than 4GB of RAM, unlike a 32-bit system, but in a smartphone that carries a penalty because the RAM has to be powered - consuming battery life.Apple hasn't specified why the 64-bit chip has been included, though there has been speculation that it is needed to do calculations to validate fingerprints presented to the home button sensor on the 5s, and to perform processing on pictures taken with the "burst" mode from the still camera and "slo-mo" - double-speed-capture - video.AppleInsiderexplains the originsof the new 64-bit A7 chip in the 5s, and notes that it means "big math problems can be worked out faster in larger chunks… allowing the processor to finish its work faster and drop back down into a low power mode".Apple has also ported its own kernel code and libraries to 64-bit, and rewritten its built-in apps for it.However, Samsung will not be able to rely on a 64-bit Android being available. That means that if it introduces a 64-bit chip it will not be using its capability. As the OS on which apps run would be 32-bit, none would be able to take advantage of the 64-bit architecture.That in turn means that Samsung's next flagship phone in 2014, probably the S5, either won't have or won't be able to take advantage of a 64-bit chip.But for Samsung, which earlier this year claimed a first by introducing a version of the Samsung Galaxy S4 with eight cores - twice as many as the previous maximum - seeing Apple steal a march on it in a technical field could otherwise be galling."Sense does not always prevail though, and much boils down to being able to say 'we can do it too', even if there is no reason for [doing] it," remarked Carolina Milanesi, smartphones analyst at the research group Gartner.The two companies have vied for supremacy in the smartphone market for years, and Apple has sued the South Korean company for copying its designs and infringing patents relating to the function of its phones and tablets. In August 2012, Samsung was fined a total of $1.05bn in a California court, though the case is still ongoing: around $400m of the damages awarded by the original jury have been voided, and a retrial starts in November to determine whether to raise or lower them.
With what looks like impeccable timing, Twitter has made itsfirst step towards an initial public offering. The company's revenues are growing at a pace, and painful memories of Facebook's stockmarket debut are fading, with the social network finally worth more than its $104bn (£66bn) float price.Should Twitter come to market at the end of this year, as predicted, its valuation will be nowhere near that claimed by Facebook. But what could the world's busiest grapevine be worth?As much as $15bn, according to PrivCo, which gathers information on private companies."Twitter will learn from Facebook's flawed playbook and do the opposite," PrivCo's chief executive, Sam Hamadeh, has predicted. "Unlike Facebook, which waited too long to IPO (until its growth rate decelerated), Twitter will IPO at just the right inflection point: while revenue grows in triple digits."Companies are usually valued according to their underlying profit, but it is likely that Twitter is still loss-making as the company invests to grow. Because it has filed for a confidential initial public offering, financial details remain hidden for the time being.So the easiest measure to use is revenues. PrivCo believes the float will be "conservatively priced" at 20 to 30 times revenue. With 2013 revenues expected to exceed $500m, this would make Twitter worth between $10bn and $15bn.But these numbers are not particularly conservative when compared with Facebook and the $23bn valuation placed on Google at its IPO in 2004.Facebook's $104bn float valuation may have caused eyes to water, but the company was profitable and the price was around 20 times its $5bn revenues for 2012.The year of its IPO, Google earned roughly $400m, on revenues of $3.2bn. Its initial valuation was therefore just seven times revenues.However, Twitter's early forays into advertising have been a success, particularly on the increasingly important small screen of the smartphone, where much of its traffic comes from."Twitter is still tiny," said Jon Steinberg, president of social media news site Buzzfeed, on CNBC. "I think there's a lot of growth."Research firm eMarketer says Twitter's revenues have nearly doubled to $583m since last year, and will reach $950m in 2014.With its 200m users sending an average of two tweets a day, Twitter may not have Facebook's scale but those who are on the platform use it intensely. And the heady mix of politicians, business leaders, celebrities and journalists who dominate the site make it an important destination for advertisers seeking to influence the influencers.In digital advertising, Google and Facebook still dominate – the search engine has a 33% share of global spending, says eMarketer, while the social network is in second place with 5%. Twitter ranks eighth with less than half a percent.Narrow the focus to pure mobile advertising and Twitter shouts louder. It commands a 2% share and is in fourth place, battling against others like AOL and Yahoo. But there is some way to go to catch up with Facebook's 16% mobile share and Google's 53%.On the secondary market, Twitter shares have been priced at $26 for small lots and $28 for larger lots, valuing the whole at around $14bn – about 14 times next year's estimated earnings.A fund run by private equity house BlackRock put $80m into Twitter at the start of 2013 in a deal that implied the business was worth over $9bn. BlackRock will be hoping to cash out for considerably more.When Google floated, demand for technology stocks was weak, with investors burned during the dotcom years still wary of hype. The search group actually had to lower its offer price from $135 to $85 a share days before the float. But a day later the shares had popped, reaching $100.Facebook took a very different path to market, with overwhelming demand from smaller investors allowing early, wealthy backers to cash out at a high price. The so-called mom and pop investors who bought in May 2012 have had a rocky ride, watching the shares halve in value before recovering this summer.Twitter's chief executive, Dick Costolo, would be wise to opt for a Google pop rather than risk a Facebook-style flop.
We're four days away now. After a year of pre-publicity and a five-year wait since GTA IV, the latest instalment in Rockstar's gangland opus is almost upon us. Featuring a game world larger than than any other title in the series, hours of cinematic sequences and a truly epic cast of crazed characters, Grand Theft Auto V has a scale and ambition that exceeds most triple A development on the current consoles. Indeed, people are already calling GTA V the first next-generation video game.Last October I travelled to New York to get one of the first demos of the game. While there, I met Dan Houser, co-founder of Rockstar and co-writer of the Grand Theft Auto titles. There, I asked him about the process of building a new GTA from scratch, and how the different parts of Rockstar North combine to allow its complicated interplay of story, side-missions and sand box freedom.In the first part of that interview, he tells us about the creative process, about how the characters are written and how they are brought to life; and about the complexities of marrying narrative and gameplay in such a large adventure.Part two follows on Monday.How do you begin a Grand Theft Auto game? Are you always thinking of the next one?We don't see it as a production line in that way. We have a lot of guys on the team – it's not like a freelance unit that gets taken down and put back together again, so of course, when it finishes we do need to roll on to somethingfairlyquickly, but there's a certain amount of downtime. Not till the very dying embers of this will we give the next one a moment's thought. And that's if we're going to do another one – we always said that if we couldn't think of something interesting to do then we'd stop – for this or Red Dead, but particularly for GTA. As much as anything they are a response to what we think went well or what we could do better or what could be different from the last one.GTA IV felt like a real change in direction – or at least a maturation – for the series…After San Andreas, with the move to high definition, we really wanted it to be focused and very tight – apart from anything else, we couldn't do any more than that – because of the complexities of just making an HD game at the time. This time, we wanted to make something very broad in scope because we have a bit more understanding of the tech and we wanted to use that to put a big landscape in there and lots of outdoor aspects to it. That was the first sliver of a concept.And how do things usually progress after the first kernel of an idea? How do you decide where to go next?I think it's Sam [Houser] and Aaron Garbut who decide… they'll certainly discuss it with Leslie [Benzies, producer], myself and a few other people, but it's between the two of them – Aaron especially because he has to plan it and build it. Sam gets really heavily involved in that early stage of where it's going to go. For GTA V, they were keen on LA for a bunch of reasons but in particular because we hadn't done it properly. We made San Andreas, but LA was only a tiny bit of that – it was a section of three small villages linked together by some cool countryside – so we felt that we could do something that was very different. Having a developer in San Diego and business in LA all the time, we all go over there at different points throughout the year – it's a city we know very well and feel we haven't done justice to. We felt we could do something very fresh and new there. So the very first decision is the place. LA gives us the countryside around Southern California, which is spectacular and good for the kind of game we wanted to make. You get the mountains, the desert – that seemed very appealing.And what do you think about next?On previous games, the next thing has been the character and the reason why they're in the world and what we're going to do with them in the world. That's the normal process – and alongside that, a feature set of things we want to do differently and things we want to improve. This time, we thought about Niko and John Marston: they're kind of single-player odysseys for want of a better word. They were so epic in scope. We thought, what can we do with one player that's better than that? Who, as Franklin, are you most likely to want to follow or believe or not believe? That process began to set the story in motion and the narrative evolved out of the characters' past and their future. As soon as we had those characters, that side of the game came together fairly organically – as it should do. Every time we get the lead character and what their reasoning in the world is, if we're doing a good job and it's the right thing, the rest of it… I mean, maybe the ending needs some work and some of the things driving it forward – but the overall feel of the story should feel very organic to us. If we get that feeling, we know we've got a story that people are going to find compelling.Grand Theft Auto V's appeal, and that of the rest of the series, is as much to do with the extracurricular detail that creates a world full of diversions, say fans. Photograph: RockstarDo you feel receptive to influences during this period? The first few GTA games felt cinematic. It felt like you were channeling movie culture – has that changed?I think we tried to move away from that, quite consciously, after San Andreas. That was for a bunch of reasons, but I suppose primarily we felt that we wanted to say something that was not speaking about movies but about the wider media world. And also, when you're making something about the 80s, you want to talk about 80s media as much as anything else, but with something about 2008 or 2013, I believe we're as equipped to say that as much as anyone else. It no longer felt relevant to us to [pastiche movies]. We'd had a good experience doing that but it was time to move on and do our own thing.Where do you think games sit in terms of modern culture?I don't know, you tell me? Where do you think they sit?Well, it seems to me that because they are interactive and the way we live now is very fast and hyper social, they better reflect our lives than linear media. I think they're the natural story-telling medium of this century. How about you?I think that's a very interesting idea and I hadn't really thought about it in those terms. I wouldn't necessarily have the confidence to think in those terms – butyoushould as a games journalist because it's up to people like you to push those theories… It's up tousto make the best stuff we can make – it's not necessarily up to us to shout from the rooftops about how clever we are, how progressive we are, or how sophisticated we are. It's our place to make stuff that's as good as it can be.And I suppose we're not really seeing the limitations in games… movies have limitations as a storytelling medium and so do games, but the limitations are different. Our job is to be aware of the limitations, find the strengths, and work toward those strengths. And I think as we get more experiences and the medium gets more mature, we do a better job of achieving that. That's not to say that games are perfect or flawless, it's still a very, very young medium.Look at the evolution of our games from GTA 2 to GTA 3, through Red Dead. I'm not saying we do a good, bad or indifferent job, I'm just saying there's a clear evolution in technique, if not in talent – the technique at least has clearly moved on. In terms of what we're doing, our understanding, and the technology needed to support that understanding, the way that story and missions and off-mission stuff in the open world games all interplay – it's getting more sophisticated, that's definitely the case. We are hopefully treading ground that hasn't been trodden before and finding a better way of treading it each time. And I don't just necessarily mean as writers, but as technicians in terms of things like how we use the cameras to get you in and out of cut-scenes, the seamless interrelation of cut-scenes and the game, things like that. We've made so much progression – we've got better tech and better technicians working on it.One thing that really stands out is the quality of the cut-scenes, the acting, the interplay of the characters on screen – it feels a lot more naturalistic now...It used to be like watching youth theatre! The most you could possibly get in the world at one time was three people. It felt so amateurish, but we used to have to push it into the game and hope we could make it just about okay. Now, it's notlikethey're shooting a big budget Hollywood movie, they are. It's just that there's more of it and they're chopping it into smaller pieces. It's incredible to watch it going on, I feel like a complete spare part. I watch our incredibly talented director, Rod Edge, who's been with us since GTA IV, and occasionally give him a note. But fundamentally, it's their territory, I stay in the background. It's phenomenal what they're doing there – we have a mo-cap set-up that only Weta and James Cameron can match.And this is about full performance capture these days?We gave up the phrase voice actor in 2008 and we haven't used it since. We don't have voice actors anymore, because they're the same as the mo-cap actors. This is something we discovered by chance. We used to use famous actors, partly because the mo-cap process was so cumbersome and we could only have three people anyway. But on San Andreas, a guy, a sort of second-rate comedian, got offended by the script and stormed out of the recording studio, shouting, "I'm not doing this, it's offensive." We just thought, well your agent did some great research there.We were wondering who we'd get to do it and I was watching the videos of the mo-cap sessions and I was like, 'the guy who's doing it on set is really good, why don't we just use him?' And we did, and the proximity of the performance to the animation was much fresher than we were getting anywhere else. We did Bully straightaway afterwards and that was using kids - there weren't enough famous kids to do it anyway, so we used the same actors and it really brought it to life.It's all based on a sound stage now. It's the same performance for voice and body. You do it all in one capture. Any one character might have a range of actors, you might have a stunt man doing some moves or a weapons specialist doing others, but for us, we're forgetting about the concept of an actor and just capturing the person who feels alive in this world. When we get it all feeling seamless, like we did with John Marston, we've done a good job.How do you build your characters for GTA? Do you take inspiration from people you know?I hope not! It's a sort of collaborative effort, there's not really a formula. Sometimes you see someone, someone on TV or walking down the street, or you meet someone and you think, 'There's an aspect of this person that's so ridiculous, I just want to capture that'. Or one of the other guys will go, 'I just met this maniac who walks likethis!' – and the character will evolve from there. The first thing we speak about might actually get dropped, but it will be the atmosphere, some veneer of over-confidence or some rabid insecurity beneath it – that's what we'll wrap a character around. Or sometimes it will be one of us watching a terrifying documentary about a serial killer, and there will be one thing about him…So they're not people you know?The only one that I would confess to being fully autobiographical to me was this horrible character in Bully who was based on a kid I went to school with. The rest of them, they're all composites from me, from Sam and a bunch of other guys coming up with ideas. Then it's a question of getting the look right. But then once it's written, it's about the combination of animating, game design and acting.Can you tell us a little about this collaborative process early in a GTA game?So me, Rupert Humphries and Imran Sarwar, one of the main designers, will sit around early in the game, talking about stuff, then Sam, Aaron and Leslie will look at it and sign off on it or offer feedback on it. But it doesn't really matter what we put down on the page, we might imagine certain characters are going to be very strong, and they're not, and others start out okay and turn out fantastic. It's all combined with Mike Kane, who's the chief character designer, and his guys. It's also the actors and Rod and the mo-cap guys bringing these character to life – everyone has input.The idea, the page, is one thing, but the end result is often miles away. I think that's a strength rather than a weakness. Sometimes, a character will come back from the first round of mo-cap and you'll go, 'Oh, that's so wrong', and we'll say, 'Get rid of it and do it again'. But usually, they'll come up with something that's different from what we were thinking of – and much better. If we've cast a good actor and they really attack it, they'll help find a direction for it. We have a fairly low attrition rate on that stuff. But getting it to life is definitely a group effort. At all stages. Cameras, different techniques for different characters… there are lots of little tricks to bring it to life and make characters memorable – even though you're only with them a very short amount of time sometimes.Do you think about the meaning of the game in the early stages? Do you look to convey specific messages?Because of the nature of games, this combination of narrative and freeform experience, they can give you an experience that is very different from what someone else discerns – it can mean different things, which I think is their greatest strength as an immersive medium. We're very hands off in that regard, the authorial presenceshouldbe hands off in terms of determining interpretation, otherwise it's not remotely sophisticated. But I'm not sayingweare sophisticated!You talk about collaboration a lot – it seems very important at Rockstar. Are you constantly having to rewrite narrative based on feedback from the game designers?Well… we chop it up. We have an overview that gets turned into a game design and a game flow and the missions. We do bits of it, I'll do some on one mission, the others will do some – it's very easy to fix bits that way. We're not precious about it... well, we're precious at the end – is it any good?But it's only occasionally that we'll have real problems We have a couple of game designers with us all the time while we write, so we're not working against game design. It used to be back in the day that there was a bit more of a structural break between game design and story writing and we've really worked hard to get rid of that so we all feel like we're equally invested in it. There shouldn't be this big space: the story needs this and the game designers need that. Hopefully, if we've planned it all together, we should all feel one and the same, we shouldn't feel like separate departments. When it comes to actually writing the exact dialogue for within the body of the mission, the writer and the designer sit together and go through it line by line by line. But even before that, it should feel collaborative all the way along. The conflicts are usually: 'This idea looked great on paper but for whatever reason it aint working,' so we all have to agree on replacing it.Do you have creative flashpoints?Not really, it doesn't really work like that. The flash points are these: this bit's needed for the story, but it's not working in terms of gameplay – the mission is not fun, it needs to go. We always have missions that get cut out for whatever reason. We either have to rejig bits of the story to make it all tie together or we have to cut that bit of story onto a different mission. This game is very tightly bound because it has three interconnected stories the whole way along, it's complex. But everyone approaches them in the spirit of, 'How do we fix it?' If we all understand what each bit needs, how do we make it all gel together?It's a bit like editing a movie in that you need to get it to a certain length. The tech is better now, it makes it slower to work but you can fix things more easily, you can repurpose bits, throw things away, fix them up again. We've always lost bits – 'Oh it's not making any sense!' – then you just redo one scene and it makes perfect sense. That's just a standard part of the process.We pride ourselves on not being too pig-headed internally. Our goal as a company isn't for people to say that Rockstar has got good game design but shit stories, or good stories and shit game design; we want them to say Rockstar make good games. Ideally, they can't think about anything except, 'I love the whole experience'. The goal is to have the whole thing feel indivisible.Which is something that games criticism has to catch up with…You know, game reviewing, when it sort of breaks down into checklists, you feel like you may as well have made a lawnmower. It feels odd to me. I mean, gamesaresort of like a machine in some ways, but I still think that's a strange way to think about them. Don't think about the graphics or the music or whatever, just think about the whole. Was the experience engaging? That's what we're going for. We tailor our stories and our mission designs to make this total experience that will feel good alongside the graphics, alongside the physics – it should all feel cohesive, it should feel that the whole world exists and you can't really separate the elements. It's all got to gel together – that's when we think we've been successful.Part two on Monday covers the making of Los Santos, the emphasis on male characters and the chances of ever seeing another GTA title set in Britain...
For now, the fashion/apps crossover remains a distinctly off-catwalk affair. There may be official Candy Crush Saga socks, but as yet no designer has grasped the nettle of popular digital culture to send their models out dressed as candies, Angry Birds or plants and zombies.Maybe this month'sLondon Fashion Weekwill see that change. Assuming not, though, there is still plenty to talk about in the way the fashion industry is using smartphone and tablet apps to reach its customers – and how those people are using apps to reach one another too.Gucci StyleFASHION BRANDSLet's start with the big fashion brands, and a couple of general thoughts. First: the people in charge of commissioning apps for these companies clearly like their iDevices, for Android versions are thin on the ground.Second: a lot of big fashion brands are still a bit unsure what apps are for, judging by the number of barely-more-than-a-brochure promotional apps, and a fair few that haven't been updated for a year or more.Some of the more interesting ones:Gucci Style(iOS) which is pitched as a "shoppable magazine" looking behind the company's new clobber, rather than simply showing pretty pictures of it (although yes, there are plenty of those too).Christian Dior has also gone down the digital-magazine route with itsDiorapp (iOS/Android), offering a mixture of previews, interviews and backstage videos. "Life inside the House of Dior" as it puts it.Lacoste has a well-designedLacoste Shopshopping app (iOS) but has also dabbled in more magazine-like content too through its Lacoste L!VE app, which took a look at Japanese fashion and culture alongside the brand's Spring/Summer 2013 line.Dolce &amp; Gabbana's mainDGW14app (iOS/Android) is firmly focused on showing its latest collections and helping people find the clothes in stores, but the company has tried other apps too:Kylie(iOS/ Android) to show the stage wardrobe it created for Kylie Minogue's last tour, and Dolce &amp; Gabbana Watches (iOS), a virtual-watch app to showcase its real timepieces.Wild cards? There'sAmble with Louis Vuitton(iOS), which is less about plugging clothes and more about getting people to save and share photos, notes, videos and sounds of their travels, complete with city guides for London, Barcelona, Madrid and other cities around the world.For now, more brands are opting for stylish-but-standard apps offering product images, news and shopping information, fromBenetton(iOS/Android) toMulberry(iOS),Hugo Boss(iOS) andChanel(iOS).Mr Porter – The TuxFASHION MEDIAYou can already buy or subscribe to pretty much every major fashion magazine through an iPhone and/or iPad, courtesy of Apple's Newsstand. With Google launching its own digital magazines store for Android, expect more of these digital replicas to transfer to that platform too.What's happening beyond that though? Besides its replica apps, Vogue hasVogue Daily News(iOS/Android) which is much more focused on daily fashion news, interviews and "all the most stylish party pictures". It's a sign of a fashion magazine using apps to build a more-frequent relationship with its readers, sitting alongside its website.This spin-off strategy extends to Teen Vogue, which besides its main app also hasTeen Vogue Snapshot(iOS) that delivers young readers a daily "best-dressed girl" for sartorial inspiration, and invites them to submit their own photos in response. There's even a mobile game,Teen Vogue Me Girl(iOS/Android) putting readers in the shoes of a Teen Vogue intern.Other magazines are focusing more on apps as new ways to present their beauty content.Beauty Genius by Marie Claire(iOS) is all about hair and make-up how-to videos, from Cheryl Cole's waves to Kate Bosworth's "perfect red pout". Rival Glamour has its ownGlamour Fast Beautyapp (iOS), although it's more text and picture-tips than videos.Marie Claire has also experimented with video and apps in other ways, through three Runway apps for iPad that offer videos from the London, New York, Milan and Paris Fashion Weeks. The last version wasMarie Claire Runway 3(iOS), released earlier this year to cover the Spring/Summer 13 collections.Another British mag, Grazia, has taken a different spin, adding e-commerce to itsGrazia(iOS) iPad digital edition. The idea: readers can buy the items they see on the pages from within the app. Yet watch the trend – that's been around for some time – of apps coming from the other direction: fashion retailers launching their own print magazines, which are also going digital.Net-A-Porter Magazine(iOS) and its sister (well, brother if we're being accurate) appMr Porter The Tux(iOS) are good examples, as is theAsos Fashion Upmagazine (iOS/Android). So magazine apps are selling products, while product retailers are producing magazines. Consider boundaries truly blurred.eBay FashionSHOPPINGWhat about those retailers and their regular apps though? It's noticeable that many of the key fashion retailers are supporting both iOS and Android – a sensible approach in 2013, given the huge sales of Android smartphones and the growing number of tablets too.So, there are cross-platform apps fromNet-a-Porter(iOS/Android) andMr Porter(iOS/Android),Zara(iOS/Android),Topshop(iOS/Android),Victoria's Secret(iOS/Android),H&amp;M(iOS/Android) and others: it's rare to find a retailer without an app, or at least a mobile-optimised website. Strangely,Asos(iOS) is iOS-only for now.New directions in fashion shopping from smartphones and tablets? There are a few. eBay, for example, has a pair of interesting apps.Svpply(iOS/Android) is a "hand-selected collection of the world's best products" from more than 110k stores and brands, and while it covers tech, home, art and other products, it's very big for fashion too.Then there's the maineBay Fashionapp (iOS), which helps you browse the new, designer, branded and vintage fashion being sold on eBay, with a section showing off ideas from fashion bloggers as inspiration. There's also an inventive Image Swatch feature: point your camera at something in the real world and find items on eBay whose colour matches it.It's a feature also found in theLens Color Shopping by Fashionfreaxapp (iOS) which matches products to colours found through the iPhone camera. And the company behind it has a separateFashion Freax Street Style App(iOS/Android) to show off new looks from around the world.There are also some apps to help ethical shopping.Think Dirty(iOS) lets you scan cosmetics products barcodes to find out about the "potentially toxic ingredients" that lurk within them. More than 10k products are in its database. Sadly, Channel 4 appears to have shut down its Closet Swap website and removedits iOS and Android app, but when it was live, it helped people swap clothes with friends and find sustainable (i.e. vintage and charity) shops nearby.PoseSOCIAL APPSFinally, there's a healthy crop of apps designed to get people sharing their current fashion with the world.Pose(iOS/Android) is one of the most popular, claiming millions of users sharing their favourite outfits, and following those of famous bloggers and celebrities.It's interesting because the latter has traditionally been the domain of magazines. Apps like Pose are disrupting that, while also hammering home the point that anyone with an eye for clothes can be just as inspiring.There are others too:Fashism Mobile(iOS) includes the ability to ask other users whether a product or combination suits you, by sharing a snap.Walk In My Closet(iOS) adds a digital moodboard,Trendabl(iOS) has more of a skew towards following brands and tastemakers,Stylebook(iOS) is a buzzed-about digital closet to import your current clothes and scope out your future outfits.Snapette(iOS/Android) throws in a shopping angle, helping you see what people are wearing in key fashion hotspots and where to buy them. And finallyCloth(iOS), rather marvellously, includes a weather function to help you decide which outfits in your wardrobe match the current conditions outside in the real world.
That's it, we're almost up to date with the blood-stained history of Grand Theft Auto. But not quite. For the final part of our nostalgic ram raid, Dan Dawkins, co-presenter ofGTA V O'Clock, takes us back up north to the city that started it all: Liberty.Here then, is GTA IV and its brilliant DLC sign-off. Niko is back and Roman really wants to get in touch...That's not Jack Thompson. HonestInfamous US lawyer Jack Thompson – disbarred in 2008 – filed a series of unsuccessful lawsuits against Take Two between 2001 and 2006. He linked GTA to a number of violent crimes, calling GTA IV 'the gravest assault upon children in this country since polio'. In GTA IV's Final Interview mission, you enter the office of lawyers Goldberg, Linger and Shyster to kill a lawyer whoby total coincidence, uses Thompson's famous phrase, 'Guns don't kill people, video games do'. What are the odds?Three Leaf CloverGTA IV's defining mission is a shameless, thrilling recreation ofthatbank job in Michael Mann's Heat, forming the inspiration for GTA V's six key heists based on great 80s action movies. "I made a withdrawal, what's the problem?" says Niko, exiting the bank holding $1 million and unloading his M4A1 on a barricade of police cars. It's noisy, relentless and inventive – when things go wrong, your affable Irish crew's rat-a-tat bickering rises above the gunfire.Looking for that Special Someone[Spoiler alert]East European soldier Niko Bellic arrives in Liberty City to avenge a betrayal that led to the death of 12 young friends. After 30 hours, you come face-to-face with that Special Someone, but GTA IV's 'climax' eschews resolution, for reflection. Darko Brevic is a pathetic tortured junkie who begs to die, but still has the insight to suggest you've become no better than him – a killer – in your pursuit of 'justice'. You choose whether to shoot him or walk away, but the self-reflexive twist is your abiding memory.Watching Republican Space Rangers in your apartment"Their strange religions and far out ways are cramping our freedoms!" cry the Republican Space Rangers, before unleashing laser death on friendly aliens, "Make sure you get the children or they'll turn into insurgents!" GTA's relentless satire isn't always subtle, but it's unflinching and invariably funny. Amazingly, no one knew GTA IV featured working TV sets with nine-minute cartoons about right-wing space nuts until the game's release. Talking of surprises, is that…Ricky Gervais doing a live setin the Split Sides Comedy Club?Departure Time – The Ballad of Gay TonyGTA IV's final DLC episode went out with an explosive, flamboyant bang – a perfumed cravat in the face of those who lamented Liberty City's 'seriousness', not least with its insecure-hetero-male-baiting subtitle. Final mission Departure Time was a fitting segue into GTA V, as Luis Lopez shoots through an abandoned fairground, races to the airport on his bike, chases a jet down the runaway and parachutes out of an exploding plane over Liberty City's night sky to the slinky beats of No Security by Crookers.Back to San AndreasAnd here we are, finally, at the start of the GTA V story. Rockstar's opening trailer for GTA V received over 35 million views on YouTube, and its snapshots of life in sunny Los Santos, led to feverish speculation. Telling us very little about the story or lead characters, it instead concentrates on the mise en scene – a city of contrasts; huge poverty and abundant wealth, deadly violence and healthy lifestyles. What it said was, we are far from Liberty City now. The weight of Niko's downbeat odyssey was lifted, and the future beckoned.• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part one• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part two• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part three• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part four
The number of pirated music tracks in the UK has fallen by a third to 199m in the past year, according to research published by Ofcom.The volume of ilegally downloaded songs, from artists such as One Direction and Adele, dropped from a high of 301m in March 2012 to 199m in the March this year.The finding comes after a year in which the recorded music business declared itself "on the road to recovery," with the growth in digital saleshelping total revenues increase– albeit by 0.3% – for the first time since the height of the CD era in 1999.However,research published by Ofcom on Wednesdayshowed that it may be premature to start popping the champagne just yet.It found that one in six internet users in the UK had illegally streamed or downloaded files in the past year and 9% had pirated music between March and May.Over a quarter of those who listened to music online in the three months did so illegally, according to Ofcom's report which was based on research by Kantar Media.It also showed that a hardcore of pirates – 2% of the total – was responsible for almost three-quarters of all online copyright infringement. Those who breached copyright said they would be encouraged to stop by cheaper legal alternatives and if all the content they wanted was available legally.Ofcom said that awareness of legal streaming services – including Netflix, Google Play and Tesco's Blinkbox – "rose significantly" between March and May, compared to the previous quarter, providing further hope for the creative industries.To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news on your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
Twitter, the social media site that has come to chronicle everything from world events to everyday lunches, announced on Thursday that it intends to make its stock market debut.The confidential filing – revealed, naturally, in a tweet on the company's official account – sets into motion one of the most anticipated initial public offerings in tech history. It has also been one of the most coyly sidestepped topics by the company's executives.Recently, Twitter CEO Dick Costolospoke at the AllThingsD conferencein July where he compared the constant questioning about an IPO to sports: he portrayed himself to a football player trying to catch a pass, "while people are yelling at him from the sidelines asking him, 'What are you doing after the game?'" according to the site.It is likely that Twitter was forced to file for an IPO because, like Facebook, it had enough private investors that regulations required it. The Jobs Act, passed in 2012, requires a company in the US to go public if it has more than 2,000 private investors.Earlier this summer Costolo said he objected to "short-term thinking" about revenues. Twitter's confidential filing indicates that it has under $1bn revenues. Under the rules of the Jobs Act, only companies with under $1bn in value may file secretly; bigger companies have to file public documents.Once the contents of the filing are revealed, they will also shed light on one of the most mysterious questions in tech: the mystery of how Twitter – which thinks of itself as "the global town square," in Costolo's terms – plans to make an appreciable amount of money.The company claims 200 million users sending over 400 million tweets daily, nearly 60% of those through mobile devices like smartphones.Earlier this summer Costolosaid he objected to"short-term thinking" about revenues, and the company is thought to have less than $1bn in revenues.Despite its reach, many have found deducing the company's value to be difficult. In January, when the investment firm BlackRock bought a stake,Twitter was estimated to be worth $9bn; by May, estimates of Twitter's value had ballooned to $10.5bn, according to GSV Capital Corp.None of those numbers are likely to be the size of the IPO. Companies traditionally sell less than 20% of themselves when they debut on the public markets.Twitter was seen as setting the IPO into motion last year, when it completed a cluster of acquisitions to centralize its power over the distribution of tweets.Twitter is the last in its class to go public. Other big media companies, including Linkedin and Facebook, already command billions of dollars of value in the public markets. Linkedin is worth $32bn in stock while Facebook's market value is $108bn.On Wednesday Mark Zuckerberg, the co-founder of Facebook, was asked at a Tech Crunch conference whether he had any advice for Twitter when it goes public. He said that the IPO process "is actually not that bad."As a public company, Twitter will be under pressure to show innovative ideas to make money. One analyst believed the company could take its cue from Facebook, which eased advertising into the social stream of its users and raised its revenues as a result."When they price the stock, the price will be based on something more than hopeful dreams," said Roger Kay, founder of Endpoint Technologies Associates. "If they start to put ads in, it's going to change the user experience. They haven't educated their users to accept the presence of ads."If Twitter manages to find a sustainable business model, some analysts believe the company has a better chance in targeting its ad efforts to businesses rather than charging consumers.Nate Elliott, an analyst at Forrester Research, noted that Twitter has wooed marketers, for instance, by debuting "Twitter Cards," which allow tweets to show not just text but also larger photos and video within the site. That feature is often used by companies wishing to advertise prominently on Twitter or showcase clever ad campaigns without forcing users to click on a separate link.Twitter has also tried to lure companies that advertise on television shows to see the site as a "second screen" where users can chat about TV and current events in real time. Elliott noted that effort "has not been a success" financially but shows Twitter's willingness to experiment with ways to make money.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDell's downward spiral: 10 years of failed consumer devices &gt;&gt; The VergeWith style like this, how amazing that Dell wasn't a hit with consumers.What's wrong with the Windows Phone? &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsHarry Marks:I performed a little experiment recently which led me to a few carrier stores to see how they pitch phones to customers. I went in with a story, one that isn't entirely untrue, about how my wife is planning on buying her first smartphone soon (she carries an old school Nokia flip phone) and was looking for some recommendations.Though there's plenty more in the article, this segment tells you all you need to know about why Windows Phone isn't selling in the US.Digital Image Processing and 64-Bit computing &gt;&gt; ESRINasa's Commercial Remote Sensing team did some digital image processing (DIP) and geographical information system (GIS) work:Upon examination of the results, the 64-bit platform required 49% less time to complete a sample of DIP/GIS procedures than the 32-bit platform. As a capstone to this examination, three-dimensional fly-throughs were obtained by capturing successive images from slightly different viewing perspectives. These images were then viewed in succession using a movie emulation tool.Which tells you how 64-bit could be useful.Network IP Address via ipcalf.comReveals your IP address - as long as you're using an HTML5-capable browser.  (Via @glynwintle on Twitter.)Minecrafter is now a skill. DIY's guiding...&gt;&gt; DIY blog"Minecrafter" is now a skill.DIY's guiding principle is that all creative skills are important and our mission is to help people discover the ones that make them passionate.Many people working in tech today got their start building with LEGO and SimCity. At the time they were toys, though in hindsight they were essential experience to develop the creative confidence that's so valuable now. Likewise we've been riveted by Minecraft since its transition from an indie game into a creative tool beloved by people of all ages. We believe Minecraft is as transformative for this generation as Photoshop was for ours.But requiring less pirating.When will tablets outsell traditional PCs? &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu, in March 2012:Given these assumptions, the day when the tablet market (by units) will exceed that of traditional PCs will come sometime in the fall of 2013.IDC forecast on Thursday that tablets will outsell traditional PCs in the fourth quarter of 2012. How was your prediction?Google+ now lets you do serious photo editing, but only in Chrome &gt;&gt; The VergeThe new editing features have been ported to Google+'s iOS and Android apps as well,writes Google's Josh Haftel. Back on the desktop, the new features rely on Google Native Client's support for native code, so Safari and IE users are out of luck, but getting these kinds of image editing tools in the browser for free is definitely worth the download. That said, you'll still have to decide if built-in Snapseed features are a compelling enough reason to store your photos on Google+.The browser wars are back, but this is only the most minor of first-round skirmishes.Apple missed the best use for a fingerprint scanner &gt;&gt; GizmodoEvery cop or theft victim or, frankly, person with a functioning human brain, knows that the first thing any iPhone thief does now is turn the phone off, so that you can't track down the phone with Find My iPhone. Because if they don't, the cops show up. By making turn off a secure function, your phone would be trackable for as long as the battery holds out.It's crazy that a feature like this hasn't been put into place already, right? Even just with the passcode? So much effort has gone into features like Find My iPhone and Windows Phone's Find My Phone and Android Device Manager, and yet you skirt around them just by turning off the damn phone.Yes. Why hasn't anyone implemented this?Mark Zuckerberg on NSA spying: 'The government blew it' | The Verge&gt;&gt; The VergeYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday. The 13th. Hope we all have a lucky day and nothing bad happ...
Michael Dell has the won the battle for control of the computer company that he created, after shareholders backed his $24.8bn (£15.7bn) offer to take Dell private and revive the struggling business away from the incessant pressure of Wall&nbsp;Street.The vote clears the way for the huge buyout, in which Dell is working with private equity partners Silver Lake after seeing off a challenge from activist investor Carl Icahn.The move comes as traditional PC companies struggle to make money in a market that is rapidly shrinking, with the latest forecasts showing that PC sales will be overtaken by tablets for the first time in the final quarter of this year.Research group IDC said tablets will outsell all PCs in the three months to Christmas, and by 2015 they will regularly outsell PCs as consumers' tastes shift towards the more mobile format."We are forecasting 84.1m tablets will be shipped in the fourth quarter of 2013, compared to 83.1m PCs," said an IDC spokesman.The abruptness of the shift – modern tablets only went on sale with the launch of Apple's iPad in April 2010 – has caught a number of traditional PC companies, including Dell, flatfooted and with no viable strategy in the fast-growing mobile&nbsp;market.By 2017, says IDC, 87% of devices connected to the internet will be tablets and smartphones, relegating PCs from their former position as the main means of getting online.Speaking after the Dell vote, Francisco Jeronimo, IDC's smartphones analyst, said the wider market shift will "kill many old companies and create new leaders".PC makers such as Dell have struggled with limited profits for years. But as consumers, who made up half of PC buyers, have shifted spending to tablets and smartphones, the industry has suffered falls in sales which are squeezing small and large players alike.Michael Dell, who founded the company from a college dorm room in 1984, has fought for months to convince investors his offer is the best option for the company's future. Icahn ended his challenge after deciding it was "impossible to win".Dell has been forced into a buyout after 25 years on the stock market because the PC market is dwindling so rapidly. The company reported a 72% slump in quarterly earnings last month as it cut prices and prepared an attack on the market for supplying big "enterprise" businesses.The iPad was rapidly followed by more tablets, from companies including Samsung, Amazon and Google. After years when PC sales growth was regularly between 10% and 20%, it has gone into reverse for the past five quarters, and IDC forecasts a drop of nearly 10% this year.Other companies besides Dell have been hit due to the lack of a successful tablet strategy. Taiwan's Acer, one of the five biggest PC makers, has seen profits collapse since 2011, and revenues have shrunk for five quarters in a row. HP, which bought Palm for $1bn but wrote off its TouchPad tablet in August 2011 after less than two months, is also struggling to make a profit from PCs.Michael Dell argues that the company needs to go private so it can restructure to cope with the new computing landscape away from the quarterly pressures of Wall Street, and focus as IBM does on providing its storage, servers and services to public organisations and large companies.Dell first proposed the buyout in private discussions in June 2012. It was announced on 5 February at $13.65 per share. Rival bidder Blackstone raised that to $14.25 in March, and Icahn offered $15 soon afterwards. Dell finally offered $13.75 per share.A vote on the buyout had been postponed three times as Michael Dell and the company's board scrambled to garner enough votes in favour. But last month Dell raised his offer price, tacked on a special-dividend sweetener, and got the board to change voting rules so that abstentions no longer count against him – turning the tide in his favour.A change of over two months in the deadline for proxy votes may also have brought backing from hedge funds that bought shares for short-term gain and were likely to support a buyout.
The UK's smallest mobile phone operator Three has become the last to announce the launch of superfast 4G services, saying it will offer them in four major cities by the end of 2013.It will start with London, Manchester, Reading and Birmingham, including Oldham, Dudley, West Bromwich and Wolverhampton.Another 42 will follow by late 2014as part of a drive to cover 98% of the UK's population with 4G services by the end of 2015.That compares with the other operators, where EE already covers over 55% of the population, and O2 and Vodafone, which turned on their services at the end of August.Despite starting later than its larger rivals Three will not lose out, says Carrie Pawsey, senior communications analyst at the consultancy Ovum."In the early interim period it will make no difference. Apart from EE, the other networks won't have a significantly larger coverage area." But, she added, "Three is likely to have larger blackspots for 4G coverage in the long term."Three will be using a slice of the high-frequency 1800MHz band allocated for 4G which it won in an auction overseen by telecoms regulator Ofcom.Three also bought 4G spectrum inOfcom's 4G auction in Februaryat the 800MHz band, which has lower bandwidth than 1800MHz but longer reach.Pawsey said: "It may hurt its market share in the long term, as the other networks expand to cover more of the country and are able to offer higher average speeds"Signal footprint comparedEE wasfirst to launch a 4G service in the UKon 30 October 2012, well ahead of the Ofcom auction by "re-farming" spectrum it already owned on the 1800MHz band.After an aggressive rollout, it now covers more than 100 towns around the UK and has over 1 million customers using 4G.O2activated its 4G service on 29 August, asdid Vodafone.O2's signal covers London, Leeds and Bradford, with commitments for another 10 cities by the end of the year and 98% of the population in the next three years. Vodafone's only covers London, but it has committed to covering another 12 towns and cities before the end of 2013.Pricing to win4G contracts currently come at a premium of around £5 per month over the average 3G data contract, but Three hopes to attract new customers and retain its existing ones by offering 4G at the same price as 3G.Both calls and texts on 4G plans across all three other mobile operators are unlimited as standard, leaving mobile data allowance, additional value features likebundled Spotify subscriptions, and price as the only differentiators.
Google's former vice president for Android Hugo Barra had time for an exit interview with AllThingsD in his last day at the job, explaining the attraction of joining one of Xiaomi, the Chinese mobile firm hoping to be the next Apple.Xiaomi is valued at $10bn, sold 7m devices last year and is on track to sell 20m in 2013; for comparison Apple sold 125m phones in the2012 financial year, and Samsung 700m, according toStrategy Analytics.Barra was brought in as head of global, charged with expanding Xiaomi outside China. Speaking to tech siteAllThingsDon his last day at Google, Barra said Xiaomi wants its customers to see it as a "robust operating system for their digital life"."There is no question the phone business is very low margin today, but they want to get to a place where they can sell the device at cost and then sell high-margin services to make that phone experience even better," he said. Barra wouldn't comment on specific products on the target list, but said India, Russia, Indonesia, Thailand and latin America are "sweet spots" for Xiaomi. "It's where the equation of quality and affordability works, because it's in those markets you can replicate what the company has done in China."Barra's once worked at Google with Bin Lin, who then left to become Xiaomi president. Later, Android design head Matias Duarte told Barra he was impressed by Xiaomi's work on Android; the Chinese company was very much on the map."Matias's opinion really mattered a lot, and it was a big signal they were doing something right, and a pretty significant vote of confidence."The star of Xiaomi is its exuberant chief executive, the entrepreneur Lei Jun. Barra's said the approach is a "triathlon" of hardware, software and services that is paying off. "They are a company building hardware like it was software. It's about small teams, really scrappy, that iterate, iterate, iterate… speed defines everything, so the team focuses on building the highest performance, but as quickly as possible.""The aspiration for the founders is that Xiaomi will become a global company that happens to be in China," said Barra - Xiaomi's first non-Chinese hire. "If I do my job right, in a few years, the world will be talking about Xiaomi in the same way that they talk about Google and Apple today."
A list of lawyers, insurers and finance companies that have used the services of rogue private detectives will remain secret after a plea to MPs from the information commissioner.Keith Vaz, chair of the home affairs select committee, which wants the names of the companies involved made public, has agreed to hold off publishing it after the commissioner, Christopher Graham, said publication could "impede the course of justice".Graham has begun a criminal investigation into possible breaches of data protection laws by the companies on the list. It was drawn up by theSerious Organised Crime Agency (Soca)after an investigation which led to the jailing last year of four private detectives for unlawfully obtaining private information.But Vaz – whose committee has been pressing for action to be taken against companies that have broken the law – said MPs remained frustrated at the slow progress of investigations into the firms."The committee has been frustrated by the lack of activity on this issue over the past four years," he said. "In contrast to the rigorous police investigation of those in the media who are accused of being involved in the unlawful trade in information, little, if anything, seems to have been done to investigate those in other sectors, such as law and insurance. In addition, nothing seems to have been done for the potential victims."Vaz has repeatedly asked the agency to release the list publicly. But the police – within the agency and the Metropolitan force – have refused to comply with his request because they say to do so could prejudice active investigations. Five of the companies named on the list are at the centre of an investigation into computer hacking and other breaches of privacy laws by the Met police'sOperation Tuleta, investigating phone hacking at News International. Another four are being investigated in separate Met police inquiries.Vaz agreed that none of these companies would be named, but the police still claimed their investigations could be prejudiced.In a meeting, Graham urged Vaz not to publish while he carried out a criminal investigation into whether the firms had broken privacy laws. Graham was handed Soca's list after pressure from the home affairs select committee on the agency.Vaz said on Thursday  that he had agreed that Graham would carry out a two-week scoping exercise to identify the key issues and report back to the committee."The information commissioner has given the committee an explicit commitment that he will pursue this matter to its appropriate end and that the victims will receive justice," Vaz said. "He firmly agrees with the committee that these organisations and individuals need to act within the law."We are pleased that these matters are now subject to a thorough investigation, albeit one delayed for several years."He said MPs would consider what steps to take next after Graham reported back to the committee.Vaz spoke after the Crown Prosecution Service announced that another journalist, Ben O'Driscoll, the former deputy news editor of the Sun, was to be charged. O'Driscoll faces a charge of conspiracy to commit misconduct in public office for allegedly authorising payments of £5,000 to public officials, including police officers and employees of Broadmoor high-security psychiatric hospital, in exchange for information. He is the 14th Sun journalist to be charged.
More than 10 years ago, I had an internet connection from BT, which came with a btopenworld email address. At some point, BT passed all the management of these email addresses to Yahoo, where they became standard, free (advertising-supported) Yahoo webmail addresses in all but name – run on Yahoo servers, with the Yahoo front end. When my BT Internet contract ended, my BT email service carried on at Yahoo.All this was fine until BT informed me that it would close the account and delete all my mail, contacts etc from 16 September unless I started to pay them £1.60 a month for a premium mail service I don't want.Do you think this is ethical behaviour? Should we all stop trusting even large companies running ad-supported cloud-based services because, at any point, they can threaten to delete our data, and make us pay the high costs in time and effort of changing an email address, if we don't pay up? Is there any easy way to avoid being held to ransom, and transfer all my mail and contacts easily from one account to another?Name withheldTo answer your last question first: no, you should not trust any cloud-based company, whether large or small, with data that you consider important. If you have files that you must not lose – emails, documents, photographs, whatever – then you and only you are responsible for making sure you don't lose them.It's a fact of life that small companies become big and big companies become small or go out of business as the technology scene changes. This can happen on relatively short timescales, perhaps five to 20 years, whereas you may want to keep your data for long periods, perhaps 10-50 years. In some cases, you may want your files to outlive you. Examples include family photos and videos, creative works and recordings of original or otherwise unobtainable music.Fortunately, it's easy to ensure that you don't lose any emails. To do this, create two email addresses on different services. The primary address is the one you will use for email. Set this primary address to forward all incoming emails to your second address, and perhaps send bcc or blind carbon copies of outgoing emails to this address as well. Finally, install a desktop email client on your PC, and use this to collect copies of all the emails in your primary address using either the IMAP mail protocol or Microsoft's Exchange Active Sync. There are plenty of email clients including Mozilla Thunderbird, Microsoft Outlook andeM Client 5. You now have a backup email service plus a local backup of your email.For more information, see the final section headed "Never lose your emails!" in my recent answer,Hotmail: are my lost accounts a security risk?.Important note: you must set your PC program to download or synchronise all IMAP email regardless of age, including the whole message. If you don't, it will only download the headers. If you have both the old and new services working in the same program, then if necessary, you should be able to copy email folders from one to the other.Getting off YahooNow, how do you feel about the new Yahoo email service? I think it's unusable for anyone who has a significant amount of email (eg me), and the spam-blocking is poor, so I'd rather ignore it. However, if you really want to stick with it, the bad news is that you cannot transfer your old Yahoo emails to a new Yahoo account (though you can export and import your contacts). If you want to keep your old email online, you will have to download it all and then find a way of uploading it. Mail buffs who reckon you can useTrueswitchare wrong because the service closed in May. Frankly, it's probably not worth the effort.In theory, both Google Gmail and Microsoft Outlook.com (formerly Hotmail) will happily fetch all your emails directly from your Yahoo inbox, though if you have loads, it will take a while. However, I just tried it by opening a new Outlook.com account and it failed: apparently it only works with Yahoo Plus, which requires payment. For instructions, seeSet up your Gmail, Yahoo! Plus, or Microsoft email accounts in Outlook.com. (Outlook.com also lets you send your emails from a Yahoo, Gmail or other address.)The alternative, again, is to download and re-upload all your emails via a desktop PC program.You may have better luck with Gmail's Mail Fetcher. For instructions, seeCentralize mail from different accounts with Mail Fetcher. Once you have your Yahoo email in a Gmail account, then your Outlook.com account can pick it up from there.Gmail or Oulook.com?When you have completed the mail transfer operation, decide whether Gmail or Outlook.com is going to be your primary email address, and set it to automatically forward all emails to the secondary address.I don't think there's much to choose between the two services, because Gmail has got significantly worse over the past couple of years, while Outlook.com has improved a lot. Both are much better at handling spam than Yahoo Mail, but they have slightly different settings. In my experience, Gmail is aggressive and puts some legitimate emails in the spam folder, so I have to check it at least once a day. Outlook.com is less aggressive and never does that, but it does let a few spam emails through. The error rate is roughly the same.At the moment, I hate the Gmail compose box (even when using Shift-Compose to open it in its own window) and the pointlessly disappearing bits of user interface to the extent that I would never become a Gmail user if I had to start today. I'm seriously thinking of switching to Outlook.com or Office 365, which would involve moving nine years (almost 10GB) of emails. Of course, you may have a different opinion, and you should choose the service you like best.Ideally, when you have chosen your new primary email service, buy your own domain name and use that as your email address. Nobody can take that away from you (unless you neglect to pay the renewal fee), and you can point it to whichever email service you like. I provided a guide to setting up a personal domain name with Gmail in an earlier answer:Solve email problems forever by setting up Gmail with your own domain. If you go the Microsoft way, Digital Inspiration has instructions:Using Outlook.com with your own Web Domain. Alternatively, see Ed Bott'sWhy I use Outlook.com for my custom email accounts (and how you can too).Future proofingI can understand why you are annoyed at BT, but the mail service is still free for BT Broadband users, and there is probably some cost to maintaining email addresses, even when they are run at Yahoo. I assumeBT Yahoo! Premium Mailis based on the not-free Yahoo Plus, so BT will be paying Yahoo for that, and it's not bad value.But you could consider it a blessing in disguise. It would have been simpler to move your emails a decade ago, when you stopped being a BT Broadband customer, and it would be even harder if you had to do it in another five or 10 years.It will be painful getting everyone to use your new email address, so it may still be worth subscribing to BT Premium Mail for a couple of months, even if you have to forgo a latte. And the experience should give you some incentive to buy your own domain name for longterm use.It's unlikely that either Google or Microsoft will drop out of the free email business in the foreseeable future, so your new email addresses should be safe. However, users have no control over web-based services, and both companies have changed them dramatically. Much as I complain about Gmail changing, there must be thousands of Hotmail users who resent having to adapt to the completely different Outlook.com user interface – though at least they can still use their hotmail.com or live.com email addresses.The obvious solution is to use a PC email client whenever possible. This means you can use the same user interface for multiple web-based email services without even seeing their frequent changes. PC email clients are faster and have more features, which usually include the ability to sort by sender, by subject line, and by size. Mail clients don't change very often, and you can keep using old versions. Also, you can easily back up your email files to an external hard drive where government snoops can't read it.
AVG, an antivirus and security company which focuses on consumers and small businesses, held a press event in New York to announce its latest wave of products. I spoke to AVG's new CEO, Gary Kovacs, who comes from Mozilla, the company behind the Firefox browser. Why the move from the open web to the dark world of PC security?"Mozilla's role was to try to be a standards bearer for the open web for everybody," he told me. At AVG he remains focused on being open, but with his attention now on privacy and transparency. Whether it is a social media platform like Facebook, or general web browsing, people have no idea what information they are sharing and with whom, he says, which deprives them of choice."The reason why we don't have choices today is that we don't have transparency and we don't have tools to be able to control those choices. Those aren't commercially available. This is going to be an exercise for AVG in delivering products that enable consumer choice around privacy and identity."Among the products announced in New York isPrivacyFix, a free add-on for Google Chrome, Firefox, Android and iOS, that analyses Facebook, Google and LinkedIn settings, and checks web sites for advertising networks that track your browsing habits.But do people care enough about privacy that they will pay for tools to manage it? PrivacyFix is free, but AVG's business model is "freemium", free products but with paid-for premium versions, and some commercial variant is likely in future."It will be marketable. It is starting to be marketable. But we're still in the very early stages of this evolution," says Kovacs. He speaks of a future "privacy tsunami" that will wake people up to what is happening to their privacy, in the same way that early PC malware created a market for antivirus products."I'm not sure exactly what, but stealing privacy, stealing identity, stealing personal financial data, we see a lot of that activity in the underground world. When I refer to a tsunami, it's going to be something of that nature that's going to come up. It will become very evident to people that they need to be thinking about their personal security," he says.In the meantime though, to what extent is AVG's business model still built on mainly Windows antivirus and security, and how will it manage the transition to a post-PC world?"I don't believe PCs are going to go away in the next three to five years. I believe they're going to be supplemented," says Kovacs. "But the big push for us, with 44 million downloads in the Google Play store, is antivirus and other products on Android. We're right in the middle of that transition." He adds that in future, cloud-based security and privacy tools that work across all devices "will make the platform discussion irrelevant."AVG does not break down its revenue, but says its overall business is flourishing, with revenue for the second quarter of 2013 up 22%.Users are all-too familiar with malware on their Windows PC, but one of the attractions of the new mobile platforms is that the more locked-down operating system and curatable app stores such as Apple's and Microsoft's, where any malicious apps that get through initial vetting should quickly be removed, means that malware is less likely and security software less necessary – or is that a false assumption?"There is going to be some protection. I believe we're going to have to be thoughtful about security and how we update those products to make sure we're covered against the most recent threats," says Kovacs.Marketing VP Judith Bitterli is even more insistent, saying that Android is just as vulnerable as a Windows PC. "We don't see the threat going down. I'm not being a fearmonger. We don't see the decline in the instances of malware," she tells me.Is iOS more secure than Android? "I never worry too much about that question because it's an irrelevant question. Eighty-something percent of the world is on Android, so I need to envision how we protect on Android," says Kovacs.No end to antivirus software, even in a post-PC world? It is a depressing thought; but to AVG's credit, its commitment to the freemium model means that a meaningful level of protection is available without charge.
We're sticking with San Andreas for a while in this fourth part of our journey through GTA history. But before tackling the behemoth that is GTA IV, we also look at a couple of other moments in the series' past. This one has everything from formation motorbike riding to the principles of drug dealing, hinting at Rockstar's obsession with sociocultural detail.And we couldn't leave out a certain games executive with a penchant for showing off new game announcements on his own skin...The $20m Hot Coffee spill (go on then, we'll include it)[Video contains sexually explicit material]"This is it! She's inviting you in for coffee! Gird your loins for love". So read the on-screen prompts before GTA: San Andreas' infamous Hot Coffee mini-game. One ESRB rating change, a US product recall, a Federal lawsuit and several class actions later; culminating in a staggering $20,000,000 payout, Rockstar might wish she never asked. The madness of San Andreas' (relatively tame) sex mini-game was that no one was supposed to play it – untilhackers found hidden filesin the code and activated it via a PC patch. The GTA series, so fond of satirising the USA, found itself victim of the country's contrasting attitudes to firearms and sex. (You can read more about it all in Keith Stuart's interview with Dan Houserhere).Killing Officer Tenpenny – and GTA's cult of celebritySamuel L Jackson's crooked cop Officer Tenpenny was voted the '#2 best villain' ever according to Game Informer magazine, but GTA's highest profile celebrity voice over is likely its last. GTA IV featured a relatively low-key cast, with celebrities like Iggy Pop on DJ duties. Rockstar co-founder Dan Houseradmitted to CVGthat most celebrities aren't available for the time they need. "As long as you have good actors, not knowing them actually is an advantage in terms of bringing the game to life. I can't see us moving past that for major parts in the game".Riding a PCJ 600 off Mount ChiliadScrambling your Quad over Whetstone's rolling countryside is a thrilling contrast to Los Santos' dense city grids – but scaling Mount Chiliad, the series' tallest object, is something else. As you wind up the narrow path to the summit, you just *know* something special is in store, before you reach the plateau, and the mother of all stunt jumps. Leaping off Mt Chiliad on a PCJ-600 and parachuting to safety is fun, until you try stunt flips on the Faggio scooter… or Mr Whoopee van.Peter Moore's GTA IV tattoo"I've got an important announcement about one of the most powerful gaming experiences of all time", announced Peter Moore at Microsoft's E3 2006 conference, before unbuttoning his jacket. "I'm saving the big guns, for the big guns", he said, unveiling a GTA IV 'tattoo' on his right bicep. What hedidn'tsay was quite how much Microsoft paid for Xbox 360's timed-exclusivity of GTA IV's DLC episodes, rumoured to be $50-75 million. Over a year after their 'exclusive' release, The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony were available on Sony's PS3.Online formation riding in The Lost and DamnedGTA IV's Hell Angels-inspired DLC episode wasn't the first 3D GTA game with online multiplayer – that honour belongs to GTA: Liberty City Stories on Sony's handheld PSP (2005) with its experimental six-player ad-hoc Wi-Fi modes – but it *was* the first to let you and your friends ride twelve bikes in formation like Heavy Metal gods. It took a lot of co-ordination and headset chatter to 'roll out' in anything resembling a triangle, but it did make you feel like a badass – and sowed the seeds of co-op play that will drive GTA Online's complex missions.Dealing in Liberty CityReturning the series to its top-down roots, GTA: Chinatown Wars hit the Nintendo DS in 2009 bringing explosive multi-factional gang war to a handheld more used to Pokemon and brain training. Far from a watered down afterthought, Chinatown Wars is explosive, funny and demanding, and one of its key innovations is the drug market which sees you buying and selling various narcotics, taking advantage of regional price differences to make a killing. It was a smart lesson in street economics and the concept no doubt paved the way for GTA V's stock market feature.• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part one• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part two• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part three
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team. Contains no iPh*n*s.Nexus 5 release date, specs, price: Everything you need to know &gt;&gt; Know Your MobileSeems to be made by LG, 5in screen, 7-band LTE (the Nexus 4, great in so many respects - especially, now, its price - doesn't do LTE). October launch?Microsoft's concept videos from 2000 were spot on. so why didn't Ballmer build any of it? &gt;&gt; BloombergDina Bass:On June 22, 2000, a few months after Steve Ballmer took over as CEO of Microsoft, the company summoned several hundred reporters and analysts to a conference center at its headquarters in Redmond, Washington. Ballmer, under pressure from a U.S. antitrust case and super-hot dot-com rivals, was set to unveil his company's vision for the future of computing.I sat in a packed room as Microsoft held a daylong series of sessions during which the company announced what it called the .NET strategy. To regain its place within the vanguard of personal computing, Ballmer's Microsoft promised to deliver an interconnected set of Web services that could serve up relevant information to users across multiple devices and let them share with family, friends and co-workers. In a statement then, Ballmer said Microsoft would create a "unified platform through which devices and services cooperate with each other."Why not? Dot-com bust and internecine squabbling. Are there any examples where concept videos have come to pass?16 complicated movie plots explained with infographic timelines &gt;&gt; Visual.ly BlogMovies often have complex plots, tell their story out of order, or involve time travel. Those things create loops in the storyline that can be difficult to follow at first viewing. Watching a movie a second time (and third, fourth, and so on) can help — and so can infographics. Here are 16 infographics that break down the timelines of some popular movies, organized by genre or storytelling type.Looper, 12 Monkeys, Back To The Future, 21 Grams, Memento, Pulp Fiction, Saw, Inception.. and more. (But not Primer.)Spy service exposes Nigerian 'Yahoo Boys' &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityI shared a link to the site with a grey hat hacker friend, who replied in short order with the entire username and password database of more than 3,000 paying customers.Initially, I assumed my source had unearthed the data via an SQL injection attack or some other  database weakness. As it happens, the entire list of users is recoverable from the site using little more than a web browser.The first thing I noticed upon viewing the user list was that a majority of this service's customers had signed up with yahoo.com emails, and appeared to have African-sounding usernames or email addresses. Also, running a simple online search for some of the user emails (dittoswiss@yahoo.com, for example) turned up complaints related to a variety of lottery, dating, reshipping and confidence scams.The site was so poorly locked down that it also exposed the keylog records that customers kept on the service.Somehow that's fitting.Google and Intel announce new Haswell Chromebooks &gt;&gt; EngadgetIntel has just announced a new line of Chromebooks that run on Haswell. Chromebooks have previously run lower-powered processors like ARM and Atom, though the Pixel did break the mold by running on a dual-core 1.8GHz Intel Core i5. Upcoming Haswell Chromebooks include new iterations from Acer and HP, along with Chrome OS newbies ASUS and Toshiba. Sundar Pichai, senior vice president of Chrome and Android, came on stage to say that Haswell will offer superb battery life without compromising performance.Mr Pricing and Ms Availability didn't turn up. Perhaps that might imply that these aren't really for consumers, but for businesses.Wintel destined to eventually fail, says Acer founder &gt;&gt; DigitimesCommenting on recent events in the PC industry at a recent media conference, Acer founder Stan Shih said that the Wintel camp is destined to fail since the two giants have been keeping most of the profits to themselves, which is indirectly pushing many players to Google's ecosystem.Since Wintel's business strategies can no longer create profits for partners, many downstream IT players have turned to other ecosystems to seek profitability, noted Shih, adding that Google's open platform strategy is not the main attraction prompting IT players to join the Google camp.Somewhere in Steve Ballmer's office there is surely a voodoo doll of Stan Shih with many, many pins stuck into it. Shih, meanwhile, is also equivocal about rumours that Acer might be acquired: "in no position to talk about the situation", apparently.FBI still needs Hector "Sabu" Monsegur, sentencing delayed (again) &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaFrom 23 August:This morning at 10am, Anonymous hacker/FBI informant Hector "Sabu" Monsegur was scheduled to be sentenced in a New York federal court. But when I called the judge's chambers this morning, I was told that the sentencing had been adjourned—again. No explanation was given.Monsegur has been subject to several of these delays already, most recently on the morning of his previous sentencing hearing back in February. The government generally sends in a last-minute letter explaining that it requires Monsegur's special service for another six months. That has likely happened again, though the US Attorney's office handling the case has not yet responded to a request for comment.Monsegur was (seen as) the leader of LulzSec; his arrest, after which he turned informant, led to most of its members' arrests and subsequent convictions.Motorola now shipping 100,000 Moto X phones weekly from Texas &gt;&gt; ReutersMotorola CEO Dennis Woodside said in an interview that the Texas facility, operated by contract manufacturer Flextronics, was capable of producing "tens of millions" of phones a year but expansion depended on demand.The factory's current output of 100,000 units a week is only the first phase of a larger plan, he said. And the factory's output did not necessarily mean all the phones have sold to consumers."When you set up to ramp a factory you need a plan, and we have shipment targets we need to make with our carrier partners, and where we need to be right now is 100,000 units and that's where we are," Woodside said.He would not say how many of the phones now being shipped were standard models sold by wireless carriers, and how many were custom-designed models that consumers ordered directly from Motorola's website. He said only that custom orders were "substantial" and Motorola was selling the phones at a profit.Flextronics says the US staff get about $12-$14 per hour, v $4 in China.Windows Mobile - one more push? &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansMarc Andreessen famously declared that the web would reduce Windows to "a poorly debugged set of device drivers" (a good example of climbing out of the Trojan Horse before you're inside the city). But how far down the device stack does Microsoft really need to go? 60% of revenue, after all, comes from enterprise and business services. Does Microsoft need to make the device drivers on a phone? The networking stack? The power management stack? It might like to, but does it need to?It seems to me that a new Microsoft CEO must at least consider turning Android into a stack of poorly debugged device drivers. After all, Google has stolen Microsoft's natural place in mobile: it is Android that fills the role taken by Windows in the PC world. There is no free slot in the 'poorly debugged device driver' game. But there is a very big one in providing a stable, secure ecosystem, in providing a managed environment for enterprise, in corporate messaging, and in putting corporate documents onto mobile, on whatever platform.The idea of Android becoming the platform for Office and other Windows enterprise products is weird at first. Then you see the benefits to Microsoft. What, if any, are the negatives?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Marissa Mayer, the CEO of Yahoo, struck back on Wednesday at critics who have charged tech companies with doing too little to fight off NSA surveillance. Mayer said executives faced jail if they revealed government secrets.Yahoo and Facebook, along with other tech firms, are pushing for the right to be allowed to publish the number of requests they receive from the spy agency. Companies are forbidden by law to disclose how much data they provide.During an interview at the Techcrunch Disrupt conference in San Francisco, Mayer was asked why tech companies had not simply decided to tell the public more about what the US surveillance industry was up to. "Releasing classified information is treason and you are incarcerated," she said.Mayer said she was "proud to be part of an organisation that from the beginning, in 2007, has been sceptical of – and has been scrutinizing – those requests [from the NSA]."Yahoo has previously unsuccessfully sued the foreign intelligence surveillance (Fisa) court, which provides the legal framework for NSA surveillance. In 2007 it asked to be allowed to publish details of requests it receives from the spy agency. "When you lose and you don't comply, it's treason," said Mayer. "We think it makes more sense to work within the system," she said.Zuckerberg said the government had done a "bad job" of balancing people's privacy and its duty to protect. "Frankly I think the government blew it," he said.He said after the news broke in the Guardian and the Washington Post about Prism, the government surveillance programme that targets major internet companies: "The government response was, 'Oh don't worry, we're not spying on any Americans.' Oh, wonderful: that's really helpful to companies trying to serve people around the world, and that's really going to inspire confidence in American internet companies.""I thought that was really bad," he said. Zuckerberg said Facebook and others were pushing successfully for more transparency. "We are not at the end of this. I wish that the government would be more proactive about communicating. We are not psyched that we had to sue in order to get this and we take it very seriously," he said.On Monday, executives from Yahoo, Facebook, Google and other tech leaders met the president's group on intelligence and communications, tasked with reviewing the US's intelligence and communications technologies in the wake of the NSA revelations.The meeting came as Yahoo and Facebook filed suits once more to force the Fisa court to allow them to disclose more information.In its motion, Yahoo said: "Yahoo has been unable to engage fully in the debate about whether the government has properly used its powers, because the government has placed a prior restraint on Yahoo's speech."It went on: "Yahoo's inability to respond to news reports has harmed its reputation and has undermined its business not only in the United States but worldwide. Yahoo cannot respond to such reports with mere generalities," the company said.Microsoft and Google also filed their latest legal briefs on Monday to force the Fisa court to disclose more information.In a blogpost, Google said it was asking for permission to publish "detailed statistics about the types (if any) of national security requests" it receives under Fisa."Given the important public policy issues at stake, we have also asked the court to hold its hearing in open rather than behind closed doors. It's time for more transparency," said Google.
Will the criminal of tomorrow need to carry a pair of secateurs in his back pocket if he is to make a success of a career in identity theft? The question is prompted by the news that the new iPhone 5S will operatevia a fingerprint scanner, supposedly leading us into a brave new world free of the irritating necessity to remember passwords or pins.Some news reports have suggested that passing iPhone thieves will merely grab hold of their victims, cut off their fingers, wipe away the blood and then have easy access to all their personal details. "Thieves in some regions have worked out that you can force a victim to unlock a secured device, and in some extreme cases have also mutilated victims in order to steal their fingerprint," Marc Rogers of Lookout Mobile Security in San Franciscowarned the Huffington Postominously.Is this really something to worry about? Villains have never been too squeamish about removing parts of other people's bodies, although this is usually done after a murder to hinder identification. Kidnappers have long since learned that there is no simpler way to concentrate the mind of a victim's family. When J&nbsp;Paul Getty III, the heir to the family fortune, was kidnapped in&nbsp;Italy in 1973 an envelope containing his ear was sent as part&nbsp;of a $3m ransom demand. But it is hardly practical as part of an opportunistic iPhone snatch.Other less bloody techniques for copying fingerprints have also been suggested. Dave Birch of Consult Hyperion, an IT security consultancy,has heard about all of these fiendish tricks to get round fingerprint security, including "the Japanese guy who did it with jelly babies".In a 2002 experiment, cryptographer Tsutomu Matsumototransferred latent fingerprints from a&nbsp;glass to a&nbsp;fake finger made from gelatine. It&nbsp;fooled fingerprint detectors four times out of five.And, as Birch points out, thieves wouldn't have to look far for the prints, since the shiny glass and metal surfaces of the average smartphone tend to be covered in&nbsp;them.Meanwhile, he has some words of reassurance for anyone who thinks they will only&nbsp;be able&nbsp;to go&nbsp;out in public with their new iPhone if they are wearing a&nbsp;pair of thick motorcycle gauntlets. It is unlikely that thieves will lop off your digits, he&nbsp;says from a&nbsp;seminar in Zurich. "If an attacker holds a knife to my&nbsp;throat, I will tell them the passcode, or unlock the phone for them – there is&nbsp;no need for them to cut off my&nbsp;finger."
North Korean hackers are suspected of launching a covert cyber-espionage campaign against the South Korean government in an attempt to steal highly classified intelligence on defence and security.South Korea's ministry of unification and several leading Seoul thinktanks were targeted by the rare spy program, security researchers said on Wednesday.Experts at Kaspersky Lab said it was the first time they had discovered a cyber-attack that directly points to hackers in North Korea. A detailed tranche of evidence has been handed to the Korean Information Security Agency and the computer emergency response team in Seoul."This discovery is interesting because the vast majority of attacks we are seeing are from Chinese origins, so for it to come from North Korea is very unusual and rare," said Costin Raiu, research director of Kaspersky Lab."There were some attacks earlier this year that targeted banks, media companies and the suspicion there was also towards attackers in North Korea but this is the first time we have come by something that directly points to North Korea."Analysts have identified at least 11 targets inside South Korea, including thinktanks such as the Sejong Institute, the Korea Institute for Defence Analyses and supporters of Korean unification. It is also believed that the computers of Seoul's ministry of unification and the shipping giant Hyundai Merchant Marine were targeted by hackers.The cyber-espionage campaign – dubbed "Kimsuky" – was first detected by security experts on 3 April, amid heightened tensions on the Korean peninsula after Pyongyang carried out its third nuclear tests and threatened attacks on neighbouring countries.A small group of North Korean hackers are believed to have "infected" the machines using so-called spear-phishing emails, which target their victims with personalised messages in the hope of stealing passwords or other security details.According to researchers, the "unsophisticated" spy program was designed specifically to search and steal Hangul word processor (HWP) documents, which are used widely by South Korean officials. Once they had infected a target computer, the hackers were able to take over the machine or secretly monitor the actions of its user."We don't know exactly what was stolen but we suspect they were looking for all sorts of HWP documents relating to work done by thinktanks towards unification and on defence and security strategy," said Raiu.The researchers identified 10 IP addresses indicating that the attackers used networks in China's Jilin and Liaoning provinces, which border North Korea. "There are suspicions that some landlines in parts of China are used from within North Korea," he added.Security experts could not say whether the Kimsuky attack was state-sponsored, but the discovery will add to concerns about geopolitical cyber-espionage. The New York Timessaid earlier this year that it had been targeted by a Chinese cyber-espionage campaign, and in May the Pentagon directly accused China for the first time of being behind cyber-attacks on its systems.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news on your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
So, Apple has unveiled its latest flagship smartphone, the iPhone 5S. Sporting a fingerprint sensor and an improved camera, while being up to twice as fast as the previous generation, the iPhone 5S looks to be another stellar smartphone entry.PriceThe iPhone 5S starts at £549 ($649) for a model with 16GB of storage, with prices going up from there, through £629 ($749) for 32GB, and hitting a hefty £709 ($849) for 64GB of storage. Compared with last year's iPhone 5, the starting price is £20 higher, and makes it more expensive than competition from the likes of HTC (HTC One: £450 for 32GB), Samsung (Galaxy S4 16GB £432, 32GB £525) though not Sony (Experia Z1 16GB £599).Prices on-contract, directly from mobile phone operators, will be slightly lower when taken out with relatively expensive monthly plans.CameraFor the iPhone 5S, Apple has improved the camera compared to previous iPhones by physically increasing the size of the image sensor. That should mean significantly higher low-light performance, which should result in better pictures captured in the often-poor lighting conditions users find themselves in. Apple also showed off a dual-colour LED flash, which monitors the prevailing light and tries to provide a better colour mix by providing the right mixture of lights (more yellow or more blue, depending on the conditions). Notably, neither the HTC One nor Samsung Galaxy S4 has this.Party photos from bars, pubs and dimly-lit homes should be clearer, sharper, and with better colours compared to pictures captured by the iPhone 5 and 4S.The 5S also offers "burst mode" for the still camera (taking 10 shots per second), and a "slo-mo" option for video recording. In burst mode, you hold the button down and it will take the pictures - and then present the single shot it thinks is the best from the series. (You can still choose from among the set, and keep as many as you want.) With the video, you can choose which parts are slow and which are fast in a simple editing function. Expect to see plenty of this on YouTube, Vine and Instagram in the near future.FeaturesThe iPhone 5S marks Apple's first introduction of a fingerprint reader called "Touch ID". The sensor sits under the traditional home button, allowing users to unlock their iPhones just by holding their finger on the home button. It's a major leap forward in both phone security and usability, because users will not have to use PINs or passwords. Touch ID will also allow the user to purchase music, apps and videos from Apple's iTunes Store on the phone.Five fingerprints can be stored on the device to unlock the iPhone but do not all have to be associated with your iTunes account. Your kids could thus have a fingerprint to unlock your phone, but not to buy apps, videos and music, which could save you from some very expensive bills. Apple says your fingerprint data - in a coded form which is not a picture of your print - is only stored on your phone, and it isn't sent over the internet or stored on Apple's servers.While Apple has barely changed the design of the iPhone 5S compared with last year's iPhone 5 – maintaining its pin-sharp 4-inch retina screen and thin and light body – it is available in a new colour: gold. The traditional black (rebranded as "space grey") and white ("silver") colours are still available, however.iOS 7, a complete redesign of Apple's mobile operating system, is also launching with the iPhone 5S. It aims to revitalise iOS, which has essentially used the same design language since its introduction in 2007, and has taken the approach of "flat" yet colourful design. Improvements are available across the board for all of Apple's built-in apps such as Mail, iMessages, Calendar and Photos. It's worth noting that the iOS 7 update will also be available for existing iPhones, including the iPhone 4, iPhone 4S and iPhone 5. (Owners of the original iPad or iPhone 3GS are out of luck.)SpeedApple has kitted out the iPhone 5S with its latest processor. The Apple A7 combines a new 64-bit architecture with improved processing capabilities, which it says will result in a doubling of the speed of the phone compared with the iPhone 5.Coupled to the new A7 processor is a new co-processor called the M7. Its job is to collect data from the phone's various sensors, including the GPS and accelerometers. It can process that data without the main A7 chip. That could be used for monitoring health or movement data without waking the heftier chip, thus saving energy.Battery lifeApple claims that the iPhone 5S gets equal or better battery life than the iPhone 5 and earlier generations for everything but standby time (where the iPhone 4 claimed up to 300 hours' standby time - 12 and a half days - against 250 hours, or 10.4 days, for the new models). It claims 10 hours' 3G talk time (against 8 previously), 10 hours' LTE browsing (8 previously), and 3G, Wi-Fi, video and music playback unchanged at 8, 10, 10 and 40 hours respectively. Real-life battery usage will, of course, vary.ConclusionsWith the inclusion in a mass-market phone of a fingerprint sensor, Apple could potentially remove the need for constant use of passwords, and truly enhance the mobile user experience. Internally, the addition of the M7, shift to 64-bit processing, and inclusion of many more LTE bands while also improving battery life is important too.Yet you would be pushed to tell the difference between them from a quick visual inspection. Of course, the internal parts have been upgraded, and the new camera system could make a real difference to your photos.Smartphones aren't all about internal specifications, and are much more about experiences, which is something Apple is very good at delivering. Combined with the new iOS 7, the iPhone 5S should be very good indeed.• This article was initially published with the headline 'iPhone 5S – review' but this has been corrected. Other corrections have also been made in the text.
Last night marked a break from tradition for Apple – it unveiled not one, but two new iPhones, including the vibrantly colourful iPhone 5C. How does the iPhone 5C stack up to the competition and the iPhone 5S?PriceThe iPhone 5C was rumoured to be a "cheap" iPhone, and while it is slightly cheaper than the iPhone 5S, starting at £469 ($549) for the iPhone 5C off-contract with 16GB of storage and topping £549 ($649) for 32GB of space, it still commands a premium price. The iPhone 5C will likely cost significantly less when bought directly through mobile phone operators on a lengthy contract, but compared with its competitors, Apple's most colourful iPhone is still a pricy offering.CameraApple has included the 8-megapixel camera from the previous generation iPhone 5, which although it is significantly down on the numbers compared with its Android competitors, produces solid, if unspectacular images.The video-chat camera on the front of the iPhone 5C has been given a boost, with a 1.2-megapixel front-facing FaceTime HD camera featuring enhanced light sensitivity, which should make video calls much clearer and sharper.FeaturesApple's main feature for the iPhone 5C is colour. For the first time since the iPhone 4, Apple has produced a phone with a seamless, smooth plastic back. The rear shell is available in five colours: green, yellow, blue, white and pink.The iPhone 5C also comes with special wallpaper that matches the chosen colour on the back of the device, and combines with a very colourful, newly redesigned iOS 7 – Apple's latest mobile operating system.The iPhone 5C screen features Apple's high resolution, pin-sharp 4-inch retina display, which is starting to look a little on the small side compared with 5in-plus Android and Windows Phones. But in terms of quality it should be as top-notch as ever, making photos look good and on-screen text very clear and easy to read.Apple has also given the iPhone 5C access to its digital voice-activated personal assistant, Siri, which has been available on flagship iPhones since the iPhone 4S. While not often terribly useful for everyday tasks, the novelty of asking your phone questions while being able to set reminders and send text messages via voice, could come in handy.SpeedFor the iPhone 5C, Apple has taken many of the familiar elements of the iPhone 5 and put them in a vibrant new frame. The result is that Apple's new phone is just as fast as the iPhone 5 before it, equipped with the same A6 processor. That will make it significantly slower than Apple's new flagship, the iPhone 5S, which sports a new processor in the form of the Apple A7.We'll have to wait for the benchmarks to see how it compares against rivals - and pricing will decide which those rivals are.ConnectivityThe 5C includes LTE, which is now an essential for any serious new smartphone. The 5C will work on all the UK 4G networks (though O2 has said it will need an unspecified "update") - a major step forward from its predecessor. The lack of LTE support is probably the reason why the iPhone 5 has been withdrawn: it just can't compete.Battery lifeThe recycled parts from the iPhone 5 have been tweaked by Apple to squeeze out slightly more battery life for the iPhone 5C than the previous generation flagship. Apple rates its colourful iPhone has having 10 hours of talk time, and 10 hours of browsing time on Wi-Fi or LTE, with 250 hours of standby time. Real-world usage will, of course, vary.ColourColour may turn out to be the biggest selling point for the 5C: it comes in five bright shades (white, strawberry pink, lemon yellow, lime green, sky blue), and a range of silicone cases in the same colours. You can mix the colours up (so there are 25 variations). Nokia offers colours with its Lumia range, but there's been no sign that people buy them because of it. Compared to Android models, which regardless of manufacturer tend to come in black or silver, Apple has made a bold statement - though it might not please case makers.ConclusionsThe iPhone 5C forms a new approach for Apple. Whether that is necessarily a bad thing is debatable. The iPhone 5 was a fantastic smartphone last year, and is still one of the best around, but people buying the iPhone 5C expecting to get a next-generation smartphone will be disappointed. The camera is improved, and LTE works across all UK networks, but for the whizzy features like fingerprint unlocking you have to look upward to the 5S.Smartphones aren't all about numbers and specifications, however, as the experience of the phone is what counts the most and the iPhone 5C is undoubtedly going to be a slick experience.With a starting price of £469 ($549) contract-free, the iPhone 5C is certainly not cheap, although bought with a mobile phone contract the price tag should be significantly lower. The iPhone 5S offers a lot more in terms of specifications and functionality, and being only £80 more, might be a better buy - unless bright colour is definitely your thing.• This article was initially published with the headline 'iPhone 5C – review' but this has been corrected. Other details in the text have been amended and updated.
China's Apple fans tend to meet the company's product releases with the same anticipation and reverence as their western counterparts. Yet in Cupertino, the California-based company's unveiling oftwo new iPhone modelson Tuesday night left some of them scratching their heads.On Wednesday morning Apple showed taped footage of its Silicon Valley product release to about 80 reporters at a swish Beijing hotel. It was the company's first-ever media event in China, leading many analysts to believe that one of the new models would be specifically aimed at capturing the Chinese smartphone market, currently the largest in the world.Many China tech analysts predicted that one of the new models – the iPhone 5C, a slightly less expensive, plastic-backed version of the iPhone 5 – would cost 3,000 yuan (£310), giving it an edge over low-cost competitors. Yet on Wednesday, the company announced that a 5C with 16GB of memory would cost 4,488 yuan (£465), roughly the same cost as the iPhone 5. The other model, the iPhone 5S – which features faster hardware and a fingerprint reader beneath the home button –will sell for 5,288 yuan (£547).Nicole Zhou, a 30-year-old employee at a state-owned enterprise, bought herself a Samsung S4 phone on Wednesday afternoon, hours after the announcement. "I didn't know the price was going to be 5,000 yuan," she said. "I don't see any really big difference between this and the other new iPhone."Users of China's most popular microblogging service Sina Weibo chimed in as well. "The C stands for costly," was one common refrain. The "S" in 5S, some users surmised, may stand for "superfluous" or "super-expensive".Other users compared the 5C's colourful plastic shell to a potato peeler. "Every family in Britain could use an iPhone 5C … because you need something in the kitchen to take care of all those potatoes," wrote a user calling themselves A-Chuan Wants to Rest.Apple stores in China will begin selling the handsets on 20 September, the same day as they hit shelves in the US."Even though Apple has a lower-end iPhone now, its price is still considered mid-end in China and not low-end," Sandy Shen, a Shanghai-based analyst for Gartner, told Reuters. "Considering Apple's old rival Samsung and domestic players such as Huawei, Lenovo and Coolpad all have phones in that category, Apple will still lose out in market share in these key segments."China is Apple's biggest market outside of the US and Europe, but its market share has declined precipitously over the past year, as international competitors such as Samsung and local brands such as Huawei and Xiaomi introduce comparable phones at lower costs.Apple is currently ranked seventh in the countryin terms of sales.While Apple has lost much of its market share, it has not lost its prestige. "It's like, all of my colleagues were watching the media release really closely," said Chen Xin, 23, a human resources employee at a five-star hotel in Beijing. "For them, the price means nothing compared with the prestige of the brand. Everybody thinks that Apple products are really cool."Chen used an iPhone 4S until last year, when she bought a Samsung phone. She doesn't plan on switching back to Apple. "It's just too expensive," she said.
Traditionally, most children's apps developers have focused on Apple's iPad and iPhone, as that's where they believed most app-buying parents would be found. In 2013, though, there's been a clear shift in those attitudes, with the result being more and better Android apps for kids.It's something I've noticed in my day-to-day job tracking new apps for The Guardian, and also something that's come through when falling into conversation with fellow parents at social events. Android is dominating the smartphone market, so a lot of parents are downloading apps for their children to use on their phones.But there's something afoot in the world of tablets too: a lot of parents buy iPads for themselves then let children use them, but a growing number of parents are buying a separate tablet for their kids – and often that's a more-affordable Android device.This feature is for them: a collection of the most creative, educational and fun children's apps for Android released this year: hopefully a good starting point for parents with a new device and an expectant child or children waiting for it to be filled with apps.One caveat: it's based on the Google Play store, rather than Amazon's Appstore – the latter is what's used for that company's Kindle Fire tablet, so if you own that, you'll need to search to check which apps are available.Another caveat: the prices quoted below are for the initial download only: (Free) may sometimes mean (Freemium): in-app purchases used to buy additional content or virtual currency.Bearing that in mind, read on for some of the best new kids apps for Android from 2013 – and remember that date range: apps released before this year (the excellentMinecraft: Pocket Editionbeing the obvious one) aren't included for that reason.Also, see it as a starting point: there's a link for each app's developer, and companies like eduGame, Wombi, Tribal Nova, StoryToys, Oceanhouse Media, TribePlay, BeiZ and GiggleUp have plenty more apps to explore if you like the ones included here.Finally, if you're keen to keep up with new releases, bookmark The Guardian'sBest Android Apps series of weekly posts: it includes 20 new apps every Friday, and there's generally at least one or two children's apps.Carnival of AnimalsEDUCATION10monkeys Multiplication (Free)Monkeys and mathematics: together at last! This app stars, yes, 10 monkeys who are trapped, and need children to help them by working through times tables from two to 10. It's the first in a planned series of educational apps from the company behind it.Developer:10monkeys.Carnival of Animals (Free)This could just have easily have been in the Storytelling or Creative categories of this roundup, in truth. Aimed at 2-6 year-olds, it wants to teach children about music through a carnival of, yes, animals, exploring concepts like pitch, volume, timbre and rhythm.Developer:Toothy BuddiesGummies Playground (Free)This collection of mini-games is aimed at 2-5 year-olds, teaching basic numbers, letters, shapes, colours and animals, among other lessons. Each of the 25 tasks is voice-narrated to ensure non-readers know what to do, and there's a single in-app purchase for parents to unlock the whole app.Developer:Squink GamesInvasion of the Moon Monkeys (£0.69)More multiplication and times tables here, with this action game that gets children defending the world with their maths skills. Influenced by classic arcade games, it gets kids to practise their 1-12 times tables before having a crack at the full game.Developer:eduGameKids ABC Trains Game (£1.93)Aimed at pre-school children, this uses trains and railways as a way to teach kids about letters and phonic sounds. They build a railway by learning each letter, before "driving the train" – tracing letter shapes – loading letter-sound boxes onto it, and matching upper and lower case letters to stop it running away.Developer:IntellijoyThe Letter Monster (£2.79)This fun and accessible app comes from Swedish developer Wombi, and stars a ravenous sea monster looking for letters to eat. Children drag the letters from the bottom of the screen to feed him, and learn the difference between upper and lower-case letters as they go.Developer:WombiLittle Learners Play and Learn (Free)Designed for toddlers and even babies, this app focuses on early development skills, getting them to interact with a collection of colourful animals and toys. Cows moo, rocking horses rock and – if parents pay an in-app purchase to unlock the full app – crocodiles drive buses to boot.Developer:Parragon BooksMadagascar: My ABCs (£1.92)An alphabetical app based on the Madagascar movies, getting kids to practise letter names and sounds, as well as writing their upper and lower-case versions. As they go, they collect more than 400 digital stickers, with music and poems thrown in for good measure.Developer:Knowledge AdventureNumbers &amp; Addition! Maths Games! (Free)Back to maths with this, one of a range of "i Learn With" educational apps that were released earlier this year for Android. Aimed at 3-6 year-olds, this is based around an adventure in the savannah, with colourful animals on hand to help with counting, ordering and addition/subtraction skills.Developer:Tribal NovaSqueebles Times Tables 2 (£1.49)The Squeebles are the cartoon stars of a series of educational apps from developer KeyStageFun, with this the latest. It's a collection of six multiplication mini-games running from one to 15 times tables, with kids earning stars to use in a bonus bubble-ball game as a reward system.Developer:KeyStageFunWombi Math (£1.85)A second educational app from Wombi, this time focused on sums. It's structured around a wall full of equations and answers, covering addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. Your child's job is to solve them.Developer:WombiCars 2 Read and RaceSTORYTELLINGCars 2 Read and Race (£0.64)Disney recently launched its first eight storybook-apps for Android, featuring some of its biggest film brands. This Cars 2 app is part story with Lightning McQueen and friends, and part racing game, where kids get to customise a car and then drive it.Developer:DisneyChuggington Chug Patrol Book (£3.99)Children's TV show Chuggington has been reinvented as a pop-up storybook-app by developer StoryToys. It features the trains from the TV show – Wilson, Brewster, Koko and co – and a series of mini-games including clearing logs, catching runaway wagons and laying track.Developer:StoryToysFraggle Friends Forever (£1.96)Something to make parents feel (even more) old: Fraggle Rock is now 30 years old. But the famous Jim Henson Company TV show was reborn this year as an app for children, with characters including Red, Wembley and The Doozers all featuring. Digital colouring and mini-games are included too.Developer:Cupcake DigitalGrimm's Bookshelf (Free)Another app from StoryToys, this is a good way into the company's other book-apps, based on some of the world's most famous fairytales. It gives parents a free sample of each app, and then helps you buy it from the Google Play store – acting as a way to launch the ones you've bought too. Thumbelina, Beauty and the Beast, The Little Mermaid, Puss in Boots, Snow White and Rapunzel are among the options.Developer:StoryToysOllie the Cat (Free)Based on a series of print books, this is a gentle story (with counting) for toddlers and pre-schoolers. Ollie wanders around his garden counting the animals he finds, with voice narration from a seven year-old, and the promise of more stories available as in-app purchases soon.Developer:Chapman &amp; WarnesRed in Bed (£1.27)This is a lovely piece of work: a story about the colours of the rainbow trying to cover for Red, who's lurking in bed ill. The twist being that children tap objects in the world to colour them in.Developer:Josh OnThe Butter Battle Book (£3.20)In truth, I could have picked from dozens of Dr. Seuss apps released by publisher Oceanhouse Media: it's been working its way through the catalogue. This one is a good example though: a tale of the feud between the Yooks and the Zooks, as they try to outdo one another in an arms race of bizarre weapons.Developer:Oceanhouse MediaTransformers Prime – Story Cube (Free)Book publisher Egmont is behind this app based on the Transformers Prime TV show, offering individual stories (some as in-app purchases) based on the exploits of the robots-in-disguise. The stories are complemented by a Transformers encyclopaedia feature, with profiles of the various characters.Developer:EgmontToca Hair Salon 2CREATIVEcolAR Mix (Free)Augmented reality technology can sometimes seem like a gimmick, but there's huge scope for it to be used in fun and educational ways in children's apps. This falls into the fun category: you print outlines from the colAR website, get your children to colour them in, then point your smartphone's camera at the paper to turn them into 3D objects.Developer:PutekoDisney Princess: Story Theater (£0.64)Another book-app from Disney, but this time it's children doing the storytelling. Focused on the Cinderella, Ariel and Belle characters from Disney films, this gets kids to choose scenes, characters, props and actions, then records their voice telling stories about them.Developer:DisneyFableScapes 2 (Free)There's a mini-trend in children's apps taking the puppet-theatre idea and digitising it. FableScapes 2 is a good example: children choose characters and scenes, then change their expressions and create their own stories to share. Pirates, knights and wizards, and space are the three included themes.Developer:Made with MarmaladeFriendStrip Kids Pro (£0.99)This is another inventive idea for a children's app: it offers a library of 85 comic strip stories, and gets children to remake them by taking their own photos and replacing the individual cels. From pirate ships to superheroes, the range of themes gives plenty of scope for children's imagination.Developer:PhotoInPressGomma Friends (£0.76)This is a great example of digital play extending into the real world. The app gets children to dress up virtual characters and explore scenes, earning digital gifts as they go ("a basketball hoop, a little cottage, themed coloring pages, a cake..."). The twist being that you can then print these out and make them in the real world.Developer:Gomma PlayMagic Belles: Magic Music (Free)More music here: an app about six magic fairies, each with their own musical mini-game to play. The app is aimed at 3-6 year-olds, so it's light on dry music theory, focusing instead on having fun manipulating sounds.Developer:Luma CreativeMickey's Paint and Play (£0.64)More from Disney, but this time it's about colouring rather than reading or telling stories. The app presents kids with a digital colouring book featuring Mickey and Minnie Mouse in a selection of scenes. Once a scene is coloured in, tapping on a magic-wand button turns it into a 3D version.Developer:DisneyMr Bean Color &amp; Paint Book (£0.69)Rowan Atkinson's Mr Bean has already been reinvented as a kids' cartoon character, and it's that version that provided the source material for this digital colouring app. It offers three difficulty levels with 12 images in each to paint, with social sharing and the ability to save pics to print out.Developer:JamToca Hair Salon 2 (£0.81)Probably the first app I'd recommend any Android-owning parent to download, this is a marvellous piece of work, putting kids in the shoes of a hairdresser sorting out the barnets of a collection of cartoon characters. Cutting, dyeing, washing and combing are all included, with simple, intuitive controls for younger kids, and impressively-deep scope for creativity for older children.Developer:Toca BocaToy Story: Story Theater (£0.64)This follows the same pattern as the princesses app described earlier, just with Buzz, Woody and Jessie from the Toy Story films. Children pick scenes, characters, props and actions, then record their own voices telling the stories that ensue.Developer:DisneyDespicable Me: Minion RushGAMESCut the Rope: Time Travel HD (£0.74)Cuddly monster Om Nom has become a favourite character for millions of children over the past couple of years. This is his latest game, following the format laid down in previous titles: cut ropes to guide sweets into his mouth. This time round, there's a time-travelling theme, and a second monster to feed on every level.Developer:ZeptoLabDespicable Me: Minion Rush (Free)Also Known As the game that was downloaded 100m times across iOS and Android in its first three months. This has been an enormous hit among children and adults alike, with its Temple Run-style endless gameplay seeing one of the film's Minion characters dodging enemies, leaping obstacles and collecting bananas. In-app purchases are included.Developer:GameloftMax's Pirate Planet (£0.62)This is a family-friendly multiplayer game that takes its cues from board games. Up to four players compete to sail the high seas searching for treasure and fighting duels, with sea monsters thrown in for good measure.Developer:Slant Six GamesMr Shingu's Paper Zoo (£1.99)A game that should be much bigger than it is on Android, this gets children folding a colourful menagerie of origami animals, then keeping them happy with items and activities. Its virtual currency is only earned by playing rather than in-app purchases, while the origami aspect can be used to learn how to make the animals in the real world too.Developer:Stormcloud GamesSkylanders Cloud Patrol (£1.28)Activision's Skylanders has been a big hit on console (and a sizeable dent in many parents' wallets due to its physical toys element). It's also made its way to mobile devices, with this action shooter getting children to blast troll characters off the screen. It works with the Skylanders figures too: they can be unlocked to help in the gameplay.Developer:ActivisionTemple Run 2 (Free)The original Temple Run game was a big hit with children: I once saw a startling video at a children's conference of a four year-old playing it with about three times the skill and speed that I've ever had. This sequel bumps up the graphics, adds a mine-cart racing section, and more power-ups. As before, it uses in-app purchases.Developer:Imangi StudiosToy Story: Smash It! (£0.64)If Angry Birds was in 3D, and starred Buzz Lightyear, it might look something like this. Kids control Buzz as he runs around more than 90 structures lobbing balls to make them fall over, with other Toy Story characters making cameo appearances along the way.Developer:DisneyWhere's My Mickey? (£0.64)If your children have ploughed through Disney's Where's My Water? and Where's My Perry? this is the next place to point them. Like those games, it's a physics-based puzzler where you guide water through more than 100 levels, except this time the hero is Mickey Mouse. An in-app purchase unlocks additional levels starring Goofy.Developer:DisneyTalking AngelaPLAYFULDisney Fairies: Lost &amp; Found (£0.65)Tinker Bell and her fellow fairies are the heroines for this game, which falls into the hidden-objects genre. Children explore a selection of scenes from Pixie Hollow hunting for items hidden on-screen, unlocking a storybook chapter-by-chapter as they progress.Developer:DisneyDr. Panda's Beauty Salon (£1.29)Again, one app chosen from a much larger catalogue from the developer: if your kids like this, it's well worth investigating the other Dr. Panda apps. This is a virtual beauty salon that gets children painting (faces and nails), dressing up customers and, er, plucking nasal hairs. 11 activities are included.Developer:TribePlayTalking Angela (Free)Developer Outfit7's Talking Friends apps are huge, having done more than 1bn downloads so far. And while Talking Tom Cat, Talking Ginger and others are all worth investigating, Talking Angela is the most recent of the major characters in the series. Talk to her, and she talks back, while there are other ways to interact via text and gestures.Developer:Outfit7I Spy with Lola (£1.49)BeiZ is another developer running with a panda theme for its children's apps on Android: in this case, a character called Lola. This app sees her travelling the world, with children completing tasks to unlock new locations. And if your 3-8 year-old(s) like this, there are plenty more where it came from.Developer:BeiZLego Duplo Train (Free)This entirely free app acts as a showcase for Lego's Duplo range, themed around trains. Aimed at toddlers, it sees them loading and driving a cargo train, but also refuelling it and laying new tracks.Developer:LegoToca Kitchen (£1.25)Toca Boca has a fervent fanbase of parents (and children) on iOS, so it's encouraging to see the company targeting Android too. This is its virtual cooking game, where children slice, dice and cook 12 ingredients for four characters, who aren't slow to express their unhappiness if the food isn't up to scratch. It's tactile and fun, and may well encourage kitchen experimentation in the real world. For better or worse!Developer:Toca BocaWildlife Jigsaw Puzzles 123 HD (£1.99)This app teaches children more than 40 animals' names through jigsaw puzzles, reading their names aloud as it goes. Puzzles can be played as two, four or nine-piece jigsaws to suit different ages, with hints and voice narration to encourage children along the way.Developer:GiggleUpZappie (Free)This is new and interesting: a nursery rhymes app that uses augmented reality technology. It includes eight rhymes, including Wheels On The Bus, Row Row Row Your Boat and Twinkle Twinkle, and involves buying products like wall stickers and greetings cards, then pointing the camera at them to trigger the musical videos.Developer:ExpectarToy Story: Andy's RoomUTILITIES / MEDIAKicVidz - Minecraft (£0.64)Millions of children love Minecraft, whether on mobile devices, computers or consoles. And there's a burgeoning cache of Minecraft videos on YouTube too, except some are more suitable for kids than others. Enter KicVidz: an app that offers a curated selection of child-friendly Minecraft videos in categories including parkour, music videos and how tos.Developer:Shane KellerPlayKids TV (Free)Launched out of Latin America by mobile firm Movile, this app collects a range of children's cartoons, TV shows and games, with the ability to download shows to watch offline. It charges a monthly subscription after the seven-day trial ends.Developer:Movile InternationalShrek Alarm (£1.29)This alarm-clock app is based on Shrek, the friendly green ogre of movie fame. Good for children with an Android device by their bedside – yes, admittedly a niche market – it wakes up with Shrek sounds or their own music, with additional animations to make fans chuckle.Developer:Blitz Games StudiosThe Smurfs 2 Keyboard (£0.79)Yes, it sounds like a rubbish idea, and I'd be concerned for adults installing this. But if your children are bang into the Smurfs, this app might make their eyes light up. It's a keyboard-replacement app, skinned around the recent Smurfs 2 film.Developer:Cellfish StudiosToy Story: Andy's Room (Free)One last Toy Story app, in a busy year for the film franchise on Android. This is less an app, and more a live wallpaper based on Andy's bedroom in the Toy Story movies. Five characters appear, with many of the items in the room interactive.Developer:Disney
1.TheiPhone 5Shas a sapphire-covered home button. The laboratory grown, colourless gem is already used by Apple as a lens for the iPhone 5 camera. Harder than glass – supposedly only diamond is tougher – its scratch-resistant surface ensures marks don't interfere with the fingerprint scanner beneath.The iPhone 5C. Photograph: Jason Lee/Reuters2.The C iniPhone 5Cstands for colour, not cheap. What was rumoured to be Apple's budget phone will in fact cost £469 out of contract, just £80 less than the top-of-the-range 5S. It will, however, come in pink, green, blue, yellow and white, so it's at least cheerful. Apple has designed contrasting cases with rows of small holes cut out of the back – maybe the C actually stands forConnect Four.3.The iPhone now knows who you are. As rumoured, the 5S will be able to recognise you by your fingerprints. Touch the home button to unlock the phone, or make a payment on iTunes.4.Apple won't keep a copy of your biometric data. The scanner converts fingerprint images into a digital signature that is then sent over the web. Apple says the scanner won't be available to third party app developers. It is encrypted, stored on the phone's chip, and not on its own servers or on the iCloud backup service. Which hopefully makes it snoop-proof.5.The scanner can recognise more than one finger. The iPhone 5S can remember up to five prints, meaning you can use more than one digit to unlock the device, or give access to little digits, should you choose to share your phone with family members.6.Both new phones have 4G. If you are prepared to pay the hefty contract price for a superfast mobile internet connection, both handsets are 4G-enabled for the spectrum bands used by the EE, O2, Three and Vodafone networks.7.The 5S can do slow motion video. Record your film, then select the frames you want to slow down to quarter speed. Apple'sshow reeldemonstrates how this comes in handy when you are crouching on a moving skateboard while filming a friend doing tricks on their stunt bicycle. Alternatively, quite good for You've Been Framed submissions.8.Facetime now makes audio-only calls. Apple has redesigned its mobile software interface, the first big makeover since launch in 2007. One of the new features of iOS 7 is a big challenge to Skype. The video calls app, Facetime, will now be able to carry audio-only conversations – useful if the internet connection is too weak for video, or when taking a work call in pyjamas.9.The 5S has two LED flashes – white and amber. Their intensity is variable, and a sensor decides which combination will give the best picture colour. To reduce blurring, in low light the 8 megapixel camera takes four photos in quick succession and merges their best bits.10.The 5C and 5S go on sale from 20 September. The launch date for iOS 7 is 18 September. It will run on iPhone 4 and later models, iPad 2 and later models, the iPad mini and fifth generation iPod touch.
It used to be the ultimate crime scene clue. Now Apple has transformed the fingerprint into a key to unlock the wealth of personal information that is stored on the iPhone.The company's new flagship 5S model, the more expensive of two 4G handsets unveiled at its headquarters on Tuesday night, goes on sale on 20 September, and will be able to identify its owner by scanning a fingertip.The fingerprint scanner is built into the home button, protected by a sapphire crystal coating, and uses a low radio frequency signal to map the unique lines of its owner's index finger or thumb. It is able to scan the dermis layer underneath the surface of the skin, avoiding problems caused by damaged or dry fingertips. Without pressing, the owner will be able to unlock their phone with one touch, and once inside the device, a fingerprint will suffice as proof of identity to purchase music, films, books and applications from Apple's stores.The 5S will cost $649 (£549) without a contract, and also comes with a 10cm (4in) screen and an 8 megapixel camera – the same as the iPhone 5 – with double the processing heft of its predecessor.As more services move online, and customers collect long lists of passwords to access everything from bank accounts to office files, fingerprint technology could prove a big step in making access to phones and the sensitive information they contain simpler and more secure.But in an attempt to allay privacy fears, Apple was forced to deny it was creating an archive of biometric information. "All fingerprint information is encrypted and stored securely in the Secure Enclave inside the A7 chip on the iPhone 5s," Apple said in a statement. "It's never stored on Apple servers".After six years in black and white, the iPhone has burst into colour. With an eye on the lucrative Chinese market, the 5S will now come in a muted gold, as well as silver and grey.The cheaper 5C, the other device unveiled, was described by Apple's chief designer Sir Jonathan Ive as "beautifully, unapologetically plastic", and will cost $549 (£469) without a contract. The 5C comes with a choice of five back cases in a spectrum ranging from coral pink to yellow. It will have the same screen size as its more expensive stablemate, and will function on most 4G networks.But there was surprise at the cost of  the 5C. "This is not the cheap product that many expected," said Carolina Milanesi, research vice-president at Gartner.In front of an audience which included Yahoo's chief executive, Marissa Meyer – who has issued staff with iPhones to ensure they are developing with mobility in mind – Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook, set out to demonstrate the company retains the creative mojo that flourished under Steve Jobs.The inventions of the Jobs era transformed the music and mobile industries, and are threatening companies such as Dell and Hewlett-Packard as tablets and smartphones begin to replace traditional PCs. But critics have questioned whether under Cook Apple has the ability to repeat the trick. "The competition has caught up and it's now purely about how quickly it can innovate and drive its own experience forward," said Benedict Evans of research firm Enders Analysis.Apple is expected to sell 170m smartphones in 2013, second only to Samsung. Cook has set his sights on gaining ground in China, where Apple languishes in seventh place behind South Korea's Samsung and five domestic phone makers, some of them little known outside Asia. Crucial to the iPhone's success in Asia its distribution deal with Japan's NTT DoCoMo, but a much rumoured deal with China Mobile was not mentioned during the showcase.Unusually for a relatively new model, the iPhone 5 has been discontinued; those looking for a more budget handset will have to make do with the 4S, which was first released more than two years ago.
For the third part of our Grand Theft Auto retrospective, we stick with 2004 classic, GTA San Andreas, which shifted over 17 million copies on its original PlayStation 2 release. Set amid the gangland rivalry of southern Los Santos, this was Rockstar's epic answer to movies like Boyz n the Hood and Menace II Society. It had everything from CIA drug plots to raging street riots, all stuffed within the largest map the series had ever seen.So now, let's jump on CJ's bike and head back to the hood.Backflipping on the BMXGTA: Vice City begins with Tommy Vercetti, voiced by Hollywood actor Ray Liotta, cruising down Miami Beach on a replica Harley Davidson. GTA: San Andreas begins with CJ, voiced by unknown rapper Young Malay, cycling through LA's Compton (Ganton in GTA) on a BMX. In typical Rockstar fashion, this surprising and self-referential intro sets the tone for San Andreas' sprawling rags-to-riches tale. Oh, and the BMX inspired a vibrant Internet stunt community. Like, of course.Big Foot, UFOs and Ghost CarsGTA: San Andreas' wildest urban myth is the existence of Big Foot, based on doctored screenshots of a character who would occasionally appear in Flint County and Whetstone. Interviewed by EGM in 2005, Rockstar founder Terry Donavan confirmed: "There is no Bigfoot, just like real life" (this hasn't convinced some die-hard cryptozoologists, though, as Simon Parkin'srecent feature for the New Yorkerreveals). However, Rockstar hinted UFO sightings might be 'some data we thought we deleted'. Ghost cars – vehicles that would spawn and roll down hills in the Back 'O Beyond – were due to a technical glitch. Leatherface was a pedestrian who spawns with a chainsaw in 'The Meat Business' mission.Recovering the jet pack in Black ProjectThe Black Project mission is a microcosm of everything that's brilliant – and ludicrous – about GTA: San Andreas: Breaking into Bone County's military compound Area 69 (arf) to recover a secret item for conspiracy nut The Truth voiced by Peter Fonda… only to emerge from a launch bay tunnel *on a jetpack*. Saint's Row may have reinvented open world lunacy but San Andreas did it first. Sixty hours into San Andreas, jet packing into Grove Street wielding twin Uzis feels almost logical.Trying to survive a six star Wanted levelGTA's guiltiest thrill is tooling up at Ammunation – you'll need an M4, RPG and bulletproof vest – to stage an explosive tribute to Falling Down. For the ultimate you'll-never-take-me-allliiiive rampage, you only need fly over Area 69 to trigger an instant six star Wanted level. In normal circumstances, tackling the full force of the military in their Barracks OL trucks would last seconds, but once you've procured Area 69's Rhino tank… it's more interesting.Saint Mark's Bistro – return to Liberty CityThe jetpack was unexpected, but Saint Mark's Bistro sparked a 'No, no, no' worthy of Amy Winehouse's Rehab. "A hit in Liberty City?" mumbles CJ as you drive to the airport, almost in disbelief. You're still in shock as you fly the plane, in full control, to Rockstar's version of New York. It's testament to GTA's cultural significance that returning to the setting of GTA3, only three years later on, feels so nostalgic.Fat becomes a gaming issueNot quite an important moment, more an important idea – for a game anyway. In San Andreas, CJ has to eat to stay alive, but if he gets all his meals from fast food hellhole Cluckin' Bell he soon begins to pile on the pounds, making him slower and less healthy, and shaping the in-game dialogue and relationships. Outside of the Tamagotchi phenomenon this was the first time many gamers had thought about managing the nutritional intake of the lead character. It was such a big deal, Keith even wrote about it inone of his first ever Gamesblog articlesfor The Guardian...• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part one• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part two• 30 most important moments in GTA history – part four
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Samsung Galaxy Mega is one huge phablet &gt;&gt; AllThingsDLauren Goode:So, why the 6.6in Mega? Samsung says it is meant to be an "ideal hybrid handset for those who want to experience smartphone portability with the immersive experience of a tablet."I liked the Mega when I was using as just that: A tablet. In those instances, it didn't seem so cumbersome. I read books and watched videos on it before bed, while getting a haircut and while sitting at a cafe. I checked email on it, and browsed through Twitter, Facebook and Instagram feeds. Basically, I liked it when I used it as I would my iPad mini or Kindle Fire tablet, which measure 7.9in and 7.0in, respectively.Let's say the Mega hybrid does appeal to you as a smartphone. It's still pretty midrange, lacking some of the key features of its Note sibling.Goode liked the Note 2. The Mega?  " I will be somewhat relieved when the flatbed truck arrives next week to pick it up and transport it back to Samsung."Nokia is working on self-driving cars with Mercedes-Benz &gt;&gt; GigaomNokia also revealed that Here is working with Mercedes-Benz on "smart maps" — initially for merely connected cars, but ultimately for autonomous vehicles.This will cover much of the same territory that Google is traversing in its own quest to build a self-driving car, although – from Nokia's perspective at least – with a more limited scope. While Google tests its vehicles in California, Here and Mercedes-Benz have started off by building a 3D map of the route taken by the first ever automobile, the Benz Patent-Motorwagen, between Mannheim and Pforzheim in southern Germany.Perhaps Nokia keeping HERE was a smart move after all. Self-driving cars have the potential to be a huge business, and the one essential element is great maps.Wrist &gt;&gt; Wrist.im| A bi-weekly illustrative exercise by Matt Johnston in making new and old watches come to life."Oh this? It's my smart watch page. It tells the time."Disruptions: Apple's next unveiling could make or break a business &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThese annual iPhone unveilings have become a sort of Creative Destruction Day in Silicon Valley. Remember all those companies that were making nifty little digital video recorders? There aren't many of them left, after Apple added video recording to the iPhone in 2008. And with every even slightly improved iPhone that adds features or services offered by others, Apple has tightened the screws on a long list of companies, including other smartphone makers like Nokia and BlackBerry and gaming companies like Nintendo.Now disrupted: Fitbit. Also, flashlight apps.Shifting Shadow, STORMBREW, Flying Pig: New Snowden documents show NSA deemed Google networks a "target" &gt;&gt; SlateRyan Gallagher:the potential infiltration of Google, in particular, is a controversial development, and the Internet giant will no doubt be demanding answers from the US government.(Google declined a request for comment. James Clapper, the Director of National Intelligence, has put out a statement not directly addressing any of the latest revelations but saying that the United States "collects foreign intelligence—just as many other governments do—to enhance the security of our citizens and protect our interests and those of our allies around the world.")Techmeme is now writing its own headlines &gt;&gt; Techmeme News"This overhyped headline was written for Techmeme"The 17 designs that Bell almost used for the layout of telephone buttons &gt;&gt; The AtlanticMegan Garber:If you look at the number buttons on a phone - smart, cell, landline, what have you - those number buttons will feature, almost inevitably, a uniform layout. Ten digits, laid out on a three-by-three grid, with the tenth tacked on on the bottom. The numbers ascending from left to right, and from top to bottom.This layout is so standardized that we think about it as almost inevitable. But the layout was, in the 1950s, the result of a good deal of strategizing and testing on the part of the people of Bell Labs.See the diagram: it's amazing what was considered. They also identified those with lower error rates, and those where it was quicker to key the number.Amazon refutes report of free smartphone &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogAmazon.com said on Sunday it had no plans to offer a phone of its own in 2013 and said any such future phone would be sold, not given away.The statement, from an Amazon spokesman, refutes areportfrom website JessicaLessin.com on Friday that the Seattle company has been exploring options to offer a smartphone free of cost."We have no plans to offer a phone this year," said the spokesman in an email on Sunday. "If we were to launch a phone in the future, it would not be free." It is the first time Amazon has responded in detail to reports about developing a smartphone.It rebutted it, not refuted it. One refutes a proof (showing it to be false through evidence); one rebuts a claim. Without letting us into Amazon's labs, this can't be a refutation.Lenovo exec: there's no longer a need for Windows RT &gt;&gt; EngadgetWhen quizzed on Microsoft's moribund operating system, Australian marketing chief Nick Reynolds said that Intel's Haswell has eliminated the choice between long battery life and good performance. Since, consequently, users can run full-fat Windows 8 and get a full day of use from a single charge, there's not much call for a low-power version.Is Windows RT going to be one of the biggest blind alleys ever in software?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Call of Duty: Ghosts "on track" to be most pre-ordered game of the year | MCVDid you think everyone would forget about CoD amid the GTA hype? Youfool:US retailer GameStop has said that Activision's Call of Duty: Ghosts could still prove to be 2013's biggest game |"Call of Duty is an entertainment juggernaut and cultural phenomenon. We are excited for the upcoming release of the new installment of this blockbuster franchise, Call of Duty: Ghosts," the retailer's senior VP of merchandising Bob Puzon stated."We look forward to celebrating the worldwide November launch of this great game that is on track to be the most pre-ordered title of the year."It looks like Infinity Ward's gamble – dropping the Modern Warfare line in favour of a brand new narrative – hasn't harmed consumer interest. They can perhaps thank Colin, sorryRiley, the dog for that.Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon sales break 1 million, boxed copy a possibility | JoystiqIt turns out that gamers like to be attacked by giant reptiles while trying to remember what else Michael Biehn was in apart from them James Cameron movies:More than a million gamers have fired their neon lasers at neon soldiers and neon reptiles (which also shoot neon lasers) in Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon. Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot told Game Informer that the "mini-AAA" game has sold more than 1 million units to date, and that developing and publishing games like Blood Dragon and Call of Juarez: Gunslinger will be a continued business model for the company going forward.Has Sony just closed the door on the microconsoles? | Gamesindustry InternationalSome interesting analysis of what Sony's Vita miniconsole might do to the Android box market:With a £60 machine which can play Vita games on a TV, stream PS4 content to another screen and access all of the video on demand services which have become consoles secondary raison d'etre, Sony is thumbing its nose at not just Ouya and Gamestick et al, but Microsoft, Nintendo, Apple and, potentially, Google, too. Nothing the Vita TV does is unique, but the combination of them all is. Plus, I can't help but feel that Sony has an edge on nearly all the new competitors it's just earned.Why Super Metroid's Hacking Community is Still Going Strong | GamasutraBecause Super Metroid isawesomethat's why! Oh wait, there's more:The community in question, which was once a subset of the more generic Metroid fan forum Metroid2002.com, now exists as a ROM hacking community. It chiefly revolves around Metroid Construction, a website, forum, and IRC channel created in early 2009 as a college project. Although ROM hacking isn't unique to Super Metroid, the Metroid Construction community is active, prolific, and accomplished, producing hacks that rival the source material in originality and complexity.The community's daily activity far outstrips many more typical game communities, particularly when considering the age of the game itself and the relatively narrow focus of the community. There are no new players posting to ask about cheat codes and secrets, nor even are there speedrunning hopefuls discussing sequence-breaking tactics. The Metroid Construction forum does cover ROM hacking for other Metroid games -- plus, incidentally, The Legend of Zelda -- but the Super Metroid hacking sub-forum is by far the most active, with literally thousands more posts than any other game in the franchise.I love these stories of dedicated fans keeping classic or arcane titles alive.Vin Diesel claims he's reassembling Riddick game team | CVG UKIf you couldn't believe your luck when the new Riddick film was announced you're going to be even more thrilled in a second:A third game based on the Riddick series is in development, according to star of the movies himself, Vin Diesel.Speaking in an interview with Screen Crush, Diesel claimed he's reassembled team members who worked on Xbox classic Escape From Butcher Bay to create a third game."My die-hard gamers want Taigon [Diesel's game production company] to deliver the third chapter in the Riddick game and we just over the past couple of months, just this year, reassembled that team from Starbreeze that brought Escape From Butcher Bay to create the third game," he said.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Wednesday.
For months rumours and reports have indicated that Apple has been in the process of producing a smartwatch of its own. The iWatch, as recent trademark filings name it, was to put information pulled from your smartphone at a glance on a screen on your wrist. However, Apple's entry into the burgeoning smart wearables category failed to materialise. So where is Apple's iWatch?Samsung launched its own take on the smartwatch with the Galaxy Gear – a wearable device that puts a touchscreen on your wrist and connects to the company's Galaxy Note 3 and Note 10.1 Android devices. Using the touchscreen you can read text messages, get alerts and even answer calls in a Dick Tracy-style, talking directly into the watch. Navigation around the device is achieved by swiping through a simplified pictorial interface on the touchscreen, with bespoke apps available from a special Samsung Gear app store including services such as Pocket, Path and SnapChat.Qualcomm also launched its own take on the smartwatch with the Toq, which performs similar duties to Samsung's Galaxy Gear. Sony recently updated its own wearable device with the SmartWatch 2, while the Pebble smartwatch, which was successfully crowd-funded last year, showed that there is a market for the intelligent wrist device.Apple may be biding its time, or its smartwatch may just not be ready for prime-time yet. Given that smartwatches from various other manufacturers have met with a lukewarm reception at best, it has caused some in the media to speculate that the smartwatch technology isn't ready for the mass market.Current implementations of the smartwatch "form factor" have been hampered by bulky designs and limited use cases, strongly lacking killer functionality to justify the relatively high cost of the devices. Rumours from China suggested Apple's iWatch could have a curved display and tight integration with the iPhone and iPad, as well as some standalone functionality. Apple could release the iWatch at the next Apple device event, rumoured to be within the next month, for a possible refresh of the iPad models.
