www.strangenewproducts.comoffers exactly what its name suggests: up-to-the-minute, somewhat odd merchandise from the world of design. Never mind iPods and Blackberrys, here you'll find some really wacky stuff.Fans of ingestible skin care may like to try the Borba chocolate bar. Once eaten, it clears up acne - or so its manufacturer claims. The Borba cosmetic company says the bar removes toxins and improves skin clarity.Other delights include sandals with hidden storage compartments (perfect for carrying around your keys and cash) and water bottles with labels concealing a 32-page fashion and beauty magazine.The prize, though, has to go to the Sanitary Handle. This piece of red plastic can be attached to a trolley to allow shoppers to avoid catching any nasty diseases from those who have been pushing the trolley before them.When not in use, it can shrink by having the ends pushed together like a telescope.The website is run by Steve from southern California, who says: 'This is about stuff that is totally revolutionary, really weird, corny, ingenious or completely useless.' You said it, Steve.
"Microsoft bigwigs Shane Kim (the games guy), Todd Holmdahl (the product guy) and Richard Teversham (the marketing guy) take time out with [Kikizu] to talk in-depth about Xbox 360 strategy and plans for the future."
You can now scan all of the past week's posts on one page by clickinghereHighlights (oldest first) include.....Cory Doctorow says he is also leaving Mac OS X for UbuntuThe internet in semaphore?Sony's tasteless PSP adsIf Google didn't exist...Browse iTunes visually with CoverFlowAmanda UnBoomedNew York Times says Microsoft developing MP3 playerMcKinnon extradition inches closereBay bans sellers from using Google Checkout
Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories, PS2Rockstar, &pound;20Returning to the simulated mean streets of Liberty City, Rockstar's pastiche of New York, this is a lightly adapted (ie they got rid of multiplayer mode) re-release of last year's biggest PSP game. While it never felt comfortable on Sony's portable console, with its three-hour battery life getting in the way of prolonged sessions and the game's structure making pick-up-and-play a baffling ordeal, on PS2 everything is just as it should be. The game's seemingly endless radio content, tuned into whenever you steal a car, is a bit more repetitive and the difficulty has been reduced, but these are tiny niggles in a game that is every bit as superb as its forebears. For &pound;20, and especially if you missed the PSP version, this is a wonderful and wholly irresistible bargain.Big Brain Academy, Nintendo DSNintendo, &pound;25Arriving in surprisingly close formation with Dr Kawashima's Brain Training, which judges your mind's feeble attempts at solving quickfire quiz questions by rating your brain age between 20 and 80 years old, comes Big Brain Academy, which goes through a similar process before suggesting how much your brain might weigh. Using a spectrum of graphical, linguistic and mathematical challenges to test your mental responsiveness, Big Brain Academy offers greater variety than Brain Training, with a similar ability to compare your own results with those of friends and family, before arriving at your estimated cerebral mass. Compelling even to non-gamers, this never feels quite as polished as Dr Kawashima's outing, but it's a close-run thing and Big Brain still supplies unusual, absorbing and possibly even mind-expanding non-gaming fun.Big Brother DVD Game, DVDChannel 4, &pound;18If you were personally responsible for trying to extract yet more revenue from the weary, bloated, severely over-milked cash cow that is Channel 4's Big Brother, were very badly over-tired and, then, 10 minutes into the brainstorm session, realised you'd left the iron on and went home, the chances are you'd emerge with a far more interesting and rounded game than the leaden, entertainment-free master class in banality that is the Big Brother DVD Game. Soldier your way through teeth-grindingly dull multiple-choice questions about past Big Brother series, which, unless you've spent your recent summers indoors watching E4, will largely be a matter of random chance. Even the inane observations between rounds bear insultingly little relevance to what's just happened, neatly closing the circle of apathy around a product that will bring joy to no one.
Thousands of computer users say they are being wrongly accused by Microsoft of owning pirated software, it has emerged.Surfers have said that a program used by Microsoft to alert customers to illegal copies of its Windows XP system has been falsely targeting them. Many say they are being forced to pay for replacement versions, despite having already spent hundreds of pounds on official products.The download, called Windows Genuine Advantage, tracks the unique identification numbers packaged with each legitimate copy of Windows. Users found to have fake codes - or a code that has already been registered elsewhere - are encouraged to buy an official licence. Some have also claimed their computer performance becomes impaired if they do not upgrade.Andrew Devon, a charity fundraiser from Hove, said he was forced to pay &pound;92 to legitimise a copy of Windows he had bought from a high street retailer ."An alert came up and said Windows wasn't genuine XP - that led on to me buying this extra CD," he said. "I almost thought it was a scam, but I'm dependent on having a working computer."The tool was included among a number of updates which users can download to their machines.According to Microsoft, more than 2 million British customers have been alerted to fake software since WGA began operating last year.Michala Alexander, head of anti-piracy for Microsoft UK, said that codes would only be blocked if the company was "100% sure" that it had been pirated and those who have been tricked with high quality counterfeits are eligible for free replacements.
MondayWii launch announcement comes from unlikely source. Or does it?Portugal win againTuesdayHalo 3 and AIGetting the brush offWednesdaySony ad provokes race accusationsBlue adventuresThursdayIs casual gaming the real 'next-gen'?Brain Training for BushMore on that Wii launchFridaySuperman, poor games and the collapse of Western CivilisationPSP ad post: a quick explanationNottingham to become GameCity
Online auction site eBay has banned its buyers and sellers from using Google's recently launched online payments service, Google Checkout, in a move that seems designed to protect its own PayPal operation.Any seller caught offering Google Checkout to prospective buyers faces having their listings cancelled, forfeiting their fees or even having their entire account suspended.The news came as eBay announced Jeff Jordan, head of PayPal and seen as a potential successor to chief executive Meg Whitman, will leave later this year in the most high-profile defection from the business. He plans to spend more time with his family.The decision to exclude Google's newest venture is yet another indication that Google is encroaching on areas that other companies consider to be their turf.Having created the web's most widely used search engine, Google has moved into email, instant messaging, word processing, spreadsheets, price comparison and now payments. Companies from AOL and Amazon to Microsoft and now eBay are finding Google on their patch.Google started marketing its payment service to online retailers last month, having previously made it available to buy adverts from the search engine or videos from Google Video.But eBay has updated its accepted payments policy to specifically exclude Google Checkout. It joins a host of other online payment services that eBay does not allow including AlertPay.com, AuctionChex.com, eHotPay.com, Moneygram.com, neteller.com, ecount.com, and xcoin.com.In its payments policy, eBay allows payments by traditional methods such as credit and debit cards, personal cheques, money orders and cash but strongly encourages sellers to offer payments through PayPal."From time to time, as new payment services arise, eBay will evaluate them to determine whether they are appropriate for the marketplace," eBay adds in its policy. The online marketplace is understood to believe that Google Checkout lacks a track record as a reliable and secure payment mechanism."Payment services that are not permitted on eBay may, in fact, be outstanding services for consumers in other contexts. eBay's evaluation relates only to whether a particular service is appropriate for the eBay marketplace," the policy statement says.
America's Merriam-Webster dictionary has finally decided to bite the bullet and add"google"as a verb in its 2006 edition, making the search engine officially synonymous with the act of searching itself. "To google" arrives alongside almost-forgotten terms like "mouse potato" and "himbo" (attractive, vacuous -- and male) and apparently techy terms like spyware and ringtone. So, here's this week'sFriday Afternoon Question: what word would you add to the dictionary... and what does it mean?Best answer gets a lovely prize direct from Guardian Towers.
"eBay is banning sellers from requesting payment through Google Checkout. The online auction giant updated its Safe Payments policy this week to add Google's new payment service, Google Checkout to its list of online payment methods not permitted on eBay," reportsAuctionbytes. The story says:eBay'sSafe Payments policystates that a payment service must have a "substantial historical track record of providing safe and reliable financial and/or banking related services."Google's spokesperson said yesterday, "Google Checkout is not a beta product. Google has a long history in billing and payments for AdWords and for premium services, such as Google Video."eBay's guidance note says:Payment Services permitted on eBay:Allpay.net, Bidpay, Canadian Tire Money, cash2india, CertaPay, Checkfree.com, hyperwallet,com, Moneybookers.com, Ozpay.biz, Payko.com, Paymate.com.au, Propay.com, XOOMPayment Services not permitted on eBay:AlertPay.com, anypay.com, AuctionChex.com, AuctionPix.com, BillPay.ie, ecount.com, cardserviceinternational.com, CCAvenue, ecount, e-gold, eHotPay.com, ePassporte.com, EuroGiro, FastCash.com, Google Checkout, gcash, GearPay, Goldmoney.com, graphcard.com, greenzap.com, ikobo.com, Liberty Dollars, Moneygram.com, neteller.com, Netpay.com, Nochex.com, paychest.com, payingfast.com, paypay, Postepay, Qchex.com, rupay.com, scripophily.com, sendmoneyorder.com, stamps, Stormpay, wmtransfer.com, xcoin.comComment: eBay bought PayPal, which is (and was) the e-money service most commonly used on eBay.
The extradition of hackerGary McKinnonto the US drew a step closer this week as it emerged that the home secretarysigned off on the agreement to hand him over to American prosecutors. I spoke with Gary's legal team earlier on, and they have said it's a serious blow to his hopes of remaining in Britain - but that they will appeal against the decision, and could potentially go on to the House of Lords or even Europe in their attempt to keep him. Of course, nobody on either side is saying Gary shouldn't stand trial - but the defence says that Britain has its own laws to prosecute computer crime, and that the American punishment (70 years is the mooted maximum) is disproportionate. What do you think?
The European commission will next week fine Microsoft up to &euro;400m (&pound;278m) for failing to comply with its ruling that it is abusing its dominant position in the market for computer operating systems.The fine, equivalent to as much as &euro;2m a day and backdated to December 15 2005, will come on top of the record &euro;497m levied on the world's biggest software group in March 2004. The commission then ordered Microsoft to ensure inter-operability with rival servers by making secret protocols available and delivering a version of Windows without its MediaPlayer audio-visual software.Neelie Kroes, EU competition commissioner, said in Berlin yesterday she could see no alternative to a fine. "If companies are not complying with our regulations and rules, that needs to be corrected - regardless of their origin and size," she said before talks with German ministers.On Monday competition authorities from the EU's 25 member states unanimously approved the principle of fining Microsoft and are to meet again this coming Monday to agree the level of the fine. The commission and the software group have been in talks for 18 months about how compliance - giving "complete and accurate specifications for inter-operability information" - can be met.Microsoft, which has offered to make the secret codes behind Windows available to software developers, insists the extra fines are unjustified as it is working flat-out to ensure that inter-operability information is available to rivals - for a fee yet to be agreed and without putting at risk its intellectual property rights (IPRs). It said: "Microsoft is dedicating massive resources to meet the aggressive schedule and high-quality standards set by the [independent] trustee [Neil Barrett, a UK computer science professor]. Our engineers are working around the clock to meet the seventh and final delivery date for this project scheduled for July 18."Mr Barrett, of Imperial College, London, had said in December that Microsoft's supplied information was "totally unfit for its intended purpose".Earlier this week, the group said it would comply with sanctions imposed by South Korea's fair trade commission after losing a court appeal for "remedies" to be suspended while it pursued a full appeal. The Korean regulator fined it &euro;27m for abuse of dominance, and ordered it to offer a version without MediaPlayer and MSN Messenger and another with links to web pages allowing consumers to download rival versions.Microsoft has also appealed against the 2004 ruling of Ms Kroes's predecessor, Mario Monti, and the Court of First Instance, Europe's second-highest court, is due to deliver its verdict later this year or early next after hearing the case in March. In December 2004 the CFI turned down the group's request for interim measures to be suspended before the verdict.The commission has also lodged objections to its new version of Windows, Vista, raising the prospect of yet more hostile rulings and fines. Microsoft, which has paid the original fine and shipped versions of Windows without MediaPlayer (bought by fewer than 2,000 customers), argues that its rivals such as IBM are "when faced with innovation, choosing litigation".It also faces continuing problems with US regulators about inter-operability despite settling the main issue with the Department of Justice in 2002. Late on Wednesday it made concessions to its "open source" rivals by enabling Word, Excel and PowerPoint within its Office 2007 suite to handle and save documents in rival formats.
Brian Jones, who runs open file formats for Microsoft Office, hasbloggedthat:Today we are announcing the creation of the Open XML Translator project that will help translate between the Office Open XML formats and the OpenDocument format. We've talked a lot about the value the Open XML formats bring, and one of them of course is the ability to filter it down into other formats. While we still aren't seeing a strong demand for ODF support from our corporate or consumer customers, it's now a bit different with governments. We've had some governments request that we help build solutions so that can use ODF for certain situations, so that's why we are creating the Open XML Translator project.ODF is being requested by the commonwealth of Massachussetts and other government bodies who, quite rightly, want to keep their data in open standard file formats. I've written about this in columnshereandhere, among others.Microsoft has been working to support standard formats in Microsoft Office for many years. Support for plain text and rtf (Rich Text Format) are old, but it has added HTML, and Office 2007 beta adds Adobe's PDF and Open XML.Open XML is Microsoft's format, and very similar to ODF. It is being standardised via ECMA.Microsoft had been leaving it to ODF supporters to add ODF support to Office 2007, and a group from OpenOffice.org has been working on a plug-in for more than a year. It's not clear why Microsoft has changed its mind, but it has now organised and funded some third parties to do the job. (The schedule shows that Microsoft wants the plug in finished by the end of this year, to meet Massachusset's January deadline, so this may be a factor.)The third parties are Clever Age (Dev &amp; Project Management - France &amp; Poland), Aztecsoft (End to End functionality testing - India), and DIaLOGIKa (European Institutions scenarios testing - Germany). The project has beenlaunched at SourceForgeunder a liberal BSD-style open source licence. (Why Clever Age? It was already working on a SourceForge proejct for anOpenOffice filter to Microsoft Word XML.)One of the more amusing parts of Brian Jones's post is his (entirely justified) little knock at ODF:One area I'm going to be interested to follow is how to map features that aren't specified in the ODF spec. OpenOffice has actually made the decision to extend the spec in ways that don't actually appear to be allowed (like with numbering formats), and I'm not sure if that's the right way to go. I've seen a lot of problems when moving documents from OpenOffice to KOffice for example, and I'm sure these divergences from the spec don't help out. Is the right thing to extend in the same ways OpenOffice did, or is it best to wait for OASIS to release the next version of the spec and hope that it specifies some of those missing features? Nobody wants a format that's constantly changing, so if you do decide to extend the format like OpenOffice did, what happens when ODF 2.0 comes out and it specifies that feature differently from how OpenOffice did it?When I was at an Office Reviewers Workshop, Jones told us: "It's really important to us for our files to be really open," and Gray Knowlton said Microsoft had "given up control of file formats". There are some less obvious reasons for this (including server-based processing of Office documents, which requires that the data be separated from the presentation). Either way, Microsoft is basically changing the game, and its competitive strategy is now to be more open than OpenOffice and ODF, as well as better.Note: Stephen O'Grady of the RedMonk consultancy has aQ&amp;A.
A new annual games festival has been announced this week. Described as, 'a street-level cultural celebration of videogames and interactive entertainment' Game City will take place in Nottingham during half-term week, 25th-29th October and will include debates, seminars and workshops as well as entertainment events such as game screenings, movies and even art exhibitions."With the arrival of next generation consoles and handhelds more people of than ever before will become involved with games of one sort or another," says Iain Simons, the event director. "GameCity will entertain, inform and educate individuals, industry and the public sector on the value and the potential of interactive entertainment for everyone. With the phenomenal growth in this sector, we believe it's the right time for the industry to start challenging itself in this way."Alongside the Edinburgh International Games Festival, this is another interesting attempt to actually involve the public in a major videogame event - rather than inviting trade participants only and beating the hoi polloi away with sticks. I also like the fact that organisers are starting to feel safe using the word festival in relation to videogames. It's almost as though they are attaining cultural validity.Game City sounds quite worthy and educational at the moment, though. Can't we have a games festival that's more like Glastonbury? Fields full of retro and next-gen games consoles attached to enormous screens while bands play strictly videogame-inspired music and food stands sell only pizza, crisps and Red Bull. Anyone got a spare couple of acres? I think I'm going to have a bash at this...
The previous closing paragraph of my post on the PSP ads - where I mentioned the sensitivity of racial themes in the US - has attracted a lot of criticism from readers. I of course, didn't mean to imply that there are no problems with racial tension in Europe - that would be lunacy. However, in the very short space I can lend to such issues in a videogame blog, I was trying to hint at cultural differences in the way such matters are handled.I realise, however, that the paragraph caused offense for which I apologise - especially to our American readers. It has now been changed.
The growing furore surrounding the Superman Returns movie, which hits our cinemas next week, has brought to mind a hoary old videogame myth - that all Superman videogame are rubbish. This perhaps stems from the 1999 Nintendo 64 title, Superman 64, which was so astronomically dreadful it could well have been developed by Lex Luthor as a form of interactive character assassination - or even by Superman himself after an afternoon's exposure to red Kryptonite.Other stinkers have included the Game Boy Advance car wreck Superman: Countdown To Apokolips and a soul-crushingly tough Mega Drive adventure, simply titled Superman.But therehavebeen a few decent Superman titles.Superman: Shadow of the Apokolips wasn'tterrible, Then there's cult SNES classic, The Death and Return of Superman, and of course the old Atari 2600 Superman game is fondly remembered. And naturally, EA is promising great things for its own multi-platform conversion of the current movie, set in a living, breathing and free-roaming Metropolis. So far though, there's nothing in his oeuvre to compete with Neversoft's masterful Spider-Man or Capcom's range of Marvel inspired fighting games.In some ways this is odd considering the vital role Superman plays in the American psyche. For a society without its own ancient myths he represents a Zeus to the great pantheon of superhero gods. And like Jesus - a figure to whom he has been compared many times (see John Patterson'sjaunt through the Man of Steel's historyin the Guardian today orRafael Behr'sfrom the Observer) - he is infinitely malleable to the individual needs and beliefs of his followers.Yet he represents specific game design problems to any developer foolhardy enough to take him on. The ability to fly around the world in a matter of seconds doesn't help with the construction of the game environment for example - how exactly do you rein this man in without it looking utterly contrived? It will be interesting to see how EA'sTiburonstudio copes in this age of environmental super realism.Superman is also a bit too powerful - being able to simultaneously freeze, melt and beat your enemies to death doesn't do much for a game's difficulty levels and sense of progression. The character's infallibility is something the comic books have spent sixty years grappling with, but they have acres of narrative, sub-plots and countless other characters to bring into the mix.Interestingly, the current TV series, Smallville, has taken a distinctly videogame approach to the problem. By introducing Clark's abilities one by one throughout the series' he is gradually 'powered up' but still remains vulnerable and incomplete. It's like a game character slowly unlocking new weapons.As far as the traditional videogaming demographic goes, Superman also has an image problem. He's too nice, too pure, too unreconstructed for our post-modern tastes. Batman is a goth (although admittedly he's had his fare share of stinky games), Spider-Man is a confused adolescent with a hot girlfriend, Wolverine has claws and mental health problems, but Superman wears blue and red lycra and stands resolutely for truth, justice and... well, that's all now. He belongs to a different era - an era that wasn't embarrassed about 'the American way'.Superhero games in general have faded in significance over the last few years. Poor movie cash-ins like Fantastic Four and Batman Begins haven't helped, but there is more to it than that. Today's gangsta adventures and military shoot 'em ups have installed a new era of gritty realism and messy semi-automatic gun death. Our heroes are anonymous foot soldiers making their own way in a grim world. Our fantasy environments are needle-strewn back streets and the featureless deserts vaguely recalled from a thousand Iraq broadcasts.Superman never really meant anything, but people once thought he did. Now we know better.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft often builds prototypes of hardware devices such as mobile phones to help its partners who design and manufacture products for sale ... and it also has a very successful, and very innovative, hardware business selling keyboards, mice and other peripherals. This is fine, but it has to be very carefull not to step on its partners' toes.Unfortunately it's frustrating when the hardware partners don't produce any market leading products, which has been the case in the market for portable music players, where Apple's iPod has won a monopoly market share.Microsoft would usually grin and bear it. However, it is now enjoying some success in the games console market, where it was unable to find any hardware partners to sell consoles at a loss. And the Xbox has given Microsoft a taste of what it's like to control the whole user experience, just the way Apple does with the iPod, iTunes desktop software and iTunes Music Store. With the Xbox 360, games and Xbox Live, Microsoft has the same sort of exclusive control as Apple has in its iPod and desktop PC businesses, and it's hard not to feel the power.It's also not hard to see the appeal of taking a similar strategy to the music market, with a Microsoft-designed and branded portable wma/MP3 player, Windows Media Player and online music store. Indeed, it's so obvous that rumours have been flying around for months if not years. The only thing that's missing are facts.How many facts The New York Times has any is another matter, buta story todaysays it has talked to "entertainment industry executives briefed on the company's plans ... who did not want to be identified because they were not authorized to discuss the device."The story says: "Microsoft has been developing its own hand-held music and video player to challenge Apple Computer's iPod and expects to have it in stores in time for the holiday season."It also points out that this "is likely to anger Samsung, Sony, Creative Technology and other manufacturers that were persuaded to use Microsoft's software in their devices, because a Microsoft player would compete with theirs" -- though that's an assumption. None of these companies is quoted.The alternative view is that they might be delighted. If Microsoft were simply to take the wma/MP3 sector of the market, leaving Apple's market intact, then it would be a disaster for third-party suppliers such as Creative, iRiver, Archos, Samsung, Sony and others. However, if Microsoft could swing the whole market towards wma/MP3, then they might all enjoy dramatic sales increases.Microsoft just has to convince them that it's better to have a smaller part of a big pie than a big part of a very small pie. Not easy, perhaps, but not impossible.It would open up the market because anybody can license wma and Microsoft's DRM, so Microsoft's entry would not limit consumer choice. A bigger device market would also help the numerous online music stores that offer protected wma downloads. And the music industry would like to have realistic competition for Apple's autocratic CEO, Steve Jobs.Whether it's possible is another issue. Consumers are buying iPods because they like them, and consumer tastes are very hard to change.However, there is another possible outcome. Apple is going to come under an increasing amount of political pressure to start licensing elements of its system, or find some other way of providing compatibility. Jobs could open the market just enough to keep the politicians happy and render Microsoft's efforts irrelevant.Update: Microsoft has said reports that the company is planning an MP3 player to rival the iPod are based on "speculation and rumours", according to theBBC News.
So far we've heard fromdrunken Nintendo execs and American sports magazinesabout the release of Wii - now unnamed industry insiders are getting in on the act. That's if you are to believe CNN Money, certainly the most credible source yet in the whole Wii launch merry-go-round.The website has justposted a news storyquoting sources who suggest the machine will be out in the US in October or maybe evenSeptember- which means in the UK we could see it as early as March 2012. Perhaps Nintendo is looking to surf the huge popularity of the recently released DS Lite instead of waiting a few months to complete directly against PS3.Meanwhile, Sony has confirmed that PS3 and playable demos of several launch titles will be at theTokyo Game Showin September. I should think so too.
Death of the net, moving pictures atAmanda UnBoomed.RocketBoom has anofficial statementthat says: "Amanda Congdon has decided to move to L.A. to pursue opportunities that have arisen for her in Hollywood. We wanted to meet her demands to move production out to L.A., however, we are a small company and have not been able to figure out a way to make it work, financially and in many other ways at this time. While we continue to remain with open arms, Amanda has in fact quit and left Rocketboom. So sadly, we bid Amanda adieu and wish her all the best."Amanda has responded withFor the Record:I am disheartened by Andrew Baron's decision to spread misinformation. He knows I cannot move to LA without a job...but insists on spinning things this way to shore up his assertion that I am "walking away" from Rocketboom. I did not walk away. I did not accept Andrew's idea of "partnership".Apparentlythe blogosphere cares more about thisthan anything since Scoble quit Microsoft. See: Calacanis, GigaOM, Winer, Scobleizer, Thomas Hawk and dozens more like them.Update: Friday'sNew York Timeshas run the story.
I just bought a new PC running Windows XP. I need to transfer some database files created in Novell's PerfectWorks 2.1, an ancient program that has always catered for my database needs. It doesn't work properly under XP. Nick SteinitzYou have violated Schofield's First Law, which says you should never put data into a program unless you can see exactly how to get it out. PCs and programs are cheap and transitory but data is expensive to create and, potentially, lasts forever. You say you've tried XP's compatibility mode, so your best bet is to somehow load the data into PerfectWorks then save it in a recognised format, such as xbase (dBase) or, if all else fails, CSV (comma separated variables) that a more modern program will read.If you can no longer load Perfect Works, your last chance is to try Dataviz'sConversions Plus, which includes a database translator for PerfectWorks 2.1. This must be considered a fortunate result. Novell sold PerfectWorks (formerly from WordPerfect) to Arkose Software in 1999, which sold version 3 as ArkoseWorks before going out of business.The fact that an old program caters perfectly adequately to your needs is no excuse for using it. You need to make sure your data is in an open standard file format, for preference, or at least a de facto (widely supported) standard format. Here endeth the sermon!
Can you recommend a free, simple, downloadable CD player for Windows? Stanley RussellStick an audio CD into a PC and Windows will play it, which is as simple as it gets. However,CDmaxis a simple CD player that downloads artist/title/track information from the Freedb CD database and saves it on your hard drive. It used to be freeware, but now it's shareware.Other suggestions welcome.....
I am suspicious about a cookie from reporting.tvlicensing.co.uk. Is my TV card squealing on me? Paul StampNo.TV Licensingsays it uses cookies "to gauge use of our website and measure response to our publicity and site usage". You'll get its persistent cookie (needed to fill in forms, etc) by going to the site, and probably a tracking cookie from any web page that displays one of its banner advertisements.
My Windows 98 is running satisfactorily except that the screen has shrunk slightly, with the two vertical sides slightly concave towards the centre. I restored to before the fault appeared but it made no difference. Bryden KeenanCheck the controls on the monitor: there should be a button or wheel setting for pincushion or "trapezoid correction". That should correct the problem. However, the monitor may be aging.According to Samuel M Goldwasser's invaluablemonitor repair FAQ, reduced width could be caused by a failing capacitor.
I plan to re-build my PC and re-install XP Home with SP2, but only have an XP CD and a separate SP2 disc. I'd like to get an install CD with SP2 included. Kevin MansellSorry, it seems Microsoft doesn't offer that, unless you buy a new copy of Windows. It is still happy to supply SP2 on disc for £6, but you already have one. People who don't can order onehereor by calling 0870 60 10 100.Backchat: I have mentioned "slipstreaming" before, but it was clearly a mistake not to mention it lin this case. Many readers have pointed out that Kevin can create a CD for himself by slipstreaming XP and SP2 together. There are several guides online. In the mail, there were nine mentions of theWindows Supersiteguide and four mentions each forThe Elder GeekandnLite. J A Dean gets a plug for mentioning all three.
We know you love to follow the antics of technology journalism (cough) but here's one which may intrigue... Channel 4 has just appointed a new technology correspondent, and it's none other than Britain's former-teenage-dotcom-entrepreneurBenjamin Cohen(hinted at over onMedia Monkeyearlier this week). Cohen, of course, set upSoJewishback in the day when he was off school, and turned it into a going concern. Then he tried a porn search engine - Hunt4Porn - before trying his hand atcybersquattingby buying the iTunes.co.uk domain. That didn't come off, and for the last few years he's made his main job gay news sitePinkNews. You can see further details of his exploits atthe RegandWikipedia. Nothing if not colourful, eh? Let's see how he turns his hand to the telly...
Yesterday morning I stumbled across a little Mac application calledCoverFlow: built for browsing through your iTunes collection visually, rather than just staring at a list of track names. The creators admit it's buggy, and it fair overloaded my little old PowerBook - but if this is relatively easily done, it makes you wonder why image-obsessed Apple haven't already done it themselves.Despite its problems, though, there was definitely something - I realised that I had albums I'd always blanked out from looking at my music library, and enjoyed using it. The usual disclaimers apply, of course, but why nottake a look?
Back in March, Colin Dowse wrote to Ask Jack in some alarm about his financial prospects. Like many people with small businesses, he was fairly dependent on Google search results, and Google had removed his UK site from its indexes. It hadn't just fallen down the rankings, it had been delisted.There are many "search engine optimisation" tricks that will prompt a search engine to block a site, and I was delighted when Google delisted BMW, the German car manufacturer. But as far as I could tell, Dowse hadn't done anything wrong, and that's why there's a problem.If your website is delisted, Google won't tell you, and it won't tell you why. Also, it won't tell you what you need to change to get back in. Google acts as its own policeman, as prosecutor, and as judge and jury. It has absolute power. In so far as there is a court of appeal, that's also controlled by Google, and the whole operation runs in complete secrecy.The "power of the press" has no effect, either. I took up Dowse's case and got no response. It's all very Orwellian for a company with the motto: "Do no evil."When Google was a couple of PhD students in a garage, none of this mattered. Now that it has close to life or death power over vast numbers of small companies, it does. Put it this way: Google is heading for a monopoly market share of search, and in the UK, 75% of us use it. If Google's management doesn't find a way to temper the company's power, legislators will eventually do it for them.Last week, I put the case to Douglas Merrill, Google's vice president of engineering, at a round table meeting with several journalists in London. I also suggested that one solution would be to set up an independent ombudsman, which is what the Guardian has done. I can't claim an enthusiastic response: he looked thoughtful and said, "Um". But I've had worse answers.I sympathise with Google's problem. As Merrill had said earlier: "Spam is an arms race. Our job is to keep the spammers out of the index. It's a spy versus spy battle." Thousands of people, some of them criminals, try to exploit flaws in Google's technology, just as they exploit flaws in Microsoft's Internet Explorer, and for the same reason: it's where the money is.Google keeps its search methods secret and won't tell people like Dowse what they have done wrong or how to correct it, beyond the general advice on its website. Merrill says Google does not want to give away information that spammers could exploit. But if Google financed an "office of the ombudsman" staffed by its employees, it could avoid giving too much away while still helping to protect users from injustice.Cost might be a consideration, but an ombudsman might save Google money in the long run. At the moment, people are resorting to the courts. In California, Kinderstart.com is suing Google because its site fell in the rankings: it claims traffic fell by 70%, and its income from Google AdSense by 80%. Searchking sued in Oklahoma, after it was delisted; it lost, but its listing was restored. Both sites may be rubbish, but there will be more and perhaps better cases.IIn the US, Google's lawyers claim First Amendment (freedom of speech) rights to rate websites how they like. They have also claimed that the evaluation of a site's quality "is entirely subjective". If Google's rankings were decided by hired hands - the approach adopted by directories such as Yahoo - it would be hard to argue.But the point of Google is that the ranking is done automatically and, arguably, objectively by software. And while we know software is pretty good at doing things like identifying and excluding spam emails or websites, we also know it isn't perfect.Dowse's site was eventually restored, with no comment from Google. If it had not been, he had nowhere to go, and no practical way to seek redress. Is that fair?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The European Commission and the UK are once again set on a collision course. Forget constitutions, euros or Maastricht. This time it's about something you care about: television, and particularly the future of TV and new media over the internet. The complex row between the UK government, the Confederation of British Industries (CBI), UK technology companies and the EC revolves around the cheerily named "TV Without Frontiers" directive. It's a proposed piece of European legislation intended to bring television in line with recent changes in technology.The name might imply that it will remove frontiers from TV viewing. But there's another side to the coin: the directive means that anything that appears to be television and travels over the internet is television, and therefore becomes subject to TV regulations.Anything else must abide by four principles: internet content should be governed by regulations that apply in the country it was transmitted from; it should apply minimum standards for the protection of minors; if it contains advertising it must be clearly identified; and content should not include incitement to racial hatred.Two tiers for TVWhich all sounds very simple, so simple that the EC is utterly perplexed by the determined opposition from UK government and business to the measure, which it claims is the equivalent of deregulating the &pound;170bn European television market."The directive has two tiers, one for traditional TV and the other for on demand," said Martin Selmayr, spokesman for Viviane Reding, the EC's Information Society and Media Commissioner. "The UK is claiming there are restrictions - where are the restrictions? We have made a general distinction between push and pull services and have treated video-on-demand and other internet services and downloads with a lighter touch than traditional TV."We can't see anyone having a problem with the rules on internet content, nor do we see a problem with enforcement. The idea that the internet is a lawless place is not true any more. What is illegal offline is illegal online." And what's more, adds Selmayr, only the UK and Slovakia oppose the directive. The CBI, however, is unimpressed. "The European Commission seems to be ignoring the fact that opposition to the directive has been signed by the business associations of six other countries," says Jeremy Beales, the CBI's head of e-business. "The problem with this piece of legislation is that the EC has focused on television because that's all that they are interested in. Their motivation is to protect public service broadcasters and the TV industry with a catch-all piece of legislation that could affect huge numbers of websites because of a badly phrased piece of legislation."Dangerous dogsThis is at the heart of the opposition to the directive. According to its many opponents in the UK, the directive has been put together with the same amount of thought as the UK's Dangerous Dogs Act, which was introduced hurriedly in 1991 after a number of vicious dog attacks on humans, but which turned out to be vague and poorly drafted. The new directive, opponents say, is similarly badly considered and paternalistic."This is telephone age thinking in an internet age," says Beales. His sentiment is shared by the Broadband Stakeholders Group, a body part-funded by the UK government to provide information on the internet industry's concerns. "It's good that there's a recognition of what's happening in the TV sector; where it's gone wrong is that because IPTV [TV sent over the internet] and mobile TV have not really formed yet, they are trying to regulate something that is not there," says Vicky Read, an expert on the issue for the BSG.According to television equipment manufacturers such as Hauppauge, which produces TV cards and TV tuners for laptops, the industry is now concentrating solely on the future mobile TV market. "We are just looking at mobility and people being able to access TV anywhere on mobile devices," says Yehia Oweiss, Hauppage's European sales director. "We think that people aren't just going to be watching the TV everyone thinks of, they will be watching TV their friends make, TV that shops make as adverts and media that maybe only a small group of people are interested in. There will be devices that do both one-to-many and one-to-one broadcasting."That will put stress on the UK's TV licence, which is already undergoing frantic reinterpretation as a result of internet technology. According to a TV Licensing spokeswoman, TV watched over the internet on a PC is still TV; anyone caught doing it without a valid TV licence can be fined. Watching TV on a battery-powered device is legal so long as the person has a licence at home. And you can watch TV if it is broadcast from your home via the internet to a PC you are using. That is, if what you're watching is TV. And that is the nub of the problem. No one quite knows what TV is going to become, and so there is confusion over what will constitute TV.The EC legislation is framed to cover anything that looks like TV. According to the BSG, that could even include video blogs on websites. The EC disagrees, but even lawyers are confused. "The whole debate is about 'what is TV?'," says Cliff Fluet, a former television lawyer who works for internet law specialist Lewis-Silkin. "This is about keeping an industry alive. Defining what is TV is going to be the real headache."Brussels buzzwordsConscious that some definitions may be slipping beyond its reach, the commission is thinking of a new name for the directive - the "Audio Visual Media Services Directive" - and the proposed legislation has spawned some Brussels buzzwords, such as "linear" and "non-linear" TV. Linear TV is TV as we know it - the schedules of the broadcasters. Non-linear TV is content that we grab when we want it, such as video on demand, music downloads, computer games and anything else we choose at whim from the web. By 2010, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers, that will represent a global market worth &pound;977bn. Where the problem comes is aptly demonstrated by Channel 4, which at the end of last month decided to begin streaming its output via the web. Streaming means its output is linear: it works off a schedule. But towards the end of the year Channel 4 intends to put all of its content on a database, to be available on demand. That's non-linear.At the BBC, producers are attending seminars designed to hammer home the message that the corporation does not expect the schedule to exist in six years time. That means that the long-standing idea of the "9pm watershed" (after which violent or sexual material not intended for minors can be shown) will become irrelevant; the material will be available at any time. As, indeed, already happens online with non-television sites.Theoretically, non-linear material should be governed by the directive's four rules, but enforcing them will be a challenge for Brussels. In the UK, for a start, the communications and media regulator OfCom privately thinks the proposals are vague and unworkable. "The whole problem is with the definitions," said one OfCom official. "The EC say they want a light touch but because [the directive] is vague it will be a heavy touch. If you're a small company, to make sure you don't get accused of incitement to racial hatred you'll have to keep tapes of all of your content; that's a cost. How do we come down on a content producer if material that they produced went out at the wrong time, and to the wrong audience, because its broadcast was beyond their control?"OfCom, the CBI and others in the UK think that would drive any new generation of TV entrepreneurs out of Europe because of a fear of increased costs. Jeff Pulver, one of the prophets of internet TV, agrees: "This seems like a case of some people waking up to what happened with VoIP [Voice over Internet Protocol] and the threat that is coming from disruptive technologies and trying to stop it, which won't happen. All it means is that it will encourage the entrepreneurs to go elsewhere." Pulver says the content will also find a way around any regulations.That could leave the EC looking at the option any administration tends to find unacceptable: letting the industry and the people decide what they want to watch.Graham Lovelace, a former top TV executive, thinks that's what will happen. "I think the public will vote with their mouse. If material is on-demand you regulate yourself. Ironically, all of this means that there could be a new role for the BBC as a moral reference point for people in an uncertain world."&#183; Future vision: a nightmare for regulatorsThe biggest threat to the European Commission's plans to regulate media on the internet is not from organisations like the CBI and OfCom; it is from technology itself. Already devices such as Slingbox [www.slingmedia.com/slingbox] and the software application Orb [www.orb.com] will allow you to pick up TV and video from a home PC equipped with a TV card on an internet-enabled device from anywhere in the world - a nightmare for the regulatory authorities. And it gets worse.Philips is concentrating on two TV markets, home and mobile, and planning new devices to take advantage of current trends. For the home, Philips is building new TV theatre technology to deliver sophisticated effects, such as wind and lightning for storms, on a "converged" device (part PC, part conventional TV) able to take content from TV signals or the internet."The new devices will work with so many different types of content. We don't think that it will be like today's TV, but more TV-on-demand where the consumers will create their own schedules," said a Philips spokesman. Sony's PlayStation Portable can also play TV via the internet when hooked up to a product called Skybox.Mobile phone companies such as Nokia and service providers like Orange and Vodafone are preparing for phones that will take content from virtually anywhere. "The devices that are coming are going to be a composite of wireless and 3G," says Martin Warwick, editor of TelecomTV. IPTV - digitised TV content sent over high-speed internet connections - "is going to be prolific and ubiquitous, though most of the devices out there at the moment are niche devices".Designers predict that over the next two years the TV screen will start to determine mobile design, as manufacturers struggle to maximise viewing space. Keypads will become merged into a touch sensitive screen like that on the iPaq. Using these new systems will be child's play. Regulating them won't be.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of Technology hit the streets this morning, and is also onlinehereIt's TV, but not as we know itThe EC has drafted new rules for TV transmitted over the internet. But, asks Peter Warren, how do you police what is freely available at the click of a mouse?Don't get lost on your way to the OfficePrepare for the most dramatic changes ever made to a major suite of applications, as Microsoft opts for a new user interface based on tabs and ribbons instead of pull-down menus.Who owns medical records?Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign does not advocate free access to health records, but says we should own data created on our behalf.Capitalism encroaches on Second LifeWhen a real-world store starts selling virtual goods in an online game, where does that leave intellectual property rights?Gates' way to a healthy futureHealth-related inventions shown at the Imagine Cup are close to the heart of the co-founder of Microsoft, the competition's sponsor.Hoping for fat profits from thin TVsBill Taylor wants everyone to be able to afford a big flat-screen television.Newly asked questionsShould I think about becoming a programmer?An industry report published yesterday claims our software industry is "approaching meltdown" because of a skills shortage.Is the Great Firewall of China finally falling down?The Cisco-built mechanism that blocks websites deemed unsuitable by the government is not entirely impenetrable.GadgetsNokia 6233 3G phone,T-Mobile CoPilot Live,iHome iH5 iPod speakersGamesblogKeith Stuart says"casual gamers"are not bored office workers or housewives guiltily grabbing five minutes of Mine Sweeper when no one is looking, they are us.OpinionGoogle must temper its power or law makers willGoogle's dominance in search gives it enormous power, with no checks or balances. Jack Schofield suggests it might be time for the company to appoint an ombudsman.Have I bought my last PC?Victor Keegan says applications are relocating themselves from his hard drive to the web.TechnobilePaul May says the technology is seductive but don't be fooled: get rid of your inkjet printer and vow never to get another.RegularsAsk JackFree your own data; Is my TV card squealing on me?; Monitor problem; Latest XP, and moreNewsbytesChasing YouTube | Hasselhoff is king | Riding high | Creative Zen | Folder transfer | I know your type | Privacy protectionLetters and blogsHelping small companies, usability, voicemail and more.
Yesterday we saw Sony court advertisingcontroversy, today we hear thatNintendo have sent a copy of Brain Training to President Bush. Who knows what Microsoft will do tomorrow? Actually, Nintendo's wheeze is pretty clever and a further confident strike from a company that has regained its swagger thanks to the huge success of the DS. Whether the Wii will continue this remains to be seen, but you can imagine whichever agency wins the account having a fantastic time thinking up ad campaigns.
That's the question I mischievously ask intoday's Gamesblog columnwhich you can find in the Technology section of the Guardian. The argument has evolved from my'Is casual gaming the new hardcore'post from last year and is really about how casual games are better placed to exploit our new converged digital lifestyles - or at least the converged digital lifestyles that consumer electronics companieswould like us to havein order for us to spend more money on entertainment servers and giant HD-ready flat panel displays.Anyway, for insider comment on this issue I approached Matt Spall, managing director of Award-splattered UK studioMorpheme. He kindly answered a few questions on the company's fun little casual gaming siteOff The Wristand on plans to crossover to Xbox Live.What do you think ofMacrovision's findings about casual gamers- I.e. that they playa lotand in the evenings and weekends - it's not just about the odd game of solitaire in the lunch hour. Do you think this is accurate?We hope it's accurate, and we're guessing so do Macrovision, otherwise their research was a waste of an afternoon they could have spent playing Bejewelled.We can definitely associate with it. A lot of casual games are successful because you can get into a nice gentle rhythm that causes hypnotic zoneout over a period of time. A huge amount of effort goes into creating satisfying sound and animation to lull the player into continuing play.Xbox live seems less polarised really - there are titles which are aimed very much at the traditional casual market, then games like Geometry Wars for the hardcore, and retro stuff for older experienced players, plus stuff in-between. Hopefully over time, Microsoft will provide enough of a spectrum of titles, combined with some shopfront smarts, to push the less-experienced players onto slightly more advanced things, so the industry can begin to move beyond endless 'Match 3' puzzle games.Do you think that with things like Nintendo's Touch Generations titles (Brain Training, etc) and Xbox Live Arcade titles, the worlds of 'hardcore' and 'casual' gaming are beginning to merge?No. The people buying the DS to play Brain Training, and Nintendogs are probably not even aware of Metroid or Advance Wars which kind of suggests this might be a one-way street - the hardcore aren't likely to buy these 'ultra casual' titles in great numbers, because they're fairly simplistic, and don't offer a great deal of depth for a hardcore player.Hopefully though, some people who would never normally play games now own DSs, and may 'graduate' to more advanced titles over time. Having said that, the fact that the DS market can support things like Electroplankton, which can keepanyonecharmed for ages, is already encouraging.Interestingly, one of the guys in the office bought his mum a DS and Brain Training for her 66th birthday and it's really engrossed her. She's never really played anything much other than the built in Solitaire in Windows and the odd game of Finger Frenzy.What was the thinking behind Off The Wrist?We thought the title was funny. The site was initially designed to support Finger Frenzy plus some other silly things we had knocking around the office (such as 'Middle Name'). It's now turning into a games site for people to check out, play some stuff we've made, buy some others, but in general, have a laugh and a quick game.Morpheme takes a uniquely integrated approach to development. Do you feel this is the direction casual gaming is going in - a real lifestyle, multimedia, multi-platform activity?Yes, put the fun everywhere. Some people like web games, some people like MySpace, some people like phones. We try to reach them wherever they may be.There are lots of directions 'casual gaming' is going in, because it's an area with a wide and fuzzy target market. One of Morpheme's core strengths has always been development of strong, original IP that stands out from the crowd, so pushing our characters - including BHB - in lots of different directions feels quite natural.As for having both mobile and PC titles, we see mobile games as being casual games anyway, so a lot of the game design decisions apply to both platforms.Watch this space, we've got a few games coming up over the next few months that pull PC, Mobile, online, MySpace, blogging, and all kinds of other stuff together in all sorts of ways.How is Morpheme looking to develop its 'multi-channel' approach to development and distribution in the future? Do you think you might move titles across to the handheld consoles and even Xbox Live Arcade?We continue to expand the hardware base for our games. We're definitely looking at taking our games to systems like Xbox Live Arcade. As the new breed of console makes a move from the bedroom to the living room and from a games system to an integrated entertainment system we're expecting to see a lot more demand for games with much more shallow, or even non-existent learning curves. Part of our core strategy involves creating games with which we can target a wide range of platforms, so yes, hopefully you'll see Morpheme products on a lot more electronic devices in the future!
After some rather uninspiring iPod speaker systems, here comes one that does something useful. The pounds 99.95 iHome IH5 has all the usual features, with integrated speakers and battery recharging, but it also moonlights as a radio alarm clock. It works with most iPods from the 3G model onwards, though if you are adding a nano you'll have to fit the accompanying adaptor. The company hasn't expended much effort on the design - it is rather plasticky and finished in white or black. A credit card-thin remote control moves tracks forwards and backwards, adjusts the volume and switches off the player.Other handy features include compatibility with any music player via a line-out socket and back-up battery power, which keeps the clock going if mains power fails. However, sound quality is limited and distorts if you pump up the volume.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Free your own dataI just bought a new PC running Windows XP. I need to transfer some database files created in Novell's PerfectWorks 2.1, an ancient program that has always catered for my database needs. It doesn't work properly under XP.Nick SteinitzJack Schofield replies:You have violated Schofield's First Law, which says you should never put data into a program unless you can see how to get it out. PCs and programs are cheap and transitory but data is expensive to create and, potentially, lasts forever. You say you've tried XP's compatibility mode, so your best bet is to somehow load the data into PerfectWorks then save it in a recognised format, such as xbase (dBase) or, if all else fails, CSV (comma separated variables) that a more modern program will read.If you can no longer load Perfect Works, your last chance is to try Dataviz's Conversions Plus (http://tinyurl.com/6iik), which includes a database translator for PerfectWorks 2.1. This must be considered a fortunate result. Novell sold PerfectWorks (formerly from WordPerfect) to Arkose Software in 1999, which sold version 3 as ArkoseWorks before going out of business.The fact that an old program caters perfectly adequately to your needs is no excuse for using it. You need to make sure your data is in an open standard file format, for preference, or at least a de facto (widely supported) standard format. Here endeth the sermon!CD playerCan you recommend a free, simple, downloadable CD player for Windows?Stanley RussellJS:Stick an audio CD into a PC and Windows will play it, which is as simple as it gets. However, CDmax is a simple CD player that downloads artist/title/track information from the Freedb CD database and saves it on your hard drive. It used to be freeware, but now it's shareware (http://tinyurl.com/nroeh).Suspicious cookieI am suspicious about a cookie from reporting.tvlicensing.co.uk. Is my TV card squealing on me?Paul StampJS:No. TV Licensing says it uses cookies "to gauge use of our website and measure response to our publicity and site usage". You'll get its persistent cookie (needed to fill in forms, etc) by going to the site, and probably a tracking cookie from any web page that displays one of its banner advertisements.Monitor problemMy Windows 98 is running satisfactorily except that the screen has shrunk slightly, with the two vertical sides slightly concave towards the centre. I restored to before the fault appeared but it made no difference.Bryden KeenanJS:Check the controls on the monitor: there should be a button or wheel setting for pincushion or "trapezoid correction". That should correct the problem. However, the monitor may be aging.According to Samuel M Goldwasser's invaluable monitor repair FAQ (http:// tinyurl.com/ae63z), reduced width could be caused by a failing capacitor.Latest XPI plan to re-build my PC and re-install XP Home with SP2, but only have an XP CD and a separate SP2 disc. I'd like to get an install CD with SP2 included.Kevin MansellJS:Sorry, it seems Microsoft doesn't offer that, unless you buy a new copy of Windows. It is still happy to supply SP2 on disc for &pound;6, but you already have one. People who don't can order one fromhttp://tinyurl.com/6tmxjor by calling 0870 60 10 100.Backchat&middot;Ann Perrott's iPod broke after four months. Steven Robinson says his first 40GB Click Wheel iPod lasted 11 months but its replacement stopped working after eight. Tim Davies says: "I have had four iPods. They kept breaking and PC World kept on replacing them. Eventually I got the money back and bought a PlayStation Portable." Kathy Fowler's iPod stopped holding a charge after 10 months but "these things happen, and Apple's service was second to none".
The British computer industry thinks it would be a good idea. An industry report published yesterday claims our software industry is "approaching meltdown" because of a skills shortage.Since the industry is reckoned to contribute pounds 13 billion a year to the economy, and since most hi-tech developments now have a significant software element, this is a serious matter.The report, Developing The Future, has been prepared by the British Computer Society and Lancaster University with input from eSkills, the Ovum consultancy, the DTI, Amicus and Microsoft UK, which has financed the production.The headline numbers are that there has been a 50% drop in applications for computer-related degrees, a 60% drop in software engineering students and a 47% drop in systems engineering students.In the press release, Matt Bishop, senior director of Microsoft's Developer Platform Group, says: "Young people no longer regard software as cool."Another factor is that the first generation of IT workers is reaching retirement age. However, anyone who reads trade magazines may be surprised that IT workers last long enough to retire. A staple of their letters pages are complaints from programmers who are too old at 35 or 45, or overqualified, or know languages such as Cobol and Fortran, which are now deeply unfashionable.This creates the impression that the IT industry is mainly short of overeducated young people who will work for not much money. Finally, there is the problem of "off-shoring," where the IT industry benefits from the hundreds of thousands of programmers churned out by universities in India and China in particular.The press release concedes that another "200,000 'basic' jobs will be off-shored by 2010". It must make any prospective programmer wonder how many of the less-basic jobs will be "off-shored" before they reach what the government might consider a reasonable retirement age.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The trouble with GPS systems on mobiles is that screens are often too small to display maps properly and the speakers are not loud enough to compete with car noise. But that hasn't stopped T-Mobile, which has teamed up with CoPilot to offer a GPS system as part of a package that also features a Nokia N70 World Cup 3G phone. Until now, CoPilot's GPS systems have only worked with Windows-based phones and not Symbian models like the N70.Does it work? The screen seems large enough to deliver the maps. Unlike most satnav systems, the maps disappear after each major turn, which made the system less distracting than most. Sound quality is still an issue, however.The system also boasts a few innovations, the most useful of which enables the car to be tracked via a web page. Users can also take calls while using the GPS. This is an ideal system for people who only occasionally use satellite navigation. It costs pounds 200 if you don't buy the phone, but the system and phone are free on some T-Mobile tariffs.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
3G phones tend to be bulky beasts with poor battery life. Nokia hopes to consign that stereotype to history with the introduction of the compact 6233, a cut-down version of a 3G phone. It doesn't include person-to-person video calling, for example.It might be small but Nokia has crammed in quite a few features. There's a two megapixel camera, capable of fantastic video, a web browser and an MP3 player. However, the camera is on the front of the phone, which makes it tricky to frame pictures; the web browser is slow; and the MP3 is compromised by the speakers. It also doesn't come with a USB connector.Nevertheless, the phone has faultless call quality, easy-to-use buttons and a battery life of up to four hours' talk time. Overall, it is a solid budget 3G phone.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Chinese internet users are still on their long walk towards freedom of information, but things could be gathering pace with the news that the so-called "great firewall" - the Cisco-built mechanism that blocks websites deemed unsuitable by the government - is not entirely impenetrable.Until now, security experts have been unable to get blocked files or sites through the firewall. But scientists at Cambridge University's computer laboratories now say it is possible to break through by circumventing some of the system's detection procedures.The Chinese firewall operates by triggering the reset of any data packets that contain the government-listed keywords. By manipulating the procedure, clever users can get information through without much trouble."The machines in China allow data packets in and out, but send a burst of resets to shut connections if they spot particular keywords," said Richard Clayton, a professor of computing whose work has featured in Technology Guardian. "If you drop all the reset packets at both ends of the connection - which is relatively trivial to do - the web page is transferred just fine."And, according to Professor Clayton, such tactics can also turn the firewall against itself. By inserting fake keyword information into ordinary files, even users with dial-up connections could trigger what amounts to a denial of service attack against the firewall itself. Such an attack would only block data between two points, but if done right could affect the entire network.Despite this breakthrough, however, things could get even tougher for Chinese internet users if recent press reports are true. At a conference in Beijing, Cai Wu, the director of the Information Office of the State Council, said he would look at developing systems that could regulate blogs, search engines and other technologies. The reason? "Because more and more harmful information is being circulated online," he said.Developments under consideration include registration for websites and a database of mobile phone ownership, as officials try to keep track of who might be causing potential unrest. Mobile phones are a particular problem, with people able to buy them anonymously and keep in contact with each other outside the reach of Beijing.But the attack on the net doesn't stop there: Wu's announcement came on top of a fresh crackdown on internet cafes, which are being threatened with closure if they fail to enforce rules governing how much time children can spend online.China's relationship with the internet has been a difficult one. The nation boasts 110 million web users, but they are ruled by a government intent on controlling the flow of information. The struggle between the two is unlikely to be finished for some time.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Chasing YouTubeGoogle and Yahoo have both improved their video offerings, with Google in particular copying YouTube, which has 43% of the market, according to Hitwise. Yahoo has 10%, MSN 9%, and Google roughly 6%.http://tinyurl.com/fukw8Hasselhoff is kingPipex has signed The Hoff to be the face of its advertising campaign for 2006-07, claiming he's the star who is most likely to be mentioned in emails from 16-24 year olds.Riding highBike fans can follow the ups and downs of this year's Tour de France virtually, via Google Earth.www.letour.comCreative ZenCreative is introducing a tiny Zen V Plus music player, which is the same as the Zen V but with FM radio and video playback. Unlike the iPod Video, it plays wmv and DivX videos.Folder transferFoldermail has been launched as "a convenient, reliable and cost-effective way to send complete Windows folders and large files of any size" without the hassles of using ordinary email. The company has received financial support from the Department of Trade and Industry.www.foldermail.comI know your typeBioPassword has unveiled a security system that uses a neural network to recognise users by their typing style.http://tinyurl.com/f8oqwPrivacy protectionIxquick says it's the first search engine to "permanently delete all personal search details gleaned from its users from the log files". It's a meta-search engine that combines searches from a dozen other search engines and gives stars to the most popular results.www.ixquick.com&#183;Last week's mention of the Sony TX3 notebook PC said it was "ultra-slim (4.5mm)". Sorry, that's just the screen thickness.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The term casual gamer brings to mind bored office workers or housewives guiltily grabbing five minutes of Mine Sweeper when no one is looking. But it seems this image is out of date. According to a survey by Macrovision, a provider of casual game services, 37% of "casual gamers" play nine or more "sessions" per week and a third of those polled admitted their sessions often last two hours. Eighteen hours of gaming a week is surely heading into hardcore gaming territory.More intriguing is when these sessions occur: 73% said they play in the evening while 55% hit the sites on weekends. Here's what is happening. Casual gaming is the real next-gen. The sort of simple, intuitive puzzle games on casual sites such as RealArcade slip seamlessly between delivery channels, popping up on mobile phones, PCs, notebooks and interactive TV services with little reprogramming required. They're living the dream of always-on entertainment, while high-end console games exist in a ghetto, accessible to a few enthusiasts.Casual game makers are flexible, react to trends quickly and are more tuned in to their audience than traditional console game publishers. The UK studio Morpheme, for example, once specialised in mobile titles, but recently set up a casual game download site and is converting its fun, accessible mobile phone puzzlers to PC. The company has even set up a MySpace page for a key character, Balloon-Headed Boy.The videogame bigwigs are catching on, of course. Nintendo has launched its Touch Generations series of games, with titles such as Brain Training pulling in a new audience of technophobes. The Xbox Live Arcade service features plenty of casual puzzle titles to download, while Microsoft's Live Anywhere service lets Xbox users contact online buddy lists or order game downloads via a mobile.An understanding is emerging that casual games are truly pervasive. They can be built in weeks then distributed across multiple platforms to cash in on trends. The marketing barely registers on the radar - targeted newsletters, online community buzz, clever exploitation of popular sites such as MySpace and Digg. People are led almost subliminally to superstar casual games like Bejeweled and Diner Dash and then can't leave."A lot of casual games are successful because you can get into a nice gentle rhythm that causes hypnotic zone-out over a period of time," says Morpheme's managing director, Matt Spall.One day you will find yourself in a waiting room playing a block-sorting puzzler on your MP3 or phone, and you will realise: this isn't about bored office workers and housewives. It is about everyone. It is about you.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Bill Taylor wants everyone to be able to afford a big flat-screen television. An entrepreneur and physicist, Taylor is also an adviser to the European Commission on advanced surface engineering, materials and display technologies. He has founded a string of companies and taken several business qualifications. While this might not leave much time for watching television, he is determined to give the rest of us a new flat-screen technology.Taylor's involvement with developing large television screens goes back more than a decade to a 1995 meeting with Professor Rod Latham of Aston University. They were discussing a new display technology involving field emission rather than the electron guns found in conventional cathode ray tube (CRT) televisions. "We knew if this worked, the result would be a low-cost, large-area TV," says Taylor.Cheap and profitableField emission involves firing electrons in a vacuum from an array of millions of microscopic pits very close to a phosphor-coated glass screen. These pits are the equivalent of the electron guns in the neck of a conventional CRT. By taking out guns, neck and magnetic coils, you can build a large and very thin flat screen.What will this mean for the consumer? A 50-inch plasma TV costs about &pound;3,500, compared to &pound;1,700 for a 37-inch LCD or &pound;500 for a 32-inch CRT. Taylor believes that very large but very slim screens based on field emission technology are likely to be as cheap as CRTs.It has not been an easy ride for Taylor and his colleagues. The first spin-out company failed in 2004 through lack of funding. The founders set up a new company, MIMIV Ltd, and looked for a corporate backer. By this time they had developed a second generation of the technology, printable field emission display (PFED) which needed less precision engineering and was cheaper to manufacture. A suitable partner was then found.A 20-inch prototype display is expected by the end of next year and, beyond that, 32-inch or even 42-inch sizes beckon, with production pencilled in for 2009 or 2010. Taylor's Asian backers are looking for a big slice of the flat-panel TV market.PFED has a potential competitor that doesn't need a glass-enclosed vacuum. The polymer light-emitting diode (PLED) display goes back to 1989 when Professor Donal Bradley of Imperial College was working at Cambridge University with Richard Friend and Jeremy Burroughes. During experiments in an optics laboratory, they found that a polymer - polyparaphenylene vinylene - would emit light when a current was applied. Polymers offer a cheaper-to-manufacture alternative to the organic light emitting diode (OLED) display invented by Eastman Kodak in the 1980s.Fast forward 17 years and polymer light-emitting diodes are found in upmarket electric razors, mobile phone secondary displays and MP3 players. Cambridge Display Technology was founded to exploit the patents and has granted licences to companies such as Seiko-Epson, Osram and MicroEmissive Displays. "PLEDs are ideal for portable devices since they are light, durable and battery-friendly, yet retain a very desirable picture quality," says Bradley.Match-box sizeMost of the commercial displays are matchbox-sized, although Bradley does not rule out something bigger. "One of the attractions of this technology is that it's very scalable." In 2004, Seiko-Epson created a 40-inch prototype PLED TV and last year Samsung followed with a 40-inch OLED demonstration. Another intriguing development at Imperial College looks set to revolutionise medical diagnostics. This stems from the realisation that a PLED display is a useful source of light within a scientific instrument. Together with chemists Professor Andrew de Mello and Dr John de Mello, Bradley has set up Molecular Vision Ltd.The trio hopes to combine polymer light-emitting diodes as a precision light source with photodetectors and microfluidics to perform portable lab-on-a-chip sample analysis using urine or saliva for diabetes management, sexually transmitted diseases and drug abuse.This side-trip into medical diagnostics doesn't change the likelihood that Taylor's PFED or Bradley's PLED technology will one day reach your living room. But the new-generation TVs will have to compete with CRT, LCD, plasma and four different types of projection as well as other emerging field emission technologies.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Transfer risk and small companies will benefitAccess to government contracts is very important for startups and smaller IT companies (Thinking small could be beautiful for Britain's IT, June 29). However, just as important is the way government contracts out.Hi-tech, innovative companies often have a significant development overhead, limited cash resources and management capacity. These companies do not have the resources just to be in the game demanded by the contracts.For such contracts to be viable, the risk transfer regime must be significantly reduced from the levels expected of major businesses; this includes assumed liabilities and payment terms.Finally, contracts must be relatively straightforward. Otherwise lawyers fees balloon and huge amounts of time is absorbed in endless negotiations on contracts that may never be awarded.Michael Ter-BergLondon&middot;Members of the Open Source Consortium, a trade body representing smaller UK IT companies specialising in open source software, are successful in the private sector but less so in the public sector. One of our proposals is to enforce open standards. That would make it easier for smaller companies to get involved and should reduce costs.Iain RobertsChief executive, OSC&middot;Michael Cross has highlighted vital issues. The current system, which effectively locks out all but the largest IT firms when it comes to bidding for work - particularly in the public sector - is not in the best interests of the economy.This policy largely stems from risk avoidance. The government's record on delivering IT projects is sketchy at best, so it wishes to mitigate risk by turning to trusted suppliers. However, to say it is doing nothing for the future of the UK IT industry is misleading.The Department for Trade and Industry is one body supporting the development of an IT Supplier Standard. It aims to provide a quality mark for small to medium-sized IT companies, which will prove to purchasers that the supplier can be trusted to deliver.Because no such IT industry standard exists, larger purchasers equate reliability with size. The development of a reliable supplier standard will help purchasers recognise they can get expertise from smaller, more cost-effective suppliers.Vaughan ShaylerDirector, ICT Supplier Standard, National Computing CentreUsability top requirementI think the main issue to be addressed with ticket machines (Technobile, June 29) is basic usability before more flexibility. We have a painfully slow new machine at our local station. The computer is slow - it pauses inexplicably between screens and ambles along. The purchase path to a ticket has many unnecessary steps. The card terminal is placed at such a height and angle that it is impossible to see the screen without stooping. Then it has one more dramatic pause before printing the ticket. With improvements to hardware and so on the process could take about a third of the time.Chris WilcoxLondonWindow of opportunityAs long as folks run Windows, viruses and spyware will run rampant. And as long as pests persist, security firms have a business model. The more Microsoft pushes the security business, the more people will wonder why the company is selling security protection for their operating systems. If everyone ran Linux or OS X, security firms would have something to worry about.http://tinyurl.com/g2h7vTechnothriller adventureRainbows End is a mind-blowing work of science fiction: it touches on the future of fandom, consensus reality, copyright, DRM, scholarship, generation gaps, and global politics, while telling a technothriller adventure story.www.boingboing.netTime wasterI mostly agree with Charles Arthur (Technobile, June 22). For the most part, voicemail wastes more time than it saves because it is used inefficiently, not because it is inherently inefficient.monotoknee.wordpress.com
The world's largest IT project is building an electronic health record for every NHS patient in England. No one seems to know who will own it. An historic fudge that served in the days of paper records seems unlikely to hold when patients view their own records on the world wide web - and government and business seek to tap the unprecedented knowledge base created.Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign does not advocate free access to health records - quite the opposite. But the policy we propose is based on the campaign's central principle, that citizens rather than government bodies should own data created on our behalf.Professor Mike Pringle, a healthcare informatics expert and a leading clinician advising the NHS IT programme, says the question of who owns an electronic medical record has always been a bone of contention. In the days when records were on paper, he says, a rule of thumb was that the secretary of state for health owns the paper; the GP the ink; and the patient the information. In the computer era, he says, the picture can be confused by ownership of equipment. However, "I support the view that the information in the record is owned by the patient, but others borrow it for legitimate purposes of patient care."Arrangements for such borrowing are the subject of controversy - one reason, according to the NHS, why the electronic care records programme is running two years late. All parties agree that patients should give consent before their records are shared. The main argument is whether the NHS can presume patients gave implicit consent by signing up with a GP, or whether they should have to "opt in" to the system. The Department of Health favours the first; concerned doctors, led by the British Medical Association's general practice committee, the second. The dispute will have to be settled before tests begin of a system to share summary health records across the network.The NHS is preparing a national information campaign to inform patients about shared records. One way to build confidence would be to emphasise that patients own their data and have a right to view it and correct it, as well as decide who should see it.Under the Data Protection Act, patients have a right to view their records. However, the NHS makes only a half-hearted attempt to publicise this right (http://tinyurl.com/o5n2j) - and GPs are allowed to charge patients up to &pound;50 for the privilege. Dr Richard Fitton, a GP who routinely allows patients to see their electronic records, says the government should state outright that patients own their data. "If you pay me through taxes to produce a record I think that philosophically these records belong to you. If you want me to publish them on the web, or give you a complete copy, that's fine." Fitton dismisses as rubbish the idea that patients should be spared clinical details. "If you're dying of cancer, you want to see everything."&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The more I wait for my new personal computer to arrive the more I realise that the species may soon become extinct. It may be the last one I ever buy. This is because one by one the functions that once resided on a hard disk are relocating themselves to the web at a rapid pace. I could, if I wanted to, operate entirely from internet cafes.I am composing these words using Writely, a free word processor - recently bought by Google - that only exists online. There is no complicated program such as Word to be loaded into my computer, and whenever the document is saved (automatically every minute or two), it is done on remote servers around the world and not to my hard disk. It is prudent to keep back-up copies, however. I am also going to shift data from Microsoft's Excel spreadsheets on to Google's free online alternative. For details click "more" on Google's main page and then on "labs".Most of the research for the article was emailed to my online Google mail account, which I leave open in a separate window on my desktop so I can access it when needed. It has become an alternative to a hard disk for storing text, photo, video and audio files. When I change my computer I won't have to move any data as it will remain on a remote server.I don't use Gmail for what it is intended - sending mail - as it gets cluttered up with all the other data being stored. Instead I use Yahoo and a standard POP3 email service simply because I can't be bothered to contact everyone who has my address. One day all my email will be web based.All the photos you take can now be uploaded from a digital camera to web-only storage sites such as the eerily addictive Flickr.com, with videos going to MyTube or Revver. At the moment, photos still have to be parked temporarily on my hard disk using iPhoto where they act as back-up storage to what is on the web. Soon you will be able to bypass your hard disk and send photos straight to your website from your camera. You already can from cameraphones if you download Shozu's free software. Meanwhile, computer games are migrating from hard disks to consoles and, increasingly, to the web itself.Mass migration to the web is part of a movement geeks call Web 2.0. What is lacking is the availability of a basic web computer, stripped of the need to include dedicated spreadsheets and word processors. For years, entrepreneurs, not least Larry Ellison of Oracle, have been unsuccessfully trying to introduce a "network computer" linking directly to the web. So far they have failed, maybe because such ideas were conceived for political reasons - cutting down the power of Microsoft, which accounts for more than 90% of spreadsheets, word processors and PC operating systems - rather than because users wanted them.All that is changing. The web is the easiest place to work from. Web-based computers are being planned in big numbers, initially for the developing world with models such as MIT's sub-$100 (&pound;60) device running on the open source Linux operating system.Where does this leave Microsoft? It is safe for now because its labyrinthine products are so deeply embedded in corporate cultures that it will take years to change. But the Seattle giant's problems with its Vista operating system reveal it as a monopoly that time is passing by. It looks as though the prediction of the late (and greatest) management guru Pete Drucker will be proved right. When asked about Microsoft's monopoly he would quote Thucydides - that hegemony kills itself. A power that has hegemony, he said, always becomes arrogant and always unites the rest of the world against itself. He argued that, as with previous monopolies, such as the Rockefellers, they needed to be broken up, otherwise they would eventually implode. This may well be what is starting to happen to Microsoft now. And web-based devices are more than willing to fill the gap.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Two wristbands and a dollop of sound might sound like a recipe for a Dire Straits album - but Bill Gates, at least, thinks it could be the future of healthcare.Contestants in the Microsoft-sponsored Imagine Cup gathered at the company's campus in Redmond, Washington, last week for a showcase of health-related inventions they hope can change the world. It is the fourth year of the cup, which aims to encourage technological innovation, with finals in India and prizes of $25,000 (&pound;13,600) for the winners.This year's umbrella subject was something close to the heart of the Microsoft chairman, on hand to offer his thoughts. "It's wonderful that technology is getting to the point where it can have more impact on healthcare. When we talk about empowerment, healthcare should be right up there with education, communication and creativity," he said.The projects took a wide brief: one mapped a complex 3D image on to a pair of specially created glasses. "I was very impressed ... young people with new ideas about software can help - they have fresh minds that see things I wouldn't see."Gates was particularly taken by two methods for assisting blind people. One involved a pair of vibrating GPS-enabled wristbands that fed the wearer directional information - buzzing left to indicate they should turn left, and so on. The Indian competitors, meanwhile, had created an echo-location system to build accurate maps of spaces and allow those with visual impairments to use software. Gates enthused about using cameras and other detection to enhance the "real-world experience" of people with impaired sight.While the man who recently announced he was stepping down from day to day software work admitted that many technologies were "not perfect", he hoped users would take much of the brunt in helping evolve them in a more useful way."In speech recognition, there are people who can't use keyboards and those are the people who help it get better. At some point it's going to be good enough that everyone wants to use it ... computer vision can aid you even when it's not good enough to drive your car automatically."The event's British contingent of Andy Sterland, Tom Randell and James Lissiak, students from Hull University, had built a bedside system for intensive care patients. The concept included an easily managable way to keep in contact with friends, as well as helpful on-screen rehabilitation aids.Health and technology is a big story in Britain, of course, with the government ploughing ahead with its multibillion pound programme to modernise the NHS - now slated at around &pound;20bn, making it by far the planet's biggest public sector IT project. But Gates said such investment was necessary. "The general idea of investing in the health service is not us - but given that you're going to put those dollars in ... now we're in the thick of things," he said.Another popular project, from Germany, involved community-created maps that helped people with disabilities find useful directions, parking spaces and other information. This was something that would benefit from our Free Our Data campaign - and could be the sort of thing coming to a Microsoft product near you."Virtual Earth, we're doing some neat things with that ... [but] I hadn't thought about these overlays for handicapped people showing routes and special parking places. That was an insight," said Gates.&#183;Bobbie Johnson travelled to Seattle as a guest of Microsoft&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The opening of clothing firm American Apparel's newest store marks a departure from its usual range of hip fashion products. Famed for the quality of the material it uses and its no-nonsense styling, the brand has made a surprise move away from the high street with its latest venture: a virtual outlet selling clothing to be worn by digital avatars in the massive online world of Second Life."Selling our T-shirts in Second Life is not a profit-making venture. The prices of our garments in Second Life are merely a token sum," says Raz Schionning, the director of web services at American Apparel. "Our store in Second Life is an experiment in how we may establish relationships with our customers online."I have few expectations about generating significant revenue - it's not the objective at this point. As with all the marketing we do, we're being innovative and keeping our ears to the ground. We want to see how people will respond to our presence in Second Life."It is no surprise that companies are becoming interested in marketing to Second Life's players. Figures obtained by American Apparel suggest that 80% of users were aged between 20 and 30, a very desirable demographic, and that they were evenly split by gender."Given that users must have broadband internet access and reasonably powerful computers, we can infer that they are above average income earners and have attained above average education," says Schionning. "I would guess that we are looking at single people earning at least $45,000 (&pound;24,400) a year and 60-70% holding a college degree." No doubt American apparel's virtual presence will translate to real-world sales, as players become more aware of the brand.User-built worldThe Second Life world itself, created by the digital entertainment company Linden Labs, sees hundreds of thousands of players interact in any way they see fit. There aren't any defined objectives: the motivation for playing is socialisation, exploration and creation. All of the content for the world is built by users themselves, as the website says, "from the strobe lights in the nightclubs to the car (or spaceship) in your driveway".Users retain full intellectual property protection for the content they create, and items are sold between players for an in-world currency, which can be converted to pounds and dollars at various online currency exchanges. Of these items, clothing is the most sought after, comprising around 40% of all purchasable content. It is not uncommon, however, for these virtual items to have the semblance of branded goods commonly found in the real world, such as Adidas shirts, or even Apple laptops. But now, with American Apparel opening an official in-world store, and other companies looking to do the same, there will be a much greater impetus for brands to seek out and eliminate instances of infringement."A sale of a virtual Apple Computer or a virtual Adidas shirt should be treated as a sale of a toy car or a toy anything bearing a recognisable trademark," explains Martin Schwimmer, a New York-based lawyer practising trademark, copyright and internet law, and host of The Trademark Blog (www.schwimmerlegal.com). "It is just one more example of licensed branded merchandise. The existence of the American Apparel store adds to the expectation of the user that the brands on virtual products are for real."Following American Apparel's opening, questions have been raised over just how easy it will be for Linden Labs to enforce third party trademarks, and to what extent the company is liable for the actions of the users of Second Life. "Linden Labs has similarities to a landlord and a flea market operator," says Schwimmer. "There are many cases that discuss when a landlord or flea market operator does or does not have responsibility for the acts for its tenants. I note that while Linden Labs says that Second Life users own their properties, one would have to look at the underlying terms of service to see that in the final analysis, Linden Labs can remove anything."This is where the US's Digital Millennium Copyright Act comes in. "The DMCA creates certain 'safe harbours' for the intermediary (say, an internet service provider or Linden Labs) in a copyright context." Under ordinary law, unwitting infringement is still infringement - so, without the DMCA, Linden Labs would be liable for copyright infringement caused by users of Second Life. But policing their own users would rapidly make internet businesses of this kind unprofitable.The introduction of the DMCA means that Linden Labs is protected from these sort of claims so long as the company sticks to certain guidelines and promptly blocks access to content if notified of an infringement by a copyright holder.Trademark infringementTrademarks are a different matter. They are not covered by the provisions in the DMCA because it was not thought necessary; to prove liability, the infringing mark must have been used "in commerce" by the defendant, a situation that would not commonly apply to service providers merely hosting the offending material. However, a landmark case in 2001 saw web-hosting firm Mindspring considered liable for contributory infringement of the Gucci trademark, when it failed to terminate services to a user selling falsely branded jewellery from his website.As a result, Linden Labs has chosen to take an aggressive stance, removing all unauthorised trademarks from Second Life whenever they are discovered, even before a trademark holder contacts them. Linden Labs has proved to be highly motivated to deal with legal issues recently with the public banning of prolific blogger Robert Scoble, who permitted his underage son to play Second Life (http:// tinyurl.com/fh9bl). But Schwimmer is sceptical that the DMCA's failings are the whole reason for their diligence: "The ISP doesn't start having meaningful exposure for trademark infringement until it's placed on notice. Instead, Linden Labs may have a market motivation to do this. If they want to build a virtual world based on a real market economy, the consumers need to have trust in the products they buy, and strong brand enforcement is a way of achieving that."In a statement to Jeremy Pepper's PR blog (http://pop-pr.blogspot.com), Linden Labs described the practical implications of its policy: "The in-world Linden Lab aren't trademark experts. Indeed, given the global nature of Second Life, it's invertible (sic) that their ability to identify trademarks will be imperfect. While their work includes removing identified trademarks, they are not tasked with seeking out offending material and generally refrain from acting presumptively. Instead, we rely on the community itself to inform us of content that violates our policy."Whether or not players will inform on their peers remains to be seen. "You bet it will work," says designer and high-profile Second Life community member Aimee Weber. "Linden Labs didn't even have to ask. As soon as Second Lifers log in they become crusaders for intellectual property rights. The underlying motives may have more to do with safe, anonymous drama than a genuine care and respect for IP. Regardless of the motivation, all residents are keeping an eye on you and are ready to report anything that looks like an infraction."None the less, Weber anticipates a mixed reaction to the arrival of capitalistic forces in utopia. "People vested in the virtual fashion industry feel very threatened but residents who feel that Second Life is filled with amateurish work will welcome organisations willing to back quality creations with funding. The vast majority, however, are just curious."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There's bad blood between me and inkjet printers. The technology is seductively quirky: a little team of tiny ink guys rides in a cart across the moving sheet, spitting a cappella as they go. This is almost as crazy as the internal combustion engine, which is basically an exploding chorus line in a box. But at least cars usually manage more than a scant year's hoofing.Inkjet printers feature just two types of replaceable component: the ink tank and the print head. Ink tanks are pretty expensive for what they are. Hewlett Packard is kept afloat on a tide of branded ink that costs consumers, drop per drop, much more than petrol. It's the shaving companies' business model: give the handle away, charge plenty for the blades. You can save money with generic ink tanks, which work OK. You can also buy a tank refilling kit, comprising a syringe, bottle of ink and prayer sheet. Other tightwads use the power of gravity to drip ink into empty tanks.But these money-saving tactics are irrelevant in the face of the ultimate inkjet failure: the dead nozzle. Your printer's nifty routine for unclogging blocked nozzles will work a treat until the day after your warranty expires.Ignore your fellow owners grappling with the same problem in online forums. Their tales of derring-do with cotton buds and rubbing alcohol are all lies. Now's the time to lob the printer out of the window and swear never to buy another one.Don't be tempted to fork out on replacing the print head just because it's replaceable. You have reached the end of the line. Having just junked my fourth inkjet printer in as many years, I took a long, cool look at my printing needs. The only things I really print these days are screenplays.Now "the industry", as we movie outsiders call it, demands that every script is formatted to look like it came from a 1930s typewriter. You have to use 12 point Courier on 10 pitch, no bold or italic. Hollywood even frowns on the long dash, preferring a couple of prehistoric hyphens -- like that.So I'm now the slightly defensive owner of a "pre-used" daisywheel printer - it cost a staggering 99p on eBay. The technology at the heart of this beast is ridiculously simple. Each character in the font is arranged on a petal of a plastic flower about the size of your hand. The machine spins the disc and bangs the letters against a ribbon. It sounds like a barrel load of monkeys having an argument with a nail gun.But ... it works.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you are one of the 400 million users of Microsoft Office, prepare to feel confused, lost and possibly abandoned. The user interface in next year's version, Office System 2007, has been completely changed, and there is no going back. The file formats have changed as well, though the old ones are still supported. All round, it's probably the most dramatic upheaval ever inflicted on a major suite of applications.Partly to minimise the shock, Microsoft is letting millions of users try it, for free. Anyone can download the beta 2 test version from Microsoft's website. UK users can get it on a computer magazine cover disc, such as PC Pro or Personal Computer World. Their CDs provide for easy installation and activation, and the beta suite will work until the end of January next year. (Users must also provide a working email address for registration purposes.) It carries the usual risks of beta software, but it will run alongside an existing version of Office, except for Outlook, which it replaces.The new user interface is based on a ribbon, which replaces all the menus and task panes in previous versions of office. Jensen Harris, who leads the Microsoft Office "user experience" team, says the main advantage of the ribbon is that it puts all the commands in one place: "It's either there or not there: there's nowhere else to look." Even if you hate the blue (for Windows XP) or grey (for Vista) look of the new UI, you have to concede that point.Easy to learnOld hands may be distressed by Microsoft making most of their hard-earned knowledge obsolete, but it's dramatically easier to learn the new stuff. In fact, most people could find the new UI instantly more comfortable than the old one, because it's based on tabbed browsing. We have all learned how to do that on the web.At the Microsoft's Office reviewers' workshop I attended in New York, Harris said the problem was that Office applications now had so many functions that the menu system had become confusing and people could no longer find the features they needed. The first Word for Windows had only one toolbar, he said, but Word 97 had 18 and by Word 2002 (launched in 2001) it was up to 30. At that point, Microsoft started putting new functions on task panes, and by Word 2003, there were 19 of those. Clearly it had to stop.Harris's team was given the freedom to rethink the whole interface. They came up with a system of tabs and ribbons as the best compromise between the old and the new. The old commands are there, and are familiar once you find them. Also, if you have lots of keyboard shortcuts (Ctrl-A, Ctrl-S etc) in "motor memory", most of those still work, too. Microsoft reckons users can start being productive in about 10 minutes, which is a necessary target because most won't get adequate (if any) training.Either way, the ribbon-based system is easier to handle, partly because you can't usually see menu items, icons or toolbars for things you can't do. For example, in Word, you can't see any page layout controls until you click the Page Layout tab and reveal its ribbon. You can't see any picture-related commands if you don't have a picture in your document. And if you don't want to see the ribbon at all, that's easily done: just double-click the open tab and the whole thing vanishes.In this mode, Word takes up little more screen space than Notepad, but with powerful context-based spell checking and a continuously updated visible word count. Journalists in particular will like this. (I'm using it now, with Web Layout set.) There's also the somewhat curious phenomena of mini-toolbars that fade in and out, like the Cheshire cat. Suppose you use the mouse to highlight a group of words in Word. Just above and to the right, a tiny toolbar appears in faint outline. As you move the mouse pointer towards it, it solidifies and you can select, for example, a different typeface or make the text bold or italic, and so on, without going up to the ribbon. If you move the pointer away, the mini-toolbar fades then disappears completely. It encapsulates the whole UI theme of making things visible when you want them and invisible when you don't.Not all the Office programs have the new UI. It's in Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Access, and in Outlook 2007's mail editor (because Outlook's mail editor is Microsoft Word). Other Office programs such as Office Publisher, OneNote, InfoPath, Visio, Project and SharePoint Designer still have the old user interface. It will take a while to convert everything.Anil Dash, who works for the blog software company Six Apart, has called the ribbon "the ballsiest new feature in the history of computer software". His point is that Office brings in about $12bn (&pound;6.5bn) a year. On his blog , he wrote: "Try making a mistake that jeopardises a business that makes $250 million a week. I'd figure a 2% error, on the order of $5 million, gets you very, very fired. Maybe they're forgiving and you can make a 10% error, costing $25 million a week. I doubt it. Most of us would lose our nerve about suggesting radical changes if betting wrong meant betting lots of jobs on making the right call." (http://tinyurl.com/qr7nm)Big business gambleThe game is actually bigger than Dash allows. Business use of Office 2007 is often tied to Microsoft's SharePoint Server, and sales of Windows Server, Exchange Server (for email), Forms Server (supporting InfoPath), Groove Server (for collaboration), SQL Server, Performance Point Server, Project Server and Project Portfolio Server could all be affected by changes in Office. So could the Microsoft Dynamics business programs for customer relationship management (CRM) and more business intelligence functions, which will be integrated with Office in the future.Microsoft has made a very big bet on an innovative new interface that many users may not like - especially the most knowledgeable and most committed users of earlier versions of Office. Further, there is no "classic mode". As Harris said at the end of the workshop: "We believe in it a lot. There isn't a way to revert back."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Viviane Reding, the EU media and IT commissioner, is to defy opposition from a powerful posse of colleagues, mobile phone companies, regulators and consumer bodies and press ahead with revised plans to slash the cost of making mobile phone calls abroad through tough regulation.Large mobile operators, such as Vodafone and T-Mobile, are urging her to drop "equally flawed" new plans on roaming charges and to make fully costed proposals in the autumn. They have lobbied 24 fellow commissioners, including Peter Mandelson, the EU trade commissioner.They hope to have convinced enough commissioners to derail Ms Reding's plans, but she is said to be confident of winning full commission approval next Wednesday - a week earlier than planned.Her revised proposals, based on those outlined in April, abandon earlier plans to charge the same for international and domestic calls. Operators and regulators successfully argued this would encourage consumers to buy their Sim cards in low-cost countries and "roam at home".Ms Reding now proposes to set a cap of 30% on the retail price of international roaming above the maximum allowable wholesale costs. These wholesale costs would be set at no more than twice the average published EU termination rate for domestic roaming, and three times for overseas calls.But she has yet to decide whether fixed prices should be imposed on the growing market for mobile data, such as text messages and downloading from the internet on to hand-held Blackberry-style devices. This is likely to be left to MEPs to decide.Tom Phillips, chief government and regulatory affairs officer at the GSM Association, the major operators' lobby, accused Ms Reding of imposing utility-style regulation through "trial by error". He said she had ignored evidence that her plans would stifle competition and force operators to recover genuine costs by charging more for domestic calls or limit consumers' ability to roam abroad."It's a complete straitjacket for the industry which would have nowhere else to move," he said. "A uniform retail roaming rate within the EU would make it impossible for operators to offer packages or bundles of products such as free minutes or an upfront fee in return for lower charges per minute."He also said the cap on wholesale prices, based on the average charged by the big operators, which have "significant market power", would penalise new entrants or independent operators such as those "piggybacking" on others' networks, by forcing up their marginal costs.Operators, which have cut roaming charges by an average 40% since Ms Reding launched her initial plans, are signing up to an industry agreement which would set limits on wholesale charges and commits them to passing on any cuts to consumers. They would also publish more transparent price indices to ensure compliance.Ms Reding rejects this voluntary agreement as inadequate to enforce real price cuts, but BEUC, the pan-European consumer lobby, is urging her to adopt a two-tier approach to regulation - capping wholesale prices first, and leaving retail charges until the industry can prove it will reduce roaming prices. It fears the use of uniform charges in 25 countries will penalise customers in low-cost, competitive countries.
I've just been catching up with, among other things, the (unofficial) Google Operating System blog, which has a post about what the world would be likeIf Google didn't exist...While entertaining and thought-provoking, it is also funamentally misguided, and most of the claims seem to me obviously wrong. To take a couple of examples:* we would find a mail by manually reviewing each subject and sender.This is patent rubbish. There have been mail clients with search facilities going back to the 1980s, and today, Google isn't even the best way to search email. It may be true that Google's arrival means that, on average, more people have better email search facilities than they would otherwise, and that is to be applauded. But it's a difference in degree, not in kind.* we would pay for software like Picasa, Keyhole (now Google Earth), Sketchup.Also rubbish. It's nice of Google to buy these companies and give their products away, but Google didn't invent free software. Arguably there's a net benefit to the people who use Google's free programs, but it might also be the case that we are worse off, not better off. For example, other companies might have developed better programs than Picasa and sold them cheaply or given them away if Google had not distorted the market. We'll never know. Either way, it's a difference in degree, not in kind.I am sure that Google has, in some cases, done things better than they were done before -- such as search, web-based mail and maps -- but we were doing them before Google appeared, and we'd still be doing them if it had never existed.What's more important, I think, is that Google has done them with some sort of moral stance: "Don't be evil."Google may have fallen short in some cases, but it has made explicit an important element in the competitive marketplace that I don't believe would have been explicit without Google. Yahoo could have done it, but didn't. The Free Software Foundation was doing it, to an extent, but without the market power. And, of course, many companies and organisations outside IT are also trying to trade eithically and benefit society.Still, it seems to me that Google's ultimate failure would not be having inferior products, losing money or losing market share but the admission that "Don't be evil" was just a marketing slogan. Amost anything else would be forgivable.Footnote: Several other blogs have had a go at this post, includingPublishing 2.0(recommended) and Ziff'sGoogling Google
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
